Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 3B - Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Achievement of strategic aims since REF2014
 Our ambition from REF2014 was to develop new areas of work in ageing and population health
 and to develop the next generation of researchers by providing an increasing number of
 developmental opportunities in the form of internships, funded PGR studentships, and post-
 doctoral scholarships. We also aimed to attract highly trained and motivated staff, increase the
 proportion of staff with PhDs, and grow and sustain a research culture whilst expanding our
 international networks. We have delivered and exceeded these ambitions by:
     • Creating a new Institute for Lifecourse Development (ILD) that:
            o Has 250 members.
            o Supports seven key interdisciplinary areas of expertise.
            o Provides a new stimulating and supportive environment for ECRs and PGRs.
     • Significantly improving our research productivity, quality, and impact (REF2014 UoA3B
         and UoA4 data are combined to enable comparisons with current submission):
            o Producing 859 outputs, more than double the previous period (319 in REF2014).
            o Q1 journal publications increased by 175% (585 versus 213).
            o A four-fold increase in field-weighted citation impact (6.39 versus 1.62).
            o Outputs cited 36,054 times, a three-fold increase (versus 10,193).
     • Significantly increasing internal and external funding for research:
            o Increase in research income from £1.09m in REF2014 to £5.2m in the current
                 period.
            o Investing over £50m in physical infrastructure and core equipment to support our
                 ambitions, with brand new facilities for Health, Movement, Behavioural and
                 Bioscience on our three campuses at Greenwich, Medway and Avery Hill (see
                 section 3).
     • Developing and expanding our research staff base (see section 2):
            o Doubling the size of our submission from 23.1 FTE (UoA3 and UoA4) to 53.6 FTE
            o Promoting 8 staff to Professor and 21 to Associate Professor.
     • Increasing the research capacity and support of our workforce:
            o Providing start-up and support funds in excess of £370k.
            o Providing £525k in full or partial fees schemes and staff time to complete
                 Doctorate or Masters degrees during this period (see section 2).
     • Increasing research doctoral degrees support and completions
            o Funding 34 full time doctoral scholarships
            o Increasing overall doctoral completions from 11 in the previous period, to 45 in
                 the current REF period.
     • Increasing the depth and extent of impact
            o Increasing the reach of our national and international partnerships with health,
                 social care, charitable and public sectors, local and national government
                 organisations.

 Unit context and structure
 In 2019 we created and launched the Institute for Lifecourse Development (ILD) and
 appointed Prof. Pacella, as the first Director. The ILD comprises seven research centres,
 bringing together research and practitioner staff from across disciplines to foreground,
 consolidate and grow cross-professional and cross-disciplinary work and develop lifecourse
 focused research, evaluations and enterprise activities that directly resonate with our
 stakeholders, communities and partners; address societal challenges and have significant
 impact. The aim is to support equality, diversity and inclusion and develop our staff from across
 multiple disciplines, many of whom are practitioners, to ensure they achieve their full potential.
 The ILD’s key objectives are to:


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Focus on vulnerable populations across the lifecourse
    •   Deliver theoretical and methodological innovation in research
    •   Create collaborative cross‐disciplinary teams and a vibrant and inclusive research
        environment
    •   Communicate with users of research to create impact
    •   Create new professional solutions that improve people's lives
    •   Develop high‐level academic training and continuing professional development
    •   Connect globally, building deeper relationships with partners, funders, and sponsors.

 Around 250 staff, including Category A submitted staff, practitioner-focused staff (not identified
 as having a significant responsibility for research (SRR)) and research students are affiliated to
 the seven ILD Centres, drawn from disciplines across all four UoG Faculties. Staff can affiliate to
 more than one centre reflecting the interdisciplinary nature and overlap between themes. The
 ILD supports Category A submitted staff included in this UoA3B (FTE53.6) submission mostly
 from the Faculties of Education, Health and Human Sciences (FEHHS) and Engineering and
 Science (FES), as well as UoA20 Social Work and Social Policy (FTE18), which includes staff
 from FEHHS, Faculty of Liberal Arts and Sciences (FLAS), and Faculty of Business (FB). Names
 of UoA3B submitted staff are in bold throughout to highlight the distinctive aspects of this Unit’s
 environment.

 This UoA3B submission showcases research and impact from a range of disciplines within the
 ILD: Nursing and Midwifery; Paramedic Sciences; Speech and Language Therapy; Public
 Health; Sports Science; Psychology; Nutrition Sciences; Pharmacology; Health Economics;
 Biomedical and Biological Sciences. ILD’s work in Sociology, Social Work and Education is
 captured in UoA20.

 The seven ILD centres map onto UN Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG) agendas and
 the priorities of UKRI, NIHR, and other national and international NGO and government agendas
 in health and wellbeing. Specifically, ILD Centres align with the UNSDG goals of Good Health
 and Well-being, Quality Education, Gender Equality, Reduced Inequalities, Decent Work and
 Economic Growth and supporting key Partnerships; and, in addition, UKRI and NIHR agendas
 on Healthy Ageing, Mental Health, Workforce Productivity, Developing the Current and Future
 Workforce, Disease Prevention and Health Inequalities, Innovation in Health and Social Care,
 and Integrating Services to Provide for Patients with Complex needs. A number of smaller
 research structures have been launched within Centres to develop expertise around strategic
 themes that could develop into future ILD research centres.

 ILD leadership
 The ILD management team is made up of leaders of the centres (Dibley, McCrone, Monks,
 Naclerio, Poulter, Stathi & Weldon), who work with the Director (Pacella) to set the day-to-day
 agenda, manage resources, and develop intra- and inter-centre multi-disciplinary projects. The
 ILD Advisory Board ensures the management team is kept abreast of new developments and is
 supported internally and externally. The Advisory Board includes UoG FEHHS PVC (Moore),
 Director of the UoG Natural Resources Institute (NRI) (Prof Westby, see UoA6), and several
 distinguished external advisors: from the UK Government Department of Health and Social Care
 (Marron), Chair of NHS Foundation Trust (Taylor), and Education Academy Trust (Munday,
 CBE), and other third sector organisations (NAPC, Chana, MBE; Sporting Integrity, Verroken).
 Pacella represents the ILD as Faculty Director of Research and Enterprise on the University
 Research and Enterprise Committee. Senior members of the ILD also Chair and support Faculty
 and University Ethics (Stathi, Maras) panels and ensure staff and students at all levels are
 embedded in the appropriate ethical, legal and professional frameworks, obligations and
 standards. Our research benefits from being part of the Institutional open research environment
 that supports open access to outputs and data through the Institutional repository (GALA). We
 are committed to reproducibility agendas with early career researcher (ECR) staff actively
 involved with ReproducibiliTea, an online journal club initiated in 2018 at the University of Oxford
 that has spread to 126 institutions in 25 different countries. Its main goal is to create
 opportunities for discussion about various themes linked to the Open Science movement,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including reproducibility, replication, meta-science, scientific misconduct and fraud. The ILD is
 committed to the responsible use of research metrics and supports DORA (San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment) to which it became a signatory in 2020.

 The ILD Centres
    • The Centre for Chronic Illness and Ageing developed from our previous Centre for
        Positive Ageing (led by the late Prof Liz West), focuses on research and practice to
        inform self-care, health and social care practice and biological health solutions across the
        lifecourse. The Centre is led by Dibley, a leading member of the European Crohn’s &
        Colitis Organisation, RCN’s Gastrointestinal Nurses’ Forum, The Inflammatory Bowel
        Disease (IBD) Nurses’ Network, and London IBD Forum, and Honorary Visiting Fellow,
        King’s College, London. The Centre hosts the Nutrition and Diabetes Research and
        Practice Group, led by Ojo, and works closely with the Centre for Exercise, Activity
        and Rehabilitation, and the Biomedical Science Research Group from the FES
        School of Science. The centre hosts 34 members: research staff with SRR, practitioners,
        ECRs, postgraduate research (PGR) students and staff undertaking part-time doctoral
        studies. Staff have undertaken externally funded work in the care and management of:
        Auto-immune conditions, Arthritis, Cardiovascular risk, Crohn’s Disease, Diabetes,
        Inflammatory Bowel Disease, Dementia, Vitamin D deficiency, Musculoskeletal disorders,
        Parasitic diseases, Toxicity, and Chronic Wounds. Members have expertise in the
        development of nutrition interventions, assessing cost-effectiveness of interventions and
        quality of life of older people and those with chronic conditions, pain and disease
        management, systemic drug delivery technologies and care home management. The
        Centre’s quality and wide ranging national and international collaborative networks are
        reflected in submitted outputs by: Rodrigues Amorim Adegboye, Bowling, Cai, Dibley,
        Getti, Malamateniou, Moreno-Leguizamon, Newton, Nielsen, Ojo, Pacella, Patchay,
        Richardson, Schofield, Swaine, Thompson, West, and ECRs Essex and Stoner. The
        Centre’s extensive non-academic impact is reflected in our impact case study on the
        assessment, management and perception of pain.

    •   The Centre for Professional Workforce Development encompasses research and
        practice focusing on workforce development issues for healthcare and education
        professionals across the lifecourse. The Centre is led by Weldon, Executive Committee
        member for the Association of Simulated Practice in Healthcare (ASPiH); member of the
        Health Research Authority NHS Ethics Panel, Royal College of Nurses Research Forum,
        and Council of Dean's Research Advisory Group, alongside a national and international
        network of clinical and academic co-researchers, including honorary contracts with
        Imperial College London, and Barts Health NHS Trust. The Centre includes a Cluster on
        Leadership in Education (Jameson, UoA20), a Hub for History, the Lifecourse, and
        the Professions (Martin), and a Simulation Group. Centre staff have begun to further
        develop existing work on simulation, supported by significant investment in new state-of-
        the-art simulation centres in the Avery Hill and Medway Campuses. The Centre hosts 42
        members: research staff with SRR, practitioners, ECRs, PGR students and staff
        undertaking part-time doctoral studies with staff having undertaken externally funded
        work in: workforce retention, motivation, resilience, and well-being; work-based
        simulation; communication, teamwork, leadership, coaching & mentoring; professional
        identity, perspectives, recognition & responsibility; ethics; integrated care &
        interprofessional practices; historical practices & the living memory. The Centre’s quality
        and wide ranging national and international collaborative networks are reflected in
        submitted outputs by: Cai, Cleaver, Essex, Gomes Alves, Schofield, West & Weldon.

    •   The Centre for Inequalities key research areas are social justice, prejudice-reduction,
        and social integration. The Centre is led by Stathi, External Member of the European
        Association of Social Psychology, Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues,
        British Psychological Society (BPS), and Committee Member, BPS Social Psychology
        Section. Stathi’s wide national and international network of academic co-researchers
        evidences a long record of conducting theoretical and applied research projects,

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        publishing in high-impact factor journals, and pursuing research funding. The Centre
        hosts the Social Psychology Hub (led by Stathi) and works closely with the (Cross-
        Faculty) Diversity Interest Group and Applied Social Work and Social Policy
        Research Centre (see UoA 20). The Centre has 50 members: research staff with SRR,
        practitioners, ECRs, PGR students and staff undertaking part-time doctoral studies with
        staff having undertaken externally funded work in: stigma and stigma reduction, impact of
        socioeconomic deprivation, gender and LGBT+ issues, racism and nationalism, inter-
        /intra-group dynamics, refugees, travellers and displaced communities, equality and
        social integration, community interventions, and social enterprise. The Centre’s quality
        and wide-ranging national and international collaborative networks are reflected in the
        submitted outputs of: Birtel, Hartley, Luyt, Smith, Stathi & ECRs Amer, Collins,
        Gkinopoulos & Willis. The centre plays an important role in supporting the University’s
        Inclusivity Agenda in research, teaching and learning.

    •   The Centre for Vulnerable Children and Families focuses on research and practice
        aimed at benefitting the lives of vulnerable children and their families across a broad
        range of contexts internationally. The Centre is led by Monks who has extensive external
        links with UK-based and international organisations. She works with colleagues at
        Universities in Europe (University of Cordoba, Spain), Asia (Chung-Ang University, South
        Korea) and South America (University of Concepcion, Chile) on research into social
        relationships, including bullying, aggression and online interactions. She also has
        collaborative links with national NGOs and local council services working with children,
        young people and families. The Centre hosts the Cluster for Play and
        Recreation (Martin), Youth and Wellbeing Hub (Moon) and the Lifecourse
        Methodology Hub (McCrone, Thompson, Dibley). The Centre has 30 members:
        research staff with SRR, practitioners, ECRs, PGR students and staff undertaking part-
        time doctoral studies with staff having undertaken externally funded (see section 3)
        impactful work in: pre and perinatal care & education, early intervention in nurseries &
        schools, developmental disorders, speech & language problems, parenting styles,
        adverse childhood experiences, child maltreatment and bullying, risks for involvement in
        antisocial & criminal behaviour, addiction, safeguarding & ethics, and narratives of
        childhood. Appointing Professor Ortega-Ruiz as Visiting Professor from the University of
        Cordoba, Spain, has strengthened the international focus of research on young people's
        experiences of bullying and cyberbullying while Visiting Professor Carl Parsons from
        Canterbury Christchurch University has strengthened the focus and reach of social
        inclusion research. The quality and wide-ranging national and international collaborative
        networks of the centre are reflected in the submitted outputs of Hobson, Humayun, La
        Placa, Malamateniou, Monks, Moore, Morgan, Pacella, Tadic, & Tsermentseli and
        ECRs Ahmad, Bernardi, Moon & Samara. The extensive non-academic impact of the
        Centre is reflected in our impact case study on safeguarding, inequalities, school
        transition, and bullying policies and practice.

    •   The Centre for Thinking and Learning conducts research concerned with applied
        aspects of cognition and learning, and evidence informed education practice from early
        childhood to adult learning. The Centre is led by Poulter, Expert Advisor to the
        Department for Transport on a nationwide trial of road safety interventions for young and
        novice drivers, and Member of the Parliamentary Advisory Council for Transport Safety.
        The Centre has extensive expertise in neuroscience and neuroimaging methods, hosting
        the Neuroscience Hub (Patchay), Face and Voice Recognition Research Lab
        (Davis) and ReproducibiliTEA Journal Club (Samara), as well as an inter-Faculty
        partnership with the Centre for Research & Enterprise in Language (Arche, UoA26).
        The Centre has 49 members: research staff with SRR, practitioners, ECRs, PGR
        students and staff undertaking part-time doctoral studies with staff having undertaken
        externally funded work in: movement science, memory, cognitive bias, decision-making
        processes, hazards and risk perception, literacy and numeracy development, language
        impairment, neurological disorders, and accelerated learning. The Centre’s quality and
        wide-ranging national and international collaborative networks are reflected in submitted

                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        outputs by: Davis, Farmer, Gladwin, Janacsek, Luke, Patchay, Poulter, Thompson &
        Uher and ECRs Bernardi, Collins, Pereira Dias, Samara & Ye. The extensive non-
        academic impact of the centre is reflected in our impact case study on Impact of Super-
        Recognisers on the establishment and staffing of specialist police units.

    •   The Centre for Mental Health focuses on developing research and practice to support
        mental health and wellbeing across the lifecourse. The Centre is led by McCrone, also
        Visiting Professor of Health Economics, King’s College London, Member of the NIHR-
        funded Mental Health Policy Research Unit and Health Economists Study Group, and
        Editorial Board Member, Journal of Public Mental Health and International Journal of
        Environmental Research and Public Health. The Centre also hosts the Managing
        wellbeing during Covid-19 project (Smith) and supports the University Mental Health
        agenda and events. The Centre has a growing number of members (20): research staff
        with SRR, practitioners, ECRs, PGR students and staff undertaking part-time doctoral
        studies, with staff having undertaken externally funded (see section 3) impactful work in:
        child and infant mental health and transitions, use of alcohol and drugs, health behaviour,
        health education, lifestyle choices, stress and anxiety management, and mental health
        interventions. The Centre’s quality and wide international collaborative networks are
        represented in submitted outputs by: Cleaver, Foster, Humayun, McCrone, Robinson,
        Tharp, & Thompson and ECR Pereira Dias.

    •   The Centre for Exercise, Activity and Rehabilitation focuses on research and practice
        aimed at improving health benefits and outcomes across the lifecourse through exercise,
        activity and restoring function following injury or ill-health. This most-recently created
        Centre is led by Naclerio, External Member of the American College of Sport Medicine,
        National Strength and Conditioning Association, International Society of Sport Nutrition,
        Association for Nutrition (UK) alongside a national and international network of Sport
        Science, Nutrition, fitness industry, and academic co-researchers. Naclerio is also an
        Honorary Visiting Fellow of The European University of Madrid, Lunex International
        University Health, Exercise & Sport and the National University of La Plata (Argentina).
        The Centre also works closely with the Nutrition and Diabetes Research and Practice
        Group and Biomedical Science Research Group. The Centre has a growing number
        of members (21): research staff with SRR, practitioners, ECRs, PGR students and staff
        undertaking part-time doctoral studies. Staff have undertaken externally funded work
        around: clinical and commercial applications of nutrition, ergonomics and exercise for
        sports, health, and recovery. The Centre’s quality and wide international collaborative
        networks are represented in submitted outputs by: Goss-Sampson; Naclerio, Seijo
        Bujia, Swaine and ECR Rossato. The extensive non-academic impact of the Centre is
        reflected in two impact case studies on: Human factors related to physical protection
        equipment for UK police forces; and on Nutrition products, and injury reduction and
        recovery protocols for high performance athletes.

 Facilitation of impact
 Since its launch, the ILD has been committed to further enhance and bring together research
 and practice, providing the infrastructure and focus required to support the creation and curation
 of world leading impact. ILD already incorporates numerous research and practitioner staff who
 have created major impact (see Case studies), have extensive relationships with external
 stakeholders and are involved with many organisations as expert advisors and collaborators
 (see Section 4). Additional information on external funding to support case studies is presented
 in Section 3. Greenwich Research and Enterprise (GRE) has a dedicated Impact Framework
 Manager who works closely with the ILD impact Assessment Officer (Gladwin), also an active
 researcher. Each ILD Centre has research-leads and practice-leads working to ensure we
 develop and foster impact pathways and supporting and encouraging staff to develop the
 required long-term knowledge exchange partnerships.

 How the selected case studies relate to our approach


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our case studies highlight a range of impacts arising from our many strong relationships (both
 current and historical) with national and international partners in health, local government,
 professional bodies, commercial companies and police-forces, and showcase the
 multidisciplinary impact that has come from our expertise in the:
     o Assessment, management and perception of pain (Patchay, Schofield, Thompson).
     o Identification and training of “Super-Recognisers” (Davis, Thompson).
     o Risk factors for childhood development related to safeguarding, inequalities, school
         transition, and bullying (Maras, Parsons, Gilchrist, Monks, Thompson).
     o Human factors evaluation of police protective equipment (Goss-Sampson, Naclerio,
         Chapman).
     o Development and commercialisation of health and sports nutrition products (Naclerio,
         Seijo Bujia, Goss-Sampson, Nielsen, Christides, Karsten)

 These case studies provide evidence of the submitted unit’s impact achievements during the
 assessment period, showing we have been instrumental in changing policy and guidelines and
 informing commissioned reports for the UK Department for Education (Bennet and Timpson),
 Northamptonshire, Hampshire, & Waltham Forest Councils, NICE, and international health
 organisations including UNICEF, the Australian NGO CREATE, the Irish National Council for
 Special Education, the New Zealand Government Health and Quality Commission, the US
 National Council on Ageing, the UK Royal College of Anaesthetists, the UK British Pain Society,
 the UK British Geriatrics Society and the UK Chartered Society of Physiotherapy. Our work has
 also impacted on national and international police forces and related organisations: Metropolitan
 Police Service, Munich Police (Germany), Stuttgart Police (Germany), and Queensland Police
 Services (Australia), the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO), the Home Office, and the
 Police Federation. Finally, we have improved commercial outcomes for national and
 international companies who provide super-recogniser services or produce and sell health and
 sports products: Crown Sports Nutrition, Inertial Power SRL, ARC Microtech, Super Recognisers
 International Ltd (UK), Yoti Ltd (UK and India), and VisionMetric Ltd (UK).

 Future strategy
 We plan to continue to support these strong areas of impact, and ensure we develop, support
 and grow our impact pathways to reach their full potential for the next REF. We will support our
 close collaborations with local government to address the issue of home drinking of alcohol
 (Foster); grow the impact of international participatory research on inequalities in health care
 (Moreno-Leguizamon); develop the impact of our research on recovery after surgery (Swaine)
 and on enteral nutrition in diabetes (Ojo); develop simulated practice in the workforce (Weldon)
 and continue to support our growing impact on commercial organisations from research in our
 bioscience labs. This has begun to result in patents, and recently led to the creation of
 Intracellular Delivery Solutions (IDS) Ltd., a spin-out company registered with Companies
 House, with Richardson a Director and Chief Scientific Officer at IDS Ltd.

 We will also continue to deliver the key aims of the ILD (as outlined above) and build on our
 existing extensive and strong partnerships with local, national, and international health,
 community, third sector and government organisations and companies to continue to undertake
 world-leading research of rigour and significance. The development of our themed centres has
 been a key part of our future strategy, with the intention over the next period to:
     • Continue to promote research excellence and enhance our research culture.
     • Maximise the societal impact of all our current pathways and extend further our
         international reputation in research and impact.
     • Develop practice-leads in each Centre, to work alongside the current research-leads, and
         further strengthen the working relationships, practice and research collaborations
         between the ILD and local, regional, national and international partners.
     • Further develop interdisciplinary research within and between Centres and develop
         collaborations with the Queen’s Anniversary Prize-winning NRI and other global partners
         in the UNSDG agenda.
     • Fully utilise the significant investment in new simulation facilities at Avery Hill, Medway
         and Greenwich and launch new world-leading Centres: an ILD Centre for Simulated

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Practice and a Centre for Lifecourse Economics that builds on recent appointments
        (Pacella, McCrone).
     • Continue to recruit high quality research active staff and ensure their interests align with
        our thematic interdisciplinary priorities.
     • Increase research income from UKRI/NIHR and other esteemed funding streams, such
        as MRC, NIHR, Wellcome, ERC.
     • Continue to develop practitioner staff through continued support of staff PhD, EdD and
       MSc study, fee waivers and embedding themed work within the ILD’s supportive
       structures.
     • Grow Doctoral College funding with the FES School of Science and increase further PGR
       student provision.
     • Mentor and support the PGR and ECR research community to succeed as independent
       researchers.
     • Further encourage pre-registration and replication of studies and continue to ensure
       issues around ethics, openness, integrity, equality and inclusion, and responsible use of
       metrics are embedded in all our activities.
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Key academic appointments
 In 2018 we appointed a new PVC (Prof Moore) in FEHHS who worked with Profs Maras,
 Monks, Cleaver, & Luyt to create the ILD. Prof Pacella, appointed as ILD Director in 2019, has
 an outstanding track record of high-quality publications and impactful research. Her career has
 focused on improving health and she is internationally recognised for burden of disease
 assessments and economic evaluations of healthcare interventions. Pacella is experienced in
 managing large-scale projects, contributes to several international collaborations and holds an
 Adjunct appointment at Queensland University of Technology (QUT). Prof McCrone was also
 appointed in 2019 for his specialist expertise in health economics. Moore has extensive
 experience of working on large interdisciplinary projects looking at children at risk (funded by
 Welcome, NIHR, Nuffield foundation etc.) which helped inform the concept and creation of ILD.
 Two senior researchers who featured in REF2014, Schofield and West (sadly deceased), are
 no longer with us at Greenwich but played an important role in supporting early research activity
 in FEHHS. Subsequently we have refreshed our senior research leadership team. In 2017 we
 appointed Dibley and Weldon as Associate Professors in Nursing through a joint initiative with
 Barts Health NHS Trust. These roles strengthened the academic and health partnership
 between Barts and UoG by enabling direct access for UoG to a local NHS Trust, at the time the
 largest in the country, whilst providing Barts with academic expertise and leadership for nursing,
 midwifery and allied healthcare professional staff to help them develop their clinical academic
 agenda.

 A key element of our strategy has been to ensure we recruit high quality research active staff
 who are committed to the ILD’s aims, identify with ILD Centre themes and are interested in
 developing interdisciplinary impact. Ten senior staff members have remained from previous
 submissions in REF 2014 UoA3 and UoA4 (Davis, Foster, Humayun, Maras, Monks, Poulter,
 Robinson, Stathi, Tharp, Thompson); they have been joined by new staff we were able to
 recruit during an expansion in staffing across FEHHS. This provided an opportunity to recruit
 excellent established and ECR staff from leading institutions: including Weldon (Imperial
 College, London); Ahmad, Dibley, Hobson, McCrone, Pereira Dias, (King's College, London);
 Birtel, Cook, Gkinopoulos, Moore, (University of Surrey); Bernardi, Tadic, (University College
 London); Uher, (London School of Economics); Ye, (Queen Mary University of London);
 Samara, (University of Liverpool), and Janacsek (Eotvos Lorand University, Budapest).
 Strategic investment of QR/HEIF funds has supported the growth of the ILD through
 appointment of eight FTE Research Fellows (including ECRs Kalocsanyiova (UoA20), Essex,
 Gkinopoulos, Hartley & Moon) and ILD Knowledge Exchange fellow (Kucaba).

 Key support staff appointments


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support the ILD in delivering impact we have also recruited an Impact Assessment Officer
 (Gladwin), an ILD Senior Research Support Officer (Trudeau), and a Communications, Events
 and Engagement Officer (Russell-Clark). In this cycle, FEHHS has also appointed a new
 technical learning resource manager and an educational simulation lead, to support our new
 simulation-based research facilities (Jagodzinski, Everard). A skills support officer has also been
 employed and two further full-time posts (technician and simulation fellow) are currently being
 recruited. We have also invested in specialist technical support posts for Movement Science,
 Psychology and Biosciences laboratories (Belanova, Cooper).

 Academic pathways and allocation of scholarly research time
 The university has three career pathways that staff can select: Research, Knowledge Exchange
 and Enterprise, and Teaching and Learning. The ILD Centres support activity of staff on all three
 pathways ensuring clear links between research, teaching and learning, practice and impact.
 The University’s workload model allocates 11% time for all academic staff to engage in research
 and scholarly activity, regardless of the pathway staff select. As per the UoG Code of Practice
 this allocation is greater than 20% for staff on research pathways identified as having significant
 responsibility for research (SRR). To build capacity, 178 non-SRR academic staff across
 Faculties are formally affiliated to the ILD Centres, with many employing their allocated 11%
 research and scholarly activity time to develop extensive networks and contribute to our
 excellent impact. SRR staff with key roles in research and funded research projects are also
 given additional time, for example ILD Centre leads: Dibley, McCrone, Monks, Naclerio,
 Poulter, Stathi, Weldon all have 2 days allocated per week to undertake the role. Monks and
 Weldon are also Deputy Heads (Research & Enterprise) in their respective academic Schools
 within FEHHS. The ILD works with FEHHS Heads and Deputy Heads of School to facilitate (one
 term) sabbatical awards, with many ILD members benefiting in the current REF cycle, including
 Davis, Foster, Monks, Moreno-Leguizamon, Poulter, Robinson, Stathi, and Thompson.
 Staff members on the teaching and learning pathway were also granted sabbaticals to write up
 final PhD theses (Gale, Matonhodze).

 Staff promotions
 In this period, across all pathways, eight colleagues were promoted to Professor (Monks,
 Cleaver, Davis, Ade-Ojo (2020), Evans, Field, Luyt and Walker) in FEHHS and twenty-one
 were promoted to Associate Professor, Reader or Principal Lecturer: Birtel, Patterson,
 Janacsek, Luke, Moreno-Leguizamon, Newton, Ojo, Pentaris, Thompson, Uher, Ade-Ojo
 (2019), Jeavons, McDonald, Morgan, Patchay, Patterson, Robinson, Stathi and Stevenson in
 FEHHS and Getti, and Richardson to Associate Professor in FES.

 Mentoring, probation and appraisal
 Research is embedded from the outset into mechanisms of support provided to staff throughout
 their employment at the University. Induction involves a scheduled meeting with the Deputy
 Heads of School for Research and Enterprise (Weldon & Monks) to discuss support
 mechanisms, lab and equipment needs, including the support available within the ILD. New staff
 members are encouraged to affiliate with a relevant Centre(s) and attend Centre Meetings and
 ILD Events. All new staff are allocated a mentor within the School and ILD to share knowledge
 and skills, assist in networking and support career development. Probation research objectives
 are set and agreed with the individual and support mechanisms are tailored to the individual’s
 needs and experience. Similarly, the appraisal system supports staff in their research objectives,
 activities and development. All staff are expected to identify appraisal objectives related to
 research; this may include a focus on pedagogic research or consultancy for those on teaching
 and learning or enterprise pathways. Areas of development and support mechanisms are also
 identified within this discussion and may include further mentoring, internal or external training or
 PhD registration for non-SRR staff. These staff development needs are also discussed and
 reviewed in mid-year staff development meetings outside the appraisal process.

 Allocation of QR HEIF and RCIF funds to support growth and development
 An ILD Competitive Funding Panel, chaired by the Director and including the ILD leadership
 team, assesses applications ensuring strategic investment of QR funding in priority impactful

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. Since 2017, this panel and its pre-ILD Faculty predecessor has awarded £85,800 in
 seed funding for specific pilot projects and impact activities, to 36 SRR staff (22 Female;
 14 Male). In addition, £11k was awarded to submitted staff to fund strategic research visits with
 international collaborators, resulting in several high impact publications; £12,219 has also been
 awarded to experienced researchers to present at conferences. QR funds were also allocated
 to PGR students (£13,550) and ECRs (£18k) for conference attendance, external training and
 research support. In this assessment period, we also employed a number of short-term student
 research assistants through HEIF funding (£6k per annum), and these undergraduate and
 postgraduate students have gained paid research experience supporting staff on research
 projects. RCIF investment (£232k) over the period has also mapped to strategic areas of growth
 and impact. Total funds to support growth and development has been in excess of £370k.

 Support for ECR staff
 The ILD provides a supportive and stimulating environment for twenty-nine ECRs (Category A
 submitted and other staff) currently employed in FEHHS (Ahmad, Ahmed, Amer, Bernardi,
 Bowling, Collins, Coombes, Cotton, Pereira Dias, Essex, Gibson, Gkinopoulos, Gomes
 Alves, Kalocsanyiova, Kerr, Kralova, Kucaba, Magaji, Markowski, Miller, Moon, Neal, Perrin,
 Rossato, Samara, Stoner, Willis, Wolfendale, Ye). ECRs facilitate their own network events
 and dedicated staff represent ECRs across a range of Faculty and University committees,
 including the promotions panel (Bernardi, Gkinopoulos) with Prof Davis the ECR co-ordinator.
 Regular ECR activities are held within the ILD and across the University. ECRs in Science have
 a dedicated champion at professorial level who represents their views to management in
 collaboration with the ECR representative on the management team. We also have formal and
 informal mentoring systems, including new staff mentoring schemes in the School of Human
 Sciences and the School of Science, and the ECR Network.

 Central research support investment
 GRE supports research in the University (see REF5a). Staffing investment in GRE included the
 appointment of a Head of Research Services (Cormack-Bissett), as well as Enterprise
 Development Managers (EDMs) and Research Development Officers (RDOs), to support each
 Faculty. The EDM (Rannard-Lambert) and RDO (Saines, succeeded by Rebaine) work directly
 with ILD research staff to develop enterprise and research bids, providing expert advice and
 costings. In addition, the University invested in a new Research and Enterprise Training Institute
 (RETI), specifically to support research training for all PGR students and staff in line with the
 Researcher Development Concordat.

 Research Students
 Research culture
 Doctoral students are members of ILD Centres and are actively encouraged to present at ILD
 events and attend specialist training sessions. ILD has a lively research culture that engages
 staff across all levels from PGR student to Chair fostered through a range of activities, including
 monthly ILD Research Cafés, which encourage all research active staff and PGR students to
 present their work and receive constructive feedback. Amongst the themes so far discussed are:
 managers in education settings, diet and Type 2 diabetes, using secondary datasets, black
 women in school leadership, physical activity, developing student resilience, early childhood
 development, rape myths, parenting following an IVF pregnancy, gender and ethnicity
 judgements of lockdown violations, public signage during COVID-19, using network meta-
 analysis, heterosexist micro-aggressions, dietary supplements for older adults, and palliative and
 end of life care. The ILD launched its Public Lecture Series in January 2020 and has hosted
 highly regarded external speakers in this assessment period, initially on campus and most
 recently online including:
     - Prof. Paul Greenhaff, University of Nottingham, on Healthspan: age vs lifestyle
     - Dr Stefano Pagliaro, University of Chieti-Pescara, Italy, on Intimate Partner Violence
     - Tom McBride, Early Intervention Foundation, on Improving Outcomes for Children
     - Prof. Margaret Rayman, University of Surrey on Selenium and Human Health with
         Reference to COVID-19.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These lectures are very well attended by students, staff and external guests. An annual
 University Research Conference features all levels of staff and PGR students, and ILD-hosted
 annual EDI Research and PGR Student Research Conferences allow students an opportunity
 to showcase their research. There is also an annual student development conference, within
 which new students receive induction training and continuing students are invited to sessions
 on publication, career opportunities and the doctoral journey. We hold two ‘EdD Weekends’ each
 year for education doctoral students to present their research and engage with external and
 expert speakers. The ILD actively supports the National Three Minute Thesis competition
 (3MT) and has a firm commitment to developing future generations of researchers and
 practitioners: staff have published 150+ articles with a PGR student co-author, including
 publications in Q1 journals across numerous SJR categories; ILD staff also published 100+
 articles with undergraduate and Masters students.

 Funding of PGR studentships and fee waivers
 There has been a substantial increase in doctoral student funding, numbers and completions
 compared to REF2014 with 45 doctoral degrees awarded in this assessment period. To support
 our ambition to grow research capacity and increase diversity in research among practitioner
 staff in allied health professions, many new staff appointed on teaching and learning pathways
 were supported through a fees scheme and additional scholarly activity points to support
 academic and research career progression via EdDs, PhDs and Masters’ Programmes. In this
 period, for staff development, we waived £390k in fees for internal supervision and covered
 £135k in fees at external institutions.

 In addition, we have awarded 34 fully funded Vice Chancellor’s Scholarships since 2014.
 Potential supervisors apply for VC scholarships from across the University and these are
 awarded following a rigorous competitive assessment process. External advertising then attracts
 PGR students to these outline projects and representative interview panels ensure fair and
 transparent recruitment process. Successful students then develop and refine proposals, in
 conjunction with their supervisors. VC Scholarships have been allocated to a range of
 supervisors, including ECRs, across all seven Centres: Cleaver (1), Davis (3), Foster (1), Getti
 (2), Jaworowska (1), Luyt (1), Maras (3), Monks (2), Moreno-Leguizamon (1), McCrone and
 Pacella (1), Newton (2), Nielsen (1), Patchay (1), Richardson (2), Robinson (1), Rossato (1),
 Shorter (1), Smith D (1), Smith R (1), Stathi (1), Swaine (1), Thompson (2), Tsermentseli (1),
 Uher (1), Weldon (1). Doctoral students have also received scholarships from external partner
 organisations, e.g., Charlton Athletic Community Trust, School of Hard Knocks, Responsibility in
 Gambling Trust, Oxleas NHS Foundation Trust, Barking, Havering and Redbridge University
 Hospitals NHS Trust, Lewisham Healthcare NHS Trust, and Imperial NHS. Biosciences staff
 have also received Cluster Funded PhDs (Getti) as well as Doctoral Training Alliance PhD
 allocations (Richardson, Getti).

 Mentoring, support and skills development
 We have four doctoral programmes (three PhDs and an EdD) each with a Programme leader.
 EdD and PhD students in Education are supported by Ade-Ojo (UoA20), whilst PhD students in
 Human Sciences and in Health Sciences are supported by Birtel and Newton, respectively, with
 Smith the PGR student co-ordinator. Each programme provides relevant PGR training/support.
 Supervision teams normally consist of three staff with a minimum of three doctoral completions
 between them. Mandatory RETI training and regular refresher courses are provided for all staff
 involved in supervision (See REF5a). ILD also provides funding for the UK Council for Graduate
 Education Research Supervision Recognition Programme, with Professor Ade-Ojo ILD’s first
 Recognised Research Supervisor. In addition, key Visiting Professor appointments have
 strengthened supervisory teams including Prof Corney (Emeritus Professor of Psychology) and
 Prof Leveille (University of Massachusetts) who worked closely with the late Prof West on pain
 and ageing and currently supervises a student analysing the MOBILIZE Boston Study data.

 PGRs receive tailored support from RETI, which provides training guided by the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework, on topics such as research ethics, and preparation for
 the transfer and final viva. RETI provides a structured programme ensuring all PGR students

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 receive mandatory training in a wide range of topics to support their studies including research
 skills, teaching skills, examination preparation, subject specific skills and extramural skills. This
 Development programme is supported by dedicated academic staff who support and mentor
 PGR students. New students are allocated a peer mentor in our PGR ‘buddy’ scheme. PGR
 student representatives provide a student voice at School, Faculty and University level. All
 doctoral students undergo a process of annual reviews and have access to ILD funding (as
 outlined above). All PGR students are provided with their own dedicated workspace, standard
 and specialist office IT equipment, and have priority access to laboratory resources and this
 excellent support is reflected in scores >80% in research skills, responsibilities, professional
 development, progression and supervision in PRES.

 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 Analysis of EDI data confirmed that our submission reflects our diverse workforce and is
 representative across all protected characteristics with 41% of Category A submitted staff being
 from a BAME background; 50% female; and 6% with a declared disability (almost double that for
 UoG overall). A high proportion of SRR staff are on permanent contracts (89%) with 9% working
 part-time. In this period, we have been very successful and active in supporting the
 advancement of female staff with many ECR staff involved in the Aurora leadership development
 programme. We are also pleased that in this period a number of women identified with SRR
 were appointed or won promotion to Professor (Cleaver, Monks, Pacella), and Associate
 Professor (Adegboye, Birtel, Dibley, Getti, Janacsek, Stathi, Uher and Weldon). We
 continue to support all staff to succeed, promoting active University and Faculty EDI strategies
 that aim to address intersectional issues in our workforce, informed by national frameworks and
 reviews (UKRI, AdvanceHE reports, Athena Swan etc.). The ILD has worked with the Chair of
 the UoG BAME staff network (Patchay) and EDI advisors to develop and implement an ILD EDI
 Action Plan. Our submission is well represented by staff with caring responsibilities, and we
 have a good gender balance of ECRs. We support all staff with sabbaticals, writing retreats,
 conference funds and have flexible working arrangements and remote working, and support staff
 returning from periods of leave (including parental leave) with reduced duties. Personal
 circumstances are considered by promotions panels in assessing research achievement and
 outputs relative to opportunity. The selection of outputs for REF2021 relied on internal and
 external expert review as the primary means of assessment, using citation data as additional
 information as per the UoG Code of Practice and 57% and 23% of selected outputs were
 attributed to female and ECR staff, respectively.

 Future staffing plans
 As existing staff leave or retire or as new posts are created with expansion of student numbers,
 FEHHS will continue to make strategic appointments that ensure the research expertise of new
 staff complements, and can be supported by, the new ILD Centres. All adverts highlight the ILD,
 and interview panels look to explore the ambitions of candidates to work within Centres. New
 staff will be recruited in the School of Health Sciences to contribute to the expansion of expertise
 in mental health, chronic illness, and workforce development, and support investments in
 simulation as part of a longer-term plan to develop an eighth ILD Centre in Simulated Practice.
 Ongoing staff development is also key to ILD’s sustained development and expansion: the
 continued support of practice staff in attaining doctorates and developing relationships with
 practice partners. We also intend to make more secondments, honorary and visiting clinical
 appointments to support the Centres in developing and embedding expertise with healthcare
 partners. Staff in Health and Human Sciences have strengths in methods and research design
 and will be brought closer to practitioners to develop pathways to impact. We are committed as
 an institution and as individuals to quality and inclusivity and to actively supporting the
 advancement of staff with protected characteristics. We will continue to actively recruit staff from
 diverse backgrounds and support their career development.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Research and Enterprise income totalled £8.9m in this assessment period, with research income
 captured by HESA data increasing from £1.09m in REF2014 to £5.2m, from research councils,

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 charities, industry and EU/UK government bodies. The ILD Centres map onto international
 funding priority areas and are well networked with stakeholders. Senior appointed staff have
 been Principal and Co-Investigators on several large-scale funded projects hosted elsewhere
 during the cycle that have supported their work (Dibley, McCrone, Weldon) bringing £280,000
 in transferred research funds with them. Pacella was PI on the AUD2.3 (£1.3) million Australian
 Child Maltreatment Project 2019-23, funded by the Australian National Health and Medical
 Research Council before moving to the UK and remains chief investigator (not transferred). With
 the increase in experience and support, bidding activity has significantly increased. A key part of
 support comes from the ILD internal peer-review panel (including Director and Centre leads)
 which has enhanced the quality of submitted external grant applications, supporting the
 development and ambition of staff at all levels, from ECR upwards. Writing retreats were also
 funded from QR to provide dedicated time for finalising outputs and grant applications.

 Funding has been secured from numerous competitive funding sources for both primary
 research and for building national and international networks and collaborations, for example:
    • UKRI: Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) (Nielsen);
        High Value Chemicals from Plants Hub (Nielsen); Medical Research Council (Poulter,
        McCrone); Economic and Social Research Council/National Centre for Research
        Methods (Poulter, Moreno-Leguizamon, Weldon); Innovate UK (Davis); Arts and
        Humanities Research Council (Weldon); Science and Technology Funding Council
        (STFC) (Richardson).
    • EU funds: EU FP7 (Davis); EU Interreg (Goss-Sampson); European Regional
        Development Fund (Foster); Horizon 2020 (McCrone)
    • Research Charities: Bowel and Cancer Research (Dibley, Newton); British Academy
        (Hartley); Burdett Trust for Nursing (Cleaver); Danish Dairy Research Foundation
        (Adegboye); International Society of Sports Nutrition (Naclerio); Leverhulme Trust
        (Fivaz); Nursing and Midwifery Council (West); Paula Carr Diabetes Trust (Newton,
        Ojo); PECAN (Maras); School of Hard Knocks (Rossato); Wellcome Trust (McCrone)

 We have also received direct and commissioned research funding from many other bodies:
   • Education bodies: Macmillan Science and Education (Robinson); South East London
       Maths Hub (Field)
   • Local health bodies: Barts Health NHS Trust (Weldon, Dibley); Brighton and Hove
       NHS (Schofield); Greenwich and Bexley Community Hospice (Newton); HEE Kent,
       Surrey & Sussex (Moreno-Leguizamon, Newton, West); HEE North Central and East
       London (Al-Haboubi); HEE South London (Cleaver, Foster, Keogh); Kent Surrey and
       Sussex Academic Health Sciences Network (Schofield); Medway Community
       Healthcare (Docking); Medway NHS Trust (Schofield); NHS Greenwich Clinical
       Commissioning Group (Burke)
   • National Health bodies: Health Education England [HEE] (Cleaver, Moreno-
       Leguizamon); NIHR (McCrone, Swaine), NHS England (Burke)
   • National and Local Government organisations: Department of Transport (Poulter);
       Kent County Council (Maras); South London Innovation Fund (Schofield)
   • Pharma companies: BIAL (Luke, Michael)
   • Police forces: Singapore Police (Davis)
   • Specialist businesses: YOTI (Davis)

 As well as the impact outlined in our case studies, this research has supported a wide range of
 newly developing areas of impact activities including McCrone’s (Wellcome Trust) work on
 interventions for people with schizophrenia and their caregivers in India, cited in the WHO
 mhGAP operations manual, and the NICE guidelines for Psychosis and Schizophrenia in Adults:
 Prevention and Management: Appendix A. Cost-effectiveness in chronic wound management
 research led by Pacella, funded through a £900k QUT-Australian Wound Management
 Innovation CRC partnership, has been instrumental in establishing the Chronic Wounds
 Solutions Collaborating Group and developing a draft of a whole new financing system through
 Australian Medicare to support chronic wound management in primary care and improve


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 outcomes for patients.

 Our research and practitioner staff are highly active in and generate income from consultancy
 and enterprise activities. For example:
    • Charitable Trusts and other non-profit-making organisations:
        British Academy (Birtel); Bexley Training Hub (Foster); Bexley Safeguarding Children
        Board (Webb); National Autistic Society (Cook); Asociación Profesional de
        Entrenamiento Personal (Naclerio); Association for Information Technology Trust
        (Alsbury); Biochemical Society (Rickard); British Mass Spectrometry Society (Nielsen);
        Charlton Athletic Football Club (Chapman); Consultative Group on International
        Agricultural Research (Christides); Emergency Exit Arts (Foster); Family Action (Maras);
        NSPCC (Monks); Nutritia Research Foundation (Christides); Research in Practice
        (Webb); Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 (Alsbury); Royal Society of Biology
        (Rickard); Tennis Foundation (Steptoe); United Response (Woodward); Youth
        Endowment Fund (Humayun)
    • Education bodies: European University of Madrid (Naclerio); Higher Education
        Entrepreneurship Group (Oham); Ministry of Education and Training Vietnam
        International Education (George); Oxford University (Oham); The Association of
        Commonwealth Universities (Stock); University College London (Tadic); University of
        East London (Getti); Zaporizhzhya National University (Karsten)
    • Local Health bodies: Dartford & Gravesham NHS Trust (Chojnacka); Greenwich &
        Bexley Community Hospice (Newton); Lewisham & Greenwich NHS Trust (Chojnacka);
        Oxleas Foundation NHS Trust (Cleaver); South London and Maudsley NHS Trust (Ibe)
    • National Health bodies: Health Education England [HEE] (Bower, Burke, Cleaver,
        Crapnell, Swaine); HEE North Central and East London (Cleaver); HEE Kent Surrey
        Sussex (Burke, Foster, Maras); HEE South England (Maras); HEE South London
        (Cleaver, Maras); NIHR (Dibley, McCrone, Swaine); NHS England (Stokes)
    • Pharma companies: AstraZeneca (Pullen)
    • Police forces, legislation bodies and inquiries: Essex Police (Davis); Greater
        Manchester Police (Davis); Hertfordshire Police (Davis); Metropolitan Police (Goss-
        Sampson); Frankfurt Police (Davis); Hillsborough Inquest (Davis); Ministry of the Interior
        and Kingdom Relations [Netherlands] (Davis); Munich Police (Davis); Queensland
        Police (Davis); Seequestor (Davis); Stuttgart Police (Davis)
    • Specialist businesses: Arc4Health (Naclerio, Karsten); Super Recognisers
        International (Davis); Go-Fit (Naclerio); Elements (Naclerio); Institut Laue-Langevin
        (Dyer); MeatProt (Naclerio); Ninsun Proteinas (Naclerio); Oncolytika (Richardson);
        Rockfield Medical Devices (Ojo); Super Recognisers International (Davis); TJX Europe
        (Davis); YOTI (Davis).

 New infrastructure and facilities
 Since 2014 the University has invested significantly in estates and infrastructure funding, and the
 necessary technical staff (see section 2). In 2017, £32.5m was spent on the Dreadnought
 Building Redevelopment at Greenwich, with £2.7m on equipping the Psychology Laboratories.
 In 2020, £15.2m was spent on the Avery Hill campus reconfiguration, including our new
 Simulation Laboratories, with £2.64m spent on capital equipment. In 2020 we also invested
 £282k in our Movement Science Laboratories. A further £260k is also being invested at
 Medway to support SaLT research facilities and extend our simulation provision further; there
 has also been significant capital investment in Biosciences Laboratory equipment.

 New Simulation Laboratories (Avery Hill and Medway Campuses)
 The new simulation labs were designed in close international partnership with CAE healthcare to
 support the ILD's Centre for Professional Workforce Development (Simulation Group) led
 by Weldon. The new facilities of the Skills and Simulation Labs include new equipment not yet
 released to a wider audience, for example UoG was the first UK University to receive
 Augmented Reality CAE Ares manikins. This partnership facilitates numerous international
 research, knowledge exchange and impact opportunities. There are also plans for the facilities to


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 be used to engage the local community and partners in simulated health-related events. The
 labs consist of:

    •   Static and mobile video and audio capture for debriefing across all the facilities
    •   Three large, five-bedded, inpatient wards looking after adult general; midwifery ante and
        post-natal; and paediatrics including neonatal high and intensive care patients.
    •   Three clinical skills simulation suites.
    •   Three triage or patient consultation rooms.
    •   A fully functioning one bedroom flat with patient hoist system.
    •   A static ambulance installation.
    •   Human patient simulators including augmented reality simulators.
    •   Virtual reality patient communication simulators.
    •   Low fidelity, high authenticity patient simulators.
    •   Trauma moulage including self-harm injuries.
    •   Psychiatric intensive care furniture.
    •   Bariatric and older patient adult simulators.

 New Movement, and Sport Science Laboratories (Avery Hill, Sparrow’s Farm)
 Researchers in the Centre for Exercise Activity and Rehabilitation have also received
 significant investment providing brand new independent laboratories for: (i) Biomechanics; (ii)
 Strength and Conditioning; (iii) Physiology and Applied Biochemistry; and (iv) Body Composition
 and Human Assessments. The high-quality analytic equipment includes:

    •   Cortex Metalyzer -breath-by-breath expired air gas analyser (for measurement of oxygen
        uptake during exercise).
    •   Blood markers analysers (lactate, red blood, white blood, lipids, glucose)
    •   Humac Norm Isokinetic dynamometer (for measurement of muscle strength).
    •   ‘Bod Pod’ air displacement plethysmography (for measurement of body composition
        including body fatness).
    •   ASL eye tracker system.
    •   Doppler Ultrasound device (for measurement of subcutaneous tissues - such as vascular
        dimensions and blood flow velocity).
    •   12 Qualysis Oqus camera system for 3D movement analysis
    •   Kistler triaxial force plate
    •   DeporTec -single axis force plates and adapted system for upper body (pull-ups, bench
        press, etc)
    •   Delsys Trigno Wireless EMG - Electromyography
    •   TMG – Tensiomyography to analyse evoked muscular function
    •   Optojump optical measurement system
    •   Win Laborat sports testing transducer
    •   Velowin – camera-based optoelectronic system to measure movement velocity
    •   Flywheel system for concentric-eccentric training without gravity
    •   Vibration training system (power plate)

 New Neuropsychology Laboratories (Greenwich Campus)
 The School of Human Sciences moved into new bespoke labs in the Dreadnought Building in
 Greenwich in 2018. These facilities have enhanced research activities, supporting the work of
 the ILD Centres for Thinking and Learning, Mental Health, Inequalities, Chronic Illness
 and Ageing and Vulnerable Children and Families. The facilities include: (i) three general-
 purpose cognitive psychology laboratories, two with high-end virtual reality gaming machines
 designed to track eye movement, and the other for facial recognition research; (ii) motion and
 gait lab; (iii) observation lab with high-definition recording suite; (iv) a social and developmental
 lab for children’s developmental research. Key specialist equipment includes:
     • Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) MAGSTIM.
     • Two 32 channels sets of Mitsar EEG.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Two sets of Biosemi 64 channels EEG with Biosemi amplifier compatible with TMS.
    •   Two sets of Nexus-4 biofeedback which can record such physiological responses as skin
        conductance, heart rate and pulse, ECG and EEG.
    •   Two sets of Edu-Logger for heart rate and two sets for Galvanic skin response.
    •   Two sets of HTC VIVE Pro (virtual reality) with a built-in eye tracking system (Tobii)
    •   Two Tobii Eye Trackers: (1) glasses with a built-in eye tracking camera, Tobii Pro
        Glasses 2, and (2) a small computer-based camera, Tobii Pro Nano, for eye tracking
        during computer-based experiments.
    •   AccuGait Force Platform.

 New Biomedical Laboratories and equipment (Medway Campus)
 Researchers in the Centre for Chronic Illness and Ageing and Biomedical Science
 Research Group have access to Medway research labs. Recently Getti led the design,
 development and management of a CAT 2 Tissue Culture and Parasitology research
 laboratory, supported by core funding from the Faculty (see also UoA6, UoA8). Researchers at
 Medway have unrestricted access to a state-of-the-art LSM880 confocal microscope with
 airyscan and cutting-edge electrophysiology rig funded by the University and coordinated by
 Richardson. The confocal microscope was a £400,000 capital investment by the University
 commissioned in 2016, which has also significantly benefitted various research groups
 (Richardson, Getti) and other units (UoA6, UoA8). We have a strong cell and tissue culture
 portfolio for various applications, in line with NCR3 principles and two of our members head two
 distinct fully furnished state of the art modern tissue culture laboratories. The Faculty also
 funded the acquisition of an Accuri C6+ Flow cytometer to carry out cell analysis and an
 ultramicrotome to support preparation of biological samples for scanning transmission electron
 microscopy used by Richardson, Getti, and research groups including more than 50% of PGRs
 and post-doctoral research fellows working within our units (UoA6, UoA8). The second tissue
 culture laboratory is led by Richardson and specialises in molecular biology and cell urology,
 synthetic biology, recombinant protein production, transfection of plasmids, siRNA and antisense
 oligonucleotides, gene editing, immunofluorescence and electron microscopy, RTqPCR,
 molecular cloning, and mammalian cell culture as well as using 32p labelled DNA probes,
 western immunoblotting and immune-precipitations and gst pulldowns. The lab has the capability
 of following material through sub-cellular compartments using subcellular fractionation and
 microscopy and analysing gene function.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Effectiveness of research collaboration
 The establishment of the ILD has provided a vehicle to support our existing research base and
 networks. Members of all seven Centres have made a substantial contribution to the research
 base, economy and society, locally, nationally and internationally. As outlined in Section 2 we
 have supported a range of research laboratory and networking visits to facilitate the
 development of our networks and host ILD Research Cafés, public lectures and stakeholder
 events.

 Joint projects and international collaborations
 ILD Centre staff have strong relationships and collaborations with numerous international
 universities, including Harvard, USA (Adjaye-Gbewonyo), the Universities of Rio Grande du Sol,
 Brazil (Bernardi), Universities of Bern, Hagen and Ferrera (Birtel), University of Aarhus,
 Denmark (Dibley, Gomes Alves), Universities of New Orleans and Penn State, USA
 (Humayun), University of Canterbury, New Zealand (Maras), Cordoba University, Spain
 (Monks), University of Warsaw, Poland, Case Western Reserve, US (Moore), First Affiliated
 Hospital of Soochow, China, and Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences and Research Centre,
 India (both Ojo), University of Windsor, Ontario, Canada, and University of North Carolina (both
 Swaine), McMaster, Canada, and Moscow City University, Russia (both Uher), Institute for
 Mental Health, Singapore, University of Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, (McCrone), University of Cape
 Town, South Africa (McCrone, Pacella), and Stanford University, and Tulane Medical School,
 USA (both Weldon).


                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Centre for Vulnerable Children and Families is part of the Australian Child Maltreatment
 Study (Pacella), a large interdisciplinary collaboration including ILD, QUT, UQ, Australian
 Catholic University, University of New Hampshire, University of Edinburgh, to measure the
 prevalence and burden of disease attributable to all forms of child maltreatment. It is one of the
 most comprehensive prevalence studies ever conducted with findings from this study key in
 informing policy and practice to prevent and reduce child maltreatment in Australia.

 Pacella is also a member of the Global Burden of Disease study, funded by Bill & Melinda Gates
 Foundation, and set up the original comparative risk assessment (CRA) international
 collaborating group which has now grown to over 1000 members. In the REF period, Pacella
 has provided critical feedback on data sources, inclusion of risk factors, estimation process and
 results, and this work has led to several highly cited publications in the Lancet. Pacella is also
 part of a collaboration with the South African MRC on the National Burden of Disease and CRA
 study which informs priority-setting in South Africa.

 The ILD has also hosted several international visiting researchers, including colleagues from the
 University of Seville, Spain; University of Córdoba, Spain; Complutense University Madrid,
 Spain; Instituto Universitário De Lisboa, Portugal; University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Italy;
 University of Inonu, Turkey; Erasmus University, Netherlands.

 A key indicator of the success of these collaborations is that almost half (46.5%) of our 859
 outputs in this period were co-authored with international researchers, including: Africa (Ghana,
 South Africa, Tanzania), Asia (China, India, Iran, Israel, South Korea, Mongolia, Philippines,
 Qatar, Singapore, Turkey), Australasia (Australia, New Zealand), Europe (Austria, Belgium,
 Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Netherlands, Norway,
 Poland, Portugal, Russia, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland), North America (Canada,
 USA), and South America (Brazil, Colombia). This has enhanced our international impact, with
 a four-fold increase in Field-Weighted Citation Impact from 1.62 in REF2014 to 6.39 in the
 current period and outputs cited 36,054 times, a three-fold increase from 10,193 in REF2014.

 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 As outlined in Section 1 we are fully engaged with non-academic stakeholders and have
 significant local, national and international impact.

 Roles as expert advisors
 This is evidenced by the large number of staff involved with National advisory boards of non-
 academic bodies for example: Age UK; Irish Health Board (Donovan, see UoA20); South East
 London Sustainability and Transformation partnership – Alcohol Harms (Foster) ; Advisory
 Committee for Barnado’s project funded by Department of Education (Morgan); Health
 Education England’s Dementia-friendly Dentistry Board (Newton); Council of Dean’s Research
 Advisory Group, and Association of UK University Hospitals Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health
 Professionals Board (both Weldon). Staff also act as Expert panel members/ academic
 advisors to numerous non-academic organisations including the Nursing and Midwifery Council;
 Crohn’s and Colitis UK IBD Nurse Specialist Programme (Dibley); The Early Intervention
 Foundation (Humayun); the World Health Organisation (Ibe); Go-fit research panel (Naclerio);
 Expert accreditor for the National Center for Academic Accreditation & evaluation (NCAAA),
 Saudi Arabia (Weldon).

 We have strong ongoing local, national and international relationships as collaborators and
 partners with: Public Health organisations, including Public Health England, Local
 Government organisations, working closely with our local councils, Royal Borough of
 Greenwich and Kent and Medway; local NHS trusts, including Oxleas NHS Foundation Trust,
 Lewisham & Greenwich NHS Trust, Barts Health NHS Trust, South London and Maudsley NHS
 Trust, Dartford and Gravesham NHS Trust, Kent and Medway NHS and Social Care and
 Partnership Trust, Medway Community Healthcare, Mental Health organisations such as MIND;
 Activity and Sport organisations such as Charlton Athletic Football Club; Workforce
 development and professional organisations such as the Nursing and Midwifery Council,

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health and Care Professions Council, British Psychological Society, Social Work England,
 Health Education England, and the Association for Simulated Practice in Healthcare, and
 organisations supporting Vulnerable Children and Families such as NSPCC; and Police
 forces and associated professional bodies including the Metropolitan Police, Munich Police
 Stuttgart Police, Queensland Police Services, the Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO),
 the Home Office, and the Police Federation.

 Key NHS networks
 ILD staff engage actively with our health partnerships including: Croydon Health services NHS
 Trust, Guys & St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Kings' College NHS Foundation Trust,
 Maidstone & Tunbridge Wells NHS Trust, Truro & Penwith FE College with Royal Cornwall NHS
 Trust, Kent Community NHS Foundation Trust, London Ambulance Service NHS Foundation
 Trust, South East Coast Ambulance Service NHS Foundation Trust. We are a member of the
 HEE Kent, Surrey, Sussex network and the Nottingham-based National Rehabilitation Centre
 (NRC) Academic Health Research and Education Partnership, which will lead the NRC’s
 research and training development, when operational in 2023. Pacella represents ILD/UoG on
 the Kent and Medway Joint Research Operation Collaborative group which includes NHS
 partners, with the aim of working together to enhance the potential for attracting and maintaining
 larger scale investment in the area and tailoring research to the needs of the local population.
 The ILD/UoG is a partner, and Pacella is also a named investigator, on the Health and Social
 Care Economics theme of the successful £9m NIHR Applied Research Collaboration Kent
 Surrey Sussex (ARC KSS) Led by Sussex Partnership NHS Foundation Trust and University of
 Kent and is involved in several projects and four PhD studentships (UoG, Chichester, Surrey)
 through this collaboration.

 Enrichment of the environment
 These relationships greatly enrich our research, numerous staff having published outputs with
 partner organisations: including NHS Foundation Trusts and Hospitals (Barts Health, Dibley,
 Ojo, Weldon; Bristol Eye Hospital, Tadic; Central and North West London, Button, McCrone;
 Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children, Tadic; Greater Manchester Mental Health, Birtel;
 Guy’s and St Thomas’, Hull & East Yorkshire Hospitals, both Dibley; Newcastle University
 Hospitals, Stoner; South London and Maudsley, Ibe, McCrone, Ojo; Sunshine Coast University
 Hospital, The Royal National Orthopaedic Hospital, both Dibley), charities and charity
 foundations (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Stoner; McPin Foundation, McCrone; MIND,
 Birtel, McCrone). Our ILD Knowledge Exchange Fellow manages partnership and stakeholder
 engagement. Staff from partner organisations attend ILD events including the 2019 ILD launch
 and ongoing Public Lecture Series and online debates and support us in developing research
 ideas and pathways to impact.

 Researchers from ILD’s Biomedical Science Research Group are actively involved in specialist
 units, centres of excellence and spin-out research consultancies (e.g., Tissue Culture Laboratory
 and Intracellular Delivery Solutions (IDS) Ltd (Richardson); Tissue Culture Research Unit
 (Getti), with work on developing novel therapies to treat leishmania (Getti), and
 commercialisation of IP outputs (Patent for Antisense Oligonucleotide Compositions.
 WO2014203008. Granted by the European Patent Office June 2018; Patent applied for;
 Liposomes, filed with UKIPO August 2018 - Patent application: GB 1812992.4; both
 Richardson).

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 ILD members make a substantial contribution to the national and international research base
 through numerous activities. A large number of professional roles with external organisations are
 held by ILD academics, including presidency of two organisations (International Union of
 Psychological Science (Maras); European Society for Research in Adult Development
 (Robinson)), plus membership of committees, advisory boards, expert panels and trusts such
 as: Age UK (Blackmore); Association for Simulated Practice in Healthcare, Association of UK
 University Hospitals Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health Professionals Board (both Weldon);
 Barnardos i-HOP (Morgan); Barts Health NHS Trust Nursing, Midwifery and Allied Health

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professions Research Unit Board member, Crohn's & Colitis UK IBD Nurse Specialist
 Programme (both Dibley); BASES Sport and Exercise Psychology Accreditation Route
 (Rossato); Blenheim Project (Foster); clinical trial steering groups (McCrone); Diversity House
 (Moreno-Leguizamon); Dysphagia, Royal College for Speech and Language Therapists
 (Hansjee); Health Education England Midwifery Expansion Project (Bower); International Society
 for Political Psychology Early Career Committee (Amer); Early Intervention Foundation, Youth
 Endowment Fund Expert Panel (both Humayun); Health Education England’s Dementia
 Friendly Dentistry Board (Newton); Future Emerging Technologies European Commission
 Programme (Janacsek); Primary Care Respiratory Society (Lawlor); Refugee Issues in
 Psychology, Australian Psychological Society (Essex); Royal Society of Chemistry: South East
 Region Analytical Division (Nielsen); World Health Organisation (Ibe).

 In this period staff were external examiners on 80+ PhD viva exam panels at national (London
 School of Economics, Queens University Belfast, University College London, University of Kent,
 University of Nottingham, University of York) and international institutions (George Washington
 University, USA; Monash University, Australia; Tallinn University, Estonia; University of Agder,
 Norway; University of Cape Town, South Africa; University of Seville, Spain; University of
 Szeged, Hungary; University of Rome, Italy; University of Queensland, Australia, University of
 Valencia, Spain).

 Staff also hold membership of numerous professional bodies across disciplines including:
 Psychology (Australian Psychological Society; British Psychological Society; Experimental
 Psychology Society; Society of Personality and Social Psychology), Nursing and Health Care
 (College of Paramedics; Health and Care Professions Council, Nursing and Midwifery Council,
 Royal College of Midwives, Royal College of Nursing), Counselling (British Association for
 Counselling and Psychotherapy; College of Sexual and Relationship Therapists; UK Council for
 Psychotherapy), Sports Sciences (American College of Sports Medicine; British Association of
 Sport and Exercise Sciences, UK Strength and Conditioning Association), and societies from
 diverse disciplines (Agriculture, Nutrition and Health Academy; Association for Simulated
 Practice in Healthcare; Association for Young People's Health; European Society for Prevention
 Research; Hungarian Academy of Sciences; Institute of Leadership and Management; Institute
 of Youth Work; Royal College of Speech and Language Therapists; Society for the Study of
 Addictions).

 Editorial and peer-review activity
 Staff hold a range of editorial roles across many disciplines:
 Journal editorship - Drugs Education Prevention and Policy, International Journal for
 Epidemiology and Public Health Research, both Foster; Journal of Strength and Conditioning
 Research, Naclerio; Online Journal of Sports Medicine; Journal of Human Hypertension, both
 Swaine. Associate editorship - Addiction Research and Theory, Gladwin; Frontiers in
 Behavioural Neuroscience, Janacsek; Psychology, Society and Education, Monks; Paediatric
 Exercise Science, Naclerio; Clinical Skills, Rae; Emerging Adulthood, Robinson; Philosophical
 Transactions of the Royal Society B: Biological Sciences, Uher. Editorial Board Membership -
 Papers on Social Representations, Amer; Journal of Community and Applied Social Psychology,
 Birtel; International Journal of Risk and Contingency Management, Burns; Frontiers in Human
 Behavior, Farmer; International Nursing Review, Ferns; Nurse Education in Practice, Finnerty;
 Journal of Parapsychology, Luke; Psychology of Men and Masculinity, Luyt; Journal of Public
 Mental Health, International Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, both
 McCrone; Journal of Aggression, Conflict and Peace Research, Monks; Nutrients, Ojo;
 Sensors, Patchay; Qualitative Criminology, Perrin; Frontiers in Psychology, Uher; BMJ
 Simulation and Technology Enhanced Learning, Weldon. Special Issue editorship - International
 Journal of Environmental Research and Public Health, Foster, Ojo; International Review of
 Social Psychology, Gkinopoulos; Men and Masculinities, Luyt; Frontiers in Public Health,
 Moreno-Leguizamon; Journal of Drug Targeting, Richardson; American Psychologist,
 Robinson; Journal of Theoretical and Philosophical Psychology, Uher.



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff are also routinely involved in ad hoc reviewing for international, high impact Q1 journals in
 core research areas, including Cognitive Neuroscience and Psychology (Addictive Behaviors,
 American Psychologist, Ageing and Mental Health, Cognition, Cognition and Emotion, Cortex,
 Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory & Cognition, PLOS One), Medicine and
 Nursing (The Lancet, The Lancet Psychiatry, BMC Geriatrics, Journal of Advanced Nursing,
 Clinical Nutrition, Ophthalmology), and Health (Accident Analysis and Prevention, Critical Public
 Health, European Journal of Applied Physiology, International Journal of Drug Policy).

 Awards and fellowships
 The work conducted by ILD staff has received widespread recognition from within and outside of
 their research and practice fields. Examples include honours: OBE for services to nursing and
 sexual health education (Evans). Scholarly awards: e.g., Rising Star of Crohn's & Colitis
 Research, Crohn's & Colitis UK (Dibley), Quality in Care Diabetes Award: Best initiative for
 children, young people, & emerging adults (Cai), Danubius Young Scientist Award (Janacsek),
 Parapsychological Association Annual Book Award (Luke), Winner of The British Journal of
 Midwifery Practice Award (Gale), Wiley’s #1 Best of Nursing 2015 research paper (Weldon),
 Health Service Journal Patient Safety Award (Hansjee), QUT Vice-Chancellor's Award for
 Impact on Policy and Practice (Pacella). Research fellowships: British Academy Postdoctoral
 Fellowship (Hartley); Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship (Uher); Fellow of the Experimental
 Psychology Society (Samara); Fellow of the British Psychological Society (Luyt, Maras,
 Rossato); Fellow of the Royal Biological Society & Chartered Biologist (Richardson).

 Grant assessment
 ILD staff also contribute to grant assessment for: Research councils (BBSRC, Richardson;
 ESRC, Birtel, Davis, Maras, Monks, Poulter; EPSRC, Burns; European Commission,
 Janacsek; European Research Council, Monks; MRC, Tadic, Thompson, McCrone, Pacella;
 NIHR, Crowley, Foster, Humayun, McCrone, Ojo, Swaine), charity trusts (Bowel Research
 UK, Dibley; British Academy, Monks; Guy’s and St Thomas’ Charity, Humayun; Macular
 Society, Poulter; Nuffield, Monks; The Leverhulme Trust, Birtel, Davis, Maras), and
 international agencies (Agence Nationale de la Recherche, Naclerio; Australian National Health
 and Medical Research Council, Pacella; Ireland Health Board, Cleaver; Israeli Science
 Foundation, Farmer; National Agency of Spain, Monks; Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions,
 Janacsek; National Science Foundation, Janacsek, Samara; Netherlands Organisation for
 Health Research and Development, Ojo; Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research,
 Monks; Swiss National Science Foundation, Bowling).

 Keynote presentations and invited talks
 Staff have given over 300 keynote presentations, plenary presentations and invited talks. A
 small selection includes: Global Risk Forum One Health Summit, Switzerland (Collins, Eade),
 European Crohn's & Colitis Organisation N-ECCO Research Forum, Spain (Dibley), Public
 Health England / Department of Health: Personalised Care and Population Health Conference,
 England (Evans), 8th International Conference on Imaging for Crime Detection and Prevention,
 Netherlands (Davis), Royal College of Midwives Education Conference, England (Finnerty),
 World Bank Group, USA (Janacsek), International Conference on Social Science and
 Humanities, Thailand (La Placa), 13th Conference, International Association for the Treatment
 of Sexual Offenders, Portugal (Perrin), International Congress of Psychology, Japan (Maras),
 European Conference on Interventional Oncology, France (McCrone), International Conference
 of Research and Intervention in Psychology and Education for Development, Spain (Monks), 1st
 Asia Pacific Conference on Integrated Care, Australia (Moreno Leguizamon), International
 Conference of Law Enforcement and Public Health, Netherlands (Morgan), International
 Congress of Sport and Leisure Activities, Ecuador (Naclerio), International conference on
 Diabetes, Nutrition, Metabolism & Medicare, Canada (Ojo), Wounds Australia Conference,
 Australia (Pacella), Transport Research Laboratory Annual Symposium, England (Poulter),
 ISSP World Congress of Sport Psychology, China (Rossato), Alzheimer Europe Conference,
 Netherlands (Stoner), Royal College of Ophthalmologists Annual Congress, England (Tadic).



                                                                                             Page 19
