Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:

 Heriot-Watt University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Sub-panel 25: Area Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Excelling in research and enterprise with a focus on impact is one of the five strategic aims of Heriot-
Watt University (HWU). Within that, this UoA aims to address crucial world issues through its strong
expertise across the humanities and social sciences, working within a wide range of disciplinary,
interdisciplinary and theoretical perspectives, in close collaboration with stakeholders across a range
of sectors. The UoA comprises 18.7 FTE researchers in two research centres and is part of the
School of Social Sciences (SoSS).
Future Research and Impact
Our vision for Area Studies at HWU is to be world leading in areas of specialism where we can make
a significant contribution to society. We have identified these fields as:
   (1) multilingualism, interpreting and translation (including spoken/written and sign
       languages), and
   (2) cultural practices (such as performance, traditional skills, and ecological knowledge for
       sustainable communities).
To deliver this vision over the next five years, Area Studies will:
    increase both the quality and the quantity of our research, through interdisciplinary
     collaboration within and outside the university, with a focus on impact. This has been tracked
     by monitoring publications and awards relative to other proximate UoAs internally and relevant
     benchmark data externally.
    foster a vibrant culture and connected community of full-time and part-time PGR students,
     providing them with clear leadership, training and connection to our Research Centres. This is
     measured by retention and progression of PGR students.
    enhance staff at all career stages through training, development and mentoring. This is
     measured by staff progression against personal targets, and promotions.
    increase the volume and diversity of research income from industry and philanthropic funders.
     This is measured by the overall amount of funding, and the variety of funders.
    create infrastructure (both physical and intellectual) that fosters creative collaborations within
     the UoA and across other HWU UoAs, as well as externally and internationally. This is
     measured by the completion of physical structures (buildings, spaces), the impact of those and
     by assessing Research Centres annually.
Our research strategy is reviewed regularly by the School-wide Research Committee which
comprises the Research Centre Directors, other UoA leads and senior staff from the School
Management Board. Our local strategy is also informed by university level input from UCRI
(University Committee for Research and Innovation). Research in the UoA has a supportive
infrastructure organised around our two research centres. Directors meet regularly and form part of
the Research Committees at School and University levels. Centre Directors also provide an annual
report to the School and University level research committees, ensuring oversight regarding progress

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
toward stated objectives. Our Research Centres enjoy dedicated resources to organise activities,
devolved responsibility for budgets pertaining to staff access to conferences, workshops and data;
as well as funding specifically aimed at professional training and development, IRG funding, plus
School-funded PhD scholarships. HWU has introduced Infonetica universal ethics application and
approval process, so a team of reviewers for ethics procedures in now in place in SoSS. The DoR
and Deputy DoR regularly review the work of this sub-committee and the University Ethics
Committee audits the work of School Ethics committees across the University. These procedures
are particularly important in, e.g. intercultural translation, or researching to build sustainable
communities.
Structure (Centres)
The UoA hosts two international Research Centres at different stages of development.
The Centre for Translation & Interpreting Studies in Scotland (CTISS) (9.7 FTE)
CTISS has been in existence for 50 years, is internationally renowned for the calibre of its research,
and led by Napier, Professor of Intercultural Communication and currently Director of Research
(SoSS). CTISS is organised into three main clusters: translation (Liao) interpreting (Angelelli) and
sign language (Kusters). The sign language cluster has been branded as SIGNS@HWU. In 2017,
the British Sign Language team (BSL), which now comprises the SIGNS@HWU team, was awarded
the highly prestigious Guardian University 2017 award for research Social and Community Impact.
As one of only five British members of the CIUTI (organization dedicated to excellence in Translation
and Interpreting research and training), CTISS hosted the 2018 CIUTI conference Translation and
interpreting in an era of demographic and technological change – innovations in research, practice
and training (Winters). Bringing together research expertise across the aligned disciplines of
translation studies, interpreting studies, sociolinguistics and applied linguistics the goal of CTISS is
to conduct basic and applied research using rigorous research methods to support excellent, peer-
reviewed social science, arts and humanities research that enables us to:
    Consider how translation and interpreting processes and products provide access to
     information
    Explore how multilingual languaging practices foster an inclusive and diverse society
    Examine the relationships between language, culture, and wellbeing
    Promote cutting-edge approaches to teaching languages, translation and interpreting
    Evaluate the impact of technologies on languaging practices, translation and interpreting
A key feature of CTISS has been the innovative ERC Starter Grant awarded to Kusters: MobileDeaf,
which investigates the real-life strategic use of multimodal and multilingual linguistic repertoires in
everyday language practices with deaf and hearing interlocutors, and how deaf signers position
themselves in relation to language ideologies. Four sub-projects focus on structurally different kinds
of international deaf mobilities:
   1. forced migration (Kakuma Refugee Camp, Kenya),
   2. labour migration (London),
   3. professional mobility (multi-sited), and
   4. tourist mobility (Bali).
Each of the four projects enriches understanding of intersectionality and translanguaging work in
deaf mobilities across international borders.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
CTISS researchers work collaboratively with partners such as Police Scotland, Scottish
Qualifications Authority, NHS, and Associations of Sign Language Interpreters, which has led to
economic and social impact in informing the thinking of government, industry, public bodies and
institutions, representative language community organizations, professional associations, and
language service providers in Scotland, the UK and globally. For example, the work led by Angelelli
resulted in the first international ISO standards for community interpreting, and her work in the
European Union Directorate of Translation surveyed the guidelines for provision of healthcare
interpreting across European borders. The project IMPLI led by CTISS and other European
Universities produced training materials for training police officers on working with interpreters across
spoken languages, and Liao’s project produced accessible museum guidelines. Our impact case
study on access and participation for deaf signers features best practice guidelines for sign language
interpreters in legal, employment and video-remote contexts, leading to policy change and law
reform for sign language access. CTISS promotes cutting-edge research through the lenses of
multimodality, multilingualism and technology and future strategy for CTISS is aimed at increasing
its contribution to research in translation, and specifically audio-visual translation and translation
technologies. Our future research will encompass public service interpreting and translation in
spoken/written and signed languages as well as work with international communities to better
understand linguistic and cultural diversity and linguistic and social inclusion generally.
Intercultural Research Centre (IRC), (9.0 FTE)
The Intercultural Research Centre, established in 2013, is led by Nic Craith, Professor of Cultural
Heritage and Anthropology and former Director of Research (SoSS). IRC's research seeks to: build
understanding of interactions between cultures on a wide variety of levels, including sub-cultures,
gender cultures and linguistic cultures; and to develop appreciation of the experience and discursive
representation of living with, or between, different cultures, identities, communities or languages.
The goal of IRC is to support excellent, peer-reviewed and impactful social science, arts and
humanities research on the following key research themes:
    The role of popular culture in fostering inclusion and diversity (lead: Prof Tinker)
    The cultural and linguistic disruption experienced by migrants and refugees (lead: Dr Strani)
    The role of heritage and memory in the creation of sustainable communities (lead: Prof Kockel)
IRC has developed international collaborative projects with universities and research users and has
successfully bid for funding to build research capacity in the fields of cultural sustainability, popular
culture, performance and cultural heritage. Key successes of IRC have been CoHERE, New
Speakers COST Action and RADAR (Horizon 2020, COST Action, EU DG Justice respectively).
CoHERE was a Horizon 2020 multidisciplinary project with a consortium involving 12 partners over
nine countries, including universities, an SME, two museums and a cultural network. The research
covers diverse European territories and realities comparatively and in depth. As well as a range of
academic publications and workshops, a key output of the research led by HWU included a research-
informed Oratorio which was performed in Newcastle, Edinburgh and Riga. To increase
dissemination of IRC research, a range of heritage festival events was organised in collaboration
with external partners, including the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences, and the festival listed in the
United Kingdom’s programme for the European Year of Cultural Heritage. Workshops were
organised in partnership with the Royal Society of Arts (Media, Creative Industries, Culture and
Heritage Network), cultural organisations, consultants and festival organisers. Since 2018, our
annual Sustainable Communities Heritage Festival has showcased this research. Members of IRC
collaborate with academic partners across Europe (i.e. Latvian Academy of Culture and the Finland
Futures Research Centre), and beyond (Harvard University). Their non-academic partners in

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Scotland include Historic Environment Scotland, Museums Galleries Scotland. In Europe, IRC
members work with Archiv der Deutschen Jugendbewegung, Institut für Auslandsbeziehungen,
POLIN Museum for the History of Polish Jews, European Network of Cultural Centres, Sámi Council)
and beyond (e.g., IUCN, UNESCO). Academics in IRC hold expertise in fields ranging from cultural
ecology and sustainability, popular music and performance, migration and languages. Future
strategy for IRC focuses on the challenges experienced by migrants and displaced people, and on
the role that heritage plays in connecting people in these circumstances with their host communities.
Covid 19
During 2020, many staff and PhD students were adversely affected by the restrictions imposed in
response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The School and University responded by providing additional
support opportunities, such as regular ‘virtual coffee breaks’ to provide informal opportunities to
maintain social contact with fellow doctoral students, and by moving existing face-to-face training
opportunities online (e.g. research methods training). In addition, the University took the decision to
match the UKRI approach to offering extensions of up to six months for final year PhD students
whose work had been affected by the pandemic. In some instances, these extensions were fully
costed, in others there was a fee waiver. The university is now offering additional support to follow
for students in the 1st and 2nd years of their doctorates.


 2. People


Staffing Strategy
With a view to the sustainability and future development of its research, the UoA attaches special
importance and has invested heavily in the appointment of Early Career Researchers, ECRs. This
is reflected in five ECR appointments who make up 37.4% part of this submission: Adam,
Farrington, Harrington Fernández, Liu and Monteoliva. ECRs are supported by a robust
mentoring system; reduced teaching loads give them greater research time; and more formal training
is provided through a PG Cert in Teaching and Learning . It is HWU's policy to employ all research
staff on open-ended contracts in all appropriate circumstance, with a view to sustaining continuity of
research expertise. Increased research time has been enabled by reducing teaching loads of
research active staff through the employment of staff who focus on teaching & scholarship.
HWU operates an active Performance and Development Review policy where all staff prepare
forward job plans, and a mentoring scheme is used to increase the skills of ECRs in relation to
publication, PGR supervision, external funding and impact. This is particularly important in assisting
staff who have had a break in research. PDR meetings are used to ensure staff have time to return
to research, e.g. a phased return to full teaching and administrative commitments.
HWU ensures that all academic staff are active at internationally competitive levels in research
and/or scholarship; this is supported by our strategic recruitment investment fund (called
Bicentennial Research Leaders). Through this initiative, the UoA has appointed an internationally
leading anthropologist, Annelies Kusters, who heads the MobileDeaf team.
Staff Support
The University encourages research active staff to take leave of absence to focus on their research.
26.7% of staff in this UoA (2 Male and 5 Female) have benefitted from periods of research-intensive
leave. This includes two members (1 Male and 1 Female) who have had two semesters leave.


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Year      Academic       Successful Outcomes from Research Leave
 2014      Winters        1 journal article; 2 book chapters, 1 co-edited book, 1 conference paper
                          + panel, 1 grant application
 2014      Turner         2 papers in edited collections and 2 drafted for journals; 3 grant
                          applications submitted; 5 conference presentations including 2
                          keynote/plenaries plus 1 invited lecture
 2015      Turner         3 journal articles; 2 papers in edited collections; 3 grant applications, 1
                          successful (upon re-submission): Scottish Government. 5 conference
                          presentations including 1 keynote.
 2015      Tinker         1 draft of single-authored book; 1 guest lecture; 2 conference papers; 1
                          conference co-organisation
 2016      Liao           4 Journal essays
 2017      Pfeiffer       1 journal article, 1 draft journal article, 2 draft book chapters, 3
                          conference papers
 2018      Napier         3 complete and 4 draft chapters for monograph - now in press with
                          publisher. 6 grant applications, 2 successful: Carnegie Trust & AHRC
                          OWRI-MEITS. 2 keynote conference presentations.
 2018      Strani         2 journal essays, 1 book proposal, 3 grant applications, fieldwork for
                          project (UK-wide)
 2019      Winters        2 journal articles, 1 book proposal, 4 conference papers, 1 grant
                          application


Research career development at all levels (staff and PGR students) in the University is co-ordinated
by the Research Futures Academy. This offers a full programme of training courses and
opportunities for staff at all levels and PGR students and is designed to increase research capability
and research success across the University.
HWU created and runs the Scottish Crucible as a pan-Scotland professional and personal leadership
programme (developed initially by NESTA for the UK). This is funded by SFC and the Scottish
Government (www.hw.ac.uk/scottishcrucible) for future research leaders. The scheme enables
talented early career researchers, developing independent research from any discipline, to explore
innovation, policy, and interdisciplinary collaboration, and expand their creative capacity and
problem-solving potential in new directions. SoSS staff have participated in Scottish Crucible and
also Aurora programmes (to foster female academic leaders) in support of research and general
career development. Since the last REF, Pfeiffer and Strani have participated in HWU Crucible,
while Strani also participated in Aurora.
Equality and Diversity
Guidelines and procedures are in place to guarantee that all appointments and promotions are
transparently based on quality, ability, and achievement. Throughout the REF cycle, all research
active staff have been appointed on open-ended contracts with no fixed-term Category A staff. The
SoSS senior management team has a 50:50 female/male balance. Promotion criteria give
consideration to maternity leave, health-related absence and caring responsibilities whilst a
mentoring scheme supports female staff considering promotion. Our FTE (18.7) is split FTE 8 Male,
10.7 Female; 5 are ECRs. Both Centre Directors are female. In 2020, Heriot-Watt made a successful
submission to renew our Athena Swan Bronze Charter Award; this has been conferred until 2026

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reinforcing our ambition to put EDI at the heart of our future strategy. SoSS places strong emphasis
on gender equality and in 2019 ran a three-stage programme for female mid-career staff that
addressed the issues of:
   (a) establishing research identity and building profile
   (b) developing financial skills in preparation for bidding for and managing grants, and
   (c) building strong networks within and beyond the University.
Performance and Development Review (PDR) / Promotion pathways materials feature positive case
studies of a wide range of staff, especially women and those working P/T or returning from career
breaks.

Doctoral Students
Structure
During the current REF assessment period, the School has sought to consolidate its doctoral
programmes under the leadership of a newly created dedicated post to oversee all aspects of the
doctoral student experience and to establish a new SoSS Doctoral Centre. The new Director of
Doctoral Programmes, a professorial-level appointment made via the HWU Bicentennial Research
Leaders scheme, commenced in December 2019 and is responsible for overseeing all aspects of
the School’s policies and facilitating interdisciplinary research for postgraduate research students,
as well as liaising with key external partners such as the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences
(SGSSS) and the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH). Our students have
actively participated in the SGSAH summer schools, and successfully secured full-time paid
internship organized by SGSSS. The Director of Doctoral Programmes is supported by a team
consisting of four academics and three administrators, as well as by PGR leads within each of the
School’s Research Centres. A School PGR Committee meets regularly, and consists of all Research
Centre PGR leads, student representatives, and other key colleagues with responsibilities around
the doctoral student experience.
Training
Training in key skills and methodologies is provided through two principle routes:
    PhD students have access to a comprehensive programme of generic skills training provided
     by the University’s Research Futures Academy (RFA), ranging from research skills such as
     literature searching, critical thinking and conference presentation skills to management of
     academic career such as developing CV and preparing for job interviews.
    The School runs a 60-credit PGCert programme in research methods that is compulsory for
     any doctoral student who does not already possess equivalent M-level research methods
     training at the point of admission. This programme is made up of three courses: an introduction
     to research methods, the quantitative researcher, and the qualitative researcher.
Funding
Over the REF 2021 period, there are 60 PhD students supervised by colleagues in the UoA. 46 were
in receipt of HWU funding that included SoSS full scholarships, fee waivers, staff scholarships,
James Watt (HWU scheme) Scholarships and professorial scholarships. In total, the UoA has
benefited from the abatement of £540,748 in tuition fees. Stipend payments to the UoA amounted to
£1,108,576. The UoA has attracted external funding for three PhD students from the Scottish
Graduate School for Arts & Humanities and two PhD studentships from the Scottish Heritage
Consortium (AHRC funding).
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Expertise
The recruitment of PhD students is driven primarily by the quality of both the applicant and the
research proposal, but is also contingent on the level of fit between a proposed doctoral project and
the areas of research strength and critical mass represented by the School’s research centres.
Furthermore, our approach is geared towards ensuring that early career academics are given
opportunities to develop their supervisory expertise. To this end, it is required that all supervisory
teams include at least one member who has experience of supervising a doctoral student to
successful completion. When an early career researcher is involved in supervision, they have a more
experienced colleague on the team to provide guidance and mentorship. Research Futures
Academy (RFA) at HWU provides supervisory training to help supervisors manage
supervisor/student relationship and student performance more effectively, and also ensure the
supervision conforms to relevant legal obligations and university supervisory code of practice.
Recruitment
Recruitment of the best PhD students is highly competitive, and the UoA has invested heavily in this
area during the period, supporting 46 PhD studentships from SoSS. These opportunities allow us to
recruit the best students from all over the globe. In the current assessment period, the UoA has 60
registered doctoral students, a significant increase from in the last assessment period. Numbers of
on-time completions (29) have also increased from the last cycle (13). Of the externally funded
students, funding has come from the AHRC/ Scottish Cultural Heritage Consortium Scholarship, the
SGSAH-ARC Studentship scheme, China National Scholarship Council, ERC, and BC Syrian
Capacity or through self-funding. All our PhD students are aligned with a research centre. The UoA
recruitment and support of research students comply with the terms of the Equality Act 2010 and the
University Equality Scheme. An example of this is the BSL interpreting and writing support currently
given to our deaf students (4 PhD, 1 MPhil).
Environment
The vibrant and productive PGR culture within Area Studies is evidenced by a wide range of
activities. The PGR students take part in international academic communities, and their exceptional
achievements both academically and in terms of social impact are supported by robust supervisory,
monitoring and support mechanisms as well as practical and financial assistance. A co-supervision
model ensuring that the student benefits from different disciplines operates across the UoA. HWU
has made a substantial investment in software to ensure that PGR progressions are closely
monitored through monthly supervision meetings, annual monitoring reviews, and a major review
after 12-15 months. All PGR students create and maintain a Personal Development Plan, which is
submitted at Progress Review Meetings alongside other evidence of progress. PGR training
opportunities are offered through the Research Futures Academy on all stage of the research
process, including Getting Started for new research students, Communicating Research and Publish
Research (2nd year students), and Viva Preparation and Managing Your Career (3rd year students).
Specific new opportunities have been introduced, including participation in the international 3-Minute
Thesis Competition (the 2020 winner from CTISS), and a dedicated Writing Retreat summer school
with participants from Scottish and Dubai campuses. Training courses are managed online through
a personal development management system (PDMS), which allows the individual to keep a record
of training attended.
PGR students in the UoA have access to our international partnership with external doctoral training
programs: Transformations in European Societies, a three-year program which involves regular
workshops, online support and bi-annual residential schools at some of the top European universities
(Basel, Copenhagen, Graz, LMU Munich, Murcia, Zagreb); the privileged partnership with Scottish
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH) and Scottish Graduate School for Social
Sciences (SGSSS), both organize workshops on research methods and impact. Our students have
actively participated in the SGSAH summer schools, and successfully secured full-time paid
internship organized by SGSSS.
Integration
PGR students are widely integrated into a range of UoA research activities, including guest talks,
seminars, and conferences organized by IRC and CTISS. Additionally, SoSS organizes PGR
showcase activities to give students from each UoA the opportunity to present their work and get
feedback. PGR students also engage with a wider research community through organizing
conferences and seminars. Examples include:
   (1) the Creative Ethnology Studio, run in conjunction with the University of Edinburgh’s Scottish
       Studies section since 2017; and
   (2) the annual International Postgraduate Conference in Translating and Interpreting (IPCITI),
       organized in turn by four universities in the UK and Ireland with participating PGR students
       from across the world. HWU hosted IPCITI in 2017 and is leading on the forthcoming 2021
       conference.
Our PGR students participate in academic conferences internationally and publish their research
findings through publications in high-ranking refereed journals in the fields of translating, interpreting,
multilingualism, anthropology and cultural heritage.
Careers
Our PGR program has demonstrated success in preparing PGR students for their future career.
Many have secured research-active academic appointments in universities in the UK, USA, Europe
and Asia. Examples include University of Liverpool, University of Hull, University of Edinburgh,
Glasgow University, Queen Mary University, Queen’s University, Belfast, Rochester University,
University of Barcelona, Santander University, Yaşar University, Shanghai University, Xiamen
University. A further four (Lochrie, Fadel, Monteoliva, Webb) have secured positions in HWU.
PGR students have also generated esteem / impact in their specialist fields. Examples include:
    Hill’s PhD thesis was the first, and to date only, non-STEM student to have won the HWU
     MacFarlane Prize, a prize presented to the PhD graduate who has made the most outstanding
     contribution to the research of the University;
    Skinner has won best PhD presentations at Scottish Institute for Policing Research events for
     his research on video-mediated sign language interpreting access to the police;
    Downie’s (2016) monograph on interpreting won Best Book at the Proz.com Community
     Choice Awards;
    Nandi was on the advisory panels of social community and cultural engagement for
     Government of Galicia;
    Devasundaram is a BBC Academy Expert Voice in Cultural Studies and Visual Arts; Mohamed
     was Deputy Minister of Tourism in Maldives.




                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Income
The UoA has pursued a clear strategy to secure more funding from a more diverse group of funders
during the assessment period. This focus has been important during a period where the
competitiveness of the UKRI funding environment has both increased and become more structured.
The positioning of HWU as a leading global university frames its strategic approach aimed at
supporting research intensification and creating a vibrant research culture, for example with regards
to interdisciplinary collaborations to secure new funding sources (see more details below). We have
achieved these targets with the support offered through the dedicated School research support office
and HWU Research Engagement Directorate (RED) team, which established a flow of information-
sharing about funding calls. Over the assessment period, we have received grant funding from UK
Research Councils (such as the AHRC, NIHR), Royal Society, British Academy, UK-based charities
and professional organisations, UK central government bodies, local authorities, health and hospital
authorities. We have also been successful in attracting grants from EU Commission and other
European Sources. The UoA continues to attract research and impact funding from Scottish sources
such as Soillse, the Carnegie Trust, the Royal Society of Edinburgh and the Scottish Universities
Insight Institute (SUII). Since the last REF, we received awards from UK bodies, including the British
Academy, and have attracted a range of grants from the AHRC. Two Carnegie projects were secured
by CTISS; Kusters & Napier: Family Sign Language Policy & Harrington Fernández: Children's
Literature in Translation: Encouraging Children to Read.
Multilingualism, Interpreting and Translation Theme Income
    Co-Minor: Co-operation in interpreter mediated questioning of minors – investigated protocols
     for interviewing young children through interpreters in several different countries working with
     police organisations (European Commission)
    Deaf Communities and their Historic Environment – exploring how built heritage is discussed,
     symbolised and manifested through contemporary British Sign Language (AHRC CDA with
     Historic Environment Scotland)
    DESIGNS: Creating access to employment for sign Language users in Europe through
     interpreting – examined access to information for deaf people in the workplace in collaboration
     with professional sign language interpreter associations, employment brokering agencies, and
     deaf community organisations across Europe (European Commission)
    Empowering Brazil’s Impoverished Communities Through Critical Decision-Making: A
     Communitarian Communicative Strategy – documenting how vulnerable groups in deprived
     metropolitan areas in Brazil experience access to information, communication and decision-
     making in relation to Covid-19 (AHRC GCRF)
    How do sign language learners’ language attitudes towards minority languages evolve over
     the course of learning a sign language? – examined how students perceive their position within
     signing communities and their attitudes towards BSLbefore and after a work placement in the
     British deaf community (AHRC OWRI: MEITS)
    How does the sitcom ‘Small World’ reflect linguistic diversity in the British Deaf Community –
     explored, in collaboration with the BSL Broadcasting Trust, linguistic practices in creating
     scripts in BSL for a sitcom featuring deaf characters and delivered in BSL (AHRC OWRI:
     MEITS)


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    INSIGN – examined the feasibility of deaf people across Europe being able to call their MEP
     or other European institutions through video remote interpreting and technology (European
     Commission)
    JUSTISIGNS: Access to police settings for deaf signers through sign language interpreting –
     examined access to information in police settings through sign language interpreters, working
     in collaboration with professional sign language interpreter associations, police forces and deaf
     community organisations across Europe (European Commission)
    JUSTISIGNS 2: Access to sign language interpreting and support for victims of gender-based
     violence – scoping access to information for female victims of gender-based violence through
     interpreters, working in collaboration with professional sign language interpreter associations,
     police forces, women‘s support groups and deaf community organisations across Europe
     (European Commission)
    MobileDeaf – investigating real-life strategic use of multimodal and multilingual linguistic
     repertoires in everyday language practices with deaf and hearing interlocutors, and how deaf
     signers position themselves in relation to language ideologies (ERC Starter Grant)
    Proximity in Video Remote Police Sign Language Interpreting – studied deaf BSL users'
     access to frontline policing through video remote interpreting (AHRC–SGSAH ARC)
    Study on public service translation in cross border healthcare – examined language policies,
     the cost of language provision, good practices and responses provided (or lack thereof) to
     linguistically diverse patients in Germany, Greece, Italy, Spain and the UK (European
     Commission)
    Translating Cultures and the Legislated Mediation of Indigenous Rights in Peru – explored
     development of professional interpreting in Peru through engagement with local community
     groups and government (AHRC Translating Cultures Theme)
    Translating the Deaf Self – investigated the impact on deaf people of being known through
     translation and deaf cultural identity (AHRC Translating Cultures Theme)
    Translating the Deaf Self: Engagement and exploration through artistic transformations –
     further explored the concept of the translated deaf self through artwork co-produced by deaf
     artists and deaf community members, and a touring exhibition of artwork (AHRC Translating
     Cultures Follow-on Funding)
All of these high-impact projects led to evidence-based development of best practice guidelines for
working with translators and interpreters. For example, the Study on Public Service Translation in
Cross Border Healthcare project raised awareness of the need to recognize and provide qualified
interpreters, translators and cultural/linguistic mediators in Europe. It increased official debate and
public awareness of problems faced by linguistically and culturally diverse patients accessing
services and made recommendation to the EU on how to improve translation and interpreting
educational and training opportunities. The INSIGN, JUSTISIGNS and DESIGNS projects all led to
best practice guidelines for sign language interpreters and/or toolkits for police officers and
employers (see BSL impact case study). CTISS was also involved in an Australian Research Council
funded project to examine the feasibility of deaf people serving as jurors with sign language
interpreters in the jury deliberation room. Findings revealed that deaf people are not disadvantaged
by accessing the court proceedings through interpreters, which has led to law reform in two
countries; and an award for the best human rights scholarship in 2017 by the Australian Human
Rights Centre.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cultural Practices Theme Income
CoHERE (Horizon 2020; led by Newcastle) examined European heritages and their potential for
developing shared identities; with 12 partners in nine countries, the consortium produced a range of
outputs including digital resources and creative works, such as the oratorio Rivers of Our Being
https://youtu.be/-75wVu2dRVI by the HWU-led team
    Collecting and Preserving Access to Intangible Cultural Heritage within the Digital Environment
     (AHRC CDA with the National Library Scotland) explored community access to and uses of
     sound archives
    New Speakers in a Multilingual Europe: Opportunities and Challenges (COST Action IS1306
     – led by HWU) had over 300 network members across 28 countries; final report available at
     http://www.nspk.org.uk/images/iaith_digital.pdf
    IndyLan (Mobile Virtual Learning for Indigenous Languages; led by HWU), aligned with EU
     priorities and initiatives to protect and promote the EU’s 128 endangered languages, is
     developing an educational tool for users to learn more about some of these languages
     (Cornish, Gaelic, Scots, Basque, Sami, Galician) and the cultures of their speakers
    InterTrainE (led by HWU) involves research across four countries leading to the design of an
     EQF Level 5 course for intercultural training for educators of adult migrants, available in
     English, Greek, Italian and Finnish
    Moving Languages (led by Learnmera Oy) conducted research resulting in a mobile application
     for helping refugees and newly arrived migrants in the UK, Spain, Finland, Sweden and Austria.
     This App, using 26 languages from 20 countries, including Albania, Somalia, Eritrea, Kurdistan,
     Syria, Tunisia, India and countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, has been downloaded more than
     4,000 times. Feedback from the refugee organisations highlighted the significance of the App’s
     culture feature, which enables them to learn about the heritage of a host culture and society.
    RADAR (Regulating AntiDiscrimination and AntiRacism; European Commission’s DG Justice;
     led by Perugia) researched racialising and exclusionary effects of language (English, Italian,
     Greek, Dutch, Polish), involving six countries and collaboration with police forces, community,
     regional and local organisations across Europe.

Internal Support
To promote continuing improvement, the School provides seed-corn internal research grants on a
competitive basis requiring clear identification of outputs and multiplier effects and with preference
given to ECR applicants. Grant proposals are reviewed by the boards of the Research Centres. The
enhancement of grant capture and project management skills is supported through ring-fenced
professional development resources (41 awards were made of up to £2.5k individually in this REF
cycle) and research workshops. In addition to the School Research Support Office, the university
has a centralised research and business development professional support team, the RED team.
While centralised, this unit works directly with individual researchers and UoAs. All research
applications undergo a rigorous internal reviewing process through the university’s Worktribe
system. All research outputs are made publicly available in the University’s Open Access repository,
HWU Research Gateway.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Networks and Collaboration
Steps taken by the UoA including grant-writing workshops and peer-review schemes, and support
from RED at university level, have enabled UoA members to secure both external and internal
funding to significantly expand their demonstrable social impact through networking and
collaboration with both academic and non-academic partners across the world, which will contribute
to the sustainability of the UoA’s activities.
Multilingualism, Interpreting and Translation Theme Partners
Partners for this theme include: United Nations Interpreting Services, Directorate General for
Interpretation of European Commission, Directorate General for Translation of the European
Commission, World Federation of the Deaf, European Forum of Sign Language Interpreters, Scottish
Parliamentary Corporate Body and Department for Work & Pensions’ Work Services Directorate. In
CTISS, Liao’s research on heritage interpretation has informed Historic Environment Scotland
(HES) how best to convey the Scottish context to Chinese tourists at Edinburgh Castle, enabling
HES to maximise the guide’s effectiveness. In 2018, the guide was hired by 323,000 people, with
47,455 taking the Chinese version. The HWU BSL team were instrumental in supporting the
development of the BSL (Scotland) Act 2015, and the subsequent BSL National Plan, and have also
participated in the recent Scottish Government's BSL interpreting landscape review. Turner
continues to examine how deaf BSL users can contribute to Scottish politics through a signing
parliament (funded through SUII). Winters has collaborated with professional translators and
published on their use of machine translation.
Cultural Practices Theme Partners
This theme has engaged with diverse partner including: UNESCO, EU Commission, Institut für
Auslands-beziehungen, the Scottish Parliament, Historic Environment Scotland, National Records
of Scotland, Cornwall Council and the Sámi Council. Strani collaborated on the EU-funded RADAR
project, which included partners across Europe and developed tools for and tackling racially
motivated hate crime. Pfeiffer is co-convener of the Working Group on Body, Affects, Senses, and
Emotions in the International Society for Ethnology and Folklore (SIEF). Her 2017 work with Čojč
Theaternetzwerk Böhmen-Bayern, a Czech-German theatre network focused on how bilingual youth
theatre projects on the German-Czech border region can provide new perspectives on shared
historical events and foster a linguistically and culturally distinct sense of belonging in the present.
Through the Place Wisdom network, a SIEF working group that he initiated in 2010, Kockel has
been steering research on indigenous knowledge, land-based learning and climate change,
producing grant applications including a Horizon 2020 bid he led (ranked top of the reserve list) and
network bid (pending) with the Alliance for Intergenerational Resilience, Learning for Sustainability
Scotland (UN University-recognised Regional Centre of Expertise) and other international partners.

Research Leadership
UoA members continue to consolidate their key strengths as world leading specialists, as evidenced
in their contribution to the research base as keynote speakers, guest lecturers, and visiting scholars.
UoA members have held visiting positions at leading academic institutions worldwide:




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Visiting Positions
 Angelelli       Sichuan University; Beijing Foreign Studies University
 Kockel          Vytautas Magnus University Kaunas; Latvian Academy of Culture Rīga
 Nic Craith      Harvard University
 Napier          Trinity College Dublin, Macquarie University, University of Edinburgh



 Keynotes
 Angelelli       Universiti Malaya; KU Leuven; Stellenbosch University; Aristotle University;
                 University of Westminster; Henan University; University of Mealaga; Xian
                 University; La Sorbonne; University of Hong Kong; Univeridad Pablo de Olavide;
                 Shinghua University; Universitá degli Studi di Milano; Technological Educational
                 Institute of Epirus; University of Geneva; Guangdong University; Ohio State
                 University; Beijing Language and Culture University; Leshan Normal College;
                 Sichuan University; University of Bologna
 Christopoulos Univ.Bamberg; IIASA-Vienna; Univ. Manchester; Univ.of Luxenbourg; Univ. Of
               Bremen; St. Petersburg State Univ.
 Kockel          Latvian Academy of Culture; University of Turku; University of Vilnius
 Kusters         York St John University
 Liao            National Taipei University of the Arts
 Napier          Association of Sign Language Interpreters UK, NTNU Norway, University of
                 Stirling, Charles University Prague, Australia & New Zealand Conference of
                 Educators of the Deaf, University of Bologna, International Federation of
                 Translators and Interpreters
 Nic Craith      Latvian Academy of Culture; University of Turin, University of the Highlands and
                 Islands
 Pfeiffer        University of Edinburgh
 Turner          Xiamen University
 Winters         Coventry University)


Kusters’ research project on the Mumbai Deaf Community featured in Atlas Obscura. Kockel was
invited to participate in the Opening Panel of the Association for Critical Heritage Studies conference
2016 in Montreal.

Conferences
Members of the UoA have shaped the global research agenda by organizing workshops, seminars
and international research conferences, including:
    Bridging the Gap (deaf communities & academics coming together)
    Critical Link: Interpreting in the Community
    Deaf Academics Network
    European Association for Social Anthropologists (EASA)

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   International Association of Translation & Intercultural Studies (IATIS)
   International Conference of Universities that provide teaching and research in Translation &
    Interpreting (CIUTI),
   International Society for Ethnology and Folklore (SIEF)
Winters hosted the interdisciplinary panel Corpus-based Translation Studies – innovations in the
new digital age at the 2015 IATIS conference. The 2016 Critical Link at HWU addressed the theme
of A new generation: Future-proofing interpreting and translating (Angelelli & Napier) and Liao
hosted the first interdisciplinary panel on Museum Translation in the 2018 IATIS conference. Pfeiffer
convened the 2019 SIEF workshop Through the Lens of Affect and Emotion to explore one of the
most dynamic fields in contemporary cultural research.

Editorial Boards
   Angelelli – Translation and Interpreting Studies; Journal of Applied Linguistics and
    Professional Practice; The Translator; International Journal of Translation & Interpreting
    Research; Interpreting: Research & Practice in Interpreting; Meta
   Christopoulos – Connections, The Official Journal of INSNA (editor in chief to 2017);
   Kockel – Anthropological Journal of European Cultures (editor-in-chief until 2018); Lietuvos
    Etnologija; Logos; Slovenský Narodopis (Slovak Academy of Sciences); Traditiones
    (Slovenian Academy of Sciences)
   Kusters - Deaf Studies Digital Journal; Sign Language Studies
   Napier – Journal of Deaf Studies & Deaf Education; International Journal of Translation &
    Interpreting Research
   Nic Craith – Ethnologia Europaea; Narrative Culture; Anthropological Journal of European
    Cultures; New Area Studies
   Tinker – Modern and Contemporary France; French Studies Bulletin
   Turner – Interpreting: Research & Practice in Interpreting; The Interpreters’ Newsletter
   Winters – International Journal of Interpreter Education; Target; New Voices in Translation
    Studies

Research Service
Members of the UoA demonstrate leadership and global reputation in learned societies and
professional associations, serving on Executive Committees and provide leadership in other
capacities.
Multilingualism, Interpreting and Translation Theme Contributions to the Disciplines
Examples from this theme include Adam who is the International President of the Commission on
Sign Language and Deaf Studies (World Federation of the Deaf). Angelelli was the President of the
American Translation and Interpreting Studies Association (2010-2016). Napier was an inaugural
member of the World Association of Sign Language Interpreters board, Co-Chair of the European
Forum of Sign Language Interpreters Committee of Experts and is Fellow of the Association of Sign
Language Interpreters UK and Chartered Institute of Linguists UK. Napier and Kusters are
members of the World Federation of the Deaf (WFD) expert groups on accessibility and developing
countries respectively. Winters and Liao are members of the publications and training committee of
the International Association of Translation and Intercultural Studies. Adam is a member of both the
working groups developing a GCSE in BSL in England, and the Curriculum for Wales BSL guidance
                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development group and Turner is a member of the UK Council on Deafness working group preparing
for a BSL (England & Wales) Bill mirroring the BSL (Scotland) Act 2015.
Cultural Practices Theme Contributions to the Disciplines
Contributions relevant to this theme include: Tinker is the President of Association for the Study of
Modern and Contemporary France. Pfeiffer is Co-founder and secretary of SIEF working group
Bodies, Affects, Senses and Emotions (BASE). Kockel and Nic Craith are elected members of the
Royal Irish Academy and Fellows of the Academy of the Social Sciences. Strani is a Chartered
Linguist, an IoLET Assessor and exam setter. Kockel has been elected to the steering group of
Learning for Sustainability (Scotland), a United Nations recognised regional centre of education for
sustainable development.
Review and evaluation activities
The expertise of Area Studies staff is much sought in their specialised disciplines, and the UoA
members have contributed significantly to the research field by participating in the review and
evaluation activities of more than 20 research institutions worldwide. Members of the UoA have
reviewed for the following: Academy of Finland (Kockel), AHRC (Angelelli, Kockel, Napier, Nic
Craith), American Association of Applied Linguistics (Angelelli), Australian Research Council
(Napier and Nic Craith), Austrian Science Fund (Nic Craith), British Association for Applied
Linguistics (Kusters), Canadian Research Council (Nic Craith), Cancer Research UK
(Christopoulos), Carnegie Trust (Angelelli, Kockel, Kusters, Napier), Contrat de plan État-région
(CPER) (Strani), Deutsche Forschungs-gemeinschaft (Kockel), ESRC (Angelelli, Christopoulos,
Kockel, Napier), Estonian Reseach Council (Kockel), European Research Council
(Christopoulos, Tinker), European Science Foundation (Kockel), Latvian Research Council
(Kockel), Leverhulme Trust (Kusters, Turner), Netherlands Science Foundation (Kockel, Napier),
Norwegian Research Council (Nic Craith), Polish Academy of Sciences (Nic Craith, Strani),
Scottish Universities Insight Institute (Napier, Strani, Turner), Slovenian Academy of Sciences (Nic
Craith), Swiss Research Council (Kockel).

Awards
The societal influence of UoA members have been recognized by distinguished awards in fields of
relevance to our two research themes.
Multilingualism, Interpreting and Translation Awards
Napier is the winner of Australian Journal of Human Rights Andrea Durbach Award for best co-
authored article in human rights scholarship in 2017. Kusters is the 2016 winner of Jean Rouch
award, for her exceptional film that demonstrates a commitment to visual anthropology. JUSTISIGNS
won the European Label Award 2017.
Cultural Practices Awards
Nic Craith’s research on the Irish Diaspora in the US was shortlisted for a Fulbright award in 2017
and was awarded a three-month appointment as a visiting scholar to Harvard University in 2018.
RADAR, led by Strani, received the my-Vita European Award in 2016 for Innovation and Excellence.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact and Public Engagement
Multilingualism, Interpreting and Translation Theme Impact
Angelelli’s research on medical interpretation raised awareness of the need to recognize and
provide qualified interpreters, translators and cultural/linguistic mediators: An integral part of her work
has been to engage in conversations (through interviews and participant observations) with local
and national authorities (Secretaries of Health, regional and national ministers) of various countries
(e.g. UK, US, France, Germany, Greece, Italy and Spain), as well as professional healthcare
providers (surgeons, GPs). The resulting interviews and observational field notes amounted to a rich
body of data which have been disseminated via EU Management forum meetings and public events,
publications and used in further grant applications. In the EU, this data shaped subsequent
programme provision and was disseminated to local authorities. The data increased official debate
and public awareness of problems faced by linguistically and culturally diverse patients: The
recognition of the personal and institutional linguicism and discrimination faced by many of the
linguistically and culturally diverse patients, as well as the need to provide competent translators,
interpreters, cultural and language mediators around the EU led to conversations with local and
national organizations and schools about the provision of training for their staff to help them consider
better the future needs of the group.
Angelelli’s research findings demonstrated the significance of language and cultural diversity as a
barrier to access healthcare services. In an effort to overcome this, for example, the Aristotle
University in Thessaloniki waived fees for all refugees on their database to attend a workshop and
learn note-taking, sight translation and other skills required for dialogue interpreting. Together with
colleagues from Greece and Italy the group offered a workshop sponsored by AIIC which was
interpreted into seven different languages representing the refugee camps present in the
neighbouring areas. Industry representatives (Fertility private clinic directors), software developers
and professional organizations of translation and interpreting, language and cultural mediators.
Angelelli’s research findings have demonstrated the significance of language and cultural diversity
as a barrier to access healthcare services. In an effort to overcome this, for example, the Aristotle
University in Thessaloniki waived fees for all refugees on their database to attend a workshop and
learn note-taking, sight translation and other skills required for dialogue interpreting. Together with
colleagues from Greece and Italy Angelelli offered a workshop sponsored by AIIC which was
interpreted into seven different languages representing the refugee camps present in the
neighbouring areas.
Cultural Practices Theme Impact
Nic Craith’s inaugural lecture (2014), presentations to Museums Galleries Scotland (2016) and to
the Scottish Parliament’s Cross-Party Group on Culture in (2017) focused on how the co-creation of
heritage can enhance community-place relationships. Subsequently, collaborations with
professional bodies locally and internationally shaped Government policy. In consultation with
Kockel and Nic Craith, Historic Environment Scotland developed its first policy on Intangible
Cultural Heritage, highlighting the importance of languages, memories, festivals and music for a
sense of community. This represented a pivotal shift in policy for an organisation whose primary
focus is the built environment.
Divided societies has been a key dimension of our research and Nic Craith and Strani’s project
enabled divided communities in Northern Ireland to develop a sense of a shared space, connected
through St Columba/Colmcille. The use of ‘shared stories’ for the co-creation of new heritage in
shared space was a key dimension of Pfeiffer’s work in the Bavarian/Bohemian borderland. A direct
                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
outcome of this work is the theatre group’s changed focus, from pedagogical in their performances
and enhancing a sense of place among different communities, to developing ‘dialogue’ for a
sustainable sense of community through the co-creation of new heritage. Feedback from the
facilitator describes Pfeiffer’s intervention as a ‘real milestone’ for the project. Pfeiffer’s research
with the čojč Theaternetzwerk Böhmen Bayern focused on how bilingual youth theatre projects on
the German-Czech border region can provide new perspectives on shared historical events and
foster a linguistically and culturally distinct sense of belonging in the present. The čojč
Theaternetzwerk Böhmen Bayern is the only Czech-German initiative focused specifically on the
history and culture of the border area and receives funding from the EU.
Building on Nic Craith’s 2011 work with the UN on access to cultural heritage as a Human Right,
Strani’s research, funded by the EC’s DG Justice, showed how exclusionary effects of language
and culture can shape sense of belonging in multicultural communities. In addition, Strani’s GCRF-
and Erasmus+-funded research fed into digital tools for refugees and asylum seekers, helping them
prevent or overcome their marginalisation by familiarising themselves with host languages, cultural
heritages and societies.
Strani’s collaboration in the REDI (Refugee Empowerment through Digital Inclusion) project, which
empowered Rohingya populations in Malaysia, explored difficulties faced by displaced peoples in
connecting with host communities. Following workshops with leaders from Rohingya communities,
a prototype App for cultural integration was developed and evaluated with refugees. Feedback from
refugee organisations confirmed that it addressed key issues of social inclusion and sense of place.
UoA impact has also been noted in schools. Nic Craith’s TEDx talk on cultural heritage (2015)
received more than 30,000 views and is currently being adapted for school texts in Brazil (a print-
run of 30,000 with Editora Richmond). One viewer (Deivid Rivera) noted the potential of the talk for
empowering local communities to tell their stories through their cultural interpretation and
cosmovision, which affords them respect and combats stigma. Two Italian film crews are in
consultation with Nic Craith on the production of new documentaries on European heritage. In the
case of the Lough Neagh partnership, Living History classes tailored to the heritage of Lough Neagh
were delivered to local communities. Part of this programme involved ‘get togethers’ enabling people
to ‘read their landscape’ in a new way. Many oral histories have been collected and uploaded onto
the Lough Neagh website.




                                                                                               Page 17
