Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure and context

 Research in the School of Psychology at Bangor reflects two key approaches with long-
 established histories. First is the development and application of interventions to promote health
 and well-being, from early childhood to older age. Developing effective behavioural interventions
 to improve lives was at the heart of the School’s inception more than 50 years ago, and remains
 central to our research identity today. The second is cognitive neuroscience, where over the past
 25 years, the School has invested in staff and specialised research facilities. While the School’s
 four main research groups continue both approaches, this REF period has also seen the School
 embark on a trajectory of change, described below. As part of this change, all our research
 groups have been set the strategic goal of promoting use-inspired research.

 Our research groups are:

 Interventions for Well-Being (Baker-Henningham, Horne, Hutchings, Morrison, Mullins,
 Parkinson, Rogers, Saville)

 The Interventions group investigates well-being, resilience, physical health, and mental health.
 Some of our work with the greatest societal impact originates from this group, including
 interventions for children, parents, and teachers to improve children’s well-being (Baker-
 Henningham; Hutchings; Horne); and multidisciplinary interventions targeting functional and
 psychosocial outcomes of patients and informal caregivers over a range of physical health
 challenges (Morrison). New approaches to understand public health at regional and national
 levels use geospatial mapping of mental health experiences, inequalities, and other risk factors
 (Saville, Rogers). In this REF period, this group has been funded by the MRC, Wellcome, Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie and NIHR, amongst others.

 Research in the broad domain of cognitive neuroscience is supported by three groups with
 overlapping interests.

 Perception and Action (Bestelmeyer, Boehm, Carey, d’Avossa, Kornysheva, Sapir, Valyear,
 Watt)

 This group works to address real-world challenges at the interface of psychology, engineering,
 biology, and medicine. In this REF period, the group has developed a range of new translational
 collaborations. These include working with (1) hand surgeons and a developer of upper-limb
 child prostheses (Ambionics), to better understand effects of, and recovery from, peripheral
 nerve and limb injuries (Watt, Valyear); (2) clinical neurologists, to understand the neural basis
 underlying the motor skill impairments in focal dystonia (Kornysheva); and (3) hearing-loss
 clinicians, to improve the functional utility of hearing testing (Bestelmeyer). Achievements
 include the first neuroimaging study of grasping with a transplanted hand; decoding of motor
 intentions from MEG signals; and publication of the Bangor Voice Matching test—the first to
 allow standardised testing of voice perception. Reflecting the diversity and societal value of this
 work, funders include Wellcome, Leverhulme, Marie Skłodowska-Curie, and Welsh Government
 Sêr Cymru schemes.

 Social Neuroscience and Cognition (Binney, Downing, Koldewyn, Maister, Rauwolf, Turnbull,
 Ward)

 This group investigates person perception and social interactions, with the objective of
 understanding the neural and behavioural mechanisms underlying normal and disordered social

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 function. In this REF cycle, important neuroscientific discoveries include the central role of
 occipito-temporal and medial-temporal cortex in visual processing of faces and bodies
 (Downing); the crucial role of the posterior superior temporal sulcus in children and adolescents
 for understanding observed social interactions (Koldewyn); and the role of a general-purpose
 semantic control network in anterior temporal cortex regulating social semantics (Binney).
 Recent electrocardiographic studies demonstrated for the first time that infants as young as five
 months have implicit awareness of their bodily states, an interoceptive ability which could be a
 basis for self-awareness (Maister). Studies of person perception have demonstrated surprising
 correlations between facial appearance and behaviour, and shown that observers spontaneously
 respond to these correlations (Ward). The group has been funded by the ERC, ESRC, Ministry
 of Defence (Defence Science and Technology Laboratory; DSTL) and Welsh Government.

 Language and Development (Caravolas, Houghton, Jones, Mills, Oppenheim, Tainturier,
 Thierry)

 Over half the population of Gwynedd and Anglesey are fluent in both Welsh and English, the
 largest proportion of bilingual residents in the UK (ONS 2019). The language and cultural
 context of north Wales is therefore a unique driving force for our research. The group seeks to
 understand language function and use in individuals of all ages, spanning typical and atypical
 development across mono- and multi-lingual abilities. Important advances include: improving our
 understanding of the processing strategies used by multilinguals in single and multilingual
 environments (Thierry); language function and treatment following brain injury in multilinguals
 (Tainturier); and the development and assessment of vocabulary (Mills) and literacy (Caravolas)
 in multilingual children. The group’s research has also produced novel insights with clear and
 direct educational and clinical implications, revealing the different learning strategies used by
 readers with dyslexia compared with typicals (Jones, Oppenheim). This group has been funded
 by the ESRC, Marie Skłodowska-Curie, and Welsh government.


 1.2 Strategic aims for this assessment period

 In the REF 2014 cycle, Bangor’s School of Psychology addressed key aims including: (1)
 promoting strategic areas through new hires; (2) investing in our research infrastructure; and (3)
 supporting multi-disciplinarity and a shift towards maximising extra-academic impact. We can
 point to success on all fronts, including new hires (Section 2), a new MRI scanner (Section 3),
 and strategic emphasis on research to improve health and well-being (Section 4).

 However, there were important developments post-REF2014, including sector-wide turbulence
 in Higher Education, and a changing funding landscape increasingly prioritising innovation and
 impact. Further, retirement and natural turnover meant a loss of several senior investigators. To
 sustain a vital research environment, we needed to acknowledge and adapt to these realities.

 Challenges post REF2014:
    1. The School’s research base in cognitive neuroscience was built on using new
       neuroscience methods to drive understanding of fundamental human psychology.
       However, the distinction between basic and applied research in neuroscience, as
       elsewhere, is blurring, and funders now seek clearer routes to health and clinical
       outcomes. We therefore resolved to push our cognitive and neuroscientific excellence
       further towards work with societal benefits.
    2. REF2014 highlighted that the School’s impact activity was based largely on our
       Interventions group, while our outputs came largely from neuroscience. This division was
       successful in producing both highly-rated research and impact. However, going forward,
       we judged this division could promote an unhelpful distinction between pure research
       and applied research with societal value.
    3. Promoting real change in research direction is not easy. Researchers have considerable
       investment in their skill sets, networks, and history of previous success. We must also be
       careful to preserve the excellence in foundational cognitive and neuroscientific research

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        that brought us to where we are today. Change must be willing, and cannot happen by
        fiat from above, nor by a rigid one-size-fits-all approach. Over the cycle, we have
        recognised that change requires a gradual yet sustained process.

 A trajectory of change. In response to these challenges, the School is now on a trajectory of
 change across this REF cycle and the next. Researchers in our cognitive neuroscience groups
 are increasingly considering how their work might address key issues of societal importance,
 and embed principles of “use-inspired basic research”, in which foundational science is informed
 by real-world problems (“Pasteur’s Quadrant”; Stokes, 1997).

 Tools and mechanisms to promote this trajectory. The School’s Executive has implemented
 an integrated set of policies to incentivise a use-inspired perspective:

    1. Internal Research Review. Every 2 years the School’s Research Committee tasks
       researchers with identifying their current and developing research interests, ways their
       research might develop along use-inspired lines, and an outline multi-year research plan.
       Researchers receive feedback separate from any PDR or promotion exercise. The
       Review provides School management with an overview of staff plans and interests, helps
       align individual faculty with our strategic trajectory, and enables strategic planning, for
       example, identifying shared developing interests and laboratory requirements.
    2. Incentives for use-inspired projects. As we describe later (Section 2.1.B), the School
       provides generous support for researchers, including internal subsidy of facilities and
       School-funded studentships. The criteria for allocating these resources now include
       whether the project has potential for societal, as well as foundational, value.
    3. Seed-corn support for small dynamically configured project teams of staff seeking to
       answer funding calls or take on new topics aligned with UKRI priorities.

 Effects of these policies. An example shows these policies working together. The Internal
 Research Review of 2016 identified a group of researchers with common interest in recovery
 from peripheral nerve injuries. Seed-corn funding from the School supported pilot studies on a
 joint project by Valyear and Watt. This led to new collaborations with NHS hand surgeons from
 the local University Health Board, Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, and a local
 prosthesis innovation firm. In turn, these partnerships generated successful funding applications
 for EU and Welsh Government PhD studentships, a Wellcome project grant, and an
 infrastructure grant from Welsh Government, totalling GBP159,000.

 The above example is illustrative, and we provide more comprehensive evidence of the success
 of our approach in the widespread research outcomes benefitting society documented in Section
 4.1. We are also proud to submit, as one of our Impact Case Studies (REF3_02), the
 Multilanguage Assessment Battery of Early Literacy (MABEL; Caravolas). MABEL involves
 cross-linguistic and longitudinal investigations of children’s literacy. As the first ICS to come from
 our cognitive research groups, MABEL marks an important success in our drive to promote use-
 inspired research (further detail Section 3.3.B).


 1.3 Areas of emphasis

 In addition to our key strategic aims, other important issues have required special emphasis over
 the assessment period.

 A. Dedicated academic support for research impact. Promoting research that improves lives
 requires management structures which increase support for research impact. The School
 Director of Impact (0.3 FTE), is tasked with identifying promising impact potential, and helping
 researchers to "build in" impact from the beginning; for example, identifying stakeholders,
 working with policymakers, and capturing evidence of impact. School support for impact is
 described fully in Section 2.1.B.4.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B. Interdisciplinary research. Psychology has been described as a hub science (Cacioppo,
 APS-Observer, 2007), and Bangor Psychology has special reach in health, education, and
 applications of cognitive neuroscience. At a strategic level, we look to develop and widen this
 reach. Importantly, our position as a major research university in Wales generates unique
 interdisciplinary opportunities, in concert with other Welsh institutions and partners. These
 include Wales-only PGR funding streams for collaborative work (Knowledge Exchange Skills
 Scholarships, KESS; funded by the European Social Fund through Welsh Government), and the
 new initiative for a Health and Medical School, in partnership with Welsh Government, oriented
 around prevention, rehabilitation, behavioural change, and data science (REF 5A). Most
 generally, the trajectory of change as described throughout this document seeks to sustain and
 expand the reach of our research.

 As described in Section 4.1, we maintain multiple joint appointments with the NHS, which
 facilitate new translational projects in clinical neurology and neuropsychology, such as
 neuropsychological implications of renal failure (d’Avossa). Our broader research networks,
 involving the NHS, patient groups, and related charities, let us apply our expertise and facilities
 in cognitive neuroscience to health and medical challenges including peripheral nerve damage
 and hand injury (Valyear), dyspraxia (Kornysheva), and hearing loss (Bestelmeyer). In European
 network projects, we are applying expertise in visual perception towards assessing the
 perceived realism of new display technologies (Watt). Active collaborations in applied fields have
 also led to interdisciplinary REF2 outputs, showing how neuroscientific methods can inform
 neurovascular research on hypoxia and cognitive impairment at high altitudes (Mullins), and the
 relevance of cognitive psychology and psychopharmacology to addictive behaviours and mood
 disorders (Rogers).

 We are developing reach into public health from multiple directions. Interdisciplinary REF2
 outputs use methods from health psychology to inform debates about adherence to medication
 (Morrison), and geospatial mapping to address the intersections of political psychology and
 mental health (Saville). Interdisciplinary REF2 outputs seeking to develop, test, and roll out
 psychologically-informed interventions to promote children’s well-being – at scale – benefit from
 public health research and methods (Baker-Henningham). In education, our researchers and
 affiliated centres (Section 3.3), work with local schools and aligned local bodies, notably GwE
 (the School Effectiveness and Improvement Service for North Wales), in the contexts of
 children’s literacy and well-being (Caravolas, Hutchings, Jones). We take advantage of multiple
 PhD studentship schemes which explicitly prioritise interdisciplinarity (described in Sections 2.2
 and 3.1).

 C. Research integrity. Bangor University complies with Universities UK Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, and has established structures to support effective research governance and
 ethics. The School of Psychology’s research involves volunteer participants recruited from the
 student population, the local community, and clinical services, and includes vulnerable groups
 such as children and individuals with psychological or physical illnesses. Consistent with best
 practice, we seek to protect all research participants and researchers by mitigating risks
 appropriately while enhancing and monitoring ethical and scientific quality. The School Ethics
 and Governance Committee reports to the University Ethics Committee, and evaluates
 researcher plans against relevant ethics frameworks as set out by the NHS, BPS, UKRI and
 European funders, Bangor University itself, and all appropriate legislation (e.g., data protection).
 Research ethics training is provided is supported by University courses. The School Committee
 handles a large number of applications and amendments to approved applications,
 approximately 200/year prior to lockdown, reflecting the high level of research activity in the
 School. Beyond the Ethics Committee, our moves towards Open Science, described next, have
 important benefits to integrity, by promoting replicability and reproducibility.

 D. Open science. Within the current REF period, psychology as a discipline has made
 significant strides towards open, reproducible, and replicable science. The School has
 responded, recently appointing an Open Science Officer tasked with education and promotion of
 the increasing open science resources available. We have regular presentations on open

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 science, including considerations on power analysis; open data sources; and using
 environments like RMarkdown to ensure transparent data analysis. One measure of success is
 that half our Category A staff have now used a preregistration service to record their analysis
 plans and appropriately limit researcher degrees of freedom. We look forward to increasing this
 percentage over the next cycle.

 1.4 Highlights of our approach
 Four key factors underlie the vitality and sustainability of our research environment:

    1. A clear and realistic view of our research direction, and identified mechanisms for
       change, detailed above.
    2. A leading Postgraduate Research (PGR) programme (Section 2). School studentship
       support is extensive and used to provide our faculty with increased capacity for research
       that is aligned with School priorities. The programme's emphasis on professional
       development is unique in the UK.
    3. Extensive state-of-the-art research facilities for cognitive neuroscience (Section 3)
       including a new MR scanner installation completed in 2019, new and maintained facilities
       in EEG, multiple TMS and tDCS systems, motion capture, and student, community and
       neurological participant panels.
    4. Pervasive connections and collaborations with our community (Section 4), and a
       sustained pattern of research development moving from a local to a global scale of
       impact and improvement to people's lives.

 2. People


 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

 A. Staff and recruitment.
 The commitment of Psychology at Bangor to stable and sustainable research success is clear,
 with 100% of our submitted research staff on permanent contracts. We are a highly international
 team: more than half of our staff originate outside the UK. We continue to appoint high-calibre
 staff from top institutions. Within the REF period, we have appointed Valyear (Western/UMiss),
 Kornysheva (Max Planck/UCL), Binney (Temple/UCSF), Maister (Cambridge/Birkbeck), and
 Rauwolf (Bath/Oxford) to full-time Lectureships. Consistent with our trajectory of change,
 appointments push our research in a more use-inspired direction. Valyear and Kornysheva bring
 expertise in visuomotor sciences, neuroimaging, MEG, and rehabilitation. Binney and Maister
 extend our reach in social neuroscience and developmental psychology, and strengthen
 expertise in neuroimaging, neurostimulation, and electrophysiology. Rauwolf is an ECR and our
 most recent appointment (Dec 2019), who applies computational and AI models to decision-
 making, shared resource management, and sustainability. Through recruitment and promotion,
 we have established and maintained a healthy balance of research faculty across seniority (12
 Professor; 10 Reader/SL; 8 Lecturers).

 B. Support for researchers
 B1. Time. Research time is protected by careful management of teaching workloads. Category
 A staff typically teach a single Level 6 or 7 module per year, aligned with their research
 expertise. In a large School (1096 students in 2019-20), this protection is only possible through
 innovative structural organisation. BPS and core teaching are provided by the School’s full-time
 Teaching and Scholarship staff (FTE=20). These teaching professionals (including two National
 Teaching Fellows and 19 Advanced HE Fellows) all have doctorates, permanent contracts, and
 a parallel and viable lifetime career structure (10 Lecturers; 1 NHS consultant joint appointment;
 8 Reader/SL; 1 Professor). Their focus on teaching excellence is evidenced by consistently high
 student satisfaction, e.g., 95% in the 2020 NSS.

 B2. Space. The School offers bright and modern working areas, with single-occupancy offices,
 and large kitchen areas on each floor providing social spaces. Our main building holds our newly

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 updated MRI scanner, TMS facilities, food and psychopharmacology labs, and accessible testing
 areas for children and patients. A second building houses the majority of standard cognitive
 neuroscience labs, with 1067 m2 lab space available.

 B3. Internal funding and resources. Internal support takes many forms, most significantly,
 School-supported PhD studentships (described further in Section 2.2). We also make internal
 funding available for all of our state-of-the-art shared research facilities, including fMRI, EEG,
 and TMS labs (Section 3.2). Staff winning overhead-bearing grants are allocated 15% of
 overhead funds to manage travel, equipment, and testing needs. The School further offers
 research fund payments (GBP250-GBP1,000) to acknowledge and incentivise grant
 submissions, and to help bridge between grants. Particularly demanding administrative roles
 (e.g., Director of Postgraduate Studies) attract annual payments to overhead accounts for
 research support. Over the REF period, approximately GBP1,500,000 was spent through these
 personal research accounts.

 B4. Wide-ranging support for staff working on impact. We support research impact in many
 ways. First, we fund school-based internships and research posts to accelerate impact activity
 (e.g., developing Twitter networks to promote and monitor instrument use, Caravolas). Second,
 we secured significant funding for impact development through the University’s ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Award. During this REF period, GBP332,000 of these funds were awarded to
 researchers in the school, supporting a dozen different projects and all our submitted impact
 case studies. Third, we arrange workshops to meet with policymakers and third-sector leads and
 administrators to explore and, where effective, align impactful work with policy objectives,
 especially in the fields of health and education (e.g., mindfulness, parenting). Finally, time spent
 developing impact is properly considered within our quantitative workload model (see REF 5A).
 We recognise periods of intense impact activity can require time away from the School, or
 focussed attention on a project, and therefore provide short-term teaching and administrative
 ‘sabbaticals’ (Baker-Henningham, Caravolas).

 B5. The research community. The School hosts regular Research Away Days, an active
 colloquium series (hosting 154 speakers from the UK, Europe, and globally over the non-
 lockdown REF period), and internal research and methodology groups where ideas for grants
 and projects are presented. The Head of School holds monthly updates to keep staff informed
 about research activity and events across the School. Our core faculty are complemented by
 international visiting Fellows, including visitors from the University of Udine, Italy; the University
 of Bologna, Italy; the State University of Utah, USA; and the University of Missouri, USA. These
 visitors were funded internally or by external sources such as the Leverhulme Trust and the
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie fellowship programme.

 B6. Mentoring and training. In addition to the University mentoring scheme, academic staff are
 assigned a senior School mentor for advice and support on all aspects of academic life. Senior
 staff in key roles are provided University-funded training in leadership and management.
 Category A staff attend a yearly PDR with the Head of School or other senior academic. Grant
 applications from conception to submission are subject to rigorous peer review. In fact, our grant
 incentive scheme (2.1.B3 above) requires evidence of peer review. Staff are actively
 encouraged to present new research ideas and grant proposals for constructive feedback at one
 of our many internal series.

 B7. Specific additional support for new hires and Early Career Researchers (ECR). New
 research faculty are provided with start-up funding, equipment, lab space, and a guaranteed
 School-funded PhD studentship. Where needed, we provide technical support for new research
 facilities such as bespoke kit for use with MRI, and EEG for infant testing. For those using our in-
 house MRI, we provide GBP10,000 of scanner time per year for three years. New staff typically
 do not begin teaching until their second year. We have introduced an ECR Mentoring Lead role,
 in tandem with University-wide initiatives, with the aim of identifying and meeting key ECR
 needs. Our support policies align with the Researcher Development Concordat for ECRs. New


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff are given particular support during their probation to ensure these requirements are met; all
 Category A appointments during this REF period progressed successfully.


 2.2 PGR training, supervision, and support

 Crucial to the School's research vitality is our PGR programme. Our aim is that all research
 faculty have at least one PhD student or postdoc in their labs, and we have kept close to this
 goal (over the past 5 years, at any one time ~80% of research faculty have had one or more
 people in their lab). To make this happen, we invest heavily in School-supported studentships,
 and academic support for the students.

 Note our reported total of 185 doctoral degrees includes 75 professional doctorates from the
 NHS Health Education and Improvement Wales-funded DClinPsy programme. Unless indicated
 otherwise, this document refers specifically to our PhD students and programme.

 A. Core aspects of the PhD programme.
 The School manages a large and well-developed programme for PhD supervision and training.
 Over the REF period we enrolled 82 FT and 9 PT PhD students (School funded: 33; KESS: 11;
 ESRC: 11; Coleg Cymraeg: 2.5; ERC/EU: 4; Welsh Government: 2.5; Self: 10; Other: 13.5), and
 achieved a 4-year completion rate of 74%. Over this cycle we awarded 105 PhDs, maintaining
 PhD activity at 15 awards per year for this cycle, as compared to 14 per year for REF2014.
 Internal spend for PhD support over this period was GBP1,860,000, approximately half of the
 School’s non-pay budget.

 We participate in multiple studentship funding programmes that support collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research, including: the ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) psychology
 pathway (with Cardiff, Swansea); the School-led DTP bilingualism pathway, which is explicitly
 designed to support interdisciplinary work involving psychology, linguistics, and education, and
 which reflects our special interests in how people learn and use multiple languages; the
 European Social Fund-supported KESS programme, connecting academic research capabilities
 to companies and 3rd sector organisations; and membership of two Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 Innovative Training Network consortia (Section 3.1). Studentships on these programmes have
 reflected collaborative and interdisciplinary research, including improving numeracy in at-risk
 children, threat perception in police work, and perceptual responses to new display technologies.
 Half of our collaborative REF2 outputs (excluding from our new hires) were co-authored with
 current or former PGRs.

 B. Distinguishing features of the PhD programme.
 PGR training outlets in the UK are expected to provide appropriate supervision and mechanisms
 for development. Here we describe highly distinctive features of Bangor’s programme, some
 unique in the UK.

 B1. PhD Professional Development. The School has developed an innovative programme to
 ready our PhD students for a competitive job market:

    1. Twice-yearly PGR research conferences, one exclusive to the School, the other with
       allied PGR in health, medicine, education, and sports science.
    2. A weekly PhD colloquium run by students for students, allowing PGR and postdoctoral
       researchers to share experiences, research outcomes, and skills, in a low-key,
       supportive environment.
    3. A mandatory professional development series, taught by senior staff. Over a 2-year
       period, seminars and workshops are given on grant writing, job markets, open science,
       high-impact publishing, and diversity issues in academia and science. PhD students
       meet visiting psychologists and neuroscientists working in industry, government, and
       academic publishing.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B2. Training PhD students for teaching in Higher Education (HE). The School has
 developed two mandatory one-year modules to train our PhD students how to teach in HE. This
 training upskills our PhD students, while improving the learning experience of our UG students.
 Teaching and marking loads are tightly controlled, as part of a teaching portfolio compiled over
 two years. The portfolio is then the basis for an optional module, leading to an accredited
 teaching qualification (Associate Fellowship of Advance HE). Since 2016/17, nineteen Bangor
 Psychology PhD students have received Associate Fellowships by this route. To our knowledge,
 the accreditation offered by our programme is unique, and we believe qualifies it as one of the
 strongest programmes for PhD training in the UK.

 B3. Access to specialist facilities. Access to cognitive neuroscience infrastructure and
 facilities for PGR students is first class. We offer a hands-on level of access to MRI, TMS, and
 EEG facilities. We provide documented pathways for PGR students to achieve independent
 operator status, in the same way as research-active staff. MRI operator status for PGRs requires
 significant training investment unusual in UK psychology departments. In 2019, for example, we
 granted 14 Level 2 (main operator) qualifications, half of which were PGRs; and 30 Level 1
 (support) qualifications, which were almost exclusively PGRs.

 B4. External indicators of PGR-programme success. The success of our PGR programme is
 further evidenced by the latest Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (Question 18.1,
 PRES 2020, which includes DClinPsy): 91% of our PGR students (71% response rate) agreed
 they are satisfied with their overall PGR experience, 11 points above the sector average.


 2.3. Support and promotion of Equality and Diversity (E&D)

 We are committed to all aspects of equality, diversity, and social inclusion, as embedded in the
 mission statement of Bangor University, and most certainly as they apply to our research,
 research funding, and access to infrastructure. Responsibility starts at the top: the Head of
 School is tasked with ensuring members are aware of and comply with university policies
 including equal opportunities, harassment and bullying, and Welsh language use. Perhaps more
 important however, is creating a broader "nurturing" culture, to ensure equal opportunity is
 supported and fostered throughout the School. Central to this support is the role of “E&D
 champions” who have the responsibility to promote engagement across all academic Schools
 and service departments, and liaise with the School Executive to facilitate continuous
 improvement.

 Mechanisms for addressing E&D issues.
 Staff and students have multiple ways to safely raise E&D issues: with School management;
 University management and HR; E&D champion; or through a personal tutor (PGR) or mentor
 (staff). Through whatever route a concern is raised, the next step is for the School Executive and
 E&D champion, potentially in consultation with HR and University management, to consider
 remedies and potential policy changes. An example of this mechanism in operation is that E&D
 concerns raised by students led to the introduction of free-form fields for experimental
 participants to self-identify their gender. To date, we have not had any staff E&D complaints.
 However, we have implemented a number of staff suggestions raised through the strategic
 review process, described next, indicating that staff are engaged with E&D.

 Strategic review.
 All aspects of School decision-making fall under the remit of E&D consideration. Therefore,
 School Executive and the E&D champion annually review school processes with regard to E&D
 initiatives. One key aim of the review is to ensure School support is allocated equitably across
 staff. This is particularly important because we offer so much researcher support (Section 2.1.B:
 time, teaching loads, space, internal funding, studentships, impact support, mentoring, early-hire
 support, access to shared and investigator-led facilities). Bangor Psychology has held a Bronze
 Athena Award since 2015. We were commended in our most recent Athena Swan application
 process, for having at least one member of the School’s Athena Swan Self-Assessment Team

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sitting on every committee across the School. Additionally, the chair of this Team sits on the
 School Executive.

 To give concrete examples of improvements delivered by the strategic review: while it has been
 established procedure for standing committees to comprise a mixture of protected groups, we
 now ensure that short-term interview panels, selection committees, and task-and-end groups
 also represent this diversity. Our PGR Professional Development Series (see 2.2.B1), is another
 example, in which staff proposed sessions on gender and career. This topic is now delivered by
 female research staff at all levels of seniority as part of the required Professional Development
 Series for PGR students (and open to all staff).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding

 The final years of the REF2014 cycle and the early years of this cycle saw the departure of
 senior researchers who contributed substantially to income in REF2014. Their departure
 accounts for much of the drop in research spend reported here. As noted above, our new hires
 for this REF cycle (Section 2.1.A) constitute a generational transition towards PIs early in their
 career. As shown below, they are already contributing to School income as they establish their
 research groups. Now, following a reduction in annual research spend from GBP2,186,000 for
 2013/2014 to GBP808,000 for 2016/2017, spend is steadily growing again, reaching
 GBP1,368,000 for 2019/2020. Overall, the School's research spend for this REF period comes
 to GBP9,497,000.

 Major and prestigious grant awards.
 Funders are diverse and include: Wellcome, Leverhulme, MRC, ESRC, Royal Society, British
 Academy, British Council, ERC, Horizon2020, World Bank, as well as Welsh Government,
 Ministry of Defence, the local University Health Board, schools, and businesses. Funding figures
 quoted reflect funded award values to Bangor unless explicitly stated otherwise. EU funding has
 been strong and includes two ERC Starting Grants (Cross, social perceptions of robots;
 GBP1,248,000; and Koldewyn, perception of social interactions, GBP1,157,000), and
 membership of two Marie-Curie Innovative Training Network consortia (ENTWINE, Morrison, on
 understanding challenges in informal caregiving; GBP203,000) and RealVision (Watt, aimed at
 creating ultra-realistic digital images; GBP202,000). Four new hires in this REF cycle (Section
 2.1.A: Binney, Kornysheva, Maister, Valyear) have already secured six small grant awards (from
 the Royal Academy, Wellcome Trust, Welsh Government Sêr Cymru III; combined GBP209,000)
 to prepare for applications to larger schemes.

 Other notable awards sustain our commitment to developing effective health interventions,
 especially in children. An NIHR-funded and Bangor-led multi-centre Randomised Controlled Trial
 evaluated the effectiveness and cost-economics of an anti-bullying intervention (Hutchings with
 partners in Oxford, Exeter, Warwick and Cardiff; full worth GBP1,847,000 with a value to Bangor
 of GBP485,000). A series of awards, led by Baker-Henningham at Bangor and at the University
 of West Indies (UWI), address childhood educational and health challenges in low- and middle-
 income-countries. These awards support a Bangor-led and MRC-funded cluster-randomised trial
 to address teacher and parenting violence in Jamaica, and projects funded by the British
 Academy and the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Diseases to improve early childhood health
 in Bangladesh. The full worth of these awards is GBP2,262,000 (GBP219,200 value to Bangor),
 and developed the impact described in one of our Impact Case Studies (REF3_01). We secured
 EU-support to address the prevention of child mental health problems in South-Eastern Europe
 (Hutchings; GBP87,000). Also notable is an ongoing MRC Development Pathway Funding
 Scheme Award, with Oxford and Vancouver, to investigate the therapeutic potential of a lithium-
 mimetic for impulsive behaviour (Rogers, full worth GBP1,200,000 with GBP602,000 value to
 Bangor).



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2. Research infrastructure and facilities

 We continue to invest in and operate a diverse and modern array of open-access and
 investigator-led facilities, particularly in cognitive neuroscience.

 A. Shared, open-access facilities.
 Shared facilities are available to all staff and PGR students. Access is fully subsidised for staff
 without external funding for internally approved projects. The School’s Research Committee
 provides high-level oversight and management, including review of operating procedures and
 usage assessment.

 A1. Research-dedicated Philips Elition 3T MRI scanner. Bangor’s new MRI scanner was
 installed in summer 2019 (GBP1,362,000 over seven years), driven by the need to grow our
 imaging capabilities in line with the University’s revitalised medical and health research agenda.
 Located in the main Psychology building, the new scanner replaces our previous Philips scanner
 and is a major upgrade in terms of increased signal-to-noise, improved spatial and temporal
 resolution, multi-band and multi-echo sequences, and a full suite of structural and metabolic
 mapping tools. Our scanning unit additionally includes MRI-compatible eye-tracking, capacity for
 in-scanner EEG recordings, and a nearby mock scanner to support training studies and work
 with children. Scanner access is managed through a systematic and transparent process of
 internal peer-review and project approval by the Unit’s Steering Group. We ensure that our staff,
 in preparing grant applications, can access this facility, and have provided 1,500 hours of
 internally-funded scanner time in this REF period with a nominal GBP800,000 full economic
 cost. Supported projects produced datasets leading directly to funded grants from ERC,
 Leverhulme Trust, and Wellcome Trust.

 A2. MR-guided TMS and tDCS brain stimulation. The School houses multiple magnetic
 stimulation systems, including high-frequency repetitive and paired-pulse specialised systems;
 multiple coils, including a double-cone coil for deep brain stimulation; and Brainsight neuro-
 navigation for functional and anatomical MRI-guided TMS coil localisation. Our neuro-navigation
 lab benefited from an upgrade during the REF cycle via joint Royal Society and School funding.

 A3. Open-access EEG facilities. The Psychology Open-access Electroencephalography and
 Topography (POET) lab provides high-density EEG recording in a fully shielded environment,
 with synchronised remote eye-tracking. Currently, the POET lab is used to investigate a diverse
 range of topics: machine learning to predict motor sequences from EEG activity (Kornysheva);
 social development and self-perception in infants (Maister); and development of single-trial EEG
 analyses to compare language processing in typical and developmentally challenged groups
 (Jones and Oppenheim). This facility supported recent grant applications to the ERC, ESRC,
 and AHRC.

 A4. Online-testing. The School holds site licensing for Qualtrics and Pavlovia platforms. At the
 beginning of lockdown in March 2020, we appointed a School online-testing champion to support
 staff in moving their research online.

 A5. Participant panels. Just as important as equipment is access to participants, and our
 research infrastructure includes general and specialist participant panels. The School
 supports a large student cohort, allowing ~4000 hours of student participation for course credit
 every year. We also maintain specialised participant panels, most notably our neurological
 patient panel, run by D'Avossa who holds appointments in Psychology and the NHS. This panel
 gives us access to highly-informative selective lesion cases (e.g., Stanciu et al., Journal of
 Neuropsychology, 2019, submitted REF2), and capacity for neuropsychological research. A
 recent development since 2019, in cooperation with our Miles Dyslexia Centre, is a learning
 disorders panel, focused on dyslexia and other learning disorders in adults. We also maintain a
 community participant panel, particularly for recruiting matched controls for patient case
 studies, and for providing a pool of bilingual Welsh/English participants.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B. Investigator-led facilities.
 Research faculty have dedicated and highly specialised lab and testing space as required,
 including: EEG labs additional to our open-access facility (Thierry, Mills); two sound-proofed labs
 for auditory studies (Bestelmeyer, Oppenheim); virtual-reality (VR) and augmented-reality (AR)
 robotically controlled force-feedback systems (Watt); mobile eye- and pen-tracking for studies of
 literacy development in schools and the lab (Caravolas); a food and psychopharmacology lab
 (Rogers); video analysis suite for children’s cardio-respiratory fitness and fundamental
 movement skills (Horne); and a 12-camera system for capture of complex full body and limb
 motion, and capabilities for integrating with body-worn “actigraphy” data (Valyear, Watt).

 C. Technical research and design/build support.
 Our MRI Unit is supported by a dedicated technician (1.0 FTE). Other technical support (shared
 with researchers in health and sports sciences) includes 1.5 FTE research technicians, and 2.0
 FTE electronic- and mechanical-engineering technicians to assist with specialised and bespoke
 experimental hardware and software. Recent illustrative examples of bespoke projects include
 custom timing hardware for TMS, an fMRI-compatible guitar, and specialised food-dispensing
 machines.


 3.3 Infrastructure use in relation to impact

 As discussed in Section 1, we are committed to reducing distinctions between pure research and
 applied research with societal and academic impact. All our research facilities are therefore fully
 available to researchers pursuing both impact and more basic approaches.

 An important and long-standing organisational infrastructure within Bangor Psychology, and self-
 funding engine for generating impact, lies in several centres sitting within the School that are
 focused on translating research into practice. Some of these centres were referred to in
 REF2014 as “associated units”. Partial devolution of their governance and operation allows
 these centres the freedom to pursue specific impact-driven missions, while at the same time
 benefitting from the wider context of the School’s research support. Each centre operates on a
 tripartite basis: theoretically-driven research; research on the factors influencing implementation;
 and stand-alone services such as training or roll-out of rigorously tested programmes. The
 effectiveness of this infrastructure is seen in the reach of the centres and their value for research
 impact.

 A. The Centre for Evidence-Based Early Intervention, led by Prof Judy Hutchings OBE,
 develops and evaluates programmes to improve childhood experiences for those with
 behavioural difficulties. Working with its linked charity, the Children’s Early Intervention Trust, the
 Centre makes training and resources in tested programmes available to schools. In the REF
 period, the Centre has trained over 1700 programme leaders and teachers across seven
 programmes, supporting approximately 22,000 children worldwide.

 B. The Miles Dyslexia Centre is a self-financing, nationally and internationally recognised
 Centre active in research, intervention and assessment of dyslexia and other developmental
 learning conditions. The Centre’s mission includes public engagement on dyslexia and
 developmental learning conditions; practitioner training for work with dyslexic children (810
 attendees from local schools and organisations since 2015); specialist teaching for school
 children; and basic research into developmental learning disorders, conducted through our
 Language and Development research group. The Centre is currently leading UK research on
 remote instruction of language and literacy (Jones), funded by the ESRC and Welsh
 Government. This programme has been prioritised for rapid roll-out, reaching 200 students and
 16 schools since lockdown. Literacy screening and assessment is now delivered through the
 multi-language assessment tool (MABEL) described in our Impact Case Studies (REF3_02),
 resulting in mutual benefit to MABEL and the Centre. MABEL is particularly suited to the
 bilingual context of local schools, while the Centre’s assessment provided a valuable


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development platform for MABEL. The Centre also works to deliver British Dyslexia Association-
 approved practitioner training for MABEL to Wales, England, and internationally.

 C. The Centre for Mindfulness Research and Practice provides leading professional training
 for mindfulness-based teachers, while developing a rigorous evidence base. Its director, Crane,
 and her team, have led the development of tools and criteria to assess the competence of
 trainee mindfulness teachers, as described in our Impact Case Study (REF3_03). The Centre
 offers a Master’s in Mindfulness (intake 45 students per year) and maintains a licence
 agreement with Bangor University enabling The Mindfulness Network to deliver Bangor IP
 globally in the form of CPD courses. For the 2019/20 period, the University and The Mindfulness
 Network combined to deliver >20,000 hours of training to over 600 participants.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Our research contributions to the community, economy, and society
 The trajectory of change identified in Section 1 places fresh emphasis on how our research
 benefits society. Here we identify a range of contributions.

 A. Context.
 Bangor University is situated in a semi-rural setting of generally lower socio-economic status. As
 the only university in a 60-mile radius, we have a particular value and responsibility to our local
 economy and community. Our researchers work to deliver research benefits through a network
 of local schools, charities, health boards, businesses, and other community partners; as well as
 Welsh Government in policy-relevant research. As detailed below, many of our contributions
 relate to mental and physical health and well-being. But other key research themes arise from
 Bangor’s specific context. The importance of interventions to promote children’s health are
 magnified in a region with longstanding deprivation and health and economic inequalities.
 The cultural and linguistic context of north Wales also makes multilingualism and cultural identity
 another pivotal focus, addressed by our Language and Development research group (Section
 1.1).

 B. Research collaborations in our local community
 B1. With local innovation and service providers. Multiple ongoing projects seek to improve
 mental health and well-being, using principles of positive psychology and mindfulness-based
 approaches, applied to specific contexts. Work with Rhyl City Strategy, supporting local
 employment, develops and delivers training aimed at improving the positive wellbeing of long-
 term unemployed (traditional non-responders), as well as the success of those in work but
 struggling. We also work with North Wales Police – a large force comprising 1,500 officers and
 covering 6290 km2 – to improve the decision making and mental state of officers, exemplified by
 a multiyear contract to deliver mindfulness courses (see 3.3.C).

 In line with Welsh Government's policy frameworks (“A Healthier Wales”, “Let's Get North Wales
 Moving”), we are working with local schools and aligned bodies (e.g., GwE) to support parents
 and to improve children’s diet, health, and well-being. Much of our work in this domain has
 benefitted from support of the ESRC Impact Acceleration Award (Section 2.1.B4): promotion of
 anti-bullying interventions and conferences; production of media and websites for physical
 activity in children; and practitioner workshops for understanding handwriting difficulties in
 children with dyslexia and Developmental Coordination Disorder. We provide remote literacy
 tuition, for both typically developing and dyslexic children in north Wales (Section 3.3.B).

 Postgraduate opportunities through the Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarship scheme allow us
 to work on movement-science inspired approaches to peripheral nerve injury and repair with the
 local health board; and in collaboration with local councils in Wales and the Midlands we seek to
 improve the choice architecture of school canteens and facilitate healthy eating choices by
 children.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 B2. With the NHS. The School develops and maintains an extensive network of relationships
 with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board (BCUHB). BCUHB is the largest health board
 in Wales, serving a population of 648,000 people (StatsWales). Mullins is Vice Chair of the NHS
 Research Ethics Committee, where D’Avossa also serves. Saville and Rogers are members of
 the Academic Partnership Board for the Mental Health and Learning Disabilities Division of
 BCUHB, alongside NHS clinicians, research administrators, and other academics. That group is
 charged with fostering links and collaborations between BCUHB and research staff. Further
 afield, we have research partnerships with St George’s University Hospital London (dystonia),
 and Manchester University NHS Foundation Trust, Wythenshawe Hospital (hand surgery).

 Joint-appointments between the School and local Health Board ensure ongoing collaborations
 and outcomes in neuropsychology, clinical psychology, and mental health. D’Avossa is an
 Honorary NHS Neurology Consultant who oversees our neurological patient panel. Parkinson
 sits on the Research and Innovation Strategic Partnership Board of BCUHB which brings
 together stakeholders across academia (Bangor, Glyndwr, Chester, Aberystwyth) and health
 boards to support research collaborations that are aligned with the BCUHB strategic plan.
 Turnbull has an honorary clinical position with BCUHB, and Chairs the Academic, Education and
 Information Group of the North Wales Neurosciences Board. We also have close links with the
 North Wales Brain Injury Service, via jointly-appointed specialist clinical-academic staff.

 Clinical partnerships are further facilitated through the North Wales Clinical Psychology
 Programme (NWCPP, hosting our DClinPsy programme). The NWCPP includes six joint Bangor
 University/Board appointments, and indeed the depth of NHS collaboration was singled out for
 commendation in the most recent BPS reaccreditation. Research projects undertaken as part of
 the Programme’s activities focus on addressing BCUHB’s pressing needs and strategic
 priorities, such as: developing approaches for achieving a sustained recovery from drug and
 alcohol addiction; reducing suicide and self-harm behaviour in the context of borderline
 personality disorder with Dialectical Behaviour Therapy; and using estimates of social capital to
 predict variability in psychiatric admission rates across Wales, with an impact on the planning
 and remodelling of psychiatric inpatient wards.

 Our collaborations with BCUHB go beyond mental health and clinical psychology, to include new
 forms of research and impact projects for this cycle in: audiology, working to improve hearing
 tests and interventions for hearing-impaired individuals, seeking to improve caregiver
 experiences; scoping the risk of gambling harms across Wales, and providing the first national
 geospatial map of risk factors to produce a set of policy recommendations that have guided
 Welsh government policy developments (with Public Health Wales); hand surgery and assessing
 impaired hand sensation in peripheral nerve injury; collaborations with the Speech and
 Language Therapy unit for multilingual language assessment and treatment following brain
 injury, including development of a web-based assessment tool. Many of these new health
 service collaborations come from our cognitive neuroscience groups, further demonstrating the
 trajectory of change outlined in Section 1.

 In response to the Covid crisis. As part of its evidence-based strategy, the Welsh Government
 established a Technical Advisory Group along with associated subgroups to provide input to
 decision-making on Covid policy. Parkinson is one of three expert academic advisers on the
 Risk Communication and Behavioural Insight subgroup advising on non-pharmaceutical
 interventions to reduce transmission, and the longer-term behavioural response to the Covid
 pandemic. As a result, he is now delivering behaviour-insights training to all tracking teams in
 Wales alongside colleagues in Public Health Wales. Mullins and d'Avossa are members of the
 CNS SARS-Cov2 Consortium, an international partnership between the Alzheimer's Disease
 Society and academic clinicians and researchers across four continents, whose aim is to
 harmonise epidemiological protocols to characterise the neuropsychiatric sequelae of long
 Covid.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 C. How we develop research impact: From local to global
 Some of our most societally-relevant research is driven initially by local needs, concerns, and
 priorities, and then accelerated to create national and international impact. We would like to
 draw attention to examples of this pattern of accelerated scope.

 1. The WHO Parenting for Lifelong Health for Young Children programme, designed to prevent
 violence in low-resource settings, was built on early work from the Centre for Evidence Based
 Early Interventions with local Child and Adolescent Mental Health teams in north Wales. In
 collaboration with colleagues from Cape Town University, Oxford University and UNICEF, this
 programme was adapted and implemented globally in the Czech Republic, Democratic Republic
 of Congo, Eswatini, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Montenegro, North Macedonia, Philippines,
 Republic of Moldova, Romania, South Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, and Thailand.

 2. The Food Dudes programme was originally developed and trialled in Bangor schools. It has
 since been delivered to a staggering 1.6 million children worldwide, 1.1 million children this
 cycle, and adopted nationally in Ireland. These successes have led to formal advisory
 contributions by the School to the World Bank, UNICEF, and USAID; and to the Irish
 Government to lead development of new Food Dudes videos, materials and protocols to ensure
 cost-effective and high-fidelity delivery of the Programme in Irish primary and special schools.

 3. Measures and training interventions to promote the resilience and well-being of the long-term
 unemployed in Rhyl were, with the support of the British Council, subsequently integrated into
 the mental health provision of NGOs across South Asia, including India, Afghanistan, Sri Lanka,
 Nepal, and Dubai.

 4. The complexities of assessing the literacy of bilingual children in north Wales has led to the
 extensive use of MABEL in both basic research and practice, through our Miles Dyslexia Centre
 (both MABEL and the Centre discussed in Section 3.3.B). This multilingual use of MABEL has
 now expanded internationally to other multilingual contexts using Czech, Slovak, Spanish, and
 English.

 5. As described in Section 3.3.C, expertise gained by our Centre for Mindfulness Research and
 Practice in local delivery of training for mindfulness instructors led to the research and
 development of tools and criteria to assess trainee competence. The high-quality instruction
 developed and trialled at Bangor was then rolled out globally as the gold-star standard of training
 for practitioners (Crane), and led directly to an Impact Case Study (REF3_03).

 D. Public engagement.
 We engage with the public at local, regional, national, and international levels. Locally, Bangor
 Psychology staff members gave public lectures and demonstrations (e.g., Bangor Science Café,
 the University’s Pontio Arts and Innovation Centre, Bangor Science Festival, Festival of
 Discovery Wales). Staff have consulted for and appeared on BBC and S4C science
 programmes. Bangor staff and students also engage with the public on a wider national and
 international stage. For example, Kornysheva was recently awarded a Guarantors of Brain
 Public Understanding of Neurology grant. Staff and PGR students regularly contribute to
 Soapbox Science events and online venues, including widely-read articles for The Conversation
 (articles by our staff this period racking up over 3.5 million views). We are also working with
 other professions to communicate principles of psychological science in professional contexts,
 such as at HM Prison Berwyn.


 4.2 Our contributions to the discipline and the research base

 A. Advisory roles
 Actif Woods Wales (Morrison); British Association of Mindfulness Based Approaches (Crane);
 Health Education England (Crane); Mindfulness Institute (Crane); Public Health Wales
 (Morrison); Research panel to the Responsible Gambling Strategy Board/Gambling Commission

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Rogers); Welsh Government (development strategies for Wales; Crane and parenting;
 Hutchings); faculty member of MRC Applied Global Health Board (Baker-Henningham). Several
 staff members also have roles in charities, including as a Trustee of the Mindfulness Network
 (Crane), Director of Training in Children’s Early Intervention Trust (Hutchings).

 B. Professional Society Leadership Roles.
 European Health Psychology Grants Office (Morrison); European Health Psychology Scientific
 Committee (Morrison); Fellow of Psychonomic Society (Oppenheim); Fellow of American
 Psychological Association (Mills); British Neuropsychological Society Committee (Binney);
 Research IN Touch (Valyear); Sensorimotor Learning Network (Valyear).

 C. Conference committee membership and workshops.
 International GABA MR Spectroscopy Meeting 2016 (Mullins); ISMRM MR Spectroscopy
 Workshop 2016 (Mullins); MRS techniques for neurometabolite measurement 2018 and 2020
 (Mullins); Phoenix International Research Ethics Seminar 2020 (Mullins); Organisers for the
 International Conference on Cognitive Neuroscience of Second and Artificial Language Learning
 (Thierry; Jones); programme committee for International Conference On 3d Immersion (2012-
 present; Watt); session organiser Neural Control of Movement conference (Kornysheva);
 workshop on artificial haptics, Eurohaptics 2020 (Valyear, Watt); organising committee for
 International Neuropsychoanalysis (2000-present; Turnbull).

 D. Funding and Grant Review.
 NIHR HTA (Morrison); RfPB (Morrison); MRC (Mullins, Baker-Henningham); Grant review: Royal
 Academy of Engineers (Mullins); EPSRC Peer Review (Mullins); Wellcome (Mullins); Fund for
 Scientific Research (Mullins); ESRC Peer Review College (Jones, Ward); British Academy
 (Koldewyn); Leading Fellows (Koldewyn); Israeli Science Foundation (Koldewyn); Strength-in-
 Places/InnovateUK (Rogers); Carnegie Trust (Ward); Agence Nationale pour la Recherche,
 Paris (Thierry); Science Foundation Ireland (Thierry); Natural Sciences and Engineering
 Research Council of Canada (NSERC, Kornysheva); German Research Foundation
 (Kornysheva, Maister); Human Frontiers Science Program (Kornysheva).

 E. Journal Editorial boards.
 Associate Editors: Brain Research (Carey); British Journal of Health Psychology (Morrison);
 Cortex (Carey); Laterality (Carey); Language and Cognition (Oppenheim); Language Learning
 (Thierry); Mindfulness (Crane); Neuroreport (Thierry); Global Advances in Health and Medicine
 (Crane); International Gambling Studies (for Europe, Rogers). Consulting/review Editor: Journal
 of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance (Watt). Editorial board:
 Journal of Gambling Studies (Rogers), Neuropsychoanalysis and Journal of Neuropsychology
 (Turnbull). Consulting Editor: Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience (Kornysheva). International
 advisor: Mindfulness (Crane).


 F. Collaborative and interdisciplinary PGR training networks.
 Morrison and Watt were both awarded Marie Skłodowska-Curie International Training Network
 awards to establish multi-disciplinary graduate training networks in the areas of Caregiving in
 different countries and creating hyper-realistic 3D imagery, respectively. Our Head of School
 (Bowman) serves as programme leader (2018 – present) for our doctoral training programme for
 Continuous Professional Development as approved by Advance HE. Our position as one of the
 major research universities in Wales also generates unique opportunities to attract research
 income in concert with other Welsh institutions. These include the KESS scheme (led by Bangor
 University), which funds PhD studentships in partnership with local SMEs, and the ESRC Wales
 Doctoral Training Partnership, in which we contribute to both the Psychology and Bilingualism
 pathways.

 G. Fellowships and awards.
 In this REF period, contributions of several of our staff have been recognised by the award of
 prestigious research fellowships. Binney won a Welsh Crucible award for ECR and the 2020

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Elizabeth Warrington Prize from the British Neuroscience Society. Morrison was awarded
 Fellowships of the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh, and the European Health
 Psychology Society. Rogers was elected Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales in 2016.
 Hutchings was made an Honorary Fellow of the British Association for Behavioural & Cognitive
 Psychotherapies, and was awarded a Lifetime Achievement Award from the British
 Psychological Society.

 4.3 Our approach to research collaboration
 Research collaboration with academic and non-academic colleagues is a recurring theme in this
 document. Throughout we have described and evidenced multiple arrangements for
 collaborative research. At a strategic level, we develop and promote a variety of formal and
 informal networks that provide access to unique populations, resources, and research problems.
 Section 4.1 evidences many of our collaborations outside HE, including the NHS and local
 service providers; and Section 1.3.B overviews our approach to interdisciplinary collaboration.
 Collaborative PGR activity, specifically programmes working with non-academic partners in
 business and service providers are discussed in Section 2.2.A; and our internal PGR
 studentships, are allocated on many factors, including cross-institutional collaboration (Section
 2.1.B3). At a more operational level, we ensure researchers have the support they need to
 create and sustain collaborative activity. Support for cross-institutional research collaboration is
 available through internal funding (Section 1.2), and conference travel and institutional visits for
 collaboration are fully supported, primarily through our generous overheads policy (Section
 2.1.B3). The success of these multiple initiatives is evidenced in our submitted REF2 outputs,
 69% produced in collaboration with other institutions.




                                                                                              Page 16
