Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 14 (Geography)


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Research Structure


 The Geography Department at Cambridge nurtures research excellence, plays a prominent role
 in shaping the discipline, and is ranked consistently among the top three Geography
 Departments internationally (QS World Ranking by subject over the past five years). Our
 research environment is structured to promote engagement with many of the world’s most
 important challenges – climate change, biodiversity conservation, environmental hazards and
 risk, ice-sheet melting, global inequalities, urban life – and across these geographical domains
 we can demonstrate academic leadership and influence, research innovation, quality and
 impact.

    •     Six members of staff are Fellows of the British Academy, seven are Fellows of the
          Academy of Social Sciences and one a foreign member of the Russian Academy of
          Sciences. In the census period, four staff were awarded RGS medals and awards.
     • Since 2014, we have made 14 staff appointments of which 1.5 are new established
          posts. We have opened new laboratories for tree-ring and tephra research and re-built
          our experimental flume facility;
     • We currently support five ERC grants, totalling €8.4M, across both physical and human
          geography;
     • We have a thriving postgraduate school of c.100 research students each year. Of the
          139 doctorates awarded over the census period, 32 have secured academic posts, and
          54 postdoctoral positions, in 23 different countries;
     • Our research engages actively with governmental policy-makers and industrial leaders,
          in arenas including the World Economic Forum in Davos (2014 and 2019), the United
          Nations Forum on Forests (2015 and 2017), a White House Ministerial on the future of
          the Arctic (2016), at the 2018 Nobel Dialogues in Stockholm, and to the House of
          Commons Defence and Environmental Audit Committees and International Development
          Select Committee (2017-2018);
     • Our Impact Case Studies demonstrate not only direct policy engagement but also wider,
          creative imaginings of past, present and future worlds as expressed through the
          production of films, theatre plays and exhibitions in museums and public spaces,
          including work with artists in residence.
 To secure these achievements, research in the Department is managed by a Research Policy
 Committee and organised around six Thematic Research Groups (TRGs) and two Research
 Institutes.

 The six TRGs are:

    1) Biogeography and Biogeomorphology (BB)

 Comprising six returned staff and £2.34M HESA funding (NERC, EU FP7, EU H2020, and EU
 MSC) plus £127k from Cambridge University sources (to 31 July 2020), this group explores

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interactions between biological, physical and chemical processes on the Earth’s surface in the
 context of global environmental change. Research uses large-scale empirical and remotely
 sensed datasets, laboratory experimentation and computational modelling. The TRG has three
 sub-themes. Coasts, led by the long-established Cambridge Coastal Research Unit, studies the
 dynamics of biologically-mediated coastal landforms, both through global-scale modelling,
 showing significantly lower global wetland loss rates under global environmental change than
 previously modelled, and large scale flume experiments, demonstrating wetlands survive, and
 act as natural coastal protection, even under extreme storm surge conditions. Research has fed
 into coastal flood risk policies (see Impact Case Study: Spencer, Möller). Ecosystems
 processes focuses on interactions between physical processes and ecosystems to understand
 spatio-temporal variations and change (Allen), demonstrating the crucial importance of non-
 photosynthetic processes for the terrestrial carbon balance and developing a new mechanistic
 approach to tree growth (Friend) and showing that Arctic forest climate change response
 differs from previous assumptions (Rees). Complexity in socioecological and environmental
 systems applies machine learning and artificial intelligence to simulate all life on Earth (Bithell)
 and models the interconnected dynamics of acute events (natural hazards) and chronic (sea
 level) changes on ecosystems, landforms and the effects of human occupancy (Bithell, Möller,
 Palaima, Reef, Rees, Spencer).

    2) Climate and Environment Dynamics (CED)

 With nine returned staff, CED has received £2.7M in HESA research income and £47k in-kind
 support (to 31 July 2020). The group focuses on understanding processes and impacts of past,
 present and future environmental variability through a combination of experiments, modelling
 and field observations. Five returned staff appointments since 2014 have strengthened expertise
 and inter-departmental collaboration in palaeoclimatology, palaeoceanography,
 palaeoenvironments, volcanology and atmospheric modelling. Two new laboratory facilities have
 been established – for tephra and tree-ring studies – extending and establishing community
 initiatives and international research collaborations (e.g. Lane chaired (2014-19) the INTIMATE
 research network, which reconstructed past abrupt climate changes to understand the
 mechanisms and impacts of change; Bűntgen (with Krusic) led the COSMIC initiative that
 integrated worldwide tree-ring databases from 76 partners, establishing the global signature of
 solar particle events). CED is involved in two NERC Highlight Topic projects concerned with
 volcanic cloud observations, models and impacts (V-PLUS and R4ASH: Herzog, Oppenheimer,
 Schmidt, with related projects from Aubry, Vidal). With ParaCon (joint NERC and Met Office
 programme), Herzog is developing a new convective cloud field model to improve numerical
 weather forecasting and increase confidence in climate predictions. Muschitiello has
 contributed to two international research programmes in the fast-warming Arctic, including ERC
 Synergy project Ice2Ice in which he has helped to determine the central role of sea-ice loss in
 driving abrupt global climate shifts and variability in the Greenland Ice Sheet’s contribution to
 sea level rise.


    3) Glaciology and Glacial Geology (GGG)

 GGG, based in the Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI), includes five returned staff, supported
 by £2.59M of HESA research income, from NERC (including PI leadership in the International
 Thwaites Glacier Collaboration co-funded with NSF plus multiple ‘blue skies’ grants), EU (ERC,
 MSC), industrial (Boeing) and philanthropic (Leverhulme, Flotilla Foundation) sources. GGG
 focuses on the contemporary state of Earth’s large ice sheets as well as their past and future


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dynamics. Observational data from innovative remote sensing and geophysical techniques are
 combined with novel 3D numerical ice-sheet models to understand how glacial processes
 operate and change through time, and why large ice sheets are increasing their contribution to
 global sea-level rise. Research under the theme Glaciology and Climate Change has contributed
 to new understandings of atmospheric drivers of melting, meltwater pathways on ice sheets,
 glacial lake drainage, basal drainage efficiency, and ice-ocean interactions that further amplify
 impacts of climate change. This research includes the most comprehensive existing physical
 characterisation of a large marine-terminating outlet glacier system in Greenland, the first record
 of basal melting from beneath Earth’s largest ice shelf, the first direct measurements of ice shelf
 flexure, and the first identification of subglacial lakes outside Antarctica (Arnold, Bougamont,
 Christoffersen, Dowdeswell, Willis). A second theme, Glacier-influenced Marine
 Environments, focuses on sediment transport and deposition processes in modern glacimarine
 systems and the reconstruction of past ice sheets (Dowdeswell). The Atlas of Submarine
 Glacial Landforms (2016; 612pp), edited by Dowdeswell et al., is the definitive academic and
 industry reference work on this topic.


    4) Geographies of Knowledge (GoK)

 Involving nine returned staff, GoK has secured £2.04M of HESA research income (ERC, AHRC,
 Leverhulme, ESRC, RGS) plus £34k from Cambridge University sources (to 31 July 2020; GoK
 research reveals the spatially differentiated ways in which culturally situated and contested
 knowledges emerge, acquire authority, and travel within policy discourses, frameworks and
 processes. GoK's interdisciplinary approach bridges science and technology studies, cultural
 and historical geography, and geographies of the history and production of science. We have
 advanced geographical knowledge around three sub-themes: (a) The Politics of Environmental
 Knowledges, explaining the inclusions, exclusions, and the political consequence of specific
 forms of expertise in national and global assessments of environmental risk (Bravo,
 Donovan, Ferraz de Oliviera, Hulme, Owens); (b) Polar Knowledges, showing how
 cosmologies and ontologies of the northern regions are integral to global geographical
 imaginations (Bravo), and elucidating the construction of indigenous and western cultures in and
 of the Arctic (Powell); (c) Knowledges for Development, advancing new post/de-colonial and
 'Southern' critiques of (international) development knowledges and practices (Cullen, Donovan,
 Hulme, Sanchez-Lopez, Siddiqi), in particular pioneering new knowledge exchange processes
 between UK, India and third country partners (Mawdsley). Group members have published
 research monographs that make major contributions to understanding UK science advisory
 processes (Owens), the cultural dimensions of climate (Hulme and as Editor-in-Chief of Wiley
 Interdisciplinary Reviews (WIREs) Climate Change), studying Arctic knowledges as forms of
 emergent social and material practice (Bravo, Powell, Vitebsky), and the production and
 circulation of geological knowledges through the material culture of the Anthropocene
 (Donovan).



    5) Infrastructural Geographies (IG)

 Comprising nine returned staff, IG has been awarded £3.22M HESA research funding with
 £106k from Cambridge University sources (to 31 July 2020). IG is concerned with the
 materialities that mould, constrain, and influence human endeavour, including the provisioning
 networks, institutional arrangements, and technological forces shaping society and space.
 Drawing comparative insights from Europe (East and West), North America, Latin America, sub-

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Saharan Africa and South and East Asia, IG’s work explores three sub- themes; (a) the
 ‘infrastructural turn’, with leading work including Amin’s Seeing Like a City and Lemanski’s
 prize-winning Citizenship and Infrastructure and Hybrid Gentrification (and see also Gandy’s
 The Fabric of Space that explores how socio-technical systems sustain city life and enact social
 difference); (b) contributions on state infrastructures, in particular how legal, service and welfare
 infrastructures differentiate, segregate and subjugate peoples and places (in particular Jeffrey’s
 The Edge of Law and publications by Barford, Gray, and Kusiak), and are implicated in both
 austerity and care (Amin’s, Martin’s and Strong’s publications, Gray and Susan Smith's
 interactive forum theatre ‘The Great Austerity Debate’ with Menagerie Theatre and Arts Council);
 and (c) work on post- to de-colonial development, critically examining the epistemic
 infrastructures of ‘development’ and demonstrating the necessity of a de-colonial perspective
 (Radcliffe Dilemmas of Difference).

    6) Vital Geographies (VG)

 VG considers the complex interplay of human and nonhuman lives, with a focus on the fortunes
 of entangled naturecultures, the vital history of human populations, and the power relations
 implicated in the governance of living things. Involving eleven returned staff, VG members have
 produced 16 books and been awarded £6.85M HESA research funding (Wellcome, ESRC, ERC,
 GCRF) with £455k Cambridge University income (to 31 July 2020). The strength of this work is
 exemplified in (a) Geographies of agriculture, food and nutrition, exploring food production and
 security, and embodied attachments between people and land, in the context of pressing
 environmental challenges (Beckingham, Howell, Nally, Vira); (b) Demography, health and
 wellbeing, building on the global reputation of the Cambridge Group for the History of Population
 and Social Structure (recognised in 2015 as one of the ESRC’s 50 ‘achievements and landmark
 research contributions’ of the last 50 years) to reconstruct historical demographies (Davenport,
 Reid); (c) More-than-human geographies, political ecologies, and novel naturecultures,
 engaging directly with non-human animals (Barua, Howell, Petri) and plants (Gandy, Nally),
 and epistemic implications of conservation science concerns (Adams, Apostolopoulou,
 Sandbrook, Vira). VG is particularly active in the Cambridge Conservation Initiative (CCI) and
 contributes to policy and practice and public understanding beyond the academy, such as
 Gandy’s prize-winning documentary Natura Urbana, on the post-war history of Berlin through its
 plants, Reid’s interactive online atlas of population (populationspast.org), and Vira’s major
 photographic exhibition with prize-winning photographer Toby Smith on the Himalayan water
 crisis (see Vira Impact Case Study).


 The Department also hosts two internationally renowned research institutes. Geography has
 taken a leading role in both establishing and delivering the University of Cambridge
 Conservation Research Institute in the iconic David Attenborough Building, an innovative
 venture in interdisciplinary and engaged research on biodiversity conservation and its social
 context. The quality and impact of our research is exemplified through our Scott Polar
 Research Institute which combines long-held academic excellence with public outreach and
 policy impact.

 1) The University of Cambridge Conservation Research Institute (UCCRI), created in 2013
 with Vira as founding Director and, since 2016, formally established by the University as the first
 of its Interdisciplinary Research Centres. A network of over 150 researchers across Cambridge
 brings academics together across disciplines to develop and implement collaborative

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes on biodiversity conservation and social dimensions of human-nature interactions.
 UCCRI addresses urgent societal challenges, including: sustainable ways to feed human
 populations without ‘costing the earth’ (with the Frank Jackson Foundation); the contributions of
 nature to the delivery of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (with the CCI Collaborative
 Fund and ESRC IAA); strategies for future human and planetary prosperity with natural capital
 principles (funded by Isaac Newton Trust, A G Leventis Foundation, Luc Hoffmann Institute and
 Prince Albert II of Monaco Foundation); and evidence-based solutions to ecological collapse and
 climate disruption that threaten socio-ecological systems (Arcadia Fund). It builds capacity for
 ECRs through training and mentoring, and is closely associated with the Department’s MPhil in
 Conservation Leadership, which has trained 179 postgraduates from 80 countries since opening
 in 2010 – the majority now fill prominent conservation leadership roles in countries worldwide.

 2) The Scott Polar Research Institute (SPRI) is the world’s oldest (established 1920)
 dedicated polar research institute. Under Dowdeswell's Directorship, it is an internationally
 recognised centre of excellence in the study of the Arctic and Antarctic; it has a dedicated
 building, a mix of science and social science/humanities expertise and an interdisciplinary,
 collaborative ethos. Seven of Geography’s returned staff, nine PDRAs and 15 doctoral students
 are based in SPRI, which also hosts the research-based MPhil in Polar Studies. The Institute
 offers regular advice to the Foreign and Commonwealth Office and hosts the secretariat of the
 Scientific Committee for Antarctic Research (SCAR), which advises the Antarctic Treaty System.
 SPRI holds the world’s premier Polar Library, extensive historic archival, photographic and
 object collections of international importance, and an embedded Polar Museum with displays on
 Arctic and Antarctic history and contemporary significance (c. 50,000 visitors/yr; £1M funding
 from HLF; Impact Case Study: Dowdeswell et al.). Its research, information and outreach
 activities are supported by endowments of £4M+. In the review period, SPRI has organised
 external events ranging from major art exhibitions at Bonhams, London (2014, 2016, 2018), to a
 commemorative service for Shackleton and companions at Westminster Abbey (2016).

 In addition, the Department’s environment is enriched by a prominent role in several cross-
 University initiatives: the Cambridge Centres for Science and Policy (CSaP), Latin American,
 Asian and African Studies, Earth Observation, Existential Risk, Climate Science, and the
 University’s response to climate change, Cambridge Zero. Academic and research staff are able
 to interact directly with Government and industry policy fellows through CSaP's research
 briefings and to feed research findings into influential Government committees, such as the
 Cabinet Office team leading the preparations for COP26 in 2021.

 Research Objectives


 The Department’s primary research objectives are to: (i) shape the discipline of Geography
 through rigorous, original, well-evidenced inquiry across a wide range of sub-disciplines; (ii)
 address new scholarly and societal challenges through collaborative, interdisciplinary working;
 (iii) recruit outstanding staff internationally and support them to realise their potential at every
 career step; and (iv) maximise scholarly, policy and public impact through a wide-ranging
 dissemination and engagement strategy. To meet these objectives, we have:

    •   Taken steps to ensure that research income is sufficient to support ambitions (objective
        (i)). Since REF2014, the Director of Research has closely monitored grant income by
        individual, TRG, and source. We now allocate time and resource for applications for

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        larger / more complex grants, encourage a larger pool of staff to apply for grants and are
        seeking out a greater range of funding sources. These changes have been incentivised
        through a workload model and undertaken with targeted support from our research office.
    •   Built international and inter-disciplinary collaborations to produce world-leading research
        on global issues (objective (ii)). Internationally, we have adopted a project-driven
        approach, supporting individual researchers and TRGs to collaborate with their
        counterparts as routine practice, with new initiatives facilitated by internal (Departmental
        and University) seed-corn funding. During the census period, our collaborations and
        engagements with leading researchers extended across the Global North and South. The
        creative research activities of our TRGs reach beyond specialist frontiers, into University-
        wide interdisciplinary ventures, challenge-led funding opportunities such as GCRF
        (Sandbrook:The China, East Africa and UK Development Corridors Partnership with
        UNEP-WCMC; Reid: AHRC-MRC Pictures of ageing in Africa; Vira: Transforming India's
        Green Revolution by Research and Empowerment for Sustainable Food Supplies,
        TIGR2ESS) and ODA-related interdisciplinary schemes, and collaborative symposia
        such as that on Shrinking Commons in 2014 (featuring 23 international speakers, and
        generating the edited volume Amin and Howell, 2016, Releasing the Commons).
    •   Supported and expanded a vibrant and growing early career research (ECR) community
        (objective (iii)). Over 40 postdoctoral researchers associated with the Department
        attended our ‘research away day’ in 2019. We have actively sought funding for ECRs
        through EC FP7 MC and EC H2020 MSC, NERC, ESRC, Leverhulme Trust, British
        Academy, Royal Society and the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission. All five of our
        current ERC grants include postdoctoral fellows. Our ‘Geographies of Knowledge’ TRG is
        the hub for a cross-Cambridge network for ECRs in disaster studies and we lead on the
        setting up of a national network, via the ERC IMAGINE website, for ECRs working at the
        interface of human and physical approaches to disaster risk. The ‘Vital Geographies’
        TRG hosts the Political Ecology Group which is an important forum for ECRs in the
        Department.
    •   Enacted strategic staffing decisions to maintain breadth and depth in research excellence
        (objective (iv)). Building on opportunities arising from Departmental retirements,
        harnessing the momentum of the past decade, and following a University-level Strategic
        Research Review (SRR) in 2017, a 2018-25 staffing strategy is now in place to preserve
        and enhance the human resource base that underpins our research excellence (see
        Section 2).

    •   Maintained a vibrant research culture and thriving intellectual environment (objective
        (iv)). Since 2014, the Department has run an average of eight flagship seminars a year
        delivered by leading national and international scholars addressing topics across human
        and physical geography, and over 420 TRG seminars in total (up to June 2019). Our
        international Distinguished Visiting Fellows programme attracts two guests annually to
        deliver public lectures, seminars, and postgraduate masterclasses, and to explore future
        research collaborations. In order of visit, we have hosted: Paul Robbins, Nick Blomley,
        Diana Liverman, AbdouMaliq Simone, Tania Li, Don Mitchell, Didier Fassin, Ananya Roy,
        Dorthe Dahl-Jensen, Rebecca Lave, and James Scott. Since 2014, through our Visiting
        Scholar programme, we have hosted 57 visitors from 24 countries (as of July 2019) to
        work collaboratively with Department staff. In 2019, celebrating 100 years of teaching
        Geography at Cambridge, we invited leading geographical scholars, all Department
        alumni, for our centenary lecture series (Harriet Bulkeley, Derek Gregory, Stuart Lane,



                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          Linda McDowell), and organised a public panel at the RGS on the Spirit and Purpose of
          Geography which attracted an audience of 550 people.

 Impact


 We have developed, through the appointment of a dedicated administrator, a comprehensive
 Departmental communications and engagement strategy and we collaborate with the University
 communications team on a regular basis. The SRR (2017) recognised the Department’s
 ‘exceptional achievements in impact and outreach, which provide a model of best practice which
 others may wish to emulate’. Our approach has been to promote impact in a wide range of ways
 with a broad spectrum of stakeholders, as demonstrated by our Impact Case Studies: media
 productions (Oppenheimer), policy interventions (Spencer and Möller, Vira), and a dedicated
 Museum (the Polar Museum) with over 350,000 visitors over the census period (Dowdeswell).

 We actively contribute to University engagement activities, with annual contributions to its
 Alumni Festivals, Festival of Ideas, and Science Festival, including events on coastal research,
 climate science, the Arctic and Antarctic and dendrochronology regularly attracting over 300
 participants. A number of staff have served as key advisors on governmental initiatives
 including: HMG BEIS (Lemanski served as Expert Panel Member, Digital Built Britain Working
 Group); UK Government Office for Science Foresight Programme on the Future of Cities (Martin,
 lead expert); UK Government Committee for Climate Change, Adaptation Sub-Committee and
 UK Government Climate Change Risk Assessment (Möller); and UK Government’s Civil
 Contingencies Secretariat on long-range impacts of Icelandic volcanism (Oppenheimer); and
 parliamentary advisory and select committees (see Section 4).

 Interdisciplinary research


 In addition to our leadership of, and contributions to, University interdisciplinary initiatives
 described earlier, Geography is the lead department in the interdisciplinary research group
 Global Energy Nexus in Urban Settlements (GENUS), established and convened by Lemanski
 since 2017. GENUS brings together researchers from the Cambridge University Departments of
 Geography, Architecture, Engineering, Politics and the Judge Business School to undertake
 interdisciplinary research on sustainable energy for urban dwellers, with a particular focus on the
 global South. GENUS has secured research funding from the British Academy, the ESRC and
 CRASSH, and hosted an interdisciplinary design workshop for the Cambridge Festival of Ideas
 (2019). Reid collaborates with the MRC Epidemiology Unit and the Department of Public Health,
 Cambridge on issues of ageing, health and urban infrastructure. Hulme’s Leverhulme Major
 Grant on the geographies and histories of climate change links Geography and the Department
 of History and Philosophy of Science. Schmidt’s post is shared with the Department of
 Chemistry to promote interdisciplinary atmospheric science; she leads a NERC Highlight Topic
 Volcanic plume understanding and forecasting models project across Geography, Chemistry and
 Earth Sciences in Cambridge.

 Open research environment


 The Department complies enthusiastically with EU, UKRI, Trust, Foundation, and University
 level policies on Open Access research, the latter being centrally managed and coordinated by

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the University's Open Access Service. This service provides the infrastructure (institutional
 repository); mechanisms (active engagement with publishers to negotiate offsetting deals
 focused on cost efficiencies whilst preserving the researchers' and University's interests); and
 administrative expertise to support researchers in disseminating their outputs as widely as
 possible to advance societal and academic development, whilst complying with funders' Open
 Access policies. Additionally, staff have developed pioneering open-access (and access on
 request) cross-institution research resources, such as Reid and CamPop's demographic,
 economic and political datasets (including as described above). Büntgen has been instrumental
 in promoting open access databases for palaeo-climatology (Lead, Past Global Changes
 PAGES working group Euro-Med2k) and global databases for tree-ring measurements
 (International Tree-Ring Data Bank) and annual radiocarbon measurements for early medieval
 times (PI, COSMIC consortium).

 Research integrity


 All research in the Department is subject to ethical scrutiny; every project (including
 undergraduate and postgraduate research) requires a priori formal approval from the
 Departmental Ethics Review Panel. The process of ethical scrutiny is regularly reviewed,
 conforming with best subject-specific practice for the UK and internationally; reference is made
 as appropriate to the School of Humanities and Social Science ethics panel, and the University’s
 ethics committee. It is recognised that ethical principles – such as consent – are a process:
 researchers are encouraged to seek advice when ethical concerns arise; new approvals are
 required for all ethically-sensitive adjustments to research-in-progress.




                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People

 Staff Development


 Energetic, enthusiastic staff working in a supportive, inclusive environment are key to research
 excellence and we attend carefully to staff development at every career step. Induction of new
 academic staff and independent researchers includes meetings with the Head of Department
 and Director of Research to discuss integration into TRG activities, identify development
 opportunities, and provide assurance of our commitment to recognition, respect and
 accreditation for scholarly ideas and achievements. We have a formal mentoring programme
 and we have signed the Research Concordat to support the Career Development of
 Researchers. Additionally, the Department's training and Research Advice Scheme provides
 formal and informal opportunities at least once a year, to all staff, on research planning and
 grant-writing, impact opportunities, and preparing publications for peer-review. We strongly
 promote training opportunities whether delivered by the University (which has an extensive
 programme for all staff) or through bespoke TRG training on technical needs, such as in
 environmental monitoring and modelling, or best practice seminars for overseas fieldwork. Most
 recently, during the Covid-19 pandemic, the Department curated an open access document to
 support remote research in Human Geography as a collective response to mitigate the
 disruption to primary fieldwork. There is a formal appraisal for all academic staff biannually; a
 2018 University Staff Survey found that 97% of Geography respondents thought their appraisal
 useful. Further recognition of leadership and excellence comes through the University’s annual
 Senior Academic Promotions exercise. The Head of Department and senior staff act as
 promotion mentors reviewing draft applications. Geography staff have been particularly
 successful in promotions during this census period with Professorships for Bayliss-Smith,
 Spencer and Vira, Readerships for Christoffersen, Herzog*, Howell, Jeffrey, Lemanski*,
 Mawdsley, Möller, Powell*, Reid* and Willis (* indicates 2020 promotions). Finally, post-
 retirement research-active colleagues (e.g. Martin, Owens, Vitebsky) remain part of the
 Department’s research culture, through use of the University Voluntary Research Agreements
 scheme.

 To balance research needs with teaching and administrative demands, we introduced a
 workload model in 2017, enabling us to protect the 40% of academic workload allocated to
 research across the University. The model recognises the needs of staff at different career
 stages, and with specific personal circumstances, and allows for long-term project planning and
 research buy-out, thus supporting academic and research staff at all career stages to take on
 ambitious and substantive research initiatives. Staff are encouraged to take up prestigious
 fellowships and visiting positions; see Section 4.

 The Department has undergone substantial change in staffing since 2014 with the retirement of
 eight Professors (Owens, Gibbard, Graf, Martin, Richards, Haining, Bayliss-Smith, Leader-
 Williams) and one Assistant Director of Research (Vitebsky). An ambitious and creative
 recruitment strategy to ensure the long-term sustainability of our research excellence has
 resulted in a number of strategic appointments being made through the census period:

    •   Charlotte Lemanski (2014): Lecturer (now Reader*), broadening the Department’s
        specialism in Urban Geography with a focus on India and South Africa

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Iris Möller (2014): Lecturer (Reader-elect) reinforcing Departmental excellence in coastal
        geomorphology (since 2019, Chair in Physical Geography and, since 2020, Head of
        Department, Trinity College Dublin)
    •   Alice Reid (2014): Lecturer (now Reader*), expanding Departmental expertise in
        historical demography and population studies
    •   Matthew Gandy (2016): Professor of Cultural and Historical Geography, strengthening
        leadership in cultural, urban and environmental Geography through his ERC Advanced
        Grant ‘Rethinking Urban Nature’
    •   Christine Lane (2016): 1993 Professor of Geography, strengthening expertise in past
        climatic change and explosive volcanism, bringing her NERC project Deep-CHALLA and
        leadership of the INTIMATE network
    •   Ulf Büntgen (2017): Professor of Environmental Systems Analysis, bringing expertise in
        dendrochronology and palaeoclimatology
    •   Mike Hulme (2017): Professor of Human Geography, strengthening leadership in
        Geographies of Knowledge and expanding the Department’s research into the human
        geography of climate change
    •   Chris Sandbrook (2017): Senior Lecturer, furthering Departmental interests in
        biodiversity conservation and its relationship with society and, as Director, securing the
        Department’s long-term commitment to the MPhil in Conservation Leadership
    •   Richard Powell (2017): Lecturer (now Reader*), strengthening Departmental and SPRI
        excellence in the cultural and political geography of the circumpolar Arctic through his
        ERC Consolidator Grant ‘Arctic Cultures’
    •   Maan Barua (2018): Lecturer in Human Geography, reinforcing our expertise in urban
        ecology and biodiversity conservation, with his ERC Starting Grant ‘Urban Ecologies'
    •   Francesco Muschitiello (2018): Lecturer in Physical Geography, expanding
        Departmental excellence in palaeoclimatology
    •   Anja Schmidt (2018): Interdisciplinary Lecturer in Climate Modelling (shared
        appointment with Department of Chemistry), and winner, 2018 Arne Richter EGU award
        for outstanding early career scientist, expanding expertise in atmospheric science and
        volcanology
    •   Amy Donovan (2019): Lecturer in Geography, holder of ERC Starting Grant IMAGINE,
        (Geographical Imaginations and the (geo)politics of volcanic risk: cultures, knowledges,
        actions)
    •   Ayesha Siddiqi (January 2020): Lecturer in Geography, specialist in politics of post-
        disaster recovery in the global south
        *Reader effective from 1 October 2020

 The Möller replacement appointment, joining the Biogeography and Biogeomorphology TRG, will
 take up their post in October 2020 (Emily Lines). Succession planning in relation to the
 retirement of Adams (conservation) in 2020 and the retirements of three further professors
 (Amin (urban studies), Spencer (coastal dynamics) and Dowdeswell (glacial geology)) after
 2022 is anticipated in the 2018-25 staffing strategy. We envisage not only continuity in key areas
 of distinction but also innovation around new emerging challenges.


 Supporting Early Career Researchers (ECRs)


 ECRs regularly serve as co-convenors on TRGs, placing them at the heart of our research
 culture and giving them, and other ECR TRG members, important experience in hosting/chairing

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seminars. TRG-specific workshops provide regular sessions for ECRs, give peer-to-peer support
 and methodological discussions, and include mentoring from senior academic staff. A senior
 member of staff acts as the Director of Postdoctoral Affairs and all research staff and research-
 active College staff benefit from Departmental support, including participation in ‘research away
 days’ the ECR mentoring scheme, and professional and career development opportunities
 (including with the University’s Postdoc Academy). ECRs are supported to develop grant
 proposals (often with established staff), write lead publications, apply for fellowship positions and
 provide PhD supervision when appropriate. Of fifteen ECRs leaving the Department in the
 census period, nine have gone on to academic posts.

 Research, impact leave/sabbatical leave
 See study leave arrangements, and Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity statements, below.

 Procedures for exchanges between academia and business, industry or public or third
 sector bodies
 An affiliate member of the GoK TRG (Doubleday) is Executive Director of the Cambridge Centre
 for Science & Policy (CSaP) where Vira is a member of the Management Committee. Supported
 by CSaP, Geography staff held 135 meetings with civil servants and policy makers over the
 census period. For the period 2019-22, Mawdsley is seconded to DfID's UK-India Global
 Partnership on Development. Through our Research Institute UCCRI, and the Cambridge
 Conservation Initiative (where Vira and Sandbrook have been Council members), academic
 and research staff collaborate with partners from nine major conservation and biodiversity
 INGOs and policy organisations co-located in the David Attenborough Building, which hosts the
 largest cluster of conservation organisations in the world. Returned staff (Adams, Barford, Vira)
 work closely with industry through programmes run by the Cambridge Institute for Sustainability
 Leadership (where Adams is a member of the Management Board). Through Cambridge
 Enterprise, the commercialisation arm of Cambridge University, the Department supports
 returned staff to undertake consultancy with non-academic and industrial partners (e.g. Spencer
 with The National Trust, RSPB / Birdlife International; Dowdeswell with Boeing Aircraft
 Corporation, Viking Cruises).

 Recognition for carrying out research and achieving impact


 Please refer to Section 1 – Impact. Carrying out research is strongly weighted in the University’s
 annual Senior Academic Promotions exercise. Both research and impact activities are
 recognised and scored within our Departmental workload model. Over the census period, eleven
 staff were funded £191k specifically for impact and outreach activities arising from their research
 under the University’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (Vira is currently academic lead for
 the Cambridge ESRC IAA).

 Recruitment of doctoral research students


 We engage vigorously with the widest possible range of postgraduate funding opportunities,
 including UKRI NERC ESS DTP, C-Clear DTP and DREAM CDT; UKRI AI4ER CDT; ESRC
 DTP and KES studentships co-funded by ESRC and industrial partners, Open-Oxford-
 Cambridge AHRC DTP, AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (Cambridge, RGS (with IBG)


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Royal Society), GATES and Cambridge Trusts, the Nippon Foundation ‘Nereus’ Programme
 and government scholarships from across Latin America. Doctoral student recruitment averaged
 22 annually in 2014-19, rising over the period. Over half (53%, 2014-19) of doctoral students
 were recruited from beyond the UK. The Department expanded its postgraduate recruitment
 activities over the census period, taking an active part in the University’s Postgraduate Open
 Day, filming introductory talks for the Department website, and creating the new role of Director
 of Postgraduate Admissions. All applications are reviewed by three academic staff, successful
 candidates are then interviewed by two academic staff before final approval by the Director of
 Postgraduate Admissions. We ensure that all involved in recruitment and admissions have
 undertaken equality, diversity and inclusivity training. Through our Athena Swan programme, we
 review postgraduate admissions data by protected characteristics annually and remain vigilant
 against the possible influences of implicit bias and micro-aggressions on recruitment and
 admissions processes.

 Studentships from major funding bodies


 Aside from the 26 PhD students self-funding, or funding unidentified, of the remaining 115 PhDs
 35% of studentships have been funded by UKRI (ESRC 19%; NERC 10%; EPSRC 3%, AHRC
 3%), 26% by Cambridge University central funds and Cambridge Trusts (including Cambridge
 Commonwealth Trust), 9% by foundations and industrial scholarships, 8% by Cambridge
 College studentships, and 8% by overseas governments and scholarships.

 Monitoring and supporting students to successful completion
 All doctoral students are provided with office space, desktop computers and access to
 Departmental research facilities. Our rigorous monitoring system centres on regular meetings
 between supervisors and students and full compliance with the Postgraduate Feedback and
 Reporting System which ensures that all supervisors write termly reports evaluating student
 progress. These reports are reviewed by the Director of Postgraduate Studies in Geography, the
 Secretary to the Faculty Degree Committee, and a member of Student Registry. The student is
 able to comment on and respond to any report. If concerns are raised, the Director of
 Postgraduate Studies meets with both the student and supervisor(s). In the First Year, the
 student presents research plans to staff and fellow students at a one-day Department Forum,
 then meets with their advisory committee for feedback. After eight months they submit a 10,000-
 word First Year Report, accompanied by research ethics plans and risk assessments, and then
 discuss it with the advisory committee. In the second year, regular meetings and termly progress
 reporting continue. Third year students present their research at a one-day Departmental
 conference and receive feedback from academic and research staff and fellow students. There
 is a lively Postgraduate Student Committee, with representatives from all years, that meets
 termly to discuss issues related to progress and welfare. In this census period, the Department
 has put increased resource into improving submission rates, introducing closer monitoring of
 submission plans, exploring new opportunities for project co-supervision, and facilitating
 constructive discussion involving the student, supervisor and Director of the Postgraduate
 School when timely completion is at risk. This is reflected in improving rates of completion within
 four years, from just over half in 2013/14 to over two-thirds by 2019.

 To aid career development, our Postgraduate School delivers a Skills and Research training
 programme including sessions on writing up, viva voce examination, developing academic CVs,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postdoctoral funding, getting published, and managing wellbeing. There is also a generous
 Departmental fund for undertaking research-specific training, fieldwork and conference
 presentations. As full members of TRGs, research students have opportunities to convene and
 take part in reading groups, seminars, symposia and workshops, often with international
 scholars. TRGs also offer postgraduate-specific training activities and PhD students regularly
 present their findings as part of TRG programmes.

 Our PhD researchers benefit from multidisciplinary training environments offered by the
 University’s Researcher Development programme, UKRI research council DTPs and CDTs,
 including professional development training and academic skills in the physical and biological
 sciences; the ESRC DTP supported Social Science Research Methods Programme (to which
 Geography staff contribute); and the AHRC DTP’s training programme in research methods and
 academic leadership for ECRs. We have supported our PhD students to undertake
 environmental NGO internships (Deltares, Netherlands Institute of Sea Research (NL) and
 GeoEcoMar (RO)) and placements with industry (Arup) and UK policy organisations (CSaP,
 FCO, The Treasury). In the census period, five students have been on CASE studentships
 involving industrial placement support.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)


 The Department of Geography is committed to operating in a welcoming environment where we
 celebrate our differences and support each other as an equal and inclusive community. Our
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee has a diverse membership of academic staff,
 research staff, support staff and students, working together to ensure that best practices in EDI
 are implemented throughout the Department. Since 2016-17, a cross-department team
 (academics, ECRs, PhD students, undergraduates), led by a senior academic (Radcliffe), has
 devised an agenda for decolonizing the Department (including student recruitment and widening
 participation, teaching, research and staffing), currently in the process of implementation.
 Central to this agenda is the active encouragement of ethnic minority staff recruitment and
 promotion, and full support for ethnic minority staff in post and amongst the ECR community. In
 2019, the Department received an Athena SWAN Bronze Award for its efforts in breaking down
 barriers to gender equality.

 Study leave arrangements
 The Department takes full advantage of the University’s generous sabbatical leave policy of one
 term of study leave after six terms of teaching and administration, applicable to all tenured staff
 and fixed-term lecturers whose contract lasts for more than two years (part-time staff pro-rata).
 Over the census period, 31 members of staff benefitted from a total of 87 terms of sabbatical
 leave.


 Supporting flexible and/or remote working
 The Department supports applications for flexible working and is proud to have a 100% success
 rate in delivering on formal applications to work flexibly. Since March 2020, we have been
 organising online fora to discuss ways of undertaking remote research amongst staff,
 postdoctoral researchers and PhD students.



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff
 Academic staff on fixed-term and part-time contracts are given the same access as full-time
 permanent staff to career development, mentorship and appraisal programmes. We have been
 successful in developing the career pathways of our fixed-term staff; four of the eight such staff
 since 2014 have progressed to permanent lectureships (UCL, KCL, St. Andrews, Cambridge),
 one has been extended at Cambridge and two have secured long-term postdoctoral positions
 (Cambridge, Durham).

 Supporting those with caring responsibilities to attend conferences
 Following successful award of Athena Swan Bronze (2019), the Department created a fund to
 support those with caring responsibilities, covering costs needed to enable fieldwork. The
 Department is committed to providing childcare facilities for academic staff attending
 conferences over more than one day. A collaboration with the organisation ‘My Family Care’
 provides all staff with two sessions of emergency care per year to cover unforeseen
 circumstances outside of normal working hours.


 EDI considerations in research support
 The Department’s EDI Committee reviews all internal support services and EDI is a standing
 item on all Departmental committees, including the Research Policy Committee. EDI awareness
 is thus built into all aspects of research activities and staff development. Within the promotions
 process, staff are able to declare contextual circumstances and all Senior Academic Promotions
 (SAP) panels undertake unconscious bias training. The Department is moving to a core hours
 policy to ensure that all key business takes place between 10am and 4pm, with at least 50% of
 TRG and Departmental seminars and research events over lunchtime to facilitate attendance by
 staff with flexible or part-time working arrangements, and those with caring responsibilities.

 Support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave
 Staff are encouraged to apply for the University’s Returning Carers’ Scheme, which funds
 research by those returning from a period of care-related leave. The University also supports
 staff with caring responsibilities through the Supporting Parents and Carers at Cambridge
 (SPACE) network and childcare salary exchange schemes. In the Department, we run a
 mentoring scheme for staff returning from parental leave, alongside a 20% reduction in their
 workload during the first six months to provide additional time to restart research. Staff managing
 a return to work following ill health or managing long-term illness meet with the Department’s
 safety manager to ensure they are provided with accessible research facilities.

 Support for staff with protected characteristics
 The Department is committed to being an accessible and welcoming working environment for all.
 To nurture a supportive environment for staff with protected characteristics, staff training
 includes sessions on dignity at work. Priorities for training are set by our commitment to EDI, and
 our decolonizing agenda. Additionally, our Assistant Department Administrator takes a lead on
 EDI issues, working closely with the EDI committee (chaired by the Head of Department) and
 collaborating with the University’s Disability Resource Centre and other central services to
 ensure that the research and working environment supports staff with protected characteristics.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students
 The Department’s Wellbeing Committee fosters a sense of community for all staff, including
 research students. It arranges a number of social events and other dedicated activities
 throughout the year including daily tea/coffee, weekly yoga and regular local visits (e.g. to
 University Museums and Botanic Garden). Regular online bulletins and noticeboards advertise
 events and provide information on support services. PhD students receive training in managing
 their wellbeing and PIs are trained in support for research staff. All members of the Department
 have access to the University’s Counselling Service which offers wide-ranging wellbeing
 support. Since March 2020, specific Covid-19 related support and advice have been made
 available to staff and researchers via the Department Intranet, and through the University’s
 central services.

 EDI in the construction of the REF submission
 All returned staff (and some leavers) are mentioned in this environment template; all have been
 regularly kept informed of the development of the submission and invited to comment on drafts.
 We have followed the University of Cambridge’s Code of Practice closely, inviting individuals to
 self-nominate outputs for submission, reviewed by a minimum of two Committee members,
 seeking external advice where required. We participate in the University’s Equality Impact
 Assessments after each selection round to ensure that no group of individuals has been
 discriminated against. Our outputs come from the full breadth of our Departmental specialisms.
 All REF Committee members have undertaken equality and diversity and unconscious and
 implicit bias training. The REF Committee has two nominated leads for EDI who ensure that the
 Committee is vigilant in mitigating against any possible sources of implicit bias.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research funding and strategies for generating research income
 With a full-time research administrator, we now allocate time and resource for applications for
 larger / more complex grants, encourage a larger pool of staff to apply for grants and are
 seeking out a greater range of funding sources. These policies have brought considerable
 success. In the period 2013-20, the Department was awarded £19.7M in HESA funding, an
 increase of 106% over the REF2014 census period (£9.6M). Of the 200 grants in total, 28 were
 for over £100k, eight over £250k, five over £500k and four over £1M. Whilst growth in UKRI
 grants (45%) and income from UK-based charities (18%) resulted in a stable proportion of
 income over the two census periods, the most noticeable rise in income was from EU-funded
 research, at £6.2M an almost three-fold increase on the REF2014 reporting period. To this
 HESA income can be added income received from Cambridge University sources, totalling
 £759k (to 31 July 2020), and including 16 grants to the Department from the Cambridge
 Conservation Initiative and 15 grants from the Cambridge Humanities Research Grant scheme.
 In May 2020, SPRI held an endowment income of £4M.


 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Significant investment in state-of-the-art laboratory facilities, technical and research staff since
 2016 means that the Department now houses: (i) the Tree-Ring Unit, specialising in
 dendroclimatology and dendrochronology and (ii) the Cambridge Tephra Laboratory, which
 unites palaeoclimate and volcanology researchers. The Geography Science Laboratories have
 been awarded platinum in the University’s Green Impact Awards since 2016-17, recognising
 best practice in sustainable laboratory management. These developments sit alongside our
 established research units (Cambridge Coastal Research Unit, Cambridge Group for the History
 of Population and Social Structure) with co-located staff and PhD students, and the research
 clusters associated with our five ERC-funded projects. The nearby David Attenborough Building
 houses UCCRI, providing meeting rooms and social spaces to draw researchers together with
 conservation-focused NGOs and policy groups. We employ a full-time research administrator;
 following an administrative review and reallocation of duties, we have secured more capacity to
 better support the grant cycle, from conception to delivery.

 Operational and scholarly infrastructure
 The Department benefits from world class library resources, both within its main building and at
 SPRI, with full access for all members to the University’s main copyright library and its satellite
 libraries – containing over eight million books and journals, a research resource of global
 significance. The recent affiliation of the Geography Library to the wider Cambridge Libraries
 Network has expanded existing connections to services, staff and resources leading to
 collaborative projects including tailored researcher training options, direct access to key e-
 resources which support researcher output, and improved accessibility options through
 reinvigorated online library facilities that benefit remote working.

 The Department has up-to-date and fully supported computing and IT services, complementing
 the central services of the University (for email, site-wide WiFi, software licences, reporting
 systems). Geography contributes to, and derives substantial benefits from, the £14M
 EPSRC/STFC-DiRAC /industry Cambridge Service for Data Driven Discovery (CSD3) High

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performance Computing facility which has 50,000 cores. It particularly aids the modelling work of
 Bithell, Bougamont, Christoffersen, Friend and Herzog (and new appointment Lines). The
 Department also benefits from the West Cambridge Data Centre, which provides access to
 energy efficient centralised storage and cloud services. The Department’s team of five IT staff
 (including a Website Developer and Geomatics Technician) supports desktop computers,
 laptops, three major operating systems, networking, and high-performance local hardware for
 computational simulations; workstations have recently been upgraded to include expanded
 memory and solid-state disk. Audio-visual facilities support 4K video, and remote video
 conferencing, with 80” low-energy touch screens in seminar rooms. 2020 DAFNI demonstrator
 funding now adds a geo-data virtual reality suite. Fileservers provide access to data from any
 location, including a local cloud service, and automated backup. Software, including state-of-the-
 art packages such as ARCGIS, QGIS, R, and Matlab, are available for specialist needs in
 human and physical geography. The Department has a 40-seat computing suite.

 EDI in research funding support and access to infrastructure
 Refer to Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity in Section 2. The EDI systems in place in the
 Department ensure access to support in research grant preparation and access to infrastructure
 for all staff, including those with protected characteristics.

 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise are utilised in relation to impact activities
 The Department regularly opens its laboratories and uses its space intensely during the annual
 University Science Festival and Festival of Ideas weekends and the Alumni week, inviting the
 public to a variety of demonstrations, workshops and lectures by Departmental staff and PhD
 students. The SPRI Polar Museum offers exceptional opportunities to deliver research impact,
 with a dedicated museum team working closely with polar researchers on a rolling programme of
 exhibitions and outreach (see Impact Case Study Dowdeswell et al.). In 2015, we hosted
 photographer Toby Smith as Leverhulme Trust funded Artist-in-Residence at UCCRI, leading to
 a programme of exhibitions and collaborative projects with UCCRI researchers.


 The nature, quality, provision and operation of specialist research infrastructure and
 facilities
 The SPRI archives, and Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure
 databases, and their respective visitor spaces, are in high demand from national and
 international researchers. The Department also holds the Cambridge University Collection of
 Aerial Photography, a unique archive of half a million images searchable via an online interface.

 Evidence of cross-HEI shared or collaborative use of research infrastructure
 The Department facilities and infrastructure are used by external partners. The Department
 flume has been used for FAST, BLUECoast and RESIST projects (European and UKRI
 partners), while CSD3 is used by researchers for ecosystem modelling. Many international
 visiting scholars have made use of our new dendrochronology laboratory. In turn, Departmental
 research collaborations make use of research facilities around the world. Rees has used Arctic
 field stations through the EU-INTERACT scheme three times since 2014. The British Antarctic
 Survey’s Collaborative Gearing Scheme provided logistical support for Rees's deployment to
 Antarctica and the US Antarctic Program and Koprean Polar Research Institute supported
 Oppenheimer on three Antarctic missions in the census period. See also Section 4.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Significance of major benefits-in-kind
 Oppenheimer received in-kind STFC support for beamline time at Diamond Light Source for
 XANES studies of mantle oxidation state. Lane was supported by UKRI (NERC) Isotope
 Geosciences facilities for improved dating of modern human evolution in the Middle - Late
 Pleistocene, East Africa. The use of the UKRI (NERC) Field Spectroscopy Facility (Rees, Möller)
 has made ground referencing of remotely sensed imagery possible. The use of geotechnical
 testing facilities at the British Geological Survey, under NERC CASE Studentship arrangements,
 has allowed first assessments to be made of the stability of wetland sediments. The Hydralab
 and Hydralab+ RESIST projects (Spencer, Möller) included in-kind funding to cover the running
 costs of the Large Wave Flume (GWK) facility in Hannover, giving the ability to test saltmarsh
 response to true-to-scale storm wave and storm surge impacts.




                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 In addition to SPRI and UCCRI collaborations, significant networks and partnerships include:

    •   Büntgen’s wide ranging collaborations with 67 partners from 57 institutions around the
        world in dendrochronological research.
    •   Christoffersen acts as a UK Lead PI on UKRI (NERC) – NSF US$23 M International
        Thwaites Glacier Collaboration, one of the largest scientific collaborations ever to be
        undertaken in Antarctica.
    •   Christoffersen’s UKRI (NERC) (SAFIRE) and ERC (RESPONDER) collaborative
        projects to Store Glacier, Greenland with Stanford University, USA, British Antarctic
        Survey and Universities of Aberystwyth and Leeds.
    •   Donovan’s lead on ‘science in society’ in UKRI £20M ‘Tomorrow’s Cities’ research hub,
        working with over 200 institutions worldwide and with centres in Istanbul, Kathmandu,
        Quito and Nairobi, to reduce disaster risk, particularly among the urban poor.
    •   Donovan’s key role in UKRI NERC- DfID LANDSLIP project, working with the Geological
        Survey of India, UK Met Oﬃce and British Geological Survey to produce an early
        warning system for landslides in India.
    •   Dowdeswell’s academic leadership on international collaborative scientific expeditions to
        the Weddell Sea, Antarctica, using novel high-resolution AUV technology to investigate
        sea-ice basal processes, bottom-water formation and seafloor landforms.
    •   Friend’s collaborations with Northern Arizona University, Harvard University, Polish
        Academy of Sciences and WSL, Switzerland on observations, experimentation and
        modelling of tree growth and carbon cycling, including NSF– UKRI (NERC) collaborative
        project.
    •   The Urban Salon (Gandy, founding member), a London-wide series of seminars and
        events that link LSE, UCL, Kings, Goldsmiths, Brunel, Cambridge and Leicester.
    •   Margaret Anstee Centre for Global Studies, initiated in 2018, located at Newnham
        College and directed by Mawdsley, employing four postdoctoral fellows and focussing
        on international relations and development.
    •   Lane’s chairing of the INTIMATE network of paleoclimate researchers. Global
        membership of >250 researchers, known to have established new methods and
        approaches in paleoclimate research, including the widely used Greenland event
        stratigraphy and open access INTchron tool.
    •   Oppenheimer and Donovan’s co-leadership of the Mount Paektu Geoscientific Group
        (now Mount Paektu Research Centre), in collaboration with colleagues in DPR Korea,
        enabling conferences and research programmes involving geoscientists from DPRK,
        RoK and China.
    •   Rees’s long-term collaboration with Geography Faculty, Moscow State University,
        expanded in 2017 to include the Institute of Geography and Institute of Space Science of
        the Russian Academy of Science, as well as British Antarctic Survey. This collaborative
        network is funded at Ministerial level in Russia and by the British Council and Foreign
        and Commonwealth Office.
    •   In demography, Reid’s collaborations with the Universities of Leicester, Edinburgh and
        Oxford (as Co-I, £10M Leverhulme Centre for Demographic Science).



                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Susan Smith’s enduring collaboration with RMIT University, Melbourne and, more
        recently, Curtin University, Perth, and UCLA using three national panel surveys to track
        changes in housing wealth and mortgage debt at the edges of home ownership, funded
        from 2019 by the Australian Research Council.
    •   Spencer’s collaborations on global wetland futures (Universities of Lincoln,
        Southampton, Kiel, Antwerp, Humboldt, Macquarie, Monash and UNEP-WCMC, Global
        Climate Forum, Virginia Institute of Marine Science, United States Geological Survey)
        and nature-based coastal protection and urban flood risk (UC Berkeley, National
        University of Singapore).
    •   Willis’ collaborations on ice-sheet and glacier hydrology with ETH Zurich, Universities of
        Chicago, Colorado, Columbia, USA and Oxford, UK.

 Engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 Interactions have included:

    •   Adams’ research on large scale conservation in the UK funded by DEFRA, which led to
        a review with Natural England of conservation in England, Scotland and Wales, shaping
        UK nature conservation policy on rewilding and landscape-scale restoration;
    •   Donovan’s membership of the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR) working
        groups for the Global Risk Assessment Framework;
    •   Oppenheimer’s collaboration with USGS Hawaiian Volcano Observatory in R&D of
        volcano monitoring equipment and support of ongoing surveillance of gas emissions;
    •   Radcliffe’s British Academy Project on the Sustainable Development Goals' Leave No
        One Behind Agenda 2016-18, engaged Ecuador's Ministry of Economic and Social
        Inclusion, five Equality Councils, the Secretariat for National Development Planning,
        Office of Plurinational Affairs, and Secretariat for Public Management, and culminated in
        a July 2018 workshop. A follow-up UK workshop disseminated findings to the ODI, DfID
        and Save the Children;
    •   Martin’s ESRC Cities Economic Performance project which has been disseminated
        widely through presentations to HM Treasury, Department of Business, Energy,
        Innovation and Skills, the UK Core Cities Group, the UK Key Cities Group and the
        European Commission;
    •   Sandbrook’s work with conservation professionals around the world, including direct
        contribution to strategic plans for organisational change with environmental NGOs;
    •   Vira’s role as Chair, Global Forest Expert Panel on Forest and Food (2015) and his
        membership of the High-Level Panel of Experts, Committee on World Food Security’s
        report on Sustainable Forestry for Food Security and Nutrition (2017). He presented
        findings at the United Nations Forum on Forests in New York (2015 and 2017) and at the
        Conference of the Parties (CoP) meeting of the United Nations Convention to Combat
        Desertification (UNCCD, Ankara, 2017).

 Wider contributions to the economy and society

 Consultation

    •   Dowdeswell and Christoffersen are working with divisions of the Boeing Aircraft
        Corporation on the development of scientific payloads for Unmanned Airborne and
        Autonomous Underwater Vehicles to make systematic measurements of otherwise
        inaccessible parts of the cryosphere.

                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Hulme served as expert reviewer of IPCC and IPBES reports as well as special advisor
        to the Church of England working group on fossil fuel divestment.

    •   Mawdsley has given both oral and written evidence to the International Development
        Select Committee on the definition and governance of Overseas Development
        Assistance.

    •   Mawdsley has been involved in shaping research policy for development, and allocation
        of funding, for the Norwegian Government Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a member of the
        NORGLOBAL project board.

    •   Powell was an Oral Witness before the House of Commons Environmental Audit
        Committee on ‘The Changing Arctic’ and has submitted written evidence to both the
        House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee and the House of Commons
        Defence sub-Committee, ‘Defence in the Arctic’.

    •   Radcliffe serves on the external advisory group to the Santo Domingo Centre of
        Excellence for Latin American Research, British Museum.
    •   Susan Smith has engaged with innovation in equity finance for housing, gave invited
        advice to the Rightmove Business Strategy Review Board and presented at Future Build
        for Design England in the Excel Centre, March 2019.
    •   Spencer served as expert reviewer for the IPCC Special Report on the Ocean and
        Cryosphere in a Changing Climate (2018) and is Contributing Author, IPCC Assessment
        Report 6, Working Group 2 (2020-date).
    •   Vira has served from November 2018 as a member of the Economic Advisory Panel to
        the Chief Economist at DEFRA.

 Engagement with diverse communities and the public through its research
 Department staff are champions of Geography as a discipline within public discourse; they
 appear regularly and frequently within major media outlets, including BBC Radio 4 (e.g. In Our
 Time, Infinite Monkey Cage, Inside Science, Museum of Curiosity, Midweek, Today, The World
 at One), the BBC World Service, CNN, The Guardian, Al Jazeera, The Conversation, BBC TV
 news and Sky News. Examples of engagement with diverse communities include:

    •   Bravo’s Pan-Inuit Trials Atlas, with Dalhousie and Carleton Universities, Canada, where
        digital mapping has changed the way the Inuit Arctic is visualised in academic and
        popular culture;
    •   Donovan’s ‘in conversation’ on ‘political geologies’ with artist in residence Rachel Pimm,
        Whitechapel Gallery, London, February 2020;
    •   Gray and Susan Smith’s Arts Council-funded forum theatre production ‘The Great
        Austerity Debate’ toured the UK in 2018, reaching audiences of over 1,500 in 25
        unconventional venues (including a former miners’ reading room, a community centre
        and a trade union office);
    •   Lemanski’s workshops with community groups and housing and infrastructure
        policymakers to discusses housing strategies in the city of Cape Town;
    •   Oppenheimer featured on Radio 4’s Life Scientific in December 2018 on the ‘volcanic
        offerings of our angry earth’ (see Impact Case Study);



                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The outreach website www.populationspast.org allows users to trace the geographical
        distribution of population change over time. Developed by Reid in consultation with
        teachers, it has several hundred visits daily since launching in April 2018;
    •   Vira’s collaboration with photojournalist Toby Smith resulted in the exhibition Pani Pahar
        (water research in the Himalayas – see Impact Case Study) featured as a photo essay in
        The Guardian, and in one of Delhi’s premier cultural and intellectual hubs, the India
        Habitat Centre.

 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 Cambridge is a national and international champion of the discipline of Geography. Our research
 and research training refresh the discipline and its impact and our professional service to
 Geography and cognate disciplines is expressed through many venues, including:
    • Amin’s serving as Foreign Secretary to the British Academy 2015-19, an important role
        in promoting the humanities and social sciences at national and international level, and
        overseeing c. £20M of international grant funding on topics centrally relevant to
        Geography;
    • Arnold’s membership, NERC Peer Review College (2012-date);
    • Bravo as UK representative, International Arctic Science Committee, Social and Human
        Working Group (2014-20);
    • Christoffersen as UK representative, International Arctic Science Committee,
        Cryosphere Working Group (2016-date);
    • Donovan as founding member, steering committee, UK Alliance for Disaster Research
        (2016-date);
    • Friend as Vice-Chair, EC H2020 Marie-Sklodowska-Curie Initial Training Networks -
        Environment Panel (2016);
    • Jeffrey’s collaborative project with the RGS, Royal Holloway and Oxford on
        Geographical Expertise in Legal Settings, leading to training guides (2018-present) and a
        collaborative session at the RGS-IBG Annual Conference (2019);
    • Martin’s Presidency of the Regional Studies Association (2015-20);
    • Mawdsley’s elected Council membership of the RGS-IBG (2014-17);
    • Powell’s service on the UK Arctic and Antarctic Partnership Steering Committee, only
        the second social scientist ever to be appointed to the Committee (2017-date);
    • Radcliffe‘s election to Chair of the Royal Geographical Society-IBG annual conference in
        2017, and service as a Member of Council, and Research and Higher Education
        Committee (2016-18);
    • Reid’s Presidency of the European Society for Historical Demography (2016-19);
    • Spencer’s membership of the NERC Strategic Policy Advisory Group (2017-19) and
        NERC Advisory Network (2019-date);
    • Willis as Council Member and Treasurer, International Glaciological Society (2013-18).



 Indicators of wider influence

 Journal editorship
 Departmental staff serve as coordinating, executive or consulting/associate editors on 22
 significant-, and on the editorial boards of a further 20, leading international journals, as well as
 on book series for RGS-IBG, AAG Wiley-Blackwell Encyclopaedia of Geography and
 Geopolitical Bodies, Material Worlds, Rowman and Littlefield International.


                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Participation on grants committees and university reviews
 Staff have served on 12 UK research grants committees and ten international grants
 committees, including peer review colleges for the NERC (and Large Grants Moderating Panel),
 AHRC, ESRC, as well as chairing the international evaluation panel on the Centre for
 Demographic Studies, Barcelona (Reid, 2017), serving as a member of the European Research
 Council, Advanced Grant Panel SH3 (Amin, 2013-16) and chairing a number of the British
 Academy’s international research programmes and fellowship schemes (Amin, 2015-19). They
 have also delivered a number of University reviews including for the Faculty of Life and
 Environmental Sciences, University of Iceland (Adams, 2015), the International Institute for
 Applied Systems Analysis (Friend, 2017), the School of Geography and Environment, University
 of Oxford (Amin, 2015) and the School of Geography, University of Nottingham (Amin, 2017).

 Fellowships
 During the census period, staff have held Fellowships and Visiting positions at South China
 University of Technology, Technical University of Berlin, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais -
 Belo Horizonte, Brazil (Amin); Masaryk University, Czech Republic, Swiss Federal Research
 Institute WSL (Büntgen); University of Canterbury, New Zealand (Christoffersen,
 Dowdeswell); Pacific Adventist University, Papua New Guinea (Cullen); Montana State
 University, USA (Friend); University of Johannesburg, RSA (Lemanski); The Arctic University
 of Norway (Rees); Curtin University, Perth and RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia (Susan
 Smith); University of Boulder, Colorado, USA (Willis).


 Prizes and honours
 Awards to staff (in descending date order) in the census period include:

    •   Fellow of the British Academy (Radcliffe, 2020; Gandy, 2016)
    •   Swedish Research Council’s annual Olaf Palme Visiting Professorship for 2021, awarded
        12/2019 to Amin
    •   Lyell Medal Geological Society of London (Dowdeswell, 2018)
    •   RGS Busk Medal (Vira, 2018)
    •   EGU Arne Richter Award for Outstanding Early Career Scientists (Schmidt, 2018)
    •   Fellow of the Learned Society of Wales (Dowdeswell, 2016)
    •   RGS Victoria Medal (Martin, 2016)
    •   RGS Gill Memorial Award for early-career achievement (Lemanski, 2015)
    •   Commander of the British Empire (CBE) for services to social sciences (Amin, 2014)
    •   IASC Medal of the International Arctic Science Committee (Dowdeswell, 2014)
    •   RGS Victoria Medal (Susan Smith, 2014)
    •   AAG Meridian Book Award for Outstanding Scholarly Work in Geography (Gandy, The
        Fabric of Space, 2014)
    •   International Planning History Society Award (Gandy, The Fabric of Space, 2014)

 Membership of research council or similar national and international committees
 Staff are members of 37 research council and other scholarly committees.




                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Invited keynotes, lectures and/or performances, or conference chair roles
 Staff have delivered numerous invited keynote lectures around the world. A small selection of
 these include: the 2020 Silas Peirce Distinguished Lecture in the Humanities 2020 (Bravo),
 Cultural Geographies Annual Lecture, AAG (Gandy), 55th Annual Nobel Conference at Gustavus
 Adolphus (Hulme), Summer Institute in Urban Studies Plenary Lecture, Singapore 2018
 (Lemanski), Centre of Cities Horizon Keynote Lecture (Martin), the 2016 Plenary Lecture,
 Society for the Study of Nineteenth century Ireland (Nally), Charla magistral, Futures Congress,
 Santiago, Chile (Oppenheimer), the Goldsmith Lecture, Australian National University (Reid),
 the George Armstrong Lecture at the Royal College of Paediatrics and Child Health Annual
 Conference (Reid), the 2016 William Smith Lecture at the Geological Society of London
 (Dowdeswell), and the Doran Fund Annual Lecture 2014 (Vira). Our staff have also served as
 conference chairs for a number of prestigious conference events, for example the EGU Galileo
 Conference on the Anatomy of Abrupt Climate Change, 2018 (Lane), the Annual Conference of
 RGS-IBG, 2017 (Radcliffe), and the British Association of South Asian Studies Annual
 Conference 2016 (Vira).


 Refereeing academic publications or research proposals
 Staff peer review for well over 100 leading journals. We also act as reviewers for 45 funding
 organisations, including the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, Nuffield Foundation, UKRI
 and Wellcome Trust, and many international organisations.

 Cooperation and collaborative arrangements for PGR training
   • Bithell and Spencer were PIs, Nippon Foundation’s Nereus Program, a multi-centre
      international US$ 3M research programme on ocean futures co-ordinated from the
      University of British Columbia, Canada, with responsibility for PhD training and
      postdoctoral researcher supervision in Cambridge, with UNEP-WCMC partner.
   • Bithell and Spencer have served as Cambridge Centre Directors, NERC CDT DREAM
      (Data, Risk and Environmental Analytical Methods consortium; with Cranfield, Newcastle,
      Cambridge and Birmingham Universities) with PhD student management across
      Cambridge Departments and local organizers, DREAM Symposium, 2017 and
      ‘Challenge Week’ September 2019.
    • Lane organises the INTIMATE research training school in paleoclimate which has run
      four summer schools since 2013, attended by 20 ECRs and co-organised with local
      hosts and a core team from The Netherlands, UK and Germany.
    • Lane has served on the management committee of the NERC-funded C-CLEAR
      (Cambridge Climate Life and Earth) DTP, with particular responsibility for postgraduate
      admissions.
    • Vira is Chair of the Management Executive Group, Cambridge ESRC DTP.




                                                                                         Page 24
