Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 30 Philosophy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure
 The Department of Philosophy, part of the School of Humanities within the Faculty of Arts and
 Humanities, offers a dynamic, ambitious, and supportive environment for research. With 18FTE
 staff, an increase of 38% since REF2014, we are larger than ever. Since all appointments during
 the assessment period were early career researchers (ECRs), this reflects a significant
 investment in the future (see §2.1). Corresponding to the growth in staff is an increase in
 average annual research income of ~260% (§3.1) and an increase in the average number of
 research degrees awarded annually of ~160% (§2.2).
 We pride ourselves on the breadth of our interests and enjoy expertise across the core areas of
 philosophy while recognising the following research clusters:
    •   Aesthetics.
    •   Epistemology.
    •   Ethics.
    •   History of Philosophy.
    •   Language, Logic, and Metaphysics.

 Numerous activities – including workshops, conferences, and reading groups – fall within their
 foci. Much of the most exciting activity happens at their intersection (see Figure 1). The
 department has a vibrant culture of interaction among all researchers and considers areas of
 overlapping expertise to facilitate cross-fertilisation. To foster this collaborative environment, we
 hold tri-yearly in-house research days devoted to sharing work-in-progress, which bring together
 staff from across the department, in addition to regular seminars and reading groups open to all
 researchers. Such collegiality reflects a commitment to ensuring that every member of our
 research community has the opportunity to contribute to our activities and to flourish as a
 researcher (§2).

                   Clusters        Aesthetics Epistemology Ethics     History of Language, Logic,
                                                                      Philosophy and Metaphysics

  Projects

 Agency and Autonomy: Kant
 and the Normative Foundations
 of Republican Self-Government                                            
 BA Newton Fellowship (Mudd)
 Art and Ethics
 Marie Słodowska-Curie
 Fellowship (Stear)
                                                               
 Better Understanding the
 Metaphysics of Pregnancy
 ERC Starter Grant (Kingma)                                                               


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                  Clusters        Aesthetics Epistemology Ethics     History of Language, Logic,
                                                                     Philosophy and Metaphysics

  Projects
 Heidegger’s Way to Being
 and Time: The Centenary
 Project                                                                                
 BA/Leverhulme Small
 Research Grant (McManus)
 Higher-Order Evidence in
 Epistemology, Ethics, and
 Aesthetics,                                                 
 AHRC International Network
 Grant (Whiting)
 Loving, Wondering and
 Knowing: Our Mental Life and
 All its Aspects                                                                         
 BA/Leverhulme Small
 Research Grant (Felappi)
 Metaphysical Explanation
 Riksbankens Jubileumsfond
 (Thompson)
                                                                                         
 Mother Knows Best: The
 Philosophy of Transformative
 Experience                                                   
 Templeton Foundation
 (Woollard)
 Metaphysics of Repeatable
 Artworks
 BA Mid-Career Fellowship
                                                                                         
 (Walters)
 Normativity: Epistemic and
 Practical
 AHRC Research Grant
                                                              
 (Whiting)

                   Figure 1 Externally-funded projects and research clusters

 1.2 Research strategy
 The overarching aim throughout the assessment period was that of progressive expansion –
 achieving growth through appointments that both overlap with and go beyond existing research
 expertise. This allowed us to increase significantly in range while remaining a cohesive unit.
 This approach was in accordance with the principal aims stated in REF2014 to maintain the
 range of interests while building on our strengths in (1) the history of philosophy, especially Kant
 and post-Kantian philosophy, (2) aesthetics, and (3) the philosophy of normativity. We have
 exceeded our expectations across the board. Highlights include:



                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    (1) Stephenson’s appointment; McManus’s BA/Leverhulme grant for a workshop series
        marking the centenary of Heidegger’s Being and Time; and Mudd’s BA Advanced
        Newton Fellowship on Agency and Autonomy.
    (2) Walters’ BA Fellowship on the metaphysics of art; Stear’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie
        Fellowship on Art and Ethics supervised by Ridley; and Whiting’s Higher-Order
        Evidence in Epistemology, Ethics, and Aesthetics AHRC-funded network.
    (3) Sylvan’s and McElwee’s appointments; McHugh, Way, and Whiting’s AHRC-funded
        project, Normativity: Epistemic and Practical; the aforementioned higher-order evidence
        project; and the foundation of the European Normativity Network (see §4.1).
 The aim to maintain breadth was likewise surpassed. In addition to the increase in staff (§1.1),
 two developments are of particular note. The first, which draws on expertise within several
 clusters, is the formation of a group leading an emerging field: the philosophy of pregnancy,
 birth, and early motherhood. At the centre of this is Kingma’s Better Understanding the
 Metaphysics of Pregnancy (BUMP) ERC-funded project. Other achievements include
 Woollard’s Mother Knows Best project, supported by a Templeton Fellowship in association
 with the Universities of Notre Dame and North Carolina. The importance of our ground-breaking
 work in this new area was recognised by a commendation in the “Research Project of the Year:
 Arts, Humanities & Social Sciences” category at the 2018 Times Higher Education Awards.
 The second is the appointment of Felappi, Thompson, and Stephenson. Building on existing
 interests, this led to the concentration in Language, Logic, and Metaphysics. In addition to
 BUMP and Walters’ fellowship, successes on this front include Felappi’s Leverhulme/BA-
 funded Loving, Wondering and Knowing project and Thompson’s role as co-investigator on
 Metaphysical Explanation, a 3-year project supported by the Riksbankens Jubileumsfond based
 at the University of Gothenburg.
 Another stated aim for the assessment period was to develop our profile in normative ethics.
 This has been furthered by the appointment of McElwee. As an expert on the ethics of global
 poverty, McElwee’s arrival also led to the expansion of our interests in applied ethics, as did the
 appointment of McNeill, who explores ethical issues raised by new technologies. The activity on
 pregnancy and early motherhood reflects this interest, as does Gregory’s research on disability
 and wellbeing.
 In addition to maintaining existing areas of overlapping expertise, our primary objectives for the
 next five years are to: (A) promote further research excellence within the Language, Logic, and
 Metaphysics cluster, with a focus on supporting ECRs in developing externally-funded projects;
 (B) develop further our world-leading work in the philosophy of pregnancy, birth, and early
 motherhood through staff recruitment; and (C) expand the breadth of our expertise to include
 more non-Western philosophy. Existing staff have developing interests in (C): Felappi organised
 a workshop on cross-cultural differences in theorising with colleagues at Zhejiang University; a
 stated objective of Whiting’s network is to bring traditional Chinese philosophy to bear on
 debates in epistemology; Stephenson is to co-edit a special issue of the British Journal of the
 History of Philosophy on Islamic philosophy; and Janaway and Sylvan have presented research
 on classical Indian philosophy. Pursuing these objectives will serve also to promote a more
 diverse and inclusive research environment.
 1.3 Impact strategy
 To ensure our research benefits, informs, and engages those beyond academia, we have
 transformed our culture regarding impact since REF2014. While continuing to participate in and
 value public engagement – understood as a matter of stimulating public debate and contributing
 to cultural enrichment – our strategy is to explore and facilitate even richer forms of impact and,
 in doing so, involve a more diverse range of interest groups.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support this, we introduced the role of Impact Lead, held by a member of academic staff,
 whose responsibilities include coordinating impact across the unit, identifying opportunities and
 associated funding, advising colleagues, and promoting the impact of our research internally and
 externally. Impact is a standing item on the Philosophy Board agenda, and, with other members,
 the Lead determines our policies in this area. Another strategic decision was to award
 colleagues engaged in more involved impact activities tariff points in the departmental workload
 model to ensure that – additional to the standard allocation of time for research – they have time
 to give their work on this front the attention it requires. Contributions to impact are recognised in
 probation and appraisal meetings, and figure prominently in cases for promotions (§2.1).
 The case studies that form part of the present submission – “Ethics, Law and Professional
 Guidance for Birth Choices Outside the Guidelines” and “Infant Feeding: Guilt and Shame” –
 evidence the effectiveness of this strategy (see REF3). The approach in each case is to target
 key stakeholders that stand to benefit from the research and that might not otherwise engage
 with academic philosophy, including charities, health professionals, policy-makers, and parents.
 Strategic use of the workload model enables this without sacrificing the quality of the
 underpinning research. Other examples of this approach to facilitating impact include: Gregory
 advising NHS clinical commissioning groups on their ethical framework and funding priorities;
 McNeill exploring the implications of autonomous systems with professionals in maritime
 engineering, transportation, and intensive care; Stephenson collaborating with a research
 scientist at Google DeepMind developing machine-learning programmes based on Kantian
 principles. Much of this activity is supported by external funding or competitive internal awards
 (§3.1).
 While our impact-related activities go well beyond public engagement, we continue to recognise
 its importance and undertake it in an energetic fashion. Southampton is a funded regional centre
 of the Royal Institute of Philosophy (RIP), which has supported a visiting speaker series widely
 advertised and open to all, in addition to large-scale events, such as a debate on veganism
 between Monk (Emeritus) and Patrick Holden (Director of the Sustainable Food Trust). With the
 Southampton Ethics Centre (§1.4), the RIP supports the Ethical Challenges series of annual
 public lectures, now in its eighth year, whose distinguished speakers include Clare Chambers
 (Cambridge), Helen Frowe (Stockholm), Jeff McMahan (Oxford), Onora O’Neill (Cambridge),
 and Jennifer Saul (Sheffield). This routinely attracts audiences of 80 and above. In addition, we
 have a long-standing relationship with Southampton City Gallery and each year deliver a series
 of informal talks on themes inspired by its exhibitions. Talks are free to attend and attract
 audiences of 30-40. These events, together with numerous public lectures, study days, media
 appearances, and publications aimed at a general audience offer the public stimulating
 opportunities to engage with our research (§4.2).
 For the future, our principal aims are to: (i) build on the well-established activities that are the
 focus of the case studies and deepen their impact; (ii) support other colleagues in realising the
 impact potential of their research to increase the range of benefits and beneficiaries – for
 example, industry (McNeill) or people with disabilities (Gregory); and (iii) establish a mentoring
 system through which those with a track-record of success support ECRs in boosting the impact
 of their research.
 1.4 Interdisciplinarity
 Our commitment to interaction and collaboration across areas of expertise accompanies a
 commitment to interdisciplinarity. A key mechanism for encouraging and facilitating this is the
 Southampton Ethics Centre (SEC), established in 2013 by, and directed from, Philosophy
 (McManus until 2018, McElwee since 2018). The SEC coordinates and promotes research in
 ethics across the University, with more than 60 members representing every Faculty. In addition
 to hosting the Ethical Challenges Lectures (§1.3), the SEC organises a dedicated seminar,
 bringing together researchers in different disciplines at Southampton and elsewhere to discuss

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ethical issues raised by their research. It also allocates ~£600 annually in support of
 interdisciplinary conferences and workshops in areas such as Education, English, Engineering,
 Health Sciences, Law, and Politics, alongside Philosophy.
 Our interdisciplinary activities are not limited to those supported by the SEC. For example,
 workshops on such topics as the nature of pregnancy (2015), perception and mental imagery
 (2018), social ontology (2018), and artistic value (2019) involved colleagues in subject areas
 from Art, English, Film, Music, Modern Languages and Linguistics, Medicine, and Psychology at
 Southampton and other institutions in Europe, Asia, and North America.
 In addition to leading the SEC, colleagues in Philosophy are members of numerous
 interdisciplinary groups. McNeill sits on the Advisory Board for the EPSRC-funded network on
 “Artificial Intelligence and Augmented Intelligence for Automated Investigations for Scientific
 Discovery”, led from Chemistry. Other inter-Faculty initiatives to which staff belong include:
 Clinical Ethics and Law; Health Ethics and Law; the Institute for Life-Sciences; and the Web
 Science Institute (REF5a §2.6). Intra-Faculty initiatives to which staff belong include: the Centre
 for Eighteenth Century Studies; the Centre for Nineteenth Century Research; and the Centre for
 Linguistics, Language Education and Acquisition Research. By presenting and participating in
 these groups’ events, and by collaborating on members’ funding applications, our research is
 informed by and informs research across the University.
 We also support interdisciplinarity through co-supervision of postgraduate researchers based in
 units such as English, Medicine, and Electronics and Computer Science.
 A further mechanism for encouraging interdisciplinary research is the Faculty Early Career
 Network (§2.1), to which all ECRs in Philosophy belong. Through formal and informal events, the
 network provides opportunities for researchers to communicate their interests to colleagues in
 other subjects. Several of the above events came about as a result of the network. The Faculty
 also hosts an Advanced Seminar Series, to which Philosophy has contributed, that brings
 together colleagues in different disciplines to present research on topics of mutual interest.
 Just as our commitment to interdisciplinary is part and parcel of our commitment to permeable
 research clusters, so it is part and parcel of our commitment to impact. Efforts to ensure that our
 research benefits those outside academia typically involve colleagues in other fields. Woollard’s
 interventions on infant-feeding, for example, are developed in collaboration with a colleague in
 Psychology. Similarly, Stephenson works with a colleague in Computing at Imperial College
 London on AI programming. This helps to generate additional benefits and translate theoretical
 results into real-world applications. So, the plans and strategies to enable impact (§1.3) serve
 also to encourage interdisciplinarity.
 1.5 Open Research
 We are enthusiastic in promoting a culture of Open Access (OA) at Southampton and more
 widely. All researchers take advantage of University-wide resources, including ePrints, its online
 repository, and Pure, its research information system (REF5a §2.3). They benefit from OA deals
 with publishers and, for those whose research is UKRI-funded, access to grants to cover article
 processing charges.
 In addition, several local initiatives are in place. A portion of the Philosophy budget is dedicated
 to facilitating OA publishing, for example, by paying the costs of submission fees to OA journals
 or of licences that maximise reuse. We proactively support and utilise PhilPapers, which
 includes PhilArchive, the largest and most widely-used archive of papers in digital format in the
 field. Southampton is an institutional subscriber to the resource. Our policy is that researchers
 enter details of and, when permissible, upload pre-prints of articles to PhilPapers within three
 months of acceptance to expedite availability and improve searchability. Several colleagues are
 area editors adding and cataloguing entries. These measures help to make our research


                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accessible to non-academic audiences – thereby encouraging impact – and also to
 disadvantaged groups with limited access to the resources available to institutions like
 Southampton - thereby promoting inclusivity.
 Staff belong to editorial teams for OA journals and, as members of subject associations and
 learned societies, play leading roles in consultations about the future of dominant publishing
 models and alternatives to them, as well as in the development of policies for supporting OA
 (§4.1).
 1.6 Research integrity
 We are active in maintaining and advancing a culture of research integrity (RI) in accordance
 with the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (REF5a §2.8). We introduced a dedicated role
 of RI Lead, held by a member of academic staff, and RI is a standing item on the Philosophy
 Board agenda. The Faculty provides regular training to ensure staff understand the principles of
 RI and the process of applying for ethical approval for research. Training in RI is mandatory for
 postgraduate researchers.
 Importantly, we encourage RI beyond the unit. Throughout the assessment period, colleagues in
 Philosophy chaired the Faculty Ethics Committee (Janaway, McManus, Woollard) and were
 thereby members of the University Research Ethics Committee (REF5a §2.8). In addition to
 ensuring that research across the University accords with its ethics policies, we drive the
 development of those policies, most recently, concerning cultural heritage. The chair also serves
 as the Faculty’s RI Champion, overseeing the writing and implementation of its RI Action Plan.
 Staff have contributed to RI beyond Southampton. Gregory, for example, served on the
 Hampshire Health Research Authority Ethics Committee (2016-2017). In this role, he helped to
 ensure research in health satisfied ethical guidelines.

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Philosophy at Southampton prides itself on providing a collegial, harmonious, and supportive
 environment for staff and students. We have achieved a period of significant growth. Since
 REF2014, the number of submitted staff has risen from 13FTE to 18FTE. All staff are on
 balanced (education and research) or research-led career pathways (REF5a §3.1). The
 departmental profile is an international one, with 26% of submitted staff from outside the UK.
 Recruitment is informed by our research objectives (§1.1), as evidenced by the arrival of
 specialists in the history of philosophy and the philosophy of normativity. We made 20 fixed-term
 and permanent appointments during the assessment period. All were ECRs, a strategic decision
 to secure the long-term sustainability of the unit.
 When hiring, we follow the British Philosophical Association and Society for Women in
 Philosophy (UK) Good Practice Scheme, including but not limited to ensuring gender
 representation on selection committees and raising awareness of unconscious bias.
 Advertisements explicitly encourage applications from members of underrepresented groups.
 These steps supplement numerous University EDI initiatives concerning staff recruitment
 (REF5a §3.8). From 2013/14 to 2019/20, 40% of appointments to research positions in the unit
 were to women, and the overall proportion of women in research positions increased by 7%,
 suggesting that the measures are effective.
 Each new staff member is assigned a senior colleague as mentor, who serves as a source of
 guidance and support through a 2-year probation period. (Pro rata arrangements are in place for
 those in part-time or fixed-term posts.) As part of this, colleagues attain a Postgraduate
 Certificate of Academic Practice or, for those with suitable prior experience, Professional
 Recognition of Educator Practice, both of which lead to Fellowship of the Higher Education

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academy. Following probation, colleagues move to a system of annual appraisal (REF5a §3.1).
 Philosophy treats probation and appraisal meetings as constructive occasions for receiving
 advice, reflecting on objectives and priorities, and identifying opportunities for career
 development.
 The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, which it implements via the Centre for Higher Education Practice. The Centre
 gives particular support to ECRs, offering training and networking activities across the University
 (REF5a §3.6). In addition, local arrangements are in place to provide dedicated support for
 ECRs, their integration, and the development of their research:
   •   ECRs are members of a Faculty-wide ECR network, which affords opportunities to meet
       colleagues in other subjects, explore prospects for collaboration, and seek advice.
   •   The network is led by a senior colleague who acts as ECR Champion – a post held from
       2014 to 2017 by a member of Philosophy – with whom ECRs can meet individually to
       raise concerns or make suggestions regarding Faculty practices and policies.
   •   The Faculty organises bespoke professional development activities for ECRs.
   •   ECRs receive an annual research allowance, additional to funds available from the
       departmental budget.
   •   Philosophy ensures that ECRs present their work in a departmental seminar during their
       probation period and have priority at research “Awaydays” (§1.1).
   •   For ECRs in permanent lectureships, we offer a lighter teaching and administrative
       workload. In Year 1, they have 50% of a standard load, rising to 70% and 90% in Years 2
       and 3, respectively. This does not affect their entitlement to research leave.
 This support extends to ECRs holding postdoctoral fellowships to ensure that the project in
 which they are employed and the unit more generally benefit from their presence and that
 postdocs are well placed to secure future academic posts. Postdocs are encouraged to
 participate in the full range of research activities, including those that do not fall within the
 purview of their projects. A postdoc attends the Philosophy Board to represent their interests.
 We assign new postdocs a senior colleague from outside their project as an independent
 advisor.
 These measures, bolstered by the collegial ethos of the department, are proving successful.
 Evidence of this, in addition to the outputs and activities of ECRs, includes the fact that 14 of the
 15 colleagues whose fixed-term lectureships or fellowships ended during the assessment period
 accepted permanent posts at Southampton or obtained academic employment at another
 institution. The remaining colleague secured a research position in the charity sector.
 An important mechanism for supporting the research of permanent staff is the provision of
 sabbatical leave. University policy is that staff may apply for 1 semester of leave in 8 (REF5a
 §3.2). To promote an energetic research environment, we allow staff to apply for 1 semester of
 leave in 7. We count semesters during which ECRs have a reduced load as “in service”, as
 noted above, as well as maternity/paternity/parental, compassionate, and sickness leave to
 offset the impact these circumstances can have on a colleague’s career. Depending on the level
 of award and time-commitment involved, externally-funded leave typically supplements, rather
 than replaces, departmental provision. Following a period of leave, staff report on their activities
 and their results. This provides the basis for discussion in probation/appraisal meetings and
 thereby an opportunity to acknowledge successes, determine new objectives, and identify ways
 of supporting future projects.
 Additional policies to support research include ensuring that staff have (at least) one day per
 week during term free from teaching commitments and awarding tariff points in the workload

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 model for impact, giving staff time for impact activities additional to that allocated for producing
 the underpinning research (§1.3)
 Staff achievements are recognised through nominations for internal and external prizes. During
 the assessment period, 5 colleagues were finalists in the University-wide Vice-Chancellor’s
 Awards, 4 of whom won, in categories such as “Mentoring”, “Early Career”, and “Balanced
 Academic”. As mentioned in §1.2, our work in the philosophy of pregnancy, birth, and early
 motherhood was Highly Commended in the 2018 THE Awards.
 The primary way in which research (including impact) success is acknowledged and rewarded is
 via promotion. During the assessment period, there were 7 promotions from Level 4 to Level 5, 5
 from Level 5 to Level 6 (Associate Professor), and 3 from Level 6 to Level 7 (Professor). To put
 this in context, all but one member of permanent staff not already at Level 7 was promoted
 during the assessment period, in some cases more than once. These successes demonstrate
 the effectiveness of our measures for enabling staff development, especially for ECRs.
 2.2 Postgraduate researchers
 We are proud of our flourishing community of postgraduate researchers (PGRs), which has
 grown substantially. The average number of PhDs awarded annually in Philosophy rose from 1.2
 in REF2014 to 3.14 in the present assessment period. The latter figure does not include co-
 supervised PGRs registered with another unit at Southampton (§1.4) or another institution
 belonging to the AHRC South, West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (SWW-DTP).
 The SWW-DTP is a consortium of 10 universities awarding AHRC-funded studentships across
 the Arts and Humanities. Recipients benefit from a collaborative supervisory team drawn in most
 cases from two or more institutions, allowing PGRs to take advantage of its breadth of expertise.
 In the present assessment period, the consortium made 10 awards to PGRs registered with the
 unit, and a further 7 to PGRs registered at a partner institution co-supervised by a member of the
 unit. The SWW-DTP runs a comprehensive training programme to support the development of
 discipline-specific and cross-disciplinary skills, as well as career development, and offers funds
 to meet individual training needs.
 While the SWW-DTP is a significant source of postgraduate research funding, we are not
 exclusively reliant on it. ERC grants, Chinese Scholarship Council awards, Vice-
 Chancellor/Presidential Scholarships, Jacobsen Studentships, Royal Institute of Philosophy
 Bursaries, and donor-sponsored studentships have given further financial support to PGRs.
 PGRs belong to the Faculty Graduate School (FGS) directed by Janaway from 2018-2020. PGR
 Representatives sit on its committee. The FGS provides funds for conference attendance and
 offers training to PGRs – concerning the viva, for example, or publishing – additional to
 mandatory University-level training in areas such as research integrity and EDI. The FGS
 coordinates annual ‘milestones’ at which independent assessors together with the supervisory
 team review the progress of PGRs. While the outcome determines whether the candidate
 continues on the programme, these occasions are also opportunities to advise PGRs on their
 projects, give feedback on their research, and identify training needs. The FGS actively supports
 GradNet, a PGR-led group which encourages networking, organises a seminar series and
 annual conference, and publishes a peer-reviewed multi-disciplinary journal. PGRs have access
 to the University’s Enabling Services, which support students with disabilities, mental health
 problems, or specific learning difficulties, and provide resources, host workshops, and offer
 advice promoting wellbeing. The FGS enjoys support from the University’s Doctoral College
 (REF5a §3.7), which has overall responsibility for the PGR community and the training and
 development of its members.
 Supplementing the above, and led by its Doctoral Programme Director, Philosophy supports its
 PGRs in numerous ways to further their projects and advance their skills as researchers, while


                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensuring that they are well placed to pursue a future career within or outside academia.
 Provision includes:
   •   A weekly seminar at which PGRs present work-in-progress, followed by a peer response
       that provides the basis for general discussion. Presenter and respondent receive written
       feedback from staff chairing the seminar.
   •   Career development sessions twice each semester. Recent topics include: the TEF;
       impact; publishing; academic and non-academic careers; and conference organisation. On
       occasion, visiting researchers are invited to share their experiences of and route to a
       career in Philosophy to provide a diverse range of perspectives.
   •   A staff-led Graduate Class introducing PGRs to issues at the cutting-edge of
       contemporary scholarship. This broadens PGRs’ knowledge by exposing them to live
       debates within philosophy, increases their fluency in engaging with philosophers working
       in fields other than their own, and helps them acquire new areas of competence.
   •   PGRs have the opportunity to lead seminars and give lectures, which provides invaluable
       experience for those pursuing academic jobs or teaching posts outside higher education.
       PGRs who take up this opportunity are assigned a teaching mentor and complete a
       training course delivered by the Doctoral College, alongside unit-led training. PGRs are
       regularly observed by staff, who produce reports offering feedback that serve as the basis
       for teaching references.
   •   The PGR community organises (at least) one conference or workshop each year. Staff
       provide oversight and advice, but the choice of topic, speakers, and format is the PGRs’.
       In addition to furthering their research, this offers opportunities for networking and
       experience of preparing grant applications. PGRs were successful in securing funds from
       subject associations such as the Aristotelian Society, Society for Applied Philosophy, Mind
       Association, and British Society for the History of Philosophy.
   •   For those pursuing academic careers, the Doctoral Programme Director serves as
       placement director. They ensure that PGRs receive feedback on CVs, cover letters,
       research proposals and other elements of applications, coordinate mock interviews and
       job presentations, and advise PGRs in securing references and preparing teaching
       portfolios.
   •   To ensure that PGRs receive adequate guidance and support, we assign each a Personal
       Academic Tutor outside the supervisory team. The Departmental Senior Tutor and Faculty
       Senior Tutor provide additional assistance as needed.
 We consider PGRs an integral part of our research community. They are strongly encouraged to
 participate in the full range of seminars, workshops, conferences, and reading groups. PGRs
 may apply for funds from the departmental research budget, in addition to other sources of
 support, such as the Southampton Ethics Centre (§1.4). We host a twice-yearly forum inviting
 PGRs to share their experiences, raise concerns, and put forward initiatives, and a PGR
 representative attends the Philosophy Board.
 The various forms of support and training, the range of activities on offer, and the stimulating
 intellectual environment we afford provide an exciting and productive environment in which to
 pursue research at postgraduate level. Evidence includes:
   •   More than 30% of those who completed PhDs during the assessment period secured
       academic posts in the UK, Asia, mainland Europe, and North America. Overall, according
       to the latest available DLHE data, 100% were in employment or further study only six
       months after receiving their PhD.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   •   PGRs have published their doctoral research in peer-reviewed international journals,
       including American Philosophical Quarterly, European Journal of Philosophy, Inquiry,
       Journal of Applied Philosophy, Journal of Nietzsche Studies, Ratio, Philosophical
       Psychology, Synthese, and Theoria.
 2.3 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 A commitment to EDI is embedded throughout our activities. We have a dedicated EDI Lead,
 and EDI is a standing item on the Philosophy Board agenda. It is mandatory that all researchers
 – staff and PGRs - complete EDI training. A member of Philosophy sits on the Faculty EDI
 Committee and thereby contributes to decision-making and policy beyond the unit.
 Effective use of the departmental workload model ensures a proportionate workload for part-time
 colleagues and makes allowances for those with caring responsibilities or health problems. As a
 matter of policy, we schedule meetings and events staff are expected to attend within normal
 working hours. The Head of Philosophy liaises with colleagues to enable flexible and remote
 working where possible. In addition to following University procedures for supporting staff
 returning to work after sickness or maternity/paternity/parental leave (REF5a §3.4), we do not
 count such leave against research leave entitlement (§2.1).
 As noted in §2.1, we subscribe to the BPA/SWIP-UK Good Practice Scheme. This involves
 implementing numerous policies and procedures for improving the climate for and representation
 of women in the unit and the profession more broadly. These recommendations concern such
 matters as hiring practices, conference organisation, promotions and appraisal, support for
 caregivers, and the departmental culture more generally. We actively seek ways to go beyond
 the BPA/SWIP guidelines (for example, blind-reviewing submissions for conference
 presentations).
 We sponsor a Women in Philosophy group, which organises informal meetings to encourage
 and support members by celebrating their successes, providing role models for PGRs and
 ECRs, and offering a space in which members can share advice. We also host a chapter of
 Minorities and Philosophy (MAP), a student-led international network that aims to examine and
 address issues of minority participation in philosophy. The unit has funded MAP events,
 supports its initiatives, such as its Wellbeing Café, and a staff member acts as advisor.
 Alongside the increase in the proportion of female staff (§2.1), the pattern of promotions during
 the assessment period provides evidence of the success of our approach to EDI. 53% of
 promotions in Philosophy were to women. Every woman in a permanent post at every level was
 promoted during the assessment period, in some cases more than once.
 We are proud to have led the development of the BPA/SWIP-UK Guidelines for Accessible
 Conferences and Public Lectures, recently endorsed by the Mind Association and the Linguistics
 Association of Great Britain. The guidelines, to which we subscribe, were co-written by Gregory
 and Felappi with Helen Beebee (Manchester). They offer organisers information about how to
 plan and deliver events accessible to people with disabilities. The effects of this will be felt
 throughout the UK community in philosophy and beyond in terms of a sea-change in how events
 are planned and promoted. Gregory, whose research concerns the philosophy of disability, was
 a member of the University’s Disability Steering Group (2018-2019). Felappi is a member of its
 Disability Quality Self-Assessment Team (since 2019). These activities demonstrate a proactive
 attitude to addressing EDI matters beyond the unit and in the profession more widely.
 This commitment to EDI is shown in the preparation of the present REF submission. The EDI
 Lead had regular opportunities to provide feedback on drafts of documentation. We ensured
 gender and ECR representation on our subcommittee for selecting outputs. Staff leading the
 submission completed bespoke EDI training, focusing on implicit bias. These measures
 supplement those of the University (REF5a §3.9).


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our principal goal for the future is to secure Athena SWAN recognition. Walters chairs the
 School of Humanities Athena SWAN self-assessment team. With the School, we plan to submit
 an application for the award by April 2022.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 Total research income during the assessment period is over £1.4M, reflecting a 260% increase
 in average annual research income compared to REF2014. (For a list of externally funded
 projects and their leads, see Figure 1.) The dramatic rise in grant success reflects a more
 enterprising culture within the unit coupled with a more strategic approach to generating income
 in support of research and impact activities. All staff are expected to seek funding, where the
 type and level of award are commensurate with career stage to ensure equity. Support in doing
 so includes the following:
   •   The departmental workload model ensures that staff have time to develop serious and
       considered applications. Staff receive tariff points – and are thereby relieved of a portion of
       their teaching and administrative responsibilities – for preparing applications proportionate
       to the level and type of award.
   •   Our Head of Research and Impact Lead support staff seeking funds for their research
       activities, help them to identify suitable schemes, and assist them in preparing
       applications.
   •   The University’s Research & Innovation Services provide information about funding
       opportunities and have dedicated teams for bid development, research contracts, research
       integrity, and impact, while the Finance Research Hub undertakes costings and
       administers applications and awards (REF5a §1.5).
   •   Funding applications go through a rigorous system of peer-review at Department- and
       Faculty-level before submission. This helps staff to ensure that the aims of their projects
       are ambitious but achievable and to communicate those aims and their importance to
       prospective reviewers of diverse backgrounds.
   •   Our approach is to obtain “seed funding” for an initial activity, which provides a
       springboard for a larger-scale project. For example, Walters’ BA Mid-Career Fellowship
       was preceded by a workshop series supported by the institution-wide “Adventures in
       Research” scheme for ECRs.
 In preparing applications, EDI is not an afterthought but built in at the planning stage, for
 example, by ensuring that members of underrepresented groups have opportunities to
 participate in a project and that plans accord with BPA/SWIP guidelines. To monitor this, our
 policy is that its EDI Lead reviews applications during their development.
 The figure for income does not include grants from subject associations and learned societies
 such as the Aristotelian Society, Mind Association, British Society for the History of Philosophy,
 British Society of Aesthetics, Society for Applied Philosophy, Thought Trust, and British Society
 for the Philosophy of Science in support of workshops and conferences falling under one or
 more of our research clusters. These awards total more than £30K. Nor does the figure for
 income include donations used to fund PGR-led workshops, the SEC, and Career Development
 Fellowships.
 We have also enjoyed success in securing external funds awarded to the University of
 Southampton and distributed internally on a competitive basis. For example, both Woollard and
 Kingma obtained centrally-administered ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards. These awards –
 ~£10K each – were used to deliver some of the activities which are the focus of the impact case


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studies. Staff also secured competitive internal grants – ~£20K – for initiatives that engage
 policy-makers and the public from Public Policy|Southampton (PP|S) and Public Engagement
 with Research (PERu) (REF5a §2.9).
 3.2 Organisational infrastructure
 We recognise a number of (non-exclusive) areas of shared expertise (§1.1). Each cluster has
 benefitted from substantial long-term investment during the assessment period, primarily in the
 form of permanent appointments: Felappi (history of philosophy; language, logic, and
 metaphysics); McElwee (ethics); McNeill (epistemology, ethics); Stephenson (epistemology;
 history of philosophy; language, logic, and metaphysics); Sylvan (epistemology; ethics); and
 Thompson (language, logic, and metaphysics). The clusters provide focal points around which
 researchers organise reading groups, conferences, and workshops. They inform our selection of
 seminar speakers to ensure they cater to our principal areas of research and thereby to the
 interests of PGRs. Many interdisciplinary research centres encourage and facilitate research
 across subject areas within the Faculty and beyond, including the Southampton Ethics Centre,
 led by Philosophy and supported by donations and Faculty awards of ~£650 annually (§1.4).
 The Head of Philosophy holds a research budget and allocates funds in line with strategic goals,
 supplementing funds available through University-wide competitions, such as the Global
 Research Initiator Scheme, and Faculty-level schemes, such as the Strategic Research Fund
 (~£40K annually). These support the development and dissemination of research through
 workshops and conferences, including pilots for larger projects, and initiatives that aim to
 generate impact. The Faculty REF Officer helps colleagues to improve and document the impact
 of their research.
 Philosophy’s Head of Research coordinates and ensures support for research activity across the
 department and, in consultation with colleagues, determines our research strategies and
 policies, as well as those of the School of Humanities as a member of its Research Committee.
 Furthermore, Walters is Deputy Head of School for Research, and members of the unit have
 chaired the Faculty Ethics Committee throughout the assessment period (§1.6). In these roles,
 colleagues in Philosophy play leading roles in determining the research policies and strategies of
 the School, Faculty, and University.
 Key elements of the infrastructure relating to PGRs include the Faculty Graduate School,
 directed by Janaway from 2018-2020, and the resources and training provided by the AHRC-
 funded Doctoral Training Partnership (§2.2).
 Our research activities are supported by a Senior Administrative Officer, who helps with
 organising and promoting events, travel and accommodation for research visits, and staff
 recruitment, as well as a dedicated member of Finance, who assists in managing budgets for
 projects and other research activities. Philosophy has designated contacts in the Library team.
 An Academic Engagement Librarian assists staff and PGRs in accessing the Library’s resources
 and in procuring new resources, while its Research Engagement Librarian advises staff and
 PGRs on open access, impact measurement, and data management (REF5a §4.2).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations and contributions
 We are an outward-looking department with a strong sense of civic duty. Staff are at the forefront
 of numerous national and international partnerships and play leading roles in the wider research
 community.
 Our staff spearhead major research networks and play pivotal parts in exciting collaborative
 projects with colleagues at other institutions. We are a founding member of the European
 Normativity Network (ENN), established in 2013 by Fabian Dorsch (Fribourg) and McHugh. The

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ENN provides a platform for sharing and promoting research across Europe in the philosophy of
 normativity. It hosts an annual conference and has grown to involve more than 40 philosophers
 across 19 institutions.
 In addition, we co-organise the annual Southampton-Humboldt Normativity Conference, which
 alternates between the institutions. Felappi is leading an interdisciplinary project, supported by
 Southampton’s Global Research Initiator Scheme, involving researchers at Zhejiang University
 on intercultural variation in concepts and judgements. Kingma and Woollard are Associate
 Members of PHIL-BIRTH, an interdisciplinary project led by Stella Villarmea (Alcalá). Woollard is
 on the Oversight Committee for WRISK: Understanding and Improving the Communication of
 Risk Relating to Pregnancy, a project led by Heather Trickey (Cardiff) involving the British
 Pregnancy Advisory Service and funded by the Wellcome Trust. McElwee is a partner on Value-
 Based Non-Consequentialism led by Joerg Loeschke (Zürich). McHugh was a researcher on the
 Experience, Belief and Mental Agency project directed by Josefa Toribio (Barcelona). McManus
 is the principal investigator on a BA-funded project on the development of Heidegger’s Being and
 Time involving colleagues at KCL and Oxford as co-investigators. Mudd’s BA Advanced Newton
 Fellowship was a collaborative project involving Lucas Thorpe (Bogazici) exploring Kant’s
 contributions to Republican political philosophy. Thompson is a core member of Metaphysical
 Explanation, a major project based at the University of Gothenburg. Whiting is the Principal
 Investigator in an AHRC-funded network that brings together researchers in different fields from
 across Europe, North America, and China to develop and disseminate research on higher-order
 evidence.
 Staff play leading roles in the profession through their involvement in subject associations and
 learned societies, thereby lobbying on behalf of the discipline, allocating funds for research, and
 overseeing international journals. Having joined its Executive Committee in 2015, Whiting is now
 the Director of the Mind Association (2019-present), which promotes philosophical research,
 funds conferences, studentships and fellowships, and oversees the management of the leading
 journal Mind.
 In addition: McElwee is the current Director of the British Society for Ethical Theory, Mudd is a
 member of its Advisory Board, and Gregory and Woollard were Co-Treasurers (2014-2019);
 Kingma is a member of both the British Society for the Philosophy of Science Committee and the
 Executive Committee of the Philosophy Special Interest Group of the Royal College of
 Psychiatrists; Walters was a Trustee of the British Society for Aesthetics (2015-18); Way and
 Woollard are members of the Analysis Committee; Whiting is on the Scientific Board of the
 British Society for the Theory of Knowledge; and Woollard is a British Philosophical Association
 committee member. Among colleagues in fixed-term positions, while at Southampton, Cavedon-
 Taylor was Treasurer for the British Society of Aesthetics, Finn was an Executive Committee
 member for the Society for Women in Philosophy (UK) and on the Royal Institute of Philosophy
 Council, and Stear served on the British Society of Aesthetics Diversity Committee. As noted in
 §2.3, Gregory and Felappi co-produced the BPA/SWIP-UK Accessibility Guidelines.
 As this overview indicates, a commitment to promoting a sustainable, inclusive, and flourishing
 culture of philosophical research in the UK and beyond is not restricted to one or two enterprising
 individuals but infuses the unit.
 It is no surprise, then, that we support subject associations and learned societies by hosting their
 events. During the assessment period, colleagues organised annual conferences for the British
 Society for Ethical Theory, the Society for Women in Philosophy (UK), the UK Kant Society, the
 British Postgraduate Association, and the British Undergraduate Philosophy Society, as well as a
 meeting of the Chinese Society for Epistemology. In addition, we hosted nearly 50 conferences
 and workshops during the assessment period involving speakers from approximately 25
 countries.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our contributions to the field extend further. McManus is on the advisory board of the open
 access Nordic Wittgenstein Review and will join (2021) the editorial board of The Journal of the
 History of Philosophy; Janaway is the General Editor of the Cambridge Edition of the Works of
 Schopenhauer and on the editorial boards of The Journal of the History of Philosophy, The
 Journal of Nietzsche Studies, and Schopenhauer-Jahrbuch; Ridley is a member of the editorial
 board for the British Journal of Aesthetics; Schönbaumsfeld is an associate editor for
 Philosophical Investigations and on the editorial board for the Anthem Studies in Wittgenstein
 book series; Walters was an associate editor of Analysis (2017-19) and will co-edit the journal
 from 2021; and Way is an area editor for Ergo, also open access.
 All staff routinely referee manuscripts for journals and academic presses. Whiting is a member
 of the AHRC Peer Review College, and staff have reviewed grant applications for national
 funding bodies in Belgium, Canada, Germany, and Poland, as well as funding schemes for
 research institutions outside the UK. Staff have examined more than 45 research degrees from
 some 30 institutions across 9 countries during the assessment period, helping to maintain the
 health and standards of the discipline.
 As a member of the AHRC SWW-DTP (§2.2), we collaborate in the supervision and training of
 PGRs across 10 institutions. From 2015-2017, Janaway played a leading role in the enterprise
 as Chair of the Philosophy Subject Panel, which makes final decisions on the allocation of
 studentships. Through our involvement in the consortium, we have a significant influence on the
 future of the subject and its ongoing vitality.
 Academic visits to and from Southampton are a tribute to the international standing of our work
 and demonstrate our contribution to the development of research beyond Southampton. We
 hosted visiting research staff and PGRs from Austria, China, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the US,
 while Stella Villarmea’s Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship, based at Oxford, involved a
 secondment to Southampton. In the same period, staff held visiting positions at: Eindhoven
 University of Technology (Kingma); the University of Barcelona (McHugh); Fordham University
 (Mudd); the University of Regensburg (Schönbaumsfeld); Freie University of Berlin and
 Humboldt University of Berlin (Stephenson); Central European University (Walters); Harvard
 University and the Murphy Institute at Tulane University (Way); Northwestern University and
 Xiamen University (Whiting); and Australian National University (Woollard), Such honours are
 not limited to permanent staff: Monk (Emeritus) held a Miller Scholarship at the Santa Fe
 Institute; Finn, a postdoctoral researcher, held Visiting Fellowships at the New York University,
 the City University of New York, and the Australian National University; and PGRs secured
 Visiting Fellowships at Jagiellonian University and the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
 The many invitations staff receive to present research in the UK and abroad show that our work
 enjoys international recognition and that staff are enthusiastic participants in and influences on
 the research culture in philosophy and other subjects across the globe. During the assessment
 period, permanent staff in Philosophy gave research presentations at more than 450 events –~25
 per person – in more than 40 countries.
 Distinguished prizes are further recognition of the standing of our staff and the importance of their
 work. As noted in §1.2, our ground-breaking research on the philosophy of pregnancy, birth, and
 early motherhood was highly commended in the THE 2018 Awards. Monk (Emeritus) was
 appointed a Fellow of the Royal Society of Literature (2017), and his biography of Robert
 Oppenheimer was nominated for the Baille Gifford Prize and the Plutarch Award. Stephenson
 was awarded the Wilfrid Sellars Essay Prize by the North American Kant Society’ for his paper
 'Existence, Modality, and Imagination in Kant’.
 4.2 Partnerships and contributions beyond academia
 Our contributions to the community of scholars are accompanied by, and often bound up with,
 contributions to society beyond academia. As our impact case studies explain (REF3), Woollard


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 works with charities, professional bodies, and the public on issues concerning infant-feeding, and
 has delivered training to professionals in healthcare and beyond. Kingma engages with public
 bodies, media, charities, and legal organisations on questions about birth rights, and has been
 instrumental in effecting changes in Dutch law on this issue.
 Numerous other staff members made contributions outside higher education. From 2016-2019,
 Gregory was as an ethical advisor on the NHS funding priorities committee for the clinical
 commissioning groups that cover Southampton, Hampshire, the Isle of Wight, and Portsmouth.
 He ran a training event on ethics and attended their bi-monthly meetings, informing decisions
 about the availability of NHS funding for different interventions. McNeill has discussed the role of
 artificial intelligence in intensive care with the Wessex Intensive Care Society and Southampton
 Intensive Care Unit.
 As well as these contributions to the public sector, staff work closely with business and industry.
 Stephenson collaborates with a research scientist at Google DeepMind in the development of
 machine-learning programmes based on Kantian cognitive architecture. McNeill has shared his
 research on autonomous systems with the Transport Studies Unit (Oxford) and members of the
 South Coast Marine Cluster. He has also co-organised a major conference on ‘Artificial Ethics’,
 involving representatives from industry and the military. Whiting was to deliver workshops
 involving regional business representatives with a focusing on initiatives for accommodating
 evidence that one’s capacity for decision-making is compromised (for example, by bias). These
 were postponed due to the Covid-19 health crisis.
 We also maintain a lively and varied programme of public engagement activities, including the
 Ethical Challenges annual lectures and the Southampton City Art Gallery lectures (§1.3). During
 the assessment period, we delivered regular Study Days on such topics as the emotions, fake
 news, the nature of art, and the philosophy of love. With the support of the Royal Institute of
 Philosophy (RIP), we organised high-profile events, including a sell-out debate on veganism
 involving the Sustainable Food Trust. Our fortnightly research seminars are open to all. On top of
 these regular events, we deliver numerous public talks each year in other fora, including but not
 limited to the University’s Researchers’ Café, Being Human Festival, and Science and
 Engineering Festival organised by PERu (§3.2).
 Beyond Southampton, we have contributed to magazines of ideas such as Aeon, The Critique,
 Philosophers’ Magazine, and Philosophy Now, and published or featured in opinion pieces and
 interviews in newspapers such as The Irish Times and The Independent. Staff have appeared on
 local (That’s Solent) and national television (ITV), programmes and podcasts for BBC Radios 3
 and 4, as well as community radio in Australia, and interviews, lectures, and debates for
 organisations such as the RIP and The Institute of Art and Ideas.
 Our public engagement activities significantly enrich the culture in Southampton and beyond.




                                                                                              Page 15
