Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: Oxford Brookes University

Unit of Assessment: 13. Architecture, Built Environment and Planning

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Research context and structure
UoA13 at Oxford Brookes comprises 47 submitted staff (41.41FTE) in the Schools of Architecture
(SoA) and Built Environment (SBE) within the Faculty of Technology, Design and Environment (TDE).
The disciplinary specialisms of staff across the UoA are diverse, including planning, urban design, real
estate, construction management, architecture, conservation, architectural technologies and
engineering, as well as cognate subjects such as history, geography, law and anthropology. TDE also
includes the School of Arts and the School of Engineering, Computing and Mathematics. Faculty
research activity is overseen by the Associate Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange (ADRKE).
Dedicated administrative support is provided by the Faculty Research Support Office (RSO), headed
by a Faculty Research Manager (RM). Each School has research groups and a Research Lead (RL)
responsible for strategic leadership and coordination.

Since 2014, there has been a step change in the scale, ambition, scope and impact of research in
UoA13. Research spend has trebled across the period from c.£2,490,000 in REF2014 to c.£7,755,000.
Significant changes have been introduced in departmental organisation, research groups, support
structures and processes. SBE was formed in 2015 by a merger of the former Departments of Planning
and Real Estate & Construction, reinforcing complementarities and the sustainability of research
activities. From 2019, five former research groups in SBE have been reorganised into three new
interdisciplinary groups: Land, Design and Development (coordinator: Shirazi); Planning, Policy and
Governance (Valler); and Smart Construction and Impact Assessment (Kurul). These operate
alongside five research groups in SoA: Architectural Engineering (Resalati); Low Carbon Building
(Gupta); Centre for Development and Emergency Practice (CENDEP, Brun); Design Theory and
Practice (Sworts); and Place, Culture and Identity (Vellinga). Together the eight groups contribute to
the Oxford Institute for Sustainable Development (OISD, led by Gupta), which serves as an umbrella
organisation to facilitate interdisciplinary networks and external engagement, and to promote
sustainable development research. Additional changes include the introduction of a Faculty Doctoral
Training Programme (DTP) in 2016, the implementation of School sabbatical schemes, and the
establishment of a Faculty-wide Peer Review College.

UoA13 has delivered strongly on its strategic research priorities set out in REF2014. These
emphasised the future consolidation of research in: (i) designing and planning for resilience and
climate change; (ii) people, energy and buildings; (iii) innovations and energy transitions; (iv) spatial
planning and mobility; and (v) inclusive communities and livelihoods. Significant progress has been
made in each of these areas, as exemplified in the following projects and impacts under each theme:

In (i) designing and planning for resilience and climate change ‘Care provision fit for a future climate’
(Gupta et al, JRF, 2016) provided an innovative interdisciplinary examination of how far existing care
homes and other care provision facilities in the UK are fit for a future climate, with a focus on
overheating. Findings from the JRF study have been used in the UK’s National Adaptation Programme
and Climate Change Risk Assessment 2017 to emphasise the need for research in health and social
care. The JRF project led to the NERC-funded research initiative on ‘Climate resilience of care settings’
(ClimaCare) in 2019 (£252,000 in total, 2019-2021, £97,300 to OBU) led by UCL and including LSHTM,
bringing together an interdisciplinary team of architects, engineers, social scientists and health
scientists to develop a better understanding of the factors that contribute to summertime overheating
in care homes in London and the subsequent negative health impacts. In May 2020, ClimaCare
research was expanded nationwide through the NERC-funded project ‘Governing the Climate
Adaptation of Care Settings’ (£758,352 in total, 2020-2022, £289,385 to OBU) also led by UCL to
address climate related heat risks in care settings. These NERC-funded projects are part of the UK
Climate Resilience Programme.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In (ii) people, energy and buildings, Gupta has led a Building Performance Network (BPN) funded
study to lead the first-ever ‘state of the nation review on low energy housing performance and resident
experiences of the indoor environment’ (£30,000, 2018-2020). He is lead academic on a c.£1,200,000
(total funding, £186,000 to OBU) BEIS thermal efficiency innovation grant (T-cosy) on ‘deep energy
retrofit of a 1960s block of flats using innovative insulation and ventilation technologies’ (2018-2021);
PI of a c.£1,300,000 UK-India EPSRC/DST project on ‘residential building energy’ (RESIDE, 2017-
2022, c.£773,000 to OBU) and lead academic of a £703,000 BEIS-funded domestic demand side
response project (BREATHE, 2019-2022, £220,000 to OBU).

In (iii) innovations and energy transitions, Resalati is Oxford Brookes lead on three major H2020
funded projects concerning innovative cladding solutions with a focus on advanced insulation
materials, energy generation, energy storage and next generation thin film solar cells. ‘Innovative
multi-functional Vacuum-Insulation-Panels (VIPs) for use in the building sector’ (INNOVIP) (Total Grant
€5,800,000, 2016-2020, c.€330,000 to OBU) designs and develops innovative vacuum insulation
panels with lower environmental impact, easier workmanship and lower production costs. ‘Highly
advanced modular integration of insulation, energising and storage systems for non- residential
buildings’ (POWERSKIN PLUS) (€5,900,000, 2019-2023, c.€412,000 to OBU) is developing and
scaling-up eco-innovative, cost-effective and smart material solutions to renovate existing facade
systems of both double skin and advanced integrated curtain walls. ‘Disruptive kesterites-based thin
film technologies customised for challenging architectural and active urban furniture applications’
(CUSTOM-ART) (€7,000,000, 2020-2024, c.€214,000 to OBU) aims at developing the next generation
of building and product integrated photovoltaic modules (BIPV and PIVP respectively), based on earth-
abundant and fully sustainable thin film technologies.

Resalati also leads the Building Physics and Structures Laboratory which provides ‘close to industry’
consultation to a broad range of clients including steel manufacturers such as Tata Steel Europe,
housing developers such as Berkeley Homes, modular fabrication manufacturers such as Fusion
Systems, and innovative building solutions companies such as Sapphire and Shoeck. The value of the
consultancy projects since 2014 is in excess of £1,000,000.

Additionally, Gupta is leading a number of major research projects in smart local energy transition. He
is Co-Investigator on a c.£13,740,993 Innovate UK-funded ‘smart local energy demonstrator’ (Local
Energy Oxfordshire-LEO, 2019-2023, £759,000 to OBU) – one of the four national smart local energy
systems (SLES) demonstrators. Gupta is also Co-I of the c.£9,063,172 EPSRC-funded ‘EnergyREV-
Core consortium’ (2018-2023, £400,421 to OBU) of 20 universities that seek to provide the evidence
for scaling up smart local energy systems. He is also Co-PI of EPSRC funded ‘EnergyREV-Plus
project’ (£382,572 total grant, 2019-2023, £320,914 to OBU) on user influence tools for enhancing
user engagement with SLES, leading a team of researchers from the Universities of Oxford and Exeter.
LEO and EnergyREV projects are part of the ‘Prospering from the Energy Revolution’ strand of the
Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund (ISCF). These projects build on the ESRC-funded ‘evaluating low
carbon communities’ (EVALOC) project led by Gupta (c.£1,144,509, 2011-2015, c. £600,000 to OBU)
and Innovate UK-funded ‘smart storage of domestic solar electricity’ (ERIC, £812,075 total grant, 2015-
2017, £73,996 to OBU) project which also received two Energy Awards in 2016.

Also in (iii) innovations and energy transitions, Durning et al’s ‘Socio-economic impact of the European
Offshore Wind Deployment Centre (EOWDC)’ was funded by Vattenfall UK to study the impacts of the
Aberdeen Offshore Windfarm (£298,000, 2017-2020). This provides a robust evidence base of actual
socio-economic impacts at local and regional scales, helping to reduce uncertainties in future
assessment practices. Sibilla’s Marie Curie fellowship (€183,000, 2017-2019) was focused on the
development of an innovative learning platform (i.e. C-mapER) dedicated to knowledge exchange and
transfer among Built Environment disciplines. The Platform deals with inter- and transdisciplinary
knowledge exchange practices, promoting the emergent topic of energy retrofit as a tool for low carbon
transition.

In (iv) spatial planning and mobility, the ‘cycleBOOM’ research project (Jones, Spencer et al, with
Universities of Reading, Cardiff and West of England; EPSRC c.£1,200,000 total grant, 2013-2016,

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

c.£400,000 to OBU) has influenced policy towards age-friendly environments and technologies for
cycling and helped shape the debate on the positive role of e-bikes as part of a healthy, low carbon
transport system. The project won the Academic Award category at the 2017 RTPI Awards for
Research Excellence and forms a key element of the impact case study ‘Co-Creating Age Friendly
Cities for Cycling’. Subsequently ‘Healthy Urban Mobilities’ (Jones, Brownill, Keivani, Butina-
Watson) was funded under the ESRC Newton Fund Healthy Urban Living programme (2016-19,
£336,000 to OBU plus £300,000, FAP-DF match funding, for three partner institutions in Brazil). This
study aimed to understand the impact of everyday (im)mobility on health and wellbeing with a variety
of social groups living in different neighbourhoods in Brazil and the UK, and also to explore the potential
for participatory mobilities planning with local communities to support and develop solutions for healthy
urban mobility.

In (v) inclusive communities and livelihoods, projects include: Brownill et al’s ‘Planning obligations:
what factors deliver affordable homes and what alternatives are there?’ (JRF, £75,000, 2014-15);
Carpenter’s ‘Social Sustainability and Urban Regeneration Governance: An International Perspective’
(SURGE, H2020, 2017-2020, £220k); Brownill/Carpenter’s (2017-2020) ‘Co-creation" research and
knowledge exchange in the field of socio-spatial segregation and urban territorial stigmatization’
(H2020, Marie Curie RISE programme, c.£450,000); Cho et al’s ESRC UK-Japan Network ‘Enhancing
housing affordability and social care in Japan and UK - comparative evaluation of policy and practice’
(£48,000); Shirazi’s ‘(Un)Just Neighbourhoods: Socio-Spatial Justice in Urban Neighbourhoods’
(H2020, Marie Curie Global Fellowship 2017-2020, c.€269,000) and Shirazi (2015-2017) Contribution
of Compact Neighbourhoods to Social Sustainability (H2020, Marie Curie Fellowship c.€309,000).

Drawing on this research, SBE is currently seeking support for a new initiative – the ‘Oxford Urban
Justice Lab’ (OxLab). This is a proposed cross-university, community-oriented research, practice, and
teaching unit focusing on urban justice and urban equity. OxLab will establish active collaboration with
RIKE networks at Brookes, and aims to promote a holistic and integrative approach to urban equity,
establishing long-term action-research collaboration with local authorities, research organisations and
communities, and contributing to programmes that address socio-economic and environmental
disparities.

Beyond these priority themes, new areas of work including ‘Health, Disability and Design’ have
emerged in the intervening period in response to ongoing societal challenges and evolving disciplinary
research agendas. While other long-standing areas of engagement such as spatial planning and
development, urban design, vernacular architecture, historic conservation, architectural regeneration,
and humanitarian and emergency practice, have continued to grow and develop. Notable projects
include: Brun’s ‘From education to employment? Trajectories in protracted displacement for young
people in Lebanon’ (ESRC, 2018-2021, c.£382,000 to OBU); Brun/Parrack’s ‘Self-recovery housing
for development: Scaling up crisis preparedness and humanitarian shelter response’ (EPSRC, 2019-
2021, c.£690,000; £123,000 to OBU); Carver’s ‘Does torture prevention work’ (Association for the
Prevention of Torture, 2012-2016, US$1,222,947; not HESA returnable income); Akerkar’s ‘Age and
Disability Capacity Project’ (DfID and OFDA, 2014-2018, £73,000; not HESA returnable income);
Vellinga’s ‘Encyclopedia of Vernacular Architecture of the World (EVAW2)’ (Bloomsbury Publishing,
2015-2022); Baker’s Proceedings in Parliament 1624: The House of Commons; Vellinga’s ‘Erwin
Anton Gutkind: Architect and Scholar’ (British Academy, 2014-2016, £6,600); Orbasli’s ‘Community-
led Heritage Regeneration in India’ (AHRC/ICHR Newton, 2016, £24,250); and Valler’s ‘Global
Science ’Scapes: Dimensions of Transnationalism’ (Leverhulme Trust, 2014-17, c.£118,000).

Two new awards exemplify the evolution of these research areas. A new grant-giving programme on
Endangered Wooden Architecture (Vellinga and Orbasli, 2021-2026) will start in 2021, building on
the UoA’s portfolio of work on vernacular architecture (Arcadia Fund, £5,000,000). Rowden’s ‘Virtual
Justice: Enhancing accessibility, participation and procedural justice in family courts and tribunals
during the COVID-19 pandemic’ (ESRC Covid-19 funding, Total grant c.£262,000; led by University of
Oxford; £ 69,256.00 to OBU).

Interdisciplinarity is central to research strategy, structures and projects. Innovative disciplinary
combinations include: (i) building science, social science, computer science (RESIDE; EVALOC); (ii)

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

epidemiology, psychology, planning (cycleBOOM, HUM); (iii) building science, environmental science,
social science, business and finance (EnergyREV); and (iv) architecture, anthropology, geography and
history (EVAW2). Research funding schemes have been introduced to enhance interdisciplinary
working both through direct seed funding for projects, and PhD scholarships crossing research groups
and disciplines in the university. For example, SoA has established an Income Acceleration Fund that
aims to support the development of funding bids around clearly identified emerging multidisciplinary
research themes such as Conflict (lead: Brun) and Health, Disability and Design (Akerkar).
Beneficiaries of joint PhD scholarships, funded by the University, include Keivani and Vellinga
bringing together three groups in OISD for a PhD scholarship, and Gupta and Keivani bringing
together two groups from OISD with Dawes (Faculty of Health and Life Sciences; UoA3) under the
Housing, Indoor Environment and Health (HIVE) initiative. UoA13 has also been active in OBU’s
strategic RIKE Networks: Cho, Spencer and Gupta are respectively co-network lead, RF and Steering
Group (SG) member for the university-wide networks on Healthy Ageing and Care; Akerkar is on the
SG of the Inclusion, Diversity and Gender; Brun is on the SG of the Migration and Refugee and Gupta
is SG chair and Kurul co-network lead for Sustainable & Resilient Futures.

Future research strategy focuses on further consolidating the existing five strategic priorities, extending
interdisciplinary working around University, Faculty and School initiatives, and ensuring ongoing
support for research within disciplinary specialisms. Emerging thematic priorities are identified as: (i)
healthy urban environments; (ii) urban justice, conflicts and crises; and (iii) integrated architectural
design and practice. These established and emerging priorities are underpinned by the new research
network initiatives across OBU and the revised departmental and research group structures within
UoA13. Additionally, core research objectives in terms of achieving and sustaining major research
grant income streams and world-class published outputs in these priority areas will be supported by
the following strategic emphases: developing and mentoring of early- and mid-career staff; supporting
new internal and external collaborations; increasing knowledge transfer and public engagement
activities; and enhancing PhD students’ experience and contribution to School activities.

Key delivery mechanisms currently underpinning these emphases include: the establishment of a
Faculty-wide Peer Review College to facilitate internal review of all external funding proposals; the
appointment of Research Fellows (RF) to support research working across relevant themes, including
Healthy Ageing & Care (Spencer, subsequently made permanent), Construction Informatics (Oti,
Perez), Sustainable Construction (Sibilla); Real Estate and Planning (Moreira de Souza), and
Healthcare and Design (Ricchi); the introduction of the Faculty-wide Doctoral Training Programme,
and the appointment of three Professional Practice RFs in SoA (Blackburn, Taylor and Tollit) to
strengthen links with practice and enable the development of knowledge exchange (KE) and impact
activities.

Research impact strategy and cases
Commitment to improve the design, quality and management of the built environment is integral to
UoA13. Research seeks to understand and enhance policy and practice, shaping places and spaces
across multiple scales. Research impacts on public policy outcomes and processes, professional
practice and commercial activities and there is ongoing engagement with stakeholders across the
public, private and third sectors. UoA13 impacts can be broadly situated within three interlinked
‘arenas’: (i) developing and exploiting new technologies and evaluative techniques; (ii) evaluating and
influencing policy processes and regulatory frameworks; and (iii) shaping practice, capacity building,
and changing behaviours.

Across these arenas impacts are generated variously through commercial exploitation and technology
transfer; the development of guidance, metrics and internationally recognised standards, together with
associated KE/capacity building; outreach and engagement activities such as exhibitions, festivals and
blogs; and indirect impacts that are more subtle and intangible in character but which are nonetheless
influential in terms of advising, informing, and shaping the policy landscape. UoA13 researchers
engage actively with OBU’s ‘Impact Tracker’, an online tool developed to capture information on how
research has been used, and to log supporting evidence.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The four impact case studies (ICS) returned by UoA13 demonstrate these main types of impact and
exemplify key aspects of the approach to impact within the UoA: Direct engagement with users; the
place of impact in research design; the exploitation of strong networks; and the range of University
support. First, the Green Guide to Specification (Shiers), cuts across arenas (i) and (ii), enabling
architects, building owners, property managers and policy makers to select the best environmental
choices for their building projects and thereby reduce embodied and operational climate change
impacts and negative effects on ecosystems and human health. The Green Guide has been part of
the BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Method) certification
system since 1998, with more than 558,200 BREEAM certified buildings worldwide and some
2,260,300 projects registered for BREEAM assessment.

Second, integrating all three arenas Gupta’s RIBA award-winning model DECoRuM® is a Geographic
Information System (GIS)-based domestic energy mapping software with the capability to rapidly and
accurately identify appropriate dwellings for area-based energy retrofits at a neighbourhood or city
scale. By combining a spatial mapping-based data-driven approach with innovative data reduction
techniques, DECoRuM® creates energy models and predicts the potential for energy retrofit measures
on a house-by-house level and aggregated to an urban scale. The model has provided a range of
environmental, public policy and practice benefits to low carbon community organisations, local
authorities, householders and architects, through the refined global common carbon metrics approach
of UNEP, BSI standard, public engagement and achievement of real energy and CO2 emission
reductions (>50%) from deployment of energy retrofit measures in existing housing.

Third, predominantly in arenas (i) and (iii) Glasson has pioneered research on the local socio-
economic impacts of major power station projects, introducing new planning techniques and
associated mitigation measures used by a wide range of stakeholders including developers, local
communities, local authorities and other agencies. More informed decision making and a stronger
evidence base underpins better local outcomes including for example more use of local labour and
less disruptive impacts on local transport, housing markets and services such as health and policing.
Recent projects include nuclear new build (NNB) at Sizewell C (SZC) (Suffolk) and Wylfa (Anglesey),
offshore North Sea wind farm projects, and the early stage monitoring of the construction of Hinkley
Point C (HPC).

Fourth, Co-Creating Age Friendly Cities for Cycling (Jones) works across arenas (i) and (ii) to influence
the ways local and national government, the voluntary sector and industry develop actions to promote
cycling for the environment and public health and wellbeing. This has influenced policy and
programmes towards more age-friendly environments and technologies for cycling, as well as helping
to shape the debate on the positive role of e-bikes as part of a healthy, low carbon transport system.

In line with the University strategic commitment ‘to enhance the impact of research in its broadest
terms and widen dissemination of the benefit of local, regional and global communities, including staff
and students’, the UoA supports research impact activities through the deployment of QR funds,
access to wider OBU resources, and capturing evidence for research impact. For example, under the
TDE Impact Acceleration Account in 2018 Jones received QR funding (£10,000) for Co-CAFÉ (Co-
Creating Age Friendly Environments for Walking and Cycling) to propel the impact of the EPSRC
cycleBOOM project findings, and Brownill/Cho received £7,500 to extend research impact activities on
the delivery of affordable housing, building on their previous JRF research on affordable housing and
planning obligations. The Oxford Human Rights Festival is an annual TDE-funded event (£5,000),
currently in its 19th year, which comprises lectures, films, exhibitions and podcasts that actively
engage a wider, global audience. Other public engagement events funded from QR include the
exhibition ‘Architecture for All: The Photography of Paul Oliver’ at the Pitt Rivers Museum, Oxford, in
2015-2016.

Research integrity and access
UoA13 research operates within the institutional parameters set by the OBU Research Improvement
& Integrity Steering Group, incorporating arrangements for data management, open data and open
access. Research outputs are lodged in the institutional repository (RADAR) to enable appropriate
public access, and the Converis (CRIS) research information system. A dedicated university fund

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

provides support for open access publication where appropriate. In line with OBU’s Research Data
Management Policy all newly awarded research projects include research data management plans or
protocols that explicitly address data capture, management, integrity, confidentiality, retention, sharing
and publication.

Staff are encouraged to lodge books, monographs, and original data in the public domain through
open web resources. Examples include the Paul Oliver Vernacular Architecture Library Images
collection (POVALi) (Vellinga), currently the largest open access image resource on the University’s
repository, and one of the largest in its subject area in the world, and the Live Projects Network
(Anderson), an online resource that aims to connect students, educators, clients, practitioners and
researchers involved in architectural live projects. The Proceedings in Parliament 1624: The House of
Commons (Baker) is accessible in a free and fully searchable online edition via British History Online,
itself a world renowned resource for historical research. Housing energy data produced by the
ESRC/EPSRC EVALOC project (Gupta) is available through the UK Data Archives.

Ethical research conduct is overseen by the OBU Research Ethics Committee (UREC), which reviews
all research undertaken by staff and research students that involves human participants, data or
material. All funded research must seek ethics approval. The School implements Faculty procedures
led by a Faculty Research Ethics Officer (Durning) and an annual report is made to UREC on ethics
review in the Faculty, and in turn to the University RKE and the Board of Governors.


2. People

UoA13 employs a diverse range of staff in terms of demographic, disciplinary and career profiles. Of
the 98 academic staff in UoA13, 47 (48%) have significant responsibility for research (SRR). These
comprise 8 Professors, 8 Readers, 18 SLs, 1 L, 2 senior (S)RFs and 10 RFs. 31% of profs/readers
are women. Ten staff are ECRs (6 men, 4 women),18 are BAME and a further 12 are from international
backgrounds, making for a highly international profile. The gender mix of the return is less even,
comprising 34 men and 14 women, a position which is clearly acknowledged and which forms a key
focus for future strategy. However, there was no significant difference in the individuals with SRR by
gender (44% of women and 50% of men have SRR); BAME staff were more likely to have SRR (56%)
than White staff (45%).

Advancing equality of opportunity for all researchers, and a concern for equality and diversity, is
embedded into our University systems and structures as detailed in our Code of Practice and the IES.
UoA13 Schools have been active in operationalising these values and also in ensuring that we reflect
on the outcomes of these systems – for instance reviewing our award of study leave to confirm that it
was awarded equally between men and women and also in reviewing our allocation of research time.
The process of preparing for the REF has highlighted the importance of responding to issues of
equality and diversity. Action has been taken to support equal representation in the selection of
outputs, including ensuring as far as possible a wide range of work from early career and more
established researchers and across genders as shown in the EIA, where there was no significant
difference in the selection of outputs by any of the protected characteristics. Nevertheless, the Schools
that comprise the UoA acknowledge that more remains to be done in terms of reflecting diversity and
securing equality.

Following a successful application for an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2016, TDE is currently
preparing for renewal in November 2021 (postponed from April 2020 due to Covid-19). Athena Swan
initiatives across TDE, SoA and SBE include: Annual Promotion of Women in Property Awards;
ensuring gender representation amongst student ambassadors for recruitment activities, e.g.
interviews, Open Day events; high-profile and world-leading women academics as role models within
the subject area (e.g. Brownill, Brun, Butina-Watson, Orbasli). UoA13 has also been active in
promoting the Aurora scheme for women seeking to explore leadership and management positions in
higher education, with around six participants per year over the REF period. Additionally, work is
ongoing on WLP tariffs to ensure enhanced research time for colleagues returning to work following
parental leave.

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Over the REF period, SBE has moved through a period of significant staff transition, most notably in
Planning with the retirement and phased FTE reduction of senior research active staff (Butina-Watson,
Marshall, Simmie, Ward, Wilson). New academic appointments across the UoA have prioritised
research activity, ensuring the addition of research-active members of staff (Akintola, Al-Mukhtar,
Baker, Brun, Davison, Dericks, Lim, Ricchi, Rowden, Shirazi, Wragg) who have helped to
strengthen the research culture. New recruits are provided with a research and training allocation of
up to 640 hours for their first three years. Subsequently this is consolidated to 480 hours for fully
research active staff. They also join one (or more) of the research groups in the UoA, (see Section 1),
which provide a supportive and collaborative environment.

QR funding is deployed to support the appointment of fixed-term RAs and RFs. These appointments
enhance research capacity and underpin a succession strategy whereby new contract researchers are
nurtured towards more permanent roles. Examples include Gregg, Henshall, Spencer and Shirazi
who have progressed from fixed-term contracts to permanent positions and in the case of Shirazi
subsequent promotion to Readership. Bridging funding is available to support the employment, in
certain circumstances, of academic-related research staff between fixed-term contracts (for example
Ricchi).

UoA13 implements the University’s distinctive ‘Your First Three Years’ (YFTY) training and
development programme for new appointees, to support the development and mentoring of early- and
mid-career staff. YFTY includes up to 120 hours for studying for the Postgraduate Certificate in
Teaching in Higher Education. Research skills training is provided through annual university
programmes, along with training in career development, PhD supervision, and diversity and equalities
training. The University runs a Staff Research Mentoring Scheme that is open to all research active
staff at any level of academic seniority. UoA13 has had increasing engagement with the mentoring
scheme in recent years, as detailed in Table 1. Additional informal mentoring takes place both within
research groups and the UoA as a whole, through informal discussions, the development of working
papers, lunchtime ‘Spark sessions’, ‘GrantsLabs’ and monthly research seminars in both schools.

Table 1: UoA13 engagement with University mentoring scheme, 2018/19 to 2020/21
                              2018-19                 2019-20                2020-21

    SoA Mentors                   3                      5                       5

    SoA Mentees                   3                      1                       5

    SBE Mentors                   4                      6                       9

    SBE Mentees                   1                      3                       5

         Total                   11                      15                     24

Research workload allocations for academic staff range from 320 (Cat C) to 480 (Cat B) and 640 (Cat
A) ‘notional hours’ per year (all of which equate to SRR). All research-active staff are required annually
to produce 3-year Personal Research Plans (PRP), setting out main research outputs, impact
activities, and funding applications. PRPs are formally reviewed in individual meetings with School
Research Leads, allowing RLs to maintain an overview of research in the Schools, allocate resources,
and monitor staff research performance. Since 2018, the PRP has been integrated into the more
general, Personal Development Review (PDR) process.

The UoA seeks to enable periods of full or partial sabbatical leave for staff in support of significant
research income-generation, production of high-quality research outputs or establishment of academic
and/or industry networks and partnerships. QR funding is made available to release staff from all or
part of their teaching and administrative responsibilities for one semester. Schemes are designed to
be flexible and responsive to individual circumstances. All members of staff with Category A, B and C

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

research hours and with a minimum of 3-years’ service are entitled to apply. Sabbatical schemes are
competitive and entitlement is not automatic, but is based on the merits of the proposal submitted in
line with adopted research strategies. Sabbatical awards during the REF period include Orbasli
(2018), Carver (2018), Resalati (2018), Parrack (2019) and Baker (2019). Additionally, a number of
sabbaticals have been awarded from the university’s Central Research Fund (CRF) including Vellinga
(2016) and Troiani (2017).

Seed funding for research projects is provided through the university CRF and also Faculty and School
level QR funds. UoA13 has won 8 CRF Research Excellence/GCRF awards (Vellinga; Troiani;
Jones, Carpenter, Sibilla, Cho et al; Ward; Gupta and Keivani; Valler, Brownill and Ward). Under
a new initiative from 2020 the three research groups in SBE each have a dedicated annual budget of
£2,500 from School QR funds to support seed corn/pilot research, bidding activity (including building
external research links), or to ensure high-quality publication outputs. This is subject to a competitive
bidding process in each research group, held tri-annually (but on hold during the Covid-19 period). In
SoA, all research groups receive an annual allocation of £15,000 from School QR funds to support the
preparation of publications, funding bids, and impact, knowledge exchange and dissemination
activities. A dedicated conference fund that allows staff to attend conferences and symposia is also
available in both schools.

Doctoral Students

PhD students, including visiting students, form an active part of the research culture, collaborating on
projects and proposals and taking part in seminars, discussions, network meetings and other research
activities. A Faculty Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) was introduced in 2016 to provide structured
training provision in line with guidance from the UK Research Councils. This supports the development
of academic, transferable and employability skills, builds on the combined teaching and research
strengths in the Faculty, provides research methods training at three levels (core, strand and tailored)
to reflect the diversity within the Faculty and to meet students’ individual needs, and delivers an
improved research environment and a high-quality student experience. The DTP brings research
students together as cohorts to provide mutual support and structured training.

This occurs at two levels; at the Faculty level, 70-90 students from Arts, Architecture, Engineering,
Computing and Built Environment interact in social activities, a shared introductory course to research
methods and philosophy and an annual Research Students Conference. This latter event is organised
by students themselves to enable them to acquire skills in conference organisation and from 2018
students have overseen the publication of peer-reviewed conference proceedings. Training in viva
preparation and getting published is also provided at the Faculty level. Secondly, at the UoA level,
students are automatically enrolled on the Environment and Society Strand of the DTP. This brings
together c.30 students in the UoA and consists of weekly lunchtime seminar sessions and a tailored
methods course on research techniques and debates within the Built Environment. Research active
staff are encouraged to engage in this programme to integrate students into the research environment
of the UoA. Career progression for PhD students is supported by involvement in teaching and by the
provision of training in teaching methods.

From 2020, PhD students have been organising their own weekly online writing group for strand
members, which enables students to work virtually with others, set writing goals and provide mutual
support. The DTP and the writing group have proved invaluable in keeping students engaged during
the pandemic. Weekly lunchtime Zoom sessions have been held as part of the DTP and formal
teaching has moved online. All formal sessions at Faculty and Strand level are video captured and
made available on the DTP Moodle site. In addition, students have been asked to keep a Covid-log
which is used to chart the impact of Covid on their programmes with the possibility that extensions and
arrangements can be made where necessary. The Faculty has financially supported doctoral students
hard hit by COVID restrictions, in particular where changes to fieldwork and data collection have been
required.

Enrolments have declined over the REF period with a related, but smaller decline in the cohort size in
the UoA (Table 2). A factor in this has been the pattern of University Research Student Scholarships.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The ‘150th Programme’ ran in 2014-15 and 2015-16 to celebrate the 150th anniversary of the
University and accounts for the larger numbers registered in the following years. Subsequently there
has been a reduced level of University support, although TDE has continued to fund 1-2 studentships
per year, some of which have come to UoA13. Another factor affecting numbers is the availability of
supervisory capacity, especially in SoA where we are working systematically to strengthen capacity
both through appointments and by strategically building supervisory teams. Recent appointments
across the UoA have prioritised those with research and supervisory experience, and ECRs are
encouraged to take the comprehensive PhD supervisor training provided by the University.

Where needed, ECRs in the UoA have been encouraged and supported to pursue PhDs and more
senior staff have been supported to obtain PhDs by publication. Staff who have pursued their PhD with
support from the Schools include Carver, Assis Rosa, Anderson, Halliwell, Sadeghi-Movahed,
Kjelstrup-Johnson and Sarfatti. We are also working to increase the number of new PhD students in
other ways, including exploring a PhD by Practice in SBE to enable practitioners to undertake Doctoral
level studies. This is specifically focused on the area of Urban Design, which has experienced a decline
in new students following the retirement of key staff. This will require validation by the University, which
is expected in the academic year 2021/22.

Table 2: UoA13 FTE Registered on PhD Programmes (DTP Cohorts)

 Academic        No of FTEs Registered on PhD           Architecture        Built          Total
   Year           Programmes in the Faculty                              Environment       FTEs

  2013-14                       77.5                          7                20            27

  2014-15                        83                           12              20.5          32.5

  2015-16                       68.5                          11              22.5          33.5

  2016-17                        91                           12              24.5          36.5

  2017-18                        83                          14.5             16.5           31

  2018-19                        83                          14.5              15           29.5

  2019-20                       79.5                          13               14            27

REF2014 had a total of 53 conferments for this UoA, while REF2021 has a total of 46 (Table 3). While
the number has slightly reduced, the UoA has been prioritising completions by continuing students,
particularly those that had been registered for some years. Successful completions are reflected in
lower cohort numbers as completions have not been matched by new students. This is especially
notable in 2019-20, which saw a large number of completions against a declining cohort and the timely
completions of the 150th cohort. This in turn is evidence of the value of the DTP, which has been
improving the research experience and the training of our students.

Table 3: Research doctoral degrees awarded – UoA13 Architecture, Built Environment and Planning
Academic Year                   Number of research doctoral Research-based professional
                                degrees awarded               doctorates.
2013-14                         6                             0
2014-15                         5                             0
2015-16                         7                             0
2016-17                         11                            0
2017-18                         4                             0
2018-19                         3                             0
2019-20                         10                            0


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research income and support
Research spend for UoA13 has trebled from REF2014, rising from c.£2,490,000 to c.£7,750,000. This
includes funding from EU Government Bodies (c.£2,170,000), Research Councils (c.£2,342,00), UK
Govt/Local Authorities (c.£1,854,000), UK industry (c.£850,000) and UK Charities (c.£349,000).
Funding success reflects a strategic commitment to achieve ‘high levels of external income generation’
stated in REF2014, appointment of excellent research staff, effective Faculty grants panel review
procedures, and efficient and supportive Faculty and University research offices.

A robust support structure has been put in place to help generate external research income. TDE has
a dedicated Research Support Office (RSO), comprising 4 FTE: a Research Manager, two Research
Grants Officers and one Research Administrator. RSO provides support for all issues related to
external grant income, including the identification of potential funding bodies, dissemination of funding
calls, and costing. Clear procedures are in place to ensure that each grant application is properly
costed and approved. An online Intent to Submit form provides the RSO and management with the
details required to approve workload planning allocations. Special arrangements are in place to
expedite applications when deadlines are short. All proposals are costed using Worktribe and undergo
a rigorous and structured peer review process. This provides a firm foundation for the University’s
strategic objective to increase the value of all RKE-related income to 20% of total university income
by 2035 (and to 14% by 2025).

A Faculty-wide Peer Review College (PRC) has been established to facilitate internal peer review of
all external funding applications in order to ensure the quality of applications and improve funding
success rates. It allows applications to receive more than one review, facilitates debate and discussion
of proposals, and provides a developmental opportunity for less experienced academics to familiarise
themselves with peer reviewing processes, which may in turn contribute to their own grants writing.
The PRC consists of 30-40 members of staff and is chaired by the Grants Panel Chair (Vellinga).
College members include both early career and more experienced researchers from all Schools in the
Faculty. Two PRC members are assigned to each grant application seeking Grants Panel approval.
Both reviewers complete a Grants Panel Review Form, prior to meeting up with the PI to discuss
issues that have been identified or suggested revisions.

PIs are expected to respond to recommendations put forward by the reviewers. Wherever possible, to
provide developmental opportunities, each application is assigned an ‘experienced’ and an ‘early
career’ reviewer, with the two reviewers being cross-referenced against Faculty and RBDO data on
PIs who already hold (or have held) awards from the funder in question. In cases where more in-depth
reviewing is required, for instance where the PI is an ECR, or due to a lack of experience with research
grants applications or a low success rate, reviewing may take the shape of mentoring meeting(s)
between the reviewers and the applicant. Additionally, following good practice of UoA5, a ‘GrantsLab’
series was introduced in 2019 to provide an open, informal space for funding applicants to present and
discuss their projects with colleagues and refine their proposals.

Infrastructure and facilities
In terms of infrastructure and facilities, SoA has design studios incorporating 120 high-spec PCs that
contain 150+ software packages, various multi-solution printers and Apple Mac mini screens,
accessible 24/7 (post-covid, all PCs have been made accessible remotely). SoA also has its own print
room, run by a dedicated, full-time member of staff, which offers wide-format printing, fine art printing,
3D printing, 3D scanners, photographic equipment and technical support. The Architecture Workshop
caters for both analogue and digital processes, enabling a hybrid approach toward design
development and fabrication. The workshop contains a series of general fabrication machines,
including bandsaws, disc sanders and pedestal drills. Alongside these, the workshop has a
comprehensive approach to digital fabrication. This is supported by 3 medium format laser cutters, a
large format CNC Router, and an enclosed 4 axis CNC router. With regards to 3D printing, the
workshop covers a range of techniques, including FDM printing, laser sintering and powder


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

processing. To enable a reduction of modelling barriers, the workshop includes both laser and optical
3D scanning processes.

A dedicated Structures Lab is used mainly by the Architectural Engineering group, containing a large
structural reaction frame, a structural test rig and associated sensors and data acquisition equipment,
as well as a cleanroom constructed to industry standards for vacuum testing (to 10-7 mbar). The lab
is also equipped with state-of-the-art solar panel recycling machinery, a solar simulator, and a hotbox.
The LCB group hosts a Building Performance lab with state-of-the-art equipment for measuring
building performance, including building fabric thermal performance (high-spec FLIR thermal imaging
camera) and indoor environment including indoor air quality (high precision GrayWolf sensors).

The University Library has extensive print and e-resources collections and dedicated library staff
provide specialist support to individual Schools. The library hosts three special collections related to
architecture. The Paul Oliver Vernacular Architecture Library (POVAL) is a unique multidisciplinary
collection of books dealing with vernacular architecture worldwide. Collected over a period of more
than 50 years by the late Professor Paul Oliver (MBE), it includes works by architects, geographers,
architectural and art historians, planners, folklorists, archaeologists, conservationists and
anthropologists. The POVAL collection provides an unparalleled and indispensable repository of the
knowledge gained about the vernacular traditions of the world up to the present, serving as a basis for
continued research on vernacular architecture, including the EVAW2 project (Vellinga). It includes an
open-access image database (POVALi), comprising over 20,000 digitised photographs, as well as
Professor’s Oliver’s personal archive.

The Oxfordshire Society of Architects Collection contains some 650 books and 65 periodical volumes
held on permanent loan from the OSA. The collection includes treasured antiquarian books from the
seventeenth century onwards, including a much sought after 1839-49 edition of Joshua Nash's
Mansions of England in Olden Time, and fine examples of early twentieth century titles.

Finally, the Ian Davis Collection consists of books related to shelter and housing after natural disasters.
Professor Ian Davis was one of the first people to study this subject, and he went on to become one
of the most influential authors on the role of housing in disaster risk reduction. The collection comprises
his personal resources and continues to underpin research in the UoA, for example the Brun/Parrack
project ‘Self-recovery housing for development: Scaling up crisis preparedness and humanitarian
shelter response’. All three collections are frequently used by scholars from around the world.

PhD students are provided with desk and storage space, a dedicated laptop or desktop, and
appropriate software. Full access is provided to lab and workshop space, printing and photocopying
facilities. Financial support is available for conference attendance.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
UoA13 has delivered substantially on University and Faculty strategy to ‘extend external collaboration
with academic, professional, business and community partners, including internationally’. Close
professional links are maintained with the RTPI, RICS, and RIBA through partnership boards.
Research collaborations have been extended significantly with both UK and international institutions
(including India, Brazil, US, Lebanon, Africa, China, Turkey and Europe), funded through the Newton
Fund, British Academy, RCUK (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC), RAEng, EU Horizon 2020, United Nations,
and Leverhulme Trust, as well as internal GCRF QR support. Our research groups are closely linked
to the professions, industry, public bodies and major international organisations, and the commentary
in this section is organised by group in order to clarify aspects of collaboration and disciplinary
contribution as appropriate.

In Low Carbon Building, Gupta has led a series of Newton Fund Indo-UK projects (2017-2021) that
address energy-related societal challenges in the Global South. These have included leadership (PI)
of EPSRC/DST Newton Fund project on residential energy demand reduction (RESIDE 2017-22, see
Section 1, was ranked first amongst 22 proposals), RAEng Newton Fund project on customising
building performance evaluation for India (Learn-BPE, 2017-2019, £50,000) and a United Nations
project on mainstreaming sustainable social housing in India (MaS-SHIP, 2017-2019, £150,000).

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

These research initiatives have led to strong international collaborations and partnerships with leading
universities in India (IIIT Hyderabad, MNIT Jaipur, IIT Chennai), think-tanks (TERI, Development
Alternatives) and international agencies (UN-Habitat, UN Environment). As part of EU funded projects
- HERON project on socio-economic aspects of energy efficiency (€951,000 total grant, 2015-2017,
€130,000 to OBU) and Zero Plus project on zero energy settlements (€3,600,000 total grant, 2015-
2020, €327,000 to OBU), Gupta and Gregg have built up collaborations with academic institutions in
Cyprus, Estonia, France, Greece, Israel and Italy.

Gupta and Gregg have regularly won best paper awards at international conferences that include:
Building Simulation & Optimisation (BSO) Conference 2020; SEEDS 2020 and 2019 conferences, and
PLEA 2014 Conference. In 2016, the Low Carbon Group’s Innovate UK funded research project
Energy Resources for integrated communities (ERIC) received two national Energy awards -
Innovation Energy Project of the Year and the Residential Energy Project of the Year. Gupta is on the
editorial board of Energy and Buildings journal (IF: 5) and was scientific chair of the international
Architectural Science Association (ASA) 2019 conference held in IIT Roorkee attended by 200
delegates. He is a member of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer Review College, and was jury
member of the RIBA President’s Award for Research 2019. Gupta was grant panel member of EPSRC
call on End Use Energy Demand: Technology 1 and Technology 2 calls in 2019 and 2020. Gupta and
Gregg have collaborated with Ridge and Partners (Blackburn) on the delivery and evaluation of an
innovative low energy refurbishment of a historic town council building (Garth House) in Bicester
Oxfordshire, underpinned by a systematic building performance evaluation approach pre- and post-
refurbishment. The project was a shortlisted entry for RIBA President’s award for research 2016.

In Planning, Policy and Governance, Jones led the ESRC Newton Fund project Healthy Urban Mobility
(HUM) in the UK and Brazil (see Section 1) in collaboration with three major universities in Brazil
(Federal University of Rio Grande du Sol, Federal University of Santa Catarina and the University of
Brasilia). Brownill/Carpenter’s EU project Co-Creation led a collaboration of six partner organisations:
three NGOs in the EU (European Alternatives, Paris; City Mine(d), Brussels; Tesserae, Berlin); and
three Universities: University of Bath, University of PUC-Rio (Rio de Janeiro, Brazil) and the National
Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM, Mexico City). Carpenter held a global fellowship from the
EU’s Horizon 2020 programme (2017-20) ‘Social Sustainability and Urban Regeneration Governance:
An International Perspective (SURGE)’ (£220,000) in collaboration with the University of British
Columbia, Vancouver; Valler’s Leverhulme International network ‘Global Science Scapes:
Dimensions of Transnationalism’ (Leverhulme Trust, 2014-17, £118,000) was with partners at
University College London, Stanford University, National Taiwan University, Korea University,
University of Twente and the National University of Singapore.

Brownill presented evidence to the House of Commons PAC on public consultation and was a part of
a DCLG roundtable group on neighbourhood planning. She has presented evidence from her JRF
project on planning obligations and affordable housing to the House of Lords Economic Affairs
Committee, The Lyons Review on Housing, The London Housing Commission and the GLA Planning
Committee. Brownill was on the judging panel for the Guangzhou Urban Sustainability Awards in
2015. She is also a member of the Oxfordshire Community Land Trust which she chaired from 2014-
2018 and she is on the editorial panel of Urban Policy and Research. Jones is expert advisor to the
National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE,), Peer Review Group member of the ESRC
Global Challenges Research Fund and steering group member of the Oxfordshire Local Transport and
Connectivity Plan.

Mbiba is on the editorial board of the journal Town and Regional Planning (South Africa). He was
appointed researcher and lead author of the UN “HABITAT III Regional Report for Africa (2016) and
contributed urbanisation expertise to the OECD’s flagship report “African Economic Outlook 2016:
Sustainable Cities and Structural Transformation. DFID appointed Mbiba as Senior Advisor on
urbanisation and cities (2016-2020). He has also acted as expert evaluator for EU Horizon 2020
projects on four occasions between 2014 and 2021. Spencer is a member of The British Society of
Gerontology and founder and co-ordinator of the Special Interest Group for Transport and Mobility. He
is also a member of the Academy of Urbanism. Valler is Fellow of the Regional Studies Association
and Chair of the RSA London and South East Branch. He is also an editorial advisory board member

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

of Local Economy. Ward is former President of the International Planning History Society and remains
a member of its governing Council. He is a member of the editorial board of Planning Perspectives.

In Land, Design and Development, Cho currently leads an ESRC-funded networking project
‘Enhancing housing affordability and social care in Japan and UK - comparative evaluation of policy
and practice’ (£48,000) bringing together the Universities of Tokyo and Osaka and Oxford Brookes.
Keivani is founding Editor-in-Chief of the journal International Journal of Urban Sustainable
Development. He is on the steering board of the UN-Habitat World Urban Campaign and the Global
Network for Sustainable Housing. Keivani is a member of the ESRC GCRF and UKRI Future Leaders
Fellowship Peer Review Colleges and has been a grants decision panel member on the ESRC Urban
Transformations programme. Shirazi held a Marie-Curie Intra-European Fellowship (2014-2016,
€310,000) from FP7-PEOPLE programme titled ‘Contribution of Compact Neighbourhoods to Social
Sustainability’. This was followed by a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Global Fellowship (H2020, 2018-2020,
€270,000) which established a collaboration with the Institute of Urban and Regional Development
(IURD), UC Berkeley. Shirazi also produced the documentary film ‘Never Surrender’ released in 2020
that documents a community fight for environmental justice in Bayview-Hunters Point (SF) that
continues to be screened in a variety of arenas. Lim, Almukhtar and Austin have worked on the
project ‘Establishing a Virtual Design Studio in Teaching and Research for International Collaborations’
(2019-2020, £13,000, not HESA reportable). This Virtual Design Studio currently accommodates the
live project ‘Post-conflict development in Mindanao, Philippines’ that allows OBU staff and students to
work on projects in challenging environments. As part of KE and impact activities, Cooper has
developed the ‘ViewCue’ cloud application in collaboration with Holistic City Ltd, which provides visual
intelligence that helps increase the accuracy of property valuation, maximises place value and
enhances the visual quality of development. Davison has been involved as an unfunded collaborator
in the research project ‘Improving Outcomes for Apartment Residents and Neighbourhoods’ (2019-
2020, AUS$144,000) funded by the Australian Housing and Research Institute (AHURI).

In Place, Culture, Identity, Vellinga is Editor-in-Chief of the second edition of the Encyclopedia of
Vernacular Architecture of the World, a world-leading resource and collaborative project which brings
together the work of 19 international editors (including at Harvard, St Andrews and University of
Queensland) and over 800 contributors from a range of disciplinary backgrounds worldwide. Vellinga
is on the editorial boards of Vernacular Architecture and Traditional Dwellings and Settlements Review,
and on the editorial advisory board of Architectural Histories. Orbasli and Vellinga are members of the
AHRC Peer Review College; Vellinga is a member of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Peer
Review College.

Orbasli is a member of the AHRC Strategic ODA (Official Development Assistance) Peer Review
Panel. She was also an expert evaluator for the EU Horizon 2020 call ‘TRANSFORMATIONS-04; was
a jury member of the RIBA President’s Award for Research 2018; and was one of 40 delegates invited
to attend the meeting convened to mark the 20th Anniversary of the UNESCO Nara Document on
Authenticity and draft the Nara+20 declaration. Orbasli received AHRC and Indian Council funding
for Historical Research support (£24,250) to study Community-led heritage regeneration in Agra, India,
working in collaboration with the Delhi School of Planning and Architecture and a local NGO. She also
received support from the Newton Fund (£9,350) to work on issues around cultural heritage
management in Turkey together with Anadolu University.

Orbasli and Vellinga edited Architectural Regeneration (Blackwell, 2020), which includes
contributions by group members Wedel, Karmowska and Gaskin. From 2021, they will also direct the
‘Endangered Wooden Architecture Programme’ (Arcadia Fund, £5,000,000) in collaboration with
CyARK. Proto organised the symposium “Extending Baudrillard: Space, Image, Representation” with
the Museum of Contemporary Art in Rome in 2018. Proto also organised the 2nd International
Conference on Baudrillard Studies, “Applied Baudrillard” (Oxford, 2018) with the University of Paris IX
‘Nanterre’, Columbia University and Swansea University. Proto is on the editorial boards of The
International Journal of Baudrillard Studies and The Journal of Philosophy. Orbasli is an expert
member of the ICOMOS International Scientific Committee on Cultural Tourism (ICTC) and Education
(CIF). Vellinga is a member of the ICOMOS International Vernacular Architecture Committee (CIAV).


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


In the Centre for Development and Emergency Practice (CENDEP), Brun received funding from ESRC
(c.£383,000) and the International Development Research Centre (£47,000) to study youth trajectories
in Jordan and Lebanon’s refugee crisis, working with the Lebanese American University and partner
organisations Al Jana, Lil Medina. Brun and Parrack run a project on ‘Self-recovery housing, crisis
preparedness and humanitarian shelter response’ (UKRI, £123,000), working with 7 partners (CARE
UK International, Habitat for Humanity, Catholic Relief Services, International Federation of Red Cross
and Red Crescent, British Geological Survey, CraTerre, and the Overseas Development Institute).
Brun participates in the project ‘Holding Aid Accountable: Relational Humanitarianism in Protracted
Crisis (AidAccount) (£70,000) with the Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Makerere
University in Uganda, Rako Research and Communication Centre in Hargeisa, Somaliland and the
Centre for Migration Research and Development in Sri Lanka. She is also Co-I on the NORDFORSK-
funded project ‘Effects of Externalisation: EU Migration Management in Africa and the Middle East’
(£145,000), working with the Christian Michelsen Institute, the Danish Institute for International
Studies, and the University of Manchester. As an independent researcher Carver worked with 20
colleagues in 16 countries around the world on his torture prevention project funded by the Association
for the Prevention of Torture ($ 1,223,000). Akerkar leads a project on enabling inclusive humanitarian
responses for the Age and Disability Capacity Programme (ADCAP), in partnership with HelpAge, the
International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent, Christian Blind Mission, Humanity and
Inclusion, RedR, DisasterReady, Christian Aid, Islamic Relief, and Concern Worldwide, in Kenya,
Pakistan and the UK (£73,000, DfID and OFDA, not HESA returnable). Piquard co-leads a British
Academy funded project (£284,000) titled ‘Upskilling for future generations (Gen-Up) in Cameroon and
Sierra Leone’, with the Don Bosco Technical Schools network, the Catholic University of Central Africa,
and Njala University in Sierra Leone.

Brun is a member of the ESRC Peer Review College, and a reviewer for the Norwegian, Dutch and
Finnish research councils. Parrack is on the organising committee for the UK Shelter Forum and
working groups for the Global Shelter Cluster on Environment, Promoting Safer Building and Shelter
Projects. Carver is co-editor of the Journal of Human Rights Practice. He is also a visiting professor at
Arba Minch University in Ethiopia. Akerkar and Brun are founding members of the Disability Hub
based at the Center for Lebanese Studies (CLS), Lebanon. Akerkar is also a Technical working group
member for 'Inclusion of people with disabilities and older people in humanitarian response' for
ELRHA.

In Smart Construction and Impact Assessment, Kurul led the project ‘BIM-enabled Collaborative
Platform for Innovative Low Impact School Procurement’ for the Technology Strategy Board in
collaboration with Willmott Dixon and Scape System Build Ltd (2013-16, £109,000). Vidalakis led
‘Future Fit Build Assets – Delivery of BIM workshops/training to SMEs’ for the ERDF South East
European Regional Development Fund Programme (2013-16 £150,000) and also ‘Energy
Performance Programme Analytics’ for Innovate UK (TSB), a KTP in collaboration with Virtus Consult
(2015-17,£131k). Durning led the EOWDC project funded by European energy company Vattenfall
(see Section 1, £298,652). Durning also received funding from Suffolk County Council (on behalf of
the New Nuclear Local Authority Group) to carry out a 'Study on the strategic effects of the construction
of Hinkley Point C Nuclear Power Station and other Nuclear New Build over time' (£31,759). Tah led
‘Building Information Modelling (BIM) in Offshore Wind Farms – Feasibility and scoping study for the
Offshore Renewable Energy (ORE) Catapult (2017-18, £25,000).

Tah has been a member of the EPSRC College of peers continuously since 1997. He is also a Member
of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Global Computing Committee and has served as
a member of the Expert Panel for the R&D workstream of the Centre for Digital Built Britain at
Cambridge University. The group’s collaborations include Kurul hosting Sibilla’s Marie-Curie
Fellowship (C-mapER, 2017-2019) and Kurul’s links with the Energy Systems Catapult, the Active
Building Centre and SMART-KLUB ltd which culminated in a UKRI-funded (OBU value: £ 57,000k)
research project, which is led by Sibilla and includes the University of Southampton. The pair further
secured an OBU QR GCRF Collaborative Research Award (£12,000, 2017-18) to work with Tsinghua
University and Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University-XJTLU in China. Currently, they are part of an
international consortium funded by the Erasmus+ programme (Integrating climate resilience in EU

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

higher education – INCLIMATE,Total grant €299,000, 2020-2022, €58,248 to OBU) including
organisations from five European countries: Aristotelio Panepistimio Thessalonikis University
(Greece), Universitatea De Architectura Si Urbanism Ion Mincu Din Bucuresti (Romania), Universidad
Pablo De Olavide (Spain), Universita Degli Studi Roma Tre, (Italy) and the Malta Intelligent Energy
Management Agency (Malta). Abanda is a strategic board advisor of BIM Africa and has previously
acted as a Chapter Science Assistant for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). He
has recently been nominated an Expert Reviewer for the Second Order Draft (SOD) of the contribution
of Working Group III to the Sixth Assessment Report (AR6) for the IPCC.

SCIA makes substantial contributions to policy and practice. Glasson’s impact case study (see
Section 1) is associated with SCIA, and Glasson serves as an examining Inspector for Major Projects
in the Planning Inspectorate. In this role, he was an examiner for Hornsea 1 Offshore Wind Farm
(OWF), lead examiner for Hornsea 2 OWF, and Acceptance Inspector for several projects between
2010 and 2016. He also acted as a socio-economic expert adviser to Hitachi/Horizon re EIA of Wylfa
Newydd nuclear power station (2015-17).

In Architectural Engineering, Resalati is the OBU lead for three H2020 funded projects on innovative
cladding solutions, with a focus on advanced insulation materials, energy generation, energy storage
and next generation thin film solar cells (INNOVIP (€330,000, 2016-2020), POWERSKIN PLUS
(€412,000, 2019-2023), and CUSTOM-ART (€214,000, 2020-2024)). Resalati also led the RFCS
funded HAIR project (€194,000, 2017-2020). These projects are in partnership with multiple European
businesses, universities, and research institutes, including the Polytechnic University of Catalonia and
IREC in Spain, IPN and Polysyc in Portugal, Fraunhofer in Germany, VTT in Finland, and Tata Steel
Europe in UK and the Netherlands. Resalati, Henshall, and Heywood have participated in various
close to industry R&D consultancy projects, averaging c.£150,000/annum in the last few years.

Henshall led the UKSA NSTP3-GEI-012 funded project ‘Small thermal vacuum chamber for low cost
testing of spacecraft components’ (£16,700, 2018). This was presented at VentureFest 2018 and led
to collaboration with RAL Space. Henshall also led the EPSRC funded collaborative incubator project
‘Enhancing the Future of Transport and Urban Infrastructure: How to engineer smart, sustainable and
healthy cities’ (£15,000, 2020). Resalati is a member of the Energy Institute and a member of the
expert evaluators of the EU H2020 Framework Programme for Research and Innovation, and has
contributed to developing calls for the H2020 programmes as a topic expert. He is also the coordinator
of the H2020 AMANAC Cluster LCA community, with 38 projects and over 200 partners. Henshall is
a member of the Institute of Physics (IOP) and registered as a Chartered Physicist.

Whitehouse has received an MBE for his contribution to the building industry. He has initiated and
piloted BOPAS, a Quality Assurance scheme for the offsite sector, and served on UKCES advisory
board Offsite Construction skills. He has recently contributed to the new Buildoffsite publication ‘Reset
and reinvent’: New research shares learning from COVID-19 and design management in the
construction industry. Whitehouse, in collaboration with other members of the group and LDN
Collective is developing research proposals for a new housing settlement, comprising 6,500 new
homes at Harrington, plus an integral National Centre of Excellence for MMC and sustainable, green
technology.

In Design Theory and Practice, Rowden is Co-I for the ‘Virtual Justice: Enhancing accessibility,
participation and procedural justice in family courts and tribunals during the COVID-19 pandemic’
project (ESRC £69,256.00 to OBU), led by the University of Oxford. Prior to joining OBU, Rowden
was Co-I for ‘Design and Due Process: facilitating participation in the justice system’ (Leverhulme
Trust, 2014-2016, £132,000) working with colleagues at the London School of Economics, and Chief
Investigator for the ‘Just Spaces: security without prejudice in the wireless courtroom’ project
(Australian Research Council, 2013-2015, AU$205,000), a project that spanned six institutions
internationally, and seven industry partners. Rowden also led various research consultancy projects
on courthouse design for the NSW Department of Justice and Courts Services Victoria (total value
AUS$182,000), each involving collaborations with various universities.




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Placidi, Ricchi and Sarfatti are collaborating with colleagues at the University of Surrey on a project
investigating the design process and therapeutic programme of the Maggie's Cancer Care Centres.
Collaborating with colleagues at Chelsea College of Arts, Anderson is co-founder of the Live Projects
Network, an online, open access and international resource to connect academics, students,
practitioners and local community clients involved in live projects. The Network involves various
collaborations with colleagues at TU Berlin, Germany, and Dalhousie University, Halifax, Canada.
Rowden has acted as research consultant for the Ministry of Justice (UK) and the Howard league for
Penal Reform. Sworts is a member of the American Institute of Architects (AIA) and the Environmental
Design Research Association (EDRA).

Finally in this section, in terms of collaborations during the REF period, the UoA has hosted 42
international visiting PhD students and a total of 22 international visiting researchers from Brazil, Egypt,
France, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, Portugal, South Africa, Sweden and USA. UoA13
staff have also contributed to the various disciplines through more than 20 editorial and advisory board
memberships in the period, over 30 keynote addresses and well-over 100 invited presentations.

To conclude, UoA13 at Oxford Brookes is very well placed in terms of its disciplinary specialisms,
national and international connections, and highly impactful research activity to contribute to the
sustainability of respective disciplines and to respond to national and international priorities. Within
Brookes our portfolio of research activities finds strong support within the University’s emerging
strategy (OBU ‘Strategy 2035’) which emphasises inter alia: (i) enhanced collaborations with regional
and global partners; (ii) increased capacity to drive forward sustainable innovation, knowledge
exchange and enterprise; (iii) support for research centres and networks which address societal needs,
support sustainable economic development and promote health and wellbeing; and (iv) a target of at
least one-fifth of university income generated by research, innovation and knowledge exchange. More
widely our research focuses on issues of global strategic significance – climate change, energy crisis,
healthy living, emergency practice, immigration, inequality/diversity, and sustainable development –
which will be of ongoing importance to UKRI and a wide range of other national and international
research bodies.




                                                                                                Page 16
