Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Strathclyde
 Unit of Assessment: 8
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Department of Pure and Applied Chemistry (PAC) has a long-standing tradition of combining
 fundamental with translational research to produce focussed areas of impact. The Department
 fully embraces Strathclyde’s founding mission as a ‘place of useful learning’ and the research
 carried out within the Department reflects this commitment.

 Table 1. Alignment of PAC Research Sections with the Institutional Strategic Research themes

  Strathclyde Strategic
                                    PAC Research Sections Contributing to Themes
    Research Themes

                            Materials and
         Energy             Computational       Catalysis and Synthesis
                              Chemistry
      Advanced              Materials and         Bionanotechnology
   Manufacturing and        Computational            and Analytical
      Materials               Chemistry                Chemistry

      Measurement         Bionanotechnology
                                                 Medicinal Chemistry
  Science and Enabling       and Analytical
                                                 and Chemical Biology
      Technologies             Chemistry

                          Bionanotechnology
    Health and Well-                                                      Medicinal Chemistry
                             and Analytical     Catalysis and Synthesis
         Being                                                            and Chemical Biology
                               Chemistry


 Structure
 During the current REF period, PAC re-organised its operational structure into distinct Research
 and Teaching Schools. Within this REF submission, all submitted staff are members of the
 Research School which is organised into four research sections that overlap with four of the seven
 strategic research themes of the University (Table 1, also see Institutional Statement). The
 research sections were developed by identifying the existing strengths within the Department and
 targeting recruitment into these areas to both strengthen and expand them. Consequently, the
 research sections within the Department are relatively evenly balanced in terms of their number
 of academic staff and their experience profiles (Figure 1). Each research section is led by a Head
 of Section (HoS) who sits on the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee which is
 responsible for creating and fulfilling the academic strategy. This committee is chaired by the
 Director of Research (DoR) and also includes the Head of Department (HoD), Deputy HoD, the
 Director of Knowledge Exchange (DoKE) and the postgraduate research (PGR) Coordinator.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The recruitment policy for the Department is strongly informed and influenced by the University’s
 research strategy and how best to grow and complement areas of strength (see Section 2). This
 focus on the existing research strengths of the Department and the strong alignment with
 institutional aims and investment led to the decoupling of PAC from the former WestCHEM
 grouping for this REF submission.

 In RAE2008 and REF2014, PAC submitted as one of the two components of the joint research
 school WestCHEM. The overarching goal of the WestCHEM partnership was to deliver
 accelerated growth to the chemical sciences in the West of Scotland. To this end, the partnership
 was a success with a significant number of new staff appointed, resulting in WestCHEM submitting
 66.2 FTE in REF2014 compared to 51.4 FTE in RAE2008. This increase in staff was also mirrored
 by a substantial increase in the funding profile of the partner schools, with the research spend
 doubling from RAE2008 (£4.4M per annum) to REF2014 (£9.1M per annum).

 Since 2015, the investment strategies of the WestCHEM partner institutions have diverged in
 accordance with the goals stated in REF2014: Glasgow – to retain core strengths of a broad-
 based university; and Strathclyde – to increase industrial translation of research, aligned with the
 University’s mission. Having achieved WestCHEM’s goal of accelerated growth at the conclusion
 of the last REF period, the strategic focus became the vitality and sustainability of PAC as an
 independent research school. In the current REF period, the Department benefitted substantially
 from Strathclyde’s investment into research aligned with economic growth and societal need to
 enable impact, which is exemplified in major projects such as the Technology and Innovation
 Centre (TIC). Thus, the dissolution of WestCHEM reflects the emergence of distinct strengths
 within the institutions and is testament to the success of the original investment intentions.

 Strategy
 To enable the translation of ground-breaking research into technology that has a meaningful
 impact on society, PAC has embraced Strathclyde’s triple helix approach of “innovation,
 collaboration, and new knowledge discovery”. In the context of the Department’s research
 strategy, collaboration was identified as a key principle that can drive innovation and promote new
 knowledge discovery.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Over the last five years, PAC identified new collaborative partnerships that enabled the
 diversification of the funding base and provided a direct means to translate the research outcomes
 from the Department into useful applications. A flagship example of this type of collaborative
 research is the GSK-Strathclyde research partnership which has trained 165 postgraduate
 researchers (PGRs) as of 09/20, based both at GSK and Strathclyde. The success of this
 programme (detailed in the related impact case study) has inspired additional Doctorate@Work
 schemes established with companies such as DSTL, Mondelez and RedX Pharma. These
 schemes directly impact the R&D strategies of the companies involved through in-house training
 of their staff and exposure to cutting-edge research that is carried out within the Department. The
 Department has also established international networks with academics and industry through the
 European ITN scheme during the REF period (Moore – PARAGON, Skabara – EXCILIGHT,
 Nordon – ModLife, Cormack – BioCapture, Bruns – PlaMatSu). Key partnerships within CDTs
 (OPTIMA, Medical Devices and Health Technology, bioX) have provided similar prominent
 opportunities at a national level and the Department has successfully driven a distinct strategy to
 enhance engagement with local (Scottish) companies through KTPs.

 The strategic shift in approach that the Department has undertaken during this REF period has
 altered the balance of research funding won by PAC. As discussed in more detail in Section 3, our
 current funding profile is less than 50% dependent
 on RCUK, with industry and other sources combining
 to contribute the majority of income to PAC (Figure
 2). The success of this strategy is evidenced in a net
 greater income over the period compared with the
 previous REF cycle (see Section 3; Figure 4). As our
 reputation has continued to grow and its success at
 translating fundamental research discoveries into
 impactful applications has escalated, more
 opportunities to engage in research on larger scales
 have arisen. This is most prominently exemplified by
 the recent award of an EPSRC Prosperity Partnership between Strathclyde, Nottingham, and
 GSK, with Kerr as PI (£12.9M investment).

 The third strand of Strathclyde’s triple helix is “new knowledge creation”. While PAC’s mission is
 the creation of useful knowledge, the potential impact of new discoveries may not be immediately
 clear. However, we remain committed to the principles of science and the search for fundamental
 understanding. Therefore, we encourage our academics to apply for funding to allow state-of-the-
 art fundamental research to be conducted. The combination of funding for applied and basic
 research allows PAC to sustain its mission while maintaining the vitality of a leading technological
 institution. To this end, our future research strategy involves continuing our current trajectory and
 achieving 25% growth in academic FTE and 150% growth in income over the period 2020-2025.

 Delivering Impact
 Generating impact from research is central to the Department’s current and future research
 strategies. As such, PAC takes a multi-layered approach to enabling impact, leveraging the
 support offered at an institutional level while also introducing departmental mechanisms for
 facilitating translation to impact.

 At the institutional level, the Research and Knowledge Exchange Services (RKES) Directorate
 provides holistic support to assist academics in realising the potential of their discoveries. The
 success of the University in the commercialisation of knowledge discoveries led to the formation
 of a new Directorate (Innovation and Industry Engagement - IIE) in 2019 with subsequent
 embedding of a 0.5 FTE business development manager within PAC. During the REF period, the

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department has had a number of successful commercialisation engagements arising from its
 research. Kerr’s Iridium catalysts (see Impact Case Study) have been commercialised for
 distribution on a global scale via a fine chemicals supplier (Strem Inc/Ltd) and for onward purchase
 by pharmaceutical companies such as AZ, Merck, Roche, Sanofi, etc., as well as academic
 institutions. Equally successful has been the development of spin-out companies from the
 Department’s research (see Section 4). Examples include BiogelX and, more recently, ClinSpec
 Dx, which has received >£5M start-up funding from investors for the development of non-invasive
 diagnostic methods for cancer.

 Within the Department, the translation of research discoveries into impact activities is supported
 through a mentoring scheme for academics. The Department has three Knowledge Exchange
 champions who regularly meet with staff to discuss the development of potential impact from their
 work. Academics are made aware of the importance of recognising impact and signalling this at
 an early stage, rather than “waiting for the finished product”. This has resulted in a strong pipeline
 of impact opportunities (Figure 3).




 The Department has also devised initiatives to engage directly with companies. An example is the
 Chemistry Clinic, started in 2014 to support industrial partners on smaller-scale projects by
 lowering barriers to interacting with the Department. Indeed, the first two clients of the Chemistry
 Clinic, Tsarina Imperial Dachas Ltd and Buddi Ltd., had never worked with the University but have
 since become established partners. Tsarina is about to commence their third Chemistry Clinic
 programme, whilst Buddi returned with a second enquiry which led to a CENSIS (Centre of
 Excellence for sensing, imaging and Internet of Things technologies) project and two KTPs with
 the Department. Other major clients, Carron Phoenix and DuPont Teijin Films, were working with
 the Department but have extended their activities through the Clinic and into more substantial
 partnerships. Projects for DuPont Teijin and Sandvik led directly to fully-funded PhD studentships
 and Chemistry Clinic enquiries from Enewall and Rumbol Products were translated into KTP
 awards (see Section 4 for further details).

 The collaborative culture fostered within PAC extends beyond intersectoral interactions and is a
 key component of the research strategy within PAC.
    • Intradisciplinary collaborations with chemists at other institutions allow academics
        within the Department to establish global networks. These are supported by the


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Department both at an individual researcher level and on a broader programme level. The
        Strathclyde-CUNY (City University of New York) International Strategic Partnership (ISP)
        programme exemplifies the latter. This programme provides funding, both from Strathclyde
        and CUNY, to host workshops between researchers to initiate collaborations and has
        resulted in several high-impact publications (Science, Nature Chemistry, Nature Materials,
        etc.) joint studentships and funding applications to enhance knowledge exchange between
        the institutions. Similar ISP relationships have been created between PAC and other
        institutions such as the Nanyang Technological University, Singapore.
    •   Interdisciplinary collaborations are also valued by the Department and arise both
        through strategic programme initiatives and the efforts of individual researchers to extend
        the applicability of their research. For example, two Strathclyde Centres for Doctoral
        Training (SCDT) were established in the Department to support Chancellor’s Fellows
        (Section 2) who recently joined PAC. The concept behind the C-INSPRE (Centre for
        Interdisciplinary Sustainable Practices for Research in Energy) SCDT is that the future of
        sustainable energy depends heavily upon the success of interdisciplinary collaborations
        and requires a solid understanding of policy, research, and manufacturing. The C-INSPRE
        SCDT addresses this requirement by supporting a postgraduate pedagogy with courses
        from across the Strathclyde Faculties of Science, Humanities and Social Science, and
        Business.

 The benefits of international, intersectoral, intradisciplinary and interdisciplinary
 collaborative research to create greater impact is exemplified by the success of the research on
 DNA minor groove binders (MGBs) described in detail in the related Impact Case Study. The
 scope of the work has significantly expanded and the potential utility of the Strathclyde S-MGB
 drug discovery platform was grown by forming a network of relationships with international experts
 in the biology of diseases: anti-malarial agents in partnership with Griffith University; anti-fungal
 agents in partnership with Community for Antimicrobial Drug Discovery and University of
 Manchester; antimycobacterial agents in partnership with University of Cape Town and University
 of Witwatersrand; and anticancer agents with University of Huddersfield. The potential of S-MGBs
 as anti-trypanosomal agents against both Human African Trypanosomiasis and Animal African
 Trypanosomiasis has also been demonstrated, in partnership with University of Glasgow and
 CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Pune, India. Most recently, the potential of S-MGBs to act as
 anti-SARS-Cov2 agents is also an active line of investigation with Public Health England.

 Research Integrity and Accessibility
 The Department is committed to the highest standards of research integrity and the principles of
 the Universities UK Concordat. As part of their initial induction, staff receive online training in
 research integrity. This includes reviewing the academic policies and procedures within the
 University such as the Research Code of Practice and the Policy and Code of Practice for
 Postgraduate Research Study.

 PAC mandates Research Data Management (RDM) plans to ensure that our research is FAIR –
 findable, accessible, interoperable, reusable. Datasets associated with published research are
 uploaded to the institutional repository, assigned a DOI, and stored permanently in an accessible
 manner that complies with the FAIR principles.

 The dissemination of research through publication and the data management plans that are
 associated with this are the outward manifestation of our commitment to research integrity, which
 is supported internally through a number of actions:
     • Mandatory Induction courses that include research ethics and integrity;
     • Ethics compliance statements on funding applications to ensure that appropriate
        consideration and precautions are taken;

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Requiring all PGR students to undertake training in research ethics and integrity as part of
        the PG Certificate in Researcher Professional Development;
    •   Academics review the accuracy of work that they (co-)author before publication and new
        academics are made aware of this obligation;
    •   A written protocol for dealing with queries and complaints regarding research. This involves
        discussion with the project supervisor, which can then be escalated to the relevant HoS,
        and subsequently to the Department’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee if
        required.

 The final aspect of ‘promoting collaboration to achieve impact from our research’ is accomplished
 through dissemination and promotion of the research carried out within PAC. Staff publish their
 research in compliance with HEFCE policy, a policy implemented within Strathclyde since 2014.
 All authors deposit their work upon acceptance into PURE which provides pre-publication versions
 of all published work from the Department (Green Open Access). In addition, academics strive to
 publish their work in open access (OA) formats through journals that provide this option where
 possible and institutional support is available to staff where required (Gold OA). The institutional
 support takes a number of forms: (i) “block grant funding”, which primarily benefits research funded
 through UKRI mechanisms; (ii) “Read and Publish” agreements with a number of publishers
 including, ACS, RSC, Wiley, Springer, which provide free Gold OA; and (iii) the Institutional Open
 Access Fund, which provides targeted funding for outputs to allow Gold OA if the publisher is not
 covered by any of the other agreements.

 Given the number of intersectoral collaborations in PAC, there is a significant amount of industry-
 funded research, which is often commercially sensitive in nature. Despite this, the agreements
 signed with companies typically include arrangements for the publication of material after
 agreement from the company’s legal representative. The companies also have an automatic ability
 to place a moratorium on the publication of work for two years, which can only be extended after
 mutual agreement. PURE facilitates the storing of data through the ability to hold work as “non-
 public” until the moratorium has passed.


 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 Re-establishing PAC as an independent research school, rather than as part of WestCHEM,
 resulted in a significant shift in our staffing strategy. In the REF2014 submission, 35 of the 66 FTE
 returned were Strathclyde-based academics. Although the number in this submission is similar
 (34.4 FTE), the Department has undergone a turnover of ~30% of academic staff during the REF
 period. This has allowed the Department to strengthen the research sections in a targeted manner
 through promotion and recruitment of excellent staff to ensure sustainability in each research area
 and achieve a balance of staff across the sections, in both absolute numbers and experience
 (Table 2).

 Table 2. Distribution of staff across the research sections in terms of seniority.
                                        BAC      CaS     MaCC       MCCB       Total
                     Professor            2        3        4         2          11
                      Reader              4        1        0         2           7
                 Senior Lecturer          2        3        1         1           7
                      Lecturer            1        3        4         2          10
                       Total              9       10        9         7          35



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department’s recruitment strategy aligned with, and benefitted from, the University’s Global
 Talent Programme (GTP) for senior academic staff and through the Chancellor’s Fellowship (CF)
 scheme for junior staff. In the next five years, as part of the University’s Vision2025, PAC will
 continue to use both schemes to grow the number of research-active FTE by 25% across all
 research sections.

 The success of PAC’s staffing and recruitment strategy has delivered an increase in the number
 of outputs from 1071 in REF2014 to ~1400 in the current period. Moreover, the annual research
 income from industrial investment has increased from ca. £1.0M/year in the first half of the REF
 period (2014-2016) to ca. £1.5M/year in the second half (2017-2020).

 Whilst our recruitment strategy is aligned with the first principle of the “Concordat to Support
 Career Development of Researchers”, we also recognised that our staffing profile is under-
 represented at all levels by female staff. Therefore, policies were implemented to help minimise
 unconscious bias in the short-listing and interview stages of the appointments process. This
 includes unconscious bias training for members of staff engaged in selection, anonymising
 applications, as well as the requirement that all panels have balanced gender representation. As
 a result of these new policies, over one third of staff recruited to PAC during the REF period are
 female, including 50% of the GTAP and 33% of the CF appointments.

 Our commitment to an inclusive approach for recruitment and staff development extends beyond
 gender. PAC ascribes to the philosophy and policies regarding equality and diversity described in
 the Institutional statement. However, the Department is committed to move beyond these
 obligations. This commitment was recognised by an Athena Swan Bronze award in December,
 2017 and strengthened by the formation of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee.
 The EDI Committee is PAC’s representative body which advocates for, and recognises the
 differing needs of individuals regarding recruitment, selection, training, appraisal, development
 and promotion. The committee identifies problems, comes up with pragmatic solutions and
 monitors the effectiveness of these actions. The ultimate aim is for a positive influence on the
 Departmental culture and to raise awareness, ensuring that every individual (student or staff)
 within PAC feels valued, irrespective of their personal circumstances. The committee measures
 the success of its approaches through the use of annual staff surveys. The October, 2020 staff
 survey showed 95% of respondents felt that PAC “is a great place to work”. Despite this, only 75-
 80% of staff responded positively to the statements: “PAC is dedicated to gender equality” and
 “PAC is dedicated to race equality”. Thus, while the working environment within PAC is generally
 felt to be inclusive, the Department continues to monitor and innovate on its policies of equality,
 diversity and inclusivity.

 The chair of the EDI Committee sits on the Department’s Operations Committee as an ex officio
 member to provide input and guidance into all operational decisions within the Department. To
 promote dialogue and awareness around issues of inclusivity, the Department also hosts multiple
 EDI events where external speakers are invited to present their views on a topic relating to equality
 and diversity; past speakers include Polly Arnold (2017), David Smith (2018), Francesca Paradisi
 (2019), and Alan Harper (2020). The EDI committee has been active in engaging staff through
 events such as the Twitter campaign for the International Women in STEM day, showcasing the
 brilliant contributions from the women in the Department at all levels from technician to Professor.
 Recently, the Department also hosted an IUPAC Global Women’s Breakfast, sponsored by the
 RSC, which was open to all women working in STEM disciplines across the University to
 encourage peer support, seed interdisciplinary collaborations and stimulate wider discussions.
 The student population of Strathclyde reflects our commitment to the goal of gender equality
 demonstrating our belief that providing equal opportunity to both male and female chemists at an
 early stage is the best method to remove gender bias in the leaders of tomorrow. To this end, 46%

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of PAC’s undergraduate students are female, which is higher than the UK average, and this
 proportion is maintained at the postgraduate level where 45% of our PGR students are female
 (UK average = 40%).

 Beyond gender equality, the Department is also mindful of the different needs of staff, and provides
 flexible working options. This includes the provision of facilities and amenities to enable staff and
 students with disabilities to participate fully in study and work within the Department: for example,
 the provision of readers, scribes and quiet rooms for examinations; and personal assistants within
 labs for students with mobility requirements.

 Following recruitment, staff are supported in their career development through mentoring and the
 annual Accountability and Development Review (ADR). This includes setting objectives for the
 forthcoming year aligned with the values of the organisation (Bold, Collaborative, Ambitious,
 People-Oriented, Innovative). Reviewees are coached by their reviewer to ensure that they set
 SMART objectives not only for research, teaching and KE, but also for their professional
 development. This latter aspect of objective setting is often the most challenging. However, it
 provides all staff with a genuine opportunity to reflect on aspects of their career that they want to
 enhance and obtain feedback from their reviewer on how to progress. While development activities
 may include scholarship through, e.g., conference participation, academic staff in PAC make
 considerable use of generic training such as the Faculty grant-writing challenge (which offers peer
 support and structured deadlines for grant writing) and courses offered by the University’s
 Organisational and Staff Development Unit (OSDU).

 OSDU courses support academics through programmes such as the PG Certificate in Advanced
 Academic Studies (PGCert) for new academic staff, which has modules in course design, grant
 applications, learning and teaching in higher education, etc. The PGCert is accredited by the
 Higher Education Academy (HEA) and, on completion, staff are awarded fellowship of the HEA.
 For senior academics, OSDU offers a series of courses through the Strathclyde Programme in
 Research and Leadership (SPIRAL), e.g., Research Supervision, Personal Effectiveness, and
 Leading Research Programmes. Moreover, for new professors (either recruited or promoted),
 OSDU runs a “New Professors Programme” that focuses on leadership, management strategies
 and sessions on coaching and mentorship. This commitment to personal development has seen
 PAC’s research staff, at all levels, complete >200 approved courses during the REF period.

 Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 The Department offers a high level of support for ECR academics both in order to attract the best
 talent available and to develop and retain that talent. In addition to the University’s training
 programmes that are offered to all ECRs (see Institutional statement) the Department ensures that
 each ECR has a mentor aligned with their research interests in the first instance. However, once
 established in the Department, new members of staff are also encouraged to identify their own
 mentors and to consider changing mentors annually in order to broaden their experiences and
 exposure to the Department’s staff.

 In recognition of this transitional stage in an ECR’s career, the Department provides additional
 support through a phased introduction to teaching over the first years of employment. Specifically,
 ECRs are typically not given lecturing duties during their first year and are instead encouraged to
 focus on setting up their research programme, applying for funding and attending the courses
 required to achieve the PGCert in Advanced Academic Studies. In their second year, the ECRs
 are brought into the lecturing schedule either through the co-teaching of an established
 undergraduate course, or through the development of a specialised research-based final year
 course, again, in collaboration with a senior colleague.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In order to catalyse the growth of an ECR’s research group from their first year of employment,
 final year undergraduate students are assigned research projects devised and supervised by the
 ECR. PAC provides funding for all staff to offset the running costs of project students. This process
 not only gives ECRs the opportunity to train themselves as supervisors on short projects and
 manage research budgets, but they are also introduced to project assessment and the viva voce
 examination system. All new ECRs are also provided with a PhD studentship once they have
 demonstrated their ability as a project supervisor. Throughout this process, ECRs benefit from the
 guidance of established members of staff by, e.g., moderation of viva voce examinations and
 second marking of theses.

 In the broader research context, ECRs are encouraged to present their research to the academic
 community at conferences. In particular this is organised through the co-hosting of annual national
 meetings such as the ScotCHEM Computational Chemistry meeting, the Scottish Dalton meeting,
 the Scottish Perkin meeting, etc.

 Additional support provided to staff in PAC
 A variety of support and professional development opportunities are available to PAC. These offer
 the chance for individuals to continually develop and nurture new directions, appropriate to career
 stage. For those cases where professional growth requires a period of leave from the department,
 an established policy exists allowing staff to apply for a six-month sabbatical after six years of
 eligible service (i.e., not including time spent on research fellowships or for family-friendly leave).
 For staff returning from family-friendly leave, the Department operates the University level policy
 (see Institutional Statement) which provides 4 months free from teaching and citizenship duties
 immediately following return from leave. By ensuring academics maintain a sense of personal
 effectiveness in their work, the research vitality of the Department as a whole is maintained.

 The Department has an effective process for identifying and supporting staff who merit promotion,
 with a 100% success rate achieved in 2014 – 2020 for cases forwarded to the University’s
 Academic Professional Appointments Panel. During the review period, six staff were promoted
 from lecturer to senior lecturer level, five from senior lecturer to reader and four to professor.
 Outstanding leadership in the Department is also recognised by the regular appointment of PAC
 staff to University and Faculty roles: Kerr as (i) Deputy Associate Principal for Research and
 Knowledge Exchange; and (ii) inaugural Director of the Strathclyde Doctoral School; Faulds and
 Graham as two of only eight Distinguished Professors at Strathclyde; Liggat as Vice Dean
 Knowledge Exchange; Willison as Vice Dean Academic; Cormack as Associate Dean International
 Research; and Moore as Associate Dean Knowledge Exchange.

 Research Students
 Doctoral students are the lifeblood of research within PAC and this is reflected in our recruitment,
 development, and graduation of PGR students (Table 3). The Department currently has a total of
 147 PGR students, which is an average of 4.3 PGR students per FTE. This level of success in
 attracting and graduating PGR students within PAC is the result of a concerted effort to focus on
 delivering a welcoming and personal experience during recruitment, excellent training in both
 research and professional skills during their degree, and continued engagement post-graduation.

 Table 3. Number of PGR Students who apply, enrol and graduate from PAC on an annual basis.
                      2014     2015     2016       2017     2018     2019     2020
        Applications        73        74         69        73         65        81         79
        Enrolments          54        58         50        51         61        56         46
        Graduations         32        27         38        46         33        35         46
        PGR Cohort         135       135        140       142        143       145        147

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The flagship of our PhD recruitment is the Collaborative Strathclyde-GSK Doctoral Programme,
 encompassing synthetic, medicinal, process, analytical, and computational chemistry, alongside
 drug metabolism and pharmacokinetics and the biological sciences recently added in partnership
 with Strathclyde Institute of Pharmacy and Biological Sciences. A total of 165 PGRs have been
 active on the programme within the REF period (115 based primarily in GSK labs and 50 with
 Strathclyde as their principal base), of which 94 have graduated (72 GSK-based and 22
 Strathclyde-based). GSK investment in the programme totals >£7.7M. This unique initiative has
 won many awards as mentioned in the related Impact Case study. Other large PGR programmes
 PAC is involved with include two current CDTs which provided several students to PAC each year
 for the last 5 years: the EPSRC and MRC CDT in Optical Medical Imaging (OPTIMA), led by the
 University of Edinburgh with PAC as the only other academic partner (Graham as the Strathclyde
 PI with Faulds the Strathclyde Director); and the CDT in Medical Devices led by Biomedical
 Engineering, with Graham as a CI.

 PGRs who are not part of a large programme are recruited individually either through targeted
 advertising or direct contact with the Department. In the latter case, PGR applicants are
 encouraged to identify a preferred supervisor based on information on the research interests of
 academic staff available on the website and in Departmental and Faculty Research Brochures. If
 an applicant does not express a preference – or they express a preference for a general area e.g.,
 analytical chemistry – an email discussion takes place to match them with the optimal supervisor.
 The Department has had success within the review period in recruiting 44 overseas research
 students fully-funded from various sources including the Libyan Government, Omani Attaché, the
 Government of Kuwait, the Iraqi Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research, the Nigerian
 Government (TETFund) and the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission.

 Each year the Department receives funding for a number of studentships through the Strathclyde
 Research Studentship Scheme (SRSS, see Institutional statement for details). The SRSS typically
 provides funding at a maximum of 50% per studentship and is augmented by external sources of
 funding (primarily industrial collaborators) to maximise the number of students recruited. This
 approach has the benefit of leveraging more studentship positions from the University’s
 investment as well as encouraging staff to maintain and establish new relationships with external
 partners, re-enforcing our commitment to intersectoral engagement and impact.

 Once the PGR cohort is recruited, the Department delivers a dedicated induction programme that
 builds on and complements the University/Faculty provision. In 2017, sessions were introduced
 for students starting 2nd year and 3rd year. This addition proved popular and allows topics to be
 covered that are less relevant in year 1. Once initiated in the PGR programme, each student is
 enrolled in Strathclyde’s unique PGCert in Researcher Professional Development, providing them
 with two awards at graduation. The PGCert provides PGRs with training in a range of professional
 skills and personal development activities. From the research perspective, PGRs are supported
 by their primary and secondary supervisors. This support takes the form of researcher training,
 but is also pastoral in nature where appropriate. The PGR Coordinator is also available to provide
 academic advice and pastoral care to students, involving the HoD as required for issues that
 require higher-level intervention.

 The Department monitors the development of the PGR cohort through a first- and second-year
 viva voce that is conducted by a member of staff who ultimately become the “internal examiner”
 at the final PhD exam. These oral examinations are accompanied by a written report, which in the
 first year, focuses mainly on a literature review to ensure the development of the background
 knowledge of the researcher. The second checkpoint is written in the form of a paper to ensure
 that the PGR is progressing both in terms of their ability to write to an academic standard and


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 generating sufficient results for publication. The final thesis can be either the traditional format or
 a series of papers submitted for examination (minimum of four as first author).

 The recruitment and development of excellence in our PGR population is recognised externally.
 Our PGR students have won >150 prizes during the review period. Some highlights are shown in
 Figure 4.




 Equality and Diversity
 In addition to our efforts to negate bias in recruitment, the Department is also committed to
 fostering an inclusive and socially progressive environment for existing staff. The Chair of the
 Department’s EDI Committee is a member of the ‘Women in Science and Engineering’ and ‘STEM
 Equals’ committees. Knowledge learnt from this participation is discussed at the EDI Committee
 to ensure best practice is translated and adopted in PAC.

 The University has a range of benefits and policies that help staff balance work and family
 commitments. These include maternity and paternity leave and support, adoption leave and pay,
 parental and shared parental leave, support for carers, flexible and homeworking arrangements,
 as well as family-friendly research leave. These benefits and policies are in place for all staff on a
 permanent contract and at a pro-rata rate for part-time staff. In addition, the Department supports
 research active staff in activities such as conference participation and travel through a specific
 budget allocated for this purpose. For staff who are unable to travel to attend conferences due to
 caring responsibilities, the Department makes available the hardware and software (e.g., web
 cams, microphones, zoom subscription) for virtual conference attendance and workshops.

 In addition to the University policy of family-friendly research leave, the Department applies the
 same policy to those members of staff returning from extended sick leave. Where beneficial,
 flexible working has also been introduced to better accommodate the changing needs of staff
 returning from other periods of leave. The flexible working policy also applies to research students.
 When research students have need of leave, this is discussed with their supervisor and the PG
 Coordinator, and the best course of action agreed. This has included voluntary suspension of
 studies, flexible research hours and extension to periods of study.

 The Department utilises the University policies of flexible working and working from home policies
 in addition to the newly introduced agile working policy that makes it easier for staff to operate
 across various working locations. The robust nature of these policies and the Department’s
 commitment to operate them was evidenced during the Covid-19 pandemic, where the
 Department was pro-active in protecting the well-being of staff and students. The Department was
 able to secure remote working equipment for all members of staff prior to the official requirement
 to commence home-working. The Department required all group leaders to produce contingency

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 plans for home-working for members of their group and all staff were encouraged to begin working
 from home where possible in advance of the official announcements. This pro-active approach
 allowed the Department to continue all teaching and assessment activities (except for 2 weeks of
 undergraduate lab-work) for the entire final semester of 2019/20. In addition, the Department
 transitioned to online viva voce examinations for PhD students, ensuring that our research
 students were not disadvantaged.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 PAC’s strategic decision to diversify its income stream, by focusing on increasing engagement
 with industry and third-party funders in addition to Research Councils, had a positive effect on the
 Department’s income. This policy enabled more of our researchers to contribute to the
 Department’s income, particularly in cases where more applied science is carried out. As PAC
 has maintained an active portfolio of UKRI and EU H2020 funding, the total income for the
 Department has significantly grown relative to the previous REF2014 period (Figure 5) and its
 upward trajectory continues.




 The development of research sections based on overlapping research interests and the
 recruitment of staff to fill specific areas of need has resulted in an ability to specifically target large
 value research grant schemes more effectively. For example, within the Catalysis and Synthesis
 section, Kerr led a Prosperity Partnership bid that was successfully funded by EPSRC with a total
 value of £12.9M of which £7.35M is allocated to PAC (£2.75M from the EPSRC; £4.0M from GSK;
 and £0.6M from Strathclyde). Within the Medicinal Chemistry and Chemical Biology section,
 Burley was successful in obtaining funding from the BBSRC in the form of an sLoLa (Strategic
 Longer and Larger) grant valued at £4.0M, of which £0.9M is allocated to PAC. Nico Bruns (a
 GTAP appointment) secured €1M through the award of an H2020 ITN, which is hosted by PAC in
 the Materials and Computational Chemistry section. Similarly, in Bionanotechnology and
 Analytical Chemistry Graham and Faulds have successfully bid as a partner institution for two
 EPSRC CDTs (Medical Devices and OPTIMA) with a total value to Strathclyde of £5.5M, as well



                                                                                                   Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as leading on large grants from EPSRC (£3M for In Situ Nanoparticle Assemblies for Healthcare
 Diagnostics and Therapies).

 These large grants provide the Department with capacity to build a sustainable research
 landscape over longer time frames. However, the medium sized grants that typically involve only
 one or two investigators from the Department also sustain the vitality of PAC’s research activities
 and underpin more “blue-sky” research. Over the REF period 80% of the researchers within this
 submission have had grant success with UKRI funding applications.

 The organisation of the Department into separate research and teaching schools has allowed
 research active staff to devote a higher proportion of their time to advancing and broadening their
 research activities. This includes applications for funding, but also training of PGR students,
 communicating results from research through publications, and the translation of research into
 technologies that provide impact beyond the academic community. The use of research sections
 to cluster academics has created critical mass to enable researchers to work together on larger,
 more challenging problems that require multi-faceted solutions. For example, PAC is a key partner
 in the multi-million-pound Centre for Continuous Manufacturing and Crystallisation involving
 partners from Science and Engineering at Strathclyde and various industry partners. In addition,
 the use of strategic research themes within the University allows researchers in PAC to align with
 researchers throughout the University with a common research interest. This alignment supports
 the formation of collaborative, interdisciplinary research centres, such as the SCDT C-INSPRE.

 Infrastructure
 The research strategy in PAC was devised to deliver world-leading chemistry research; our
 infrastructure is configured to achieve that goal and allows us to participate in collaborative
 research, often assuming a leadership role.

 PAC benefits from extensive research laboratories in the Thomas Graham building augmented by
 PAC’s infrastructure in the Royal College and the Technology and Innovation Centre (TIC), a £90M
 facility opened in 2015. The Bionanotechnology grouping within the BAC section is housed in the
 TIC building, which represents a £12M investment in the facilities available for chemistry. PAC’s
 presence in TIC also acts as an important touch point for increasing collaborations across
 disciplines and interaction with industrial collaborators. For example, PAC was a co-applicant for
 an EPSRC strategic equipment grant of £2.5M, led by Physics, for three new instruments based
 in TIC with a multi-photon Raman microscope aligned with PAC. TIC is the cornerstone of the
 wider Glasgow City Innovation District project that was launched by Scottish Government in 2019.
 As part of this, PAC is the lead department in the new Centre for Advanced Measurement
 Research & Health Translation – a new strategic partnership between the University of Strathclyde
 and the National Measuring Laboratory at LGC (NML at LGC). Furthermore, PAC has capacity to
 perform device manufacturing linking us to research in physics, engineering, and materials
 science.

 The University provides a centralised operational support system that relieves the individual
 departments from the burden of having to administer the increasingly complex management
 aspects of carrying out modern research. For example, at project conception, the costing and
 pricing module is integrated within the financial management system that the University runs. This
 ensures that costing of grant applications, KE work, etc. is seamlessly integrated. Similarly, when
 research results are obtained, these are stored centrally on the University’s data storage service,
 which has redundant back-up, enhanced security features, etc. to ensure that data are protected
 to the highest standards. This is a critical aspect in most research, but is also integral for our ability
 to work seamlessly with industrial and third-party partners, where work is often commercially
 sensitive. Finally, when publishing results, the centralised system (PURE) allows cataloguing of

                                                                                                   Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the publication and a Green-OA version, and acts as a repository for all data to be stored in a
 FAIR manner with a published DOI. Centralisation and support for these services by the University
 allows cost-savings for the Department which can be allocated to specific primary research
 objectives.

 The Department is organised to translate research outcomes into science that can have a positive
 impact on society. The Department’s DoKE sits on RKEC within the Department to ensure direct
 guidance on the status and opportunities of the various impact activities in the Department. In
 addition to this, DoKE is a standing member of the Faculty KE committee, where reporting and
 advocacy for the Department’s activities occur.

 When impact opportunities within the Department are recognised, the University’s centralised
 RKES Department is able to provide support for initiating projects or commercialising research
 outcomes. A recent example is the successful spin-out of the ClinSpec Dx company from PAC.
 The centralised services were instrumental in the formation of ClinSpec Dx. Following an
 application to the University’s impact acceleration fund, £10k was secured to engage a commercial
 champion, which allowed the team to scope the market. The company initially won £560k in high
 growth spin-out funding from Scottish Enterprise and subsequently secured £5M in funding from
 a mixture of private equity and grants. The University’s support on IP advice, contracts advice,
 business formation, negotiating with investors and pitching opportunities, enabled the company to
 have success in obtaining funding and accelerating its launch.

 Facilities
 PAC’s major facilities are operated by skilled technical staff and all researchers in PAC can access
 the facilities and resources. This includes technician support for X-ray crystallography,
 spectroscopy (NMR, ESR, UV/VIS, IR, Raman, ROA, CD), microscopy (Raman, fluorescence,
 FLIM, SEM), microanalysis, elemental analysis and mass spectrometry. The investment in skilled
 technicians is complemented by an Institutional commitment to maintain our facilities as state-of-
 the-art resources. This is most recently exemplified by a £1.5M investment in mass spectrometry
 and X-Ray crystallography equipment in 2020 to accompany smaller investments (~£200k in core
 equipment from the institutional EPSRC block grant) and a BBSRC Alert success for a new
 switchSENSE helix instrument to measure Kds of specific biomolecular interactions (£309k).

 PAC’s research strategy is to capitalise on our areas of strength and we have unique, world
 leading facilities that allow us to do so. For example, our facilities include the largest multi-line
 Raman facility in the UK (recently expanded to include a multi-photon Raman microscope) and
 one of the largest globally as part of the Centre for Molecular Nanometrology. As a key partner in
 CMAC, the department has access to the extensive facilities of the Future Manufacturing
 Research Hub in TIC which includes state of the art AFM, small angle X-ray and single crystal
 diffractometers.

 The Department also benefits from several strategic partnerships that broaden the skills and
 techniques deployed in research projects. For example, the international strategic partnership with
 CUNY involves multidisciplinary collaboration in the area of biomolecular gels, with capability
 spanning from fundamental discovery and characterisation to application in biomedicine. In
 addition to research expertise, the interaction with the Advanced Science Research Center
 (ASRC) at CUNY provides access to state-of-the-art microscopy equipment, which includes TEM,
 cryo-TEM, SEM, video-AFM and super resolution optical microscopy. This type of collaborative
 partnership is possible because of the resources and expertise that Strathclyde is also able to
 offer to the partner institution. In the CUNY example, the use of computational methodology to
 design and discover new soft materials is the complementary expertise contributed by Strathclyde.
 PAC has particular strength in this area through access to the high-performance computing (HPC)

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facility Archie-West that is based at the University. Archie-West is a cross-HEI resource created
 through initial funding of a £1.6M award from the EPSRC e-infrastructure fund to provide a regional
 centre of excellence in HPC. The main computer was upgraded in 2018 through a £2.4M
 investment by Strathclyde and comprises more than 2500 INTEL Skylake 6138 cores for
 distributed parallel computing, two 3TB RAM large memory nodes and 210TB of high performance
 GPFS storage.

 The use of cross-HEI facilities also provides significant benefits for PAC and contributes to our
 ability to translate research results into meaningful impact. PAC researchers have been
 particularly successful in securing funding for access to central UKRI facilities amounting to >£1M
 over the assessment period. This involves mass spectrometry at Swansea (~£145k), neutron
 scattering experiments at ISIS, laser spectroscopy access at RAL and beam time at the Diamond
 Light Source for X-ray crystallography and high-resolution infrared analysis (~£873k).

 Finally, the Department has a number of legacies and donations that contribute to its overall
 research activities. Most notable are the Laurie Bequest (~£650k), the Mackie bequest (£35k) to
 support PhD students and the Cooksey Trust fund (~£1M) to support research in analytical
 chemistry. There are also numerous items of equipment that have been donated or supplied to
 support research programmes including a long-term loan of specialist microwave equipment, over
 6 Raman spectrometers (DSTL), a Raman microscope (DSTL) and 2 FTIR instruments (Agilent).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 PAC plays a leading role in the chemistry community both nationally and internationally. The
 Department is a member of the ScotCHEM pooling initiative in Scotland – engaging and leading
 initiatives (such as the Lightweight Manufacturing Centre) within this network. PAC further
 enhances the local research community through organisation of regular research seminars. These
 are organised on a Sectional basis and additional cross-sectional speakers are invited on a regular
 basis as part of the Departmental seminar series. While maintaining our commitment to equality,
 diversity and inclusion, speakers at Departmental seminars are often internationally leading
 scientists and emerging leaders who have recently received awards for their research.

 Sustainability of the Discipline
 On a national and international level PAC contributes to the sustainability of the discipline through
 a variety of different mechanisms (Figure 6). This includes membership of EPSRC Strategic
 Advisory Boards; occupying leadership roles; being members of ca. 60 different RCUK panels;
 Royal Society panels; and International panels. Given the diversity and number of contributions
 by all staff, only select examples are listed below.

 Mulvey – President of the Dalton Division of the RSC, Member of the Royal Society Newton
 International Fellowship Committee, Member of the EPSRC peer review college; Graham –
 EPSRC Physical Sciences Strategic Advisory Team Member, MRC Confidence in Concept
 Panels, MRC Molecular Pathology Nodes Panel, CRUK/EPSRC MDERP Panels CRUK Science
 Committees, BBRSC Tools and Resources Panel, UKRI Future Leaders Panel, RSC Analytical
 Division president; Chair of the publishing board for the RSC (oversees all of the publishing
 activities within the RSCs portfolio and sets the strategic direction for the future sustainability of
 publishing within the RSC), Trustee of the RSC as a member of the RSC Council; Faulds – Chair
 of the Infrared and Raman Discussion Group [first female and youngest Chair of the Committee],
 Member of the Federation of Analytical Chemistry Spectroscopy Societies Governing Board,
 appointed member of the Royal Society of Chemistry Chemical Biology Interface Division and
 elected member of the RSC Analytical Division Council, Panel Member for the 40 under 40 list for
 The Analytical Scientist, Member and Chair (2018) of the Optical Society of America Lippincott

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Award Committee, Panel member and co-Chair for BBRSC Tools and Resources Development
 Fund and UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Panel member; Murphy – Member of the RSC Organic
 Chemistry Awards Panel (2017-18), Member of the Philip Leverhulme Prize Chemistry Panel,




 Panel member for the Royal Society International Exchanges Scheme Panel; Kerr – Marine
 Alliance for Science and Technology Governing Council Member and Board of Trustees Member
 for Marine Alliance for Science and Technology – Scotland, Scottish Institute for Policing Research
 Member of the Board of Governance, National Physical Laboratory Postgraduate Institute Steering
 Committee Member, Economic and Social Research Council, Scottish Graduate School in Social
 Sciences, Member of the Supervisory Board of Governance; Liggat – Member of RSC Scottish
 Steering Group, Committee Member RSC Thermal Methods Group, Committee Member Polymer
 Degradation Discussion Group, Member of EPSRC Peer Review College; Nordon – Chair of
 Glasgow and West of Scotland Local Section of RSC; Member of Measurement Science Research
 Institute of the Community for Analytical Measurement Science, Technical Director of the Centre
 for Process Analytics and Control Technology.

 A number of our researchers also occupy advisory appointments at national and international
 universities. These include Kerr – External examiner University of Dundee; School of Life
 Sciences; Liggat – External examiner University of Central Lancashire; Graham – External
 examiner Trinity College Dublin, External examiner University College London, External examiner
 Imperial College London; Faulds – External examiner Queen’s University Belfast, CDT Applied
 Photonics Advisory board; Tuttle – Advanced Science Research Center Steering Committee,
 CUNY; Tomkinson – External examiner University South Wales, External examiner University
 Bath, External examiner Undergraduate Degree Programme University Birmingham, Member of
 West of Scotland Cancer Centre Management board, Member of Management board for UK
 Regenerative Medicine Platform Niche Hub; Nordon – External examiner Keele University;
 Kennedy – External examiner University of West of Scotland; Parkinson – External reviewer


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wageningen University and Research Centre, The Netherlands; Hoskins – External examiner
 Liverpool University, external examiner University of Ulster.

 The Department’s commitment to creating impact through our research has led to a variety of
 interdisciplinary collaborations (see Section 1) to support specific research programmes (e.g.,
 Human Frontier Science Program networks and EU initiatives such as ITNs). However, while
 support of the discipline as a whole has benefitted through this approach, we believe that larger-
 scale partnerships are required to create lasting impact, such as the flagship GSK-Strathclyde
 programme which has both interdisciplinary and international aspects, as well as through
 leadership of the Centre for Process Analytics and Control Technology, comprising 29 company
 and 14 academic/institute organisations from the UK and worldwide. Moreover, our academics
 have played a leading role in bringing together the international community through chairing
 significant international conferences such as Faraday Discussions, GRC and Spring SciX, and
 SPEC to name a few.

 Supporting the Economy and Wider-Society
 The Department’s strategy to embrace external partners as a key component of its research has
 led to various different ventures and mechanisms for industrial and third-party sector engagement.
 In addition to the Department-led approaches to engaging with industry and the relationships
 forged by individual researchers through their professional networks, the University also supports
 a variety of events to promote engagement with Strathclyde researchers.

 The Faculty-led “Business Breakfast” allows for targeted interactions with stakeholders to increase
 their knowledge of particular subject areas. However, for broader engagement purposes the
 University hosts “Engage with Strathclyde” – an annual outreach programme. Chemistry is a
 regular contributor to many of these events and the opportunity to interact with industrial and third-
 party sector delegates has led to new engagements with the Chemistry Clinic as well as sponsored
 research programmes.

 PAC’s focus on the implementation of our research findings to create greater positive impact for
 the wider economy and society has led to several initiatives from the Department that support this
 goal. The largest and most successful of these initiatives have been submitted as impact case
 studies (GSK-Strathclyde partnership, Ir-catalysts in Industry, and the development of MGB
 drugs). However, the strong pipeline of KE activities in the Department (Figure 3) is not limited to
 these cases. The Chemistry Clinic directly engages with small and medium-sized businesses, that
 do not necessarily have a history of exposure to the chemical sciences, with small specific
 problems to try to understand whether chemistry, as a discipline, can provide solutions. The ability
 to contribute to the development of companies through problem solving, but also through informing
 them of the benefits of engaging with chemistry to address their technical concerns, adds value to
 the company and enhances the reputation of the discipline as a whole. The success of this
 approach is measured through the desire of companies to re-engage on multiple occasions and
 in many cases to escalate the extent of their investment through KTPs and other longer-term
 commitments to funding research (part-funding PhD students, etc.).

 ClinSpec Dx, is a new spin-out company from the Department, having spun-out February, 2019.
 This company is based on collaborative research between Palmer (MaCC section) and Baker
 (BAC section) that uses machine learning to analyse spectra of blood serum samples for the early
 identification of brain cancer. The technology being developed has shown particular promise in
 early testing and has received significant investment (£1.7M) from both private equity and funding
 bodies. The first clinical study was successfully completed and published, and ClinSpec Dx is now
 running a further clinical study recruiting 600 patients funded by an Innovate UK Precisions


                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medicine Accelerator Grant. ClinSpec Dx subsequently raised a further £3.3M through external
 investors for this work.

 A more established example of a successful spin-out company from PAC is BiogelX. In 2012,
 BiogelX was spun out of PAC by Prof. Rein Ulijn. The company began trading in early 2013 and
 has successfully developed patented, cell-matched hydrogel products which offer academic users,
 medical researchers and major pharmaceutical companies significant advantages over competing
 complex, animal-derived 3D cell culture products. Evidence of the impact BiogelX technology is
 making within the life sciences industry is in the form of multiple awards including the RSC
 Emerging Technologies Winner 2013, Scottish Edge Winner 2014, and being named on the IP100
 Intellectual Property League Table 2015. Furthermore, the company has secured four highly
 competitive Scottish Enterprise SMART awards (each worth £100,000) to fund the further
 development of its hydrogels. BiogelX is generating steady sales income from customers in the
 UK, mainland Europe, South Korea and the United States. These include major pharmaceutical
 companies such as GlaxoSmithKline, Novartis, and GE Healthcare, together with some of the
 leading universities in Europe and the USA, including University College London, the University
 of Manchester, Queen’s University Belfast, the Technical University of Berlin, the City University
 of New York and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

 Indicators of Wider Influence
 PAC’s researchers contribute to the research base through their efforts as editors and editorial
 board members for a range of journals, these include: Mulvey – Member of the Editorial Board of
 Chem. Eur. J.; Kerr - Editorial Advisory Board Member of J. Label. Compd. Radiopharm.; Bruns
 – guest editor for Adv. Mat., guest editor for Europ. Polym. J.; Cormack – Editorial Board, React.
 Funct. Polym., Editorial Advisory Board, Molecular Imprinting, Guest Editor of a special issue of
 Polym. Chem.; Hoskins – Editorial Board Member for J. Nanomed. Res., Editorial Advisory Board
 Member for Recent Pat. Drug. Deliv. Formul., Guest Editor for Cancers, European Editor for
 Pharm. Nanotechnol.; Graham – Editor in Chief of Analyst, Editorial Advisory Board member for
 Chem. Sci., Chem. Soc. Rev., J. Raman Spectrosc., Anal. Methods and CHEM; Faulds – Editorial
 Board for Science and the Law Primer which is joint venture between the Royal Society and the
 Royal Society of Edinburgh, Editorial Advisory Board for Anal. Chem. and Chem. Soc. Rev.,
 Associate Editor of Analyst and Editorial Board member of Analyst and RSC Adv.; Burley - Editor
 Sci. Rep.; Wark – Editorial Board Member for Biosensors; Murphy –Associate Editor of the
 Beilstein J. Org. Chem; Kennedy – Co-Editor of Acta Crystallogr, Sect. C, Editorial Board member
 for Crystals.

 PAC’s researchers have been very active in delivering invited international (>300) and national
 (>200) lectures during the research assessment period. In addition, over 50 plenary and keynote
 lectures were given at major conferences during the assessment period, such as the ACS National
 Meetings (Bruns, Graham, Hoskins) Gordon Research Conferences (Bruns, Faulds, Tuttle),
 Pittcon (Faulds), SciX (Baker, Faulds, Graham), ICORS (Faulds, Graham), ICOMC (Mulvey),
 etc. PAC’s members have also been very active in leadership of conference organisation both
 internationally and nationally and have served on local organising committees and advisory boards
 for >50 conferences during the REF period. These include large international conferences such
 as: ICSM 2020, ~1000 attendees (Dennany); SPEC 2018, ~260 attendees (Baker), APACT 2015,
 2016, 2018, 2019 ~100 attendees and EuroPACT, 2017 and 2020 ~250 attendees (Nordon);
 Programme Chair for SciX conference held in the USA, ~1200 attendees (Faulds). As well as
 smaller national level conferences such as: RSC Chemical Nanosciences and Nanotechnology
 Annual Network event, 2016-present, ~50-100 attendees (Hoskins); RSC Scottish Organic
 Division Meeting, ~150 attendees (Nelson); ScotChem Computational Chemistry Symposium,
 2015, 2020, ~80 attendees (Tuttle, Palmer).


                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department recognises the important contribution that all our staff members make to the
 sustainability and vitality of the research in the Department. We are pleased to report that the
 efforts of our faculty have also been acknowledged by external bodies. Examples of this external
 recognition include Fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE) during the REF2021
 assessment period for: Faulds, Hevia, Kerr, Ulijn. Our researchers have also been awarded >50
 distinguished prizes and fellowships for their research during the assessment period, including
 two prestigious EPSRC Future Leader Fellowships in the last two years to Beveridge (2019) and
 Reid (2020). Other notable recipients are: Mulvey (Humboldt Research Award, PKU-Eli Lilly
 Lectureship Award), Edkins (Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851 Research Fellowship),
 Craig (Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) Fellowship), Ivaturi (EPSRC Early
 Career Fellowship), Hoskins (Academy of Pharmaceutical Science Emerging Scientist Award),
 Graham (Charles Mann Award for Applied Raman Spectroscopy, FACSS, Theophilus Redwood
 Award, Royal Society of Chemistry, Named in top 100 Analytical Chemists by Analytical Scientist,
 and JSPS Fellowship), Nelson (Thieme Chemistry Journals Awardee, JSP Fellowship to attend
 the Bürgenstock Conference), Faulds (Charles Mann Award, FACSS, Named as one of the Top
 100 Power List of most influential analytical scientists published by The Analytical Scientist,
 Named as one of the Top 10 Spectroscopists by The Analytical Scientist, Coblentz Society’s
 Craver Award, Named as one of the Top 50 Women in Analytical Science by The Analytical
 Scientist), Baker (RSC Harrison – Meldola Memorial Prize Winner, The Analytical Scientist Power
 List 2018, Top 40 Under 40), Burley (Alexander von Humboldt Research Award), Kerr (Melvin
 Calvin Award of the International Isotope Society), Dennany (The Analytical Scientist Power List
 2018, Top 40 Under 40), Murphy (Alexander von Humboldt Research Prize, Charles Rees
 Award), Mosquera (Ángeles Alvariño Award (Outstanding Career), Ramón Areces Fellowship,
 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Individual Fellowships), Weetman (TU Munich Foundation Fellowship,
 EuroTech Marie-Curie Fellowship).

 The above selected evidence shows that PAC takes seriously its role in society in terms of
 producing, directing and contributing to the management of the highest quality research. We
 embrace equality, diversity and inclusion in the workplace to ensure the vitality and sustainability
 of our research activities and their impact. This commitment to our researchers extends to
 translating their research into useful technologies for the benefit of Chemistry, science in general
 and the wider society. It is consistent with our identity and forged from the University’s founding
 principle as “a place of useful learning”.




                                                                                             Page 19
