Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 11 - Computer Science and Informatics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 Since REF2014, the Unit has vigorously pursued its strategic objectives per the University’s
 mission “for the Common Good” and within the framework of the University’s Research Strategy
 that addresses three societal challenges: Inclusive Societies, Healthy Lives and Sustainable
 Environments, which in turn are guided by the UN Sustainable Development Goals. The Unit’s
 staff are located in the School of Computing, Engineering and Built Environment (SCEBE) and
 distributed across three academic departments (Computing, Cyber Security & Networks, Applied
 Computer Games).

 The University has seven Research Centres that collectively create a research environment for
 achieving the strategic research goals of the University. SCEBE is host to three of these:
 SMART Technology, Climate Justice and Built Environment & Asset Management. The Unit’s
 work is conducted within the SMART Technology Centre and its associated research groups, but
 often in collaboration with colleagues whose work is aligned with other Research Centres. The
 University’s Research Centres and research groups are very well supported by several other
 University departments including Graduate School, People Services, Research and Innovation
 Office, the Careers Service and the Communications & Engagement Directorate.


 Progress since REF2014

 The Unit has focused on improving the quality of its research environment rather than
 expansion, and on strengthening its collaborations with regional partners in line with the
 University’s role as an anchor for the regional economy. The evidence includes:

    •   an increase in staff submitted from 13 FTE (2 professors) to 14 FTE (6 professors)
    •   an increase in research doctoral degrees from 14.0 FTE to 36.34 FTE (160% increase)
    •   an increase in the percentage of journal outputs from 65% to 97%
    •   an increase in regional industrial collaboration funding such that it forms c50% of all
        funding
    •   the co-location and shared administrative resources of the SMART Technology, Climate
        Justice and BEAM Research Centres to enable colleagues to share ideas and
        collaborate to solve large complex problems
    •   enhanced researcher recruitment, development and peer review processes
    •   richer impact engagement and interactions with industrial sectors, policymakers,
        government, schools and the general public.


 Research Strategy and its Implementation

 The aim of the Unit is to research into the design, development and evaluation of computer-
 based systems for applications in two thematic areas: Sustainable Environment and Digital
 Health. These themes are shaped by the University’s strategy, its intellectual strengths and its
 collaborating partners’ requirements. The general approach is the development and evaluation
 of new products in terms of fitness for application purpose and impact, whilst advancing
 knowledge about the selection and adaptation of processes, methods, and tools for product
 development and evaluation.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The formulation, implementation, and management of research strategy is the responsibility of
 the SCEBE Research Committee of which the three hosted Research Centre Directors are
 members. The strategy is monitored via the annual performance review of the Research Centres
 and Research Groups. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) include international research
 publications, PhD completions, grant awards, knowledge transfer, engagement with
 stakeholders and the public, and the planning and management of research impact.


 Research Organisation

 Research Centres and groups are determined both strategically, from emerging research areas
 that look to be of lasting importance and present substantial research challenges, and by
 developing successful growth activities from current research themes. New Research Centres
 are approved by the University’s Executive Board. Within the Unit, each research group leads on
 a coherent intellectual investigation of its sub-discipline within Computer Science.

 The SMART Technology Centre was formally constituted in 2019 to reflect the co-ordinated
 interdisciplinary research carried out between colleagues working across the University on
 technologies and applications that drew upon ideas from Data Science, AI, IoT and End User
 Efficacy. The Centre’s key application themes are Sustainable Environments and Digital Health
 and its work is most closely aligned with UN SDGs 3 (Good Health and Well-being), 4
 (Education), 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy), 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), 11
 (Sustainable Cities and Communities), 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production) and 17
 (Partnerships to achieve Goals). The Centre ensures that groups are outwardly focused,
 responding to opportunities for applications and cross-pollination of ideas. The research groups
 are:

    •   Cyber Security, Networking and Communications (CSNC)
    •   Applied Games and Engaging Technologies (AGET)
    •   Artificial Intelligence & Internet of Things (AI/IoT).

 The CSNC group was formed from the merger of two REF2014 research groups, Network and
 Communication Systems (NACS) and Interactive and Trustworthy Technologies (ITT). It
 explores the design, development and evaluation of computer network architectures that
 balance communications performance and security requirements. The scale, scope and location
 of these networks varies and includes low power and high power environments, building and city
 infrastructures, above water and underwater.

 The AGET group was formed by refocusing the efforts of the REF2014 group, Visual, Affective
 and Pervasive Systems (VAPS). It examines the effect of computer games and other
 technologies, notably music, in professional contexts such as supporting health and wellbeing,
 understanding climate change impacts, awareness-raising of contemporary social issues and
 organisational development.

 The AI/IoT group was formed in 2017 to investigate the design, development and evolution of
 computer-based systems that collect, manage, analyse and visualise large real-time datasets
 typically from sensors attached to physical artefacts. Industrial engineering equipment and
 physical infrastructure monitoring applications have been a common problem focus. Different
 neural network configurations have been a solution focus.


 Staff Appointments

 Appointments are made to reinforce the work of existing groups or establish new groups, and to
 build synergies with other groups. Senior appointments and academic promotions are made to
 build leadership strengths. Since REF2014, Mannion, having served 4 years as Vice-Principal
 (Research) 2012-16, has joined the AI/IoT Group and led the formation of the SMART

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Technology Centre. The Unit has also appointed Morison (now promoted to Professor), Zhang,
 Gibson and Jenkins to this group.


 Research Funding

 Following REF2014 one aim was to increase research funding from regional partners in line with
 the University’s role as an anchor for the regional economy. This tactic is paying off. The Unit’s
 work has seen a significant increase in regional collaboration funding and this now forms c50%
 of all the Unit’s funding. Much of this is through the Innovate UK KTP scheme on the application
 of AI to industrial engineering problems.


 Doctoral Supervisions

 Another strand of the strategy was to recruit more postgraduate research students directly to the
 Unit but to also increase the supervision contributions to the many projects located in different
 Units requiring considerable computing input. The significant increase in research doctoral
 awards from 14.00 FTE to 36.34 FTE is a testament to the success of this approach.


 Research Culture

 The enhancement of the research culture is enabled by a range of activities including annual
 research celebrations, capacity building and innovation events, Research Centre seminar series,
 journal clubs, hackathon activities, and strong encouragement to attend and present work at
 networking events e.g. seminars, conferences, workshops.


 Impact strategy and its Implementation

 The aim of the Unit’s impact strategy is for its research to be translated into demonstrable impact
 for the benefit of the different communities that it serves. The strategy’s objectives are to:

    •   Raise understanding of the scope of impact
    •   Embed impact thinking across the research project lifecycle
    •   Develop a shared resource base to collect ongoing impact
    •   Increase the number of projects with external partners having clear pathways to impact
    •   Curate impact.

 SCEBE have collaborated with the University’s Graduate School and Communication &
 Engagement Directorate to run training and development seminars for researchers that cover
 impact management, stakeholder engagement, public engagement and media training.
 Colleagues are also pointed to publicly available online resources.

 Beyond the researcher training and development programme, researchers are strongly
 encouraged, through the peer review and mentoring processes, to consider impact early and
 often, during grant preparation, post-award implementation and post-project reflection.


 Resources

 The Unit benefits from Knowledge Exchange Officers in the Research and Innovation Office
 (RIO) to support the planning and management of its impact as well as from a Research Impact
 Officer appointed to the School in 2017. They have provided significant guidance to researchers
 about approaching stakeholders for planning, collecting and curating evidence of impact.
 SCEBE has a business partner in the Communications & Engagement Directorate that is also

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 very helpful in targeting media outlets and explaining the research and its impact to suit each
 media outlet’s target market.


 Future Strategy

 The Unit will remain committed to the two application themes of Sustainable Environments and
 Digital Health and to strengthening its collaborations with regional private, public, and third
 partners in line with the University’s role as an anchor for the regional economy. Its work will be
 guided by the University’s Research Enabling Strategy 2030 and the strategy of the SMART
 Technology Centre.

 Academically, in Sustainable Environments, future research will focus on algorithms, protocols
 and processes for automated monitoring, diagnostics and self-adaptation of engineering
 systems infrastructure, computer network architectures and cyber-security management, and will
 include an examination of the risks and limitations of self-adaptation. In Digital Health future
 research will focus on exploiting opportunities that machine learning can provide in supporting
 automated patient monitoring and predictive diagnosis whilst exploring the strengths and
 weaknesses of machine recommendations towards patient diagnosis and their role in the
 decision-making process. Both themes will be supported by a programme of work that examines
 the integration of different engagement and visualisation technologies, AR, VR, audio and the
 appropriate blend of these for different application contexts.

 To underpin both academic themes the Unit is developing an initiative called Data Science for
 the Common Good that will enhance the Data Science capability and capacity across the
 University. There will be a new programme of work to examine the notion of Common Good
 Datasets and the different governance mechanisms for those datasets. The work will include
 collaborating with colleagues in the University’s Research Centre for Health (ReaCH) who have
 secured GCU’s approval as an ESRC Data SafePod Network site from July 2021 (one of only
 two in Scotland) enabling safe access to large data sets including those from the NHS and the
 ONS.

 Operationally, the Unit will broaden and deepen the application reach of its ideas and outputs by
 expanding the range of its interdisciplinary collaboration with research groups inside and outside
 GCU. The Unit will also develop its work to drive more citizen engagement in shaping its
 research agendas as part of the University Research Enabling Strategy 2030 goal to be a world
 leader in social innovation.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy

 The aim of the staffing strategy is to place research excellence at the heart of academic
 recruitment and staff development. Specific objectives are:

    •   to require academic appointments to demonstrate existing or potential leadership
    •   to ensure all research group themes are supported by staff at a range of levels of
        seniority and experience
    •   to provide all staff with the research support and development to enable them to achieve
        their full potential
    •   to conduct and govern its research following the principles of the UUK Research Integrity
        Concordat.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment & Retention

 All academic staff are involved in research, teaching, and knowledge exchange and so
 candidates must have existing capabilities or the potential to excel in each of these. The Unit’s
 recruitment strategy is to strengthen the number of professors through professional development
 and academic promotions (e.g. Cassidy, Larijani and Morison secured Professorships in the
 REF period) and then invite them to mentor and support new, talented, but less experienced
 appointments (e.g. Zhang, Jenkins, Gibson, Farrell) as well as existing staff (e.g. Knox, Moore
 were promoted to Senior Lecturer). The academic interests of new hires have to align with the
 broad themes of designing, developing and evaluating computer-based systems for applications
 in Sustainable Environment and Digital Health, and their technical expertise has to be aligned
 with one of the three research group areas.

 Compared to REF2014, there has been a small increase in staff submitted from 13 FTE to 14
 FTE, but the number of professors submitted has increased from 2 (13%) to 6 (43%).
 In 2020 the three Research Centres (SMART Technology Centre, Climate Justice and BEAM)
 collaborated to appoint a shared Office Administrator to support conference and event
 management.


 Staff Development

 The University holds the HR Excellence in Research Award (HREiR) committing to the
 implementation of the Principles of the Researcher Development Concordat. This framework
 includes actions around Researcher Recognition and Value, Researcher Support, and Personal
 and Career Development.

 Staff development programmes are guided by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework.
 The University recognises the importance of maintaining a balance between different academic
 activities, and this is supported by policies covering flexible working, workload management,
 sabbaticals, and a Professional Development Annual Review (PDAR) Scheme in which time
 allowances are given to engage with research work based on pre-agreed deliverables and line
 management support.

 Support for implementing the Vitae Researcher Development Framework is led by the Graduate
 School, with input from People Services, RIO, the Careers Service, the Communications &
 Engagement Directorate and SCEBE, but also draws upon the services offered by the networks
 the Unit is connected into e.g. Deans & Directors of Graduate School Network, the Scottish
 Informatics and Computer Science Alliance (SICSA), the Scottish Government’s Data Lab and
 CENSIS Innovation Centres. The Graduate School leads on researcher development e.g.
 project planning, PhD research supervision, managing research teams, writing retreats,
 managing impact; People Services on general HR management e.g. recruitment, running
 PDARs, unconscious bias, mental health, equality & diversity; RIO on locating research
 opportunities, grant writing, research integrity, post-award grant management,
 commercialisation; the Careers Service on career planning; the Communications & Engagement
 Directorate on public engagement, media training, marketing; SCEBE on local support
 mechanisms and processes.


 Industrial Experience

 Many projects have been with collaborating partners from different sectors, notably KTPs.
 Throughout these collaborations, researchers and PGR students learn about the scope and
 scale of partners’ short-term and long-term problems and the constraints within which solutions
 must fit. Over time researchers develop a sharper understanding that bold solutions to cross-
 sector problems must be capable of being contextualised to be effective in different settings.
 Cultivating this attitude has enabled the building of new collaborative partnerships.

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peer Support

 All researchers seek feedback from experienced colleagues in both informal and formal settings,
 such as writing retreats and grant-writing proposal workshops. Writing retreats are valuable in
 offering feedback from colleagues who specialise in academic writing, and from colleagues from
 different disciplines who can provide objective, technically uninformed perspectives. All
 researchers submitting work for external funding engage in the SCEBE Peer Review process to
 improve the quality of grant applications over £50,000 and where GCU takes a lead role within a
 consortium. Proposals are reviewed early and regularly in the process by a group of experienced
 researchers and project leaders. The peer-review process serves as an ongoing support
 mechanism. SCEBE’s Research Management Group, which is made up of the Associate Dean
 Research, Research Centre Directors, Senior PGR Tutor, Impact Officer and Senior Research
 Administrator, oversee the peer review process and formally record peer review outcomes.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs) are assigned a mentor, typically an experienced researcher
 who provides confidential support for all aspects of the academic role, such as advice and
 guidance on the establishment and maintenance of a research programme, workload
 management, grant proposal writing, and lecturing and tutoring. There is also a School-wide
 ECR Group that meets regularly and provides additional support. This group has representation
 on the SCEBE Research Committee. ECRs have reduced teaching loads in their first year of
 employment (at the rate of 50% of normal loads), to give them opportunities to develop their
 independent research career.

 Established researchers are also recognised by GCU as having particular challenges in
 sustaining a high level of research activity throughout an entire career, and provides
 mechanisms that enable staff to maintain research productivity and focus. This is built into
 reduced teaching workloads (typically by 50%). There is also a sabbatical programme for those
 who take on significant managerial roles for fixed terms. Staff who are relieved from teaching
 and administrative duties for a term are provided with travel support based on an agreed,
 realistic productive research plan.


 PGR Student Management

 PGR students benefit from a comprehensive programme supervision structure in line with the
 University’s processes and enhanced by the Unit.


 Recruitment & Registration

 The Unit has strengthened its approach to ensuring prospective candidates are well prepared
 and clear in their understanding and motivation about undertaking a PhD programme. Typically,
 staff have an informal engagement with prospective candidates before a formal interview is
 conducted with two or more staff members including an experienced supervisor.

 A Director of Studies and supervisory team are appointed to support each student. Directors of
 Study have experience of successful supervision into completion. All supervisors have secured
 PhDs or have significant industrial experience in their cognate areas. All supervisors undergo
 initial and on-going training in the supervision of PhD candidates. Each PGR student typically
 has a minimum of two but often three staff members who provide different technical but also
 pastoral perspectives. PGR students are embedded in their relevant research groups but
 also have ample opportunity for cross-discipline discourse via co-location in a mixed-
 discipline office environment and the annual student-led GCU postgraduate research
 conference.

 Following recruitment, the student’s initial registration is reviewed by the cognate area PGR
 Tutor, Senior PGR Tutor and/or Associate Dean Research to ensure that the project is of

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sufficient PhD quality, aligned with the University strategy, supervised by a suitably experienced
 team and that resources will be made available to deliver the research.

 There are two induction events for new PhD students. The first is carried out by the Graduate
 School and the second is carried out by SCEBE. The Graduate School induction covers general
 information on the University including the Graduate School, registration processes, what to
 expect, personal development plans, and a tour of the University facilities. The SCEBE induction
 event focuses on summarising its support mechanisms including supervisory teams, seminars,
 research groups, student networks, important contacts e.g. Associate Dean Research, the PGR
 Programme Administrator, PGR Tutors, and includes a tour of SCEBE facilities.


 Progression & Retention

 Research students submit a progress report after nine months. The quality of the report is
 assessed and the student is orally examined by two academics to determine eligibility to
 progress to PhD. Their recommendation is considered by the SCEBE PGR Progression and
 Awards Board. On satisfactory examination, the student is permitted to progress to the
 completion of the PhD. The outcome and feedback are given to the student.

 All PGR students submit monthly meeting records with the supervisory team. These records
 enable a SCEBE PGR programme administrator to follow up any related progress issues with
 one of the PGR Tutors or the Associate Dean Research. These records are also used by the UK
 Border Agency to assess the visa status of international students.


 Student Development

 Each PhD student develops their own learning development plan that includes opportunities to
 apply for graduate teaching roles and other relevant work experiences. Students receive
 feedback on the development and implementation of the plan from their supervisory team. They
 are also encouraged to write a reflective log so that their personal development can be self-
 evaluated.

 Each PGR student is allocated a nominal budget of £1,800 to support their professional
 development. The scope is varied and includes enhancing technical skills, soft skills
 development and conference attendance.

 Students are invited to participate actively in SCEBE’s Research Groups by attending meetings
 and seminars. PhD candidates are strongly encouraged to disseminate their research to wider
 academic communities by publishing in refereed journals and through participation and
 presentations at national and international conferences. Students also have the opportunity to
 participate in research doctoral colloquia over their 3-year PhD tenure. SCEBE also run a
 student-led postgraduate research conference, where PGR students can present their research
 work and ideas in a supportive peer environment and receive critical feedback from the wider
 School research community. In September 2019, SCEBE opened this internal event for
 participation by PGR students from other Universities, so that GCU students can benefit from a
 more extended peer support network.

 Some students have also been involved on the Steering Committee of the annual SICSA PhD
 Conference.


 Evidence of Success

 During the REF period, the Unit has returned a year-on-year average of 35 registered PGR
 FTE. The number of research doctoral degrees during the period was 36.34 FTE compared

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to 14 FTE in REF2014, a 160% increase. Overall PGR student satisfaction is sitting at 88%
 compared to a cross-sector average of 81%.


 Equality and Diversity

 GCU takes a whole institution approach to advance equality, diversity and inclusivity and it is an
 integral part of the University’s Strategy 2030. It is part of our identity and this flows through our
 Common Good mission and strategy, and supporting activities, and is reflected in our culture.
 The embodiment of the University’s Values and Behaviours Framework guide and reflect our
 day-to-day interactions.

 GCU’s Equality Outcomes Framework describes the actions and activities that the University is
 taking to implement a commitment to equality and diversity. The Equality and Diversity and
 Dignity at Work policies and practices are deployed across all aspects of the recruitment and
 career management of all staff and students. The University undertakes Equality Impact
 Assessments (EIAs) when making strategic decisions, operational decisions, and writing and
 implementing policies to ensure that any adverse or negative impact on equality is identified and
 addressed. All staff undergo training to ensure that individual and collective approaches to policy
 implementation are robust and embedded in practice.

 The University and SCEBE have both been formally recognised for their commitment to
 promoting gender equality by attaining the Athena SWAN Institutional Bronze Award (2016) and
 are awaiting the outcome of Athena Swan Silver applications, with a growth in the percentage of
 female academic staff from 22% to 26% and has a short-term target of 30% by 2022
 (percentages for this Unit cannot be shown due to the low numbers of staff within the Unit).
 Black Minority Ethnic academic staff have increased from 19% to 24%.

 Of the 36.34 FTE research doctoral awards reported to REF2021, 32% were UK students, 68%
 from outside the UK.

 In SCEBE a special appointment of PGR Student Equality and Diversity Champion for PGR
 students across SCEBE, an addition to the University’s mandated representatives, ensures that
 different PGR perspectives are listened to, represented, supported and advised appropriately, in
 an impartial, non-judgmental and confidential manner. The role also provides input into the
 design of University policies and procedures.

 In 2020 SCEBE introduced financial support for PhD stipends during pregnancy and parental or
 adoption leave.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 The overall funding for the REF2021 period (£1.47m) is slightly down from the equivalent
 REF2014 period (£1.59m). However, there have been year-on-year funding increases since
 2017/18 and several recent awards have not yet realised their full income (£218k with Aggreko
 awarded Jan 2020, £485k with Mitsubishi awarded Apr 2020). The Unit has secured 8 KTPs
 amounting to £1.8m awards during the REF period.

 The Unit’s income can be separated into two SMART Technology themes: Sustainable
 Environments and Digital Health and includes:




                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sustainable Environments

      •   Morison was awarded £218k in 2020 for a project called Machine Learning for Asset
          Prognostics with Aggreko Ltd. It is using machine learning technologies for
          manufacturing and assembly asset prognostics in an Edge Computing Environment.
      •   Morison was awarded £493k in 2019 for a project called the Smart Factory in
          collaboration with Mitsubishi Electric Air Conditioning Systems Europe Ltd. It is using
          IoT sensing technology and machine learning to provide predictive maintenance to
          improve factory efficiency.
      •   Morison & Mannion were awarded £242k in 2018 for a project called Supply Chain
          Security Optimization with Intrallect Ltd. It is developing a novel software-based platform
          for secure data sharing of sensitive information using crypto fragmentation, biometrics
          and blockchains.
      •   Mannion was awarded £212k in 2018 for a project called Automated Software Systems
          Integration with Eureka Solutions. It is developing a novel automated API integration
          solution drawing on techniques from advances in natural language processing.
      •   Morison was awarded £181k in 2017 for a project called Enhanced Visual Inspection
          using Deep Learning with Geckotech Solutions Ltd. It developed new real-time deep
          learning algorithms for automatic detection and segmentation of faults within transport
          infrastructures e.g. tunnels, bridges.
      •   Morison was awarded £166k in 2015 for a project called Structural Monitoring of
          Tunnels with Geckotech Solutions Ltd. It developed a novel Imaging Data Acquisition
          system for the capture of tunnel structures.
      •   Larijani was awarded £161k in 2017 for a project called Real-time Security monitoring of
          IoT Environments with Stream Technologies Ltd. It developed new methods of real-time
          security monitoring random neural networks.
      •   Larijani was awarded £145k in 2015 for a project called Low Power Wide Area Wireless
          Sensor Network (License Free Spectrum) for Environmental Sensing with Stream
          Technologies Ltd. It developed an autonomous Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID)
          solution with energy harvesting for implementation in low power wireless sensors.


 Digital Health

      •   Farrell was awarded £238k in 2016 from Southampton University under an NIHR-
          funded project called Engaging Adolescents in Changing Behaviour (EACH-B) project to
          design a diet education game as part of a large complex multimode behavioural
          intervention.
      •   Cassidy was awarded £117k in 2015 from NESTA (37K), Edinburgh & Lothian Health
          Foundation (60K) and Playlist for Life (20k) to design, develop and evaluate a new
          mobile application to enrich wellbeing for dementia sufferers through the use of
          personalised playlists, and create a Citizen Science platform for data collection and
          knowledge transfer.
      •   Cassidy & Knox were awarded £35k in 2014 from the Carnegie Trust to establish the
          Scottish Music and Health Network, an interdisciplinary collaboration to set up new
          pathways of translating research findings into clinical practice, by involving patient
          organisations and health and/or music practitioners.
      •   Cassidy was awarded £41k in 2018 from AHRC to establish, with the University of
          Ghent, an International Games Network of experts in games studies, digital learning
          and the music industry.
      •   Cassidy was awarded £10k in 2019 from the SingFit charity to evaluate the impact of a
          SingFit Music Therapy mobile application on the wellbeing parameters of those living
          and working with dementia in the Care Home.
      •   Cassidy was awarded £17.9k in 2018 from Creative Scotland with ABC Creative Music
          to gamify their music provision in schools


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      •   Cassidy was awarded £3k in 2019 from the Sporting Memories charity to design a novel
          mobile application to engage older adults living with dementia and/or loneliness through
          sporting knowledge.


 Infrastructure

 The University is located on a single campus in the city centre of Glasgow in which the Centre’s
 laboratories and facilities are concentrated, underpinning many of the Unit’s research projects
 and funding applications.


 Laboratories

 There are nine principal laboratories used for research, all housed in a single building on
 campus:

      •   AI Lab: equipped with high-end data processing machines to support the application of
          resource-hungry machine learning algorithms.
      •   Networking Lab: supports design and analysis of the next generation of digital wired and
          wireless networking infrastructure.
      •   Advanced IoT Lab: deep learning servers, wireless sensors, IoT, measuring equipment,
          smart home and other IoT platforms.
      •   Cyber Security Lab: allows students to experience and combat ‘real-life’ cyber-attacks.
      •   eMotion UX Laboratory: a unique facility supporting staff and students in the design and
          development of user experience evaluation and psychophysiological technologies
          including face reading technology, physiological and brain wave measurement, motion
          and emotion capture, behavioural and interaction recording studio.
      •   Serious Games Lab: a cutting-edge design space to support serious games design and
          development featuring a range of engagement technologies e.g. VR/AR/Audio.
      •   Audio Laboratory: enables the role of sound and music to be explored in professional
          contexts.
      •   Virtual Reality Lab: a resource for projects aiming to understand the dynamics and
          implications of interactions among people in immersive virtual reality simulations (VR).
      •   Virtual Reality Driving Simulator Lab: the VRDS Lab is the only VR driving simulation
          and testing facility in Scotland and one of the few in the UK and Europe. It is a fully
          immersive CAVE facility that entails a real-life Mercedes A-Class vehicle rewired for
          simulation purposes offering surround visual projection, 7.1 audio and vibrotactile
          devices installed in the vehicle's cabin to simulate the tarmac imperfections. The
          simulator is fully customisable to accommodate different vehicular equipment, driving
          scenarios, VANETS, weather and traffic flow conditions in a Digital Twin Model of the
          motorway network around Glasgow.


 Office Accommodation

 The office accommodation for the three Research Centres (SMART Technology, Climate Justice
 and BEAM) are co-located on the same floor, in the same building as the laboratories. The
 University has also invested in office accommodation to co-locate many SCEBE PGR students.
 This enables the students to build networks that broaden their understanding of different
 technologies and application contexts and to enhance their support of each other. Some
 students, but not all, need regular access to specialist equipment in laboratories. In these cases,
 consideration is given to re-locating them to offices closer to this equipment.




                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Facilities

 The Glasgow Caledonian University Ltd is the University’s commercial arm that provides a
 professional framework within which staff can undertake consulting. Working through the
 Research and Innovation Office, it handles both legal and administrative aspects (e.g. contracts,
 insurance, invoicing) as well as providing a single point of contact for third parties looking for
 specific expertise.

 The commercial exploitation of novel ideas emergent from students, alumni and staff is
 supported by an incubator facility, UHatch, managed by the Research and Innovation Office.
 UHatch is positioned as the first step on an escalator of enterprise accelerators and business
 support offered within an overarching Scottish Government Business Development framework. It
 provides members with time-limited free office space, professional mentoring, enterprise
 workshops and talks, direct and indirect funding, networking and one to one guidance, and
 receives sponsorship funding from Santander Bank.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 As described in Section 3, the Unit works closely with several key stakeholders through
 collaborative projects and strategic partnerships. The Unit also collaborates with colleagues in
 other GCU Units being submitted. For example, Morison collaborates with Alkali and McGlinchey
 (engineers in the SMART Technology Centre) on the Mitsubishi project (see Section 3) and
 Cassidy collaborated with Mason (GCU Yunus Centre for Social Business & Health) on the
 musical playlist for dementia sufferers.


 Networks and partnerships

 During the REF period, the Unit has been an active partner in 15-20 Innovation and Advanced
 Innovation knowledge transfer projects involving two national Scottish Innovation Centres: Data
 Lab and Sensors & Imaging (CENSIS). Morison was awarded an industrial doctorate scholarship
 funding from the Data Lab to run alongside the second Geckotech KTP, has given a keynote talk
 and been a panel discussant at Data Lab events.

 Cassidy was a Trustee and Advisor for Playlist for Life, Sporting Memories, ABC Creative Music
 and SingFit, advising on the opportunities and outcomes of music and engaging technologies in
 the processes and practices of the charities/companies.

 Moore was the organiser and committee member of the Scottish and Audio Acoustics network.
 He served as Chair for the Audio Engineering Society Scottish Group until 2019 organising
 various research events including the 26th UK Audio Engineering Society Conference on Audio
 Education.


 Academic Collaborations

 Tianfield collaborates (co-authored papers, PhD supervision) with the Research Group of
 Artificial Intelligence, a Ministry of Education of China Key Laboratory for Industrial Process
 Systems Engineering directed by Qian, Fellow of Chinese Academy of Engineering, at East
 China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai. Some of this work was supported by the
 National Basic Research Program of China (2012CB720500), the National Natural Science
 Foundation of China (U1162202, 21276078, 61203157), and the New Century Excellent
 Researcher Award Program from the Ministry of Education of China (NCET-10-0885), the
 Shanghai Rising-Star Program (13QH1401200), and the Fundamental Research Funds for the
 Central Universities. Tianfield also collaborates with Mu (Tianjin University) to design and

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 develop a cloud computing-based platform for smart grid environments with funding from the
 Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) and the National Natural Science Foundation of China
 (NSFC); with Tang, Xu and Zhao (Chongqing University of Posts and Telecommunications) to
 investigate different designs of software-defined wireless networks with funding from the
 National Natural Science Foundation of China (NSFC) and the Chongqing City Government; and
 with Lin (Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications) to investigate federated learning
 in edge computing.

 Charissis has co-authored papers with Drikakis (Vice President for Global Partnerships,
 University of Nicosia, Cyprus) and was invited to Nicosia to present his work in VR/AR training
 research and applications in the Greek Cypriot Ministry of Defence; co-authored papers with
 Altarteer (Dar Al-Hekma University, School of Design and Architecture, Jeddah, Kingdom of
 Saudi Arabia) presenting new methods of VR e-Commerce and Technology Acceptance
 Methods; collaborated with Wang (Volkswagen R&D Beijing, China) on Intelligent Transportation
 Systems; with Alfalah (The University of Jordan) on human rehabilitation and Falah (Al Balqa
 Applied University, Jordan) for vehicular AI and VR medical training.

 Mannion has collaborated (i.e. co-authored papers, tutorials) with: Savolainen (Vice-President
 Global Software Danfoss Electronics, Denmark) and was invited to Danfoss to present work on
 software product line engineering; Kaindl (University of Technology, Vienna) on Requirements
 Engineering for product lines; Ozcoc (Baskent University, Turkey) on cyber-security and who
 spent six months as a Visiting Academic to GCU in 2019/20.

 Farrell collaborated with Milkoreit (Political Science at Purdue) and Vervoort (Copernicus
 Institute of Sustainable Development at Utrecht) on the Mellon Foundation-funded work on a
 climate change game design and implementation. Farrell also hosted Vervoort in 2016 to run a
 Game Jam with food-production-under-climate-changes as a theme.

 Nazir has collaborated (co-authored papers) with Kaleem (COMSATS University – No.3 in
 Pakistan). He collaborated with Newey (James Hutton Institute at Aberdeen) and van der Wal
 (School of Biological Sciences, Aberdeen but now at Swedish University of Agricultural
 Sciences) to develop and exploit wireless sensing environments. He has also collaborated with
 Camvista, the remote monitoring live streaming video company, to enhance their product suite.

 Zhang has collaborated (co-authored papers) with Liao (Central South University, China).

 Gibson has collaborated (co-authored papers) with Amira (Qatar University); Dali (University of
 MEDEA, Algeria); Guessoum (University of Blida, Algeria); Cuntz & Palke (HTWK Leipzig).


 Contribution to the Discipline

 Professional Societies

    •   Tianfield - Chair, Technical Committee on Cyber-Physical Cloud Systems of IEEE
        Systems, Man and Cybernetics Society.
    •   Charissis – Technical Committee Member IEEE Consumer Technology Society (IEEE
        CTSoc).


 Funding Bodies

    •   Tianfield - a member of EPSRC College.
    •   Cassidy has reviewed funding applications for AHRC and ESRC.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal Editorial Boards and Reviewers

    •   Tianfield: Editor-in-Chief, Multiagent and Grid Systems, an international journal of data
        science and engineering; Associate Editor, IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and
        Cybernetics: Systems.
    •   Charissis: Editorial Board Member of Applied Sciences, an MDPI Journal; Special Issue
        Editor for Digital Health Applications of Ubiquitous HCI Research, Multimodal Technology
        and Interaction (MTI) MDPI; Special Issue Editor for Artificial Intelligence and Emerging
        Technologies, Applied Sciences MDPI.
    •   Shahrabi: Serves on the Editorial Boards of Hindawi/Wiley International Journal of
        Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, International Journal of Internet of
        Things and its Applications, International Journal of Cloud-Computing & Super-
        Computing, and has served on the Editorial Boards of Journal of Urban Design for
        Ubiquitous Computing (2015-18), International Journal of Wireless Communications,
        Networking and Mobile Computing (2014-16), International Journal of Smart Home
        (2007-18), and as an Associate Editor of the Journal of Information Processing Systems
        (2009-19).


 Journal Reviewers

 All colleagues submitted have served as reviewers for a variety of journals including: IEEE
 Access, IEEE Transaction of Computational Social Systems, IEEE Trans in Industrial
 Informatics, IEEE IoT Journal, IEEE Transaction of Computational Social Systems, IEEE
 Transaction on Consumer electronics, IEEE Consumer Electronic Magazine (CEM) Journal, Ad
 hoc Networks Journal, Journal of Building Engineering, Wireless Communications and Mobile
 Computing Journal, Journal of Information Security and Applications, The Journal of
 Electromagnetic Waves and Applications, Neural Processing Letters, Psychology of Music and
 Musicae Scientiae, Journal of Sounds and Music in Games, Requirements Engineering,
 Information & Software Technology, Systems Software, Automated Software Engineering,
 Empirical Software Engineering and Medical Informatics, MDPI Journal Sensors, MDPI
 Multidisciplinary Journal, MDPI Journal Applied Sciences, MDPI Multimodal Technology and
 Interaction (MTI), Springer Journal Virtual Reality (VIRE), Springer Journal Universal Access,
 Springer Journal Cognition, Technology and Work (CTW), Springer Journal Eurasip Advances in
 Signal Processing, Elsevier Computers and Security Journal, Elsevier Building and Environment
 Journal, Elsevier Journal of Applied Soft Computing, Elsevier Journal of Biomedical Signal
 Processing and Control, Elsevier International Journal of Human-Computer Interaction, Elsevier
 Journal of Applied Ergonomics, Elsevier Journal of Digital Signal Processing, Journal of
 Information Processing, International Journal of Internet of Things and its Applications (IJIoTA),
 Journal of Urban Design for Ubiquitous Computing (IJUDUC), International Journal of Cloud-
 Computing and Super-Computing (IJCS), International Journal of Smart Home(IJSH).


 Conference Leadership

 Tianfield: Chair of IEEE International Workshop on IoT Big Data and Blockchain (IoTBB’2019) at
 IEEE BigData 2019; Chair, International Workshop on Conversational Agents and Chatbots with
 Machine Learning (ChatbotML’2018) at IEEE BigData 2018; Chair, International Workshop on
 Big Data Analytics for Cyber Intelligence and Defense (BDA4CID’2017) at IEEE BigData 2017;
 Organiser and Chair, Special Session on “Cyber-Physical Clouds”, 2015 IEEE International
 Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics 2015; Co-Chair for 15th IEEE International
 Conference of Industrial Informatics (INDIN'2017); Co-Chair Future Internet and Networks
 Symposium, at 11th EAI International Conference on Communications and Networking 2016.
 He also won Best Paper Awards at the 15th IEEE International Conference on Intelligence and
 Security Informatics (ISI’17) and the 2nd IEEE International Conference on Cyber Security and
 Cloud Computing (CSCloud’15), New York, USA, 3-5 November 2015.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shahrabi: Served as a board member for the World Congress on Engineering since 2007,
 General Co-Chair of the 33rd International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and
 Applications (2019); programme committees of over 80 international conferences including the
 7th EAI International Conference on Industrial Networks and Intelligent Systems (2021), the 3rd
 International Conference on Big Data Engineering and Technology (BDET2021), the 5th
 International Conference on Systems and Networks Communications (ICSNC 2020), the
 International Conference on Mobile Ubiquitous Computing, Systems, Services and Technologies
 (2020), the 3rd Smart Cities Symposium (2020), the 5th IEEE Annual International Smart Cities
 Conference 2019, the 11th International Conference on Computer Science and its Applications
 (2019), the 13th International Conference on Mobile Ubiquitous Computing, Systems, Services
 and Technologies, and the 4th EAI International Conference on Industrial Networks and
 Intelligent Systems (2018); Morison was on the Technical Committee for International
 Conference on Signal Processing Systems (2014).

 Nazir: Served as a Cloud Computing Working Group member for the ACM Conference on
 Innovation and Technology in Computer Science Education (ITiCSE) for 2019 and 2020.

 Larijani: Sponsor/Exhibit Chair of the IEEE World Congress on Computational Intelligence
 (WCCI) 2020 in Glasgow and has helped chair and organise several events including Cognitive
 and Computational Intelligence. He was also Programme Chair for the 2019 International
 Conference on Deep Learning and Machine Learning in Emerging Applications (Deep-ML).

 Mannion: Served on the Programme Committees of ACM International Systems and Software
 Product Line Conference (2019, 2018, 2017), IEEE European Conference on the Engineering of
 Computer-Based Systems (2017), Euromicro Conference on Software Engineering and
 Advanced Applications (43rd in 2017, 40th in 2014).

 Knox: Organised the SEMPRE Conference on Music and Health, Oct (2015); European Society
 for the Cognitive Sciences of Music’s International Conference of Music Perception and
 Cognition.

 Cassidy: Organised and helped to run Mapping the Future for Music and Health Research in
 Scotland (three meetings of the Scottish Music and Health Network in 2014 and 2015); AHRC
 Network: Guitar Heroes in Music Education? Music-based video games and their potential for
 musical and performative creativity (two workshops and an AHRC Network Award Public
 Engagement Event in 2014, 2015).

 Zhang: Served on the Programme Committee of the 2nd International Conference on Blockchain
 and Internet of Things (BIoT 2021).

 Charissis: Served as a Co-organiser of ACM Siggraph Asia (2015) special session workshop on
 Head-Up Displays and their Applications; Co-Chair IEEE (2014) for Big Data Architecture and
 Analytics session, in International Conference & Expo on Emerging Technologies for a Smarter
 World (IEEE CEWIT 2014).


 Keynotes and Invited Talks

     •   Tianfield: Keynote at Blockchain and health services, at the IEEE International
         Workshop on IoT Big Data and Blockchain (IoTBB’2019); Protecting virtualization for
         cloud computing, 5th Holyrood Annual Conference on Cloud Computing in the Public
         Sector, Holyrood (Connect), Edinburgh, UK, 23rd September 2014.
     •   Morison: Keynote - International Conference on Industrial Engineering and Industrial
         Management (2017), International Conference on Frontiers of Signal Processing (2015).
     •   Cassidy: Keynote at Society for Education, Music and Psychology Research
         Conference (2015).


                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        •    Mannion: Half-day tutorials at IEEE International Conference on Requirements
             Engineering (2019, 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015), ACM International Conference on
             Systems and Software Product Lines (2019, 2018, 2017, 2016), International
             Conference on Advanced Information Systems Engineering 2018 (CAiSE 2018),
             International Conference on Software Reuse (2015), International Symposium on
             Applied Computing (2014).
        •    Knox: Audio Engineering Society Christmas Lecture (Dec 2014): ‘The Psychology of
             Sound and Music’. Filmed and broadcast online by the BBC. Invited talk at the Royal
             Conservatoire of Scotland in Jan 2015: ‘Music technology, effects on the listener and
             communication’.
        •    Jenkins: Several invited speaker engagements for The Data Lab and ScotlandIS.
        •    Charissis: Invited lecture to BCS Glasgow 2017; Invited lecture to Institute of Physics &
             Aerospace, Kinross 2016.


 Consultancy

 The Unit has participated in 15-20 projects funded under the Scottish Funding Council’s
 Innovation Voucher scheme. These are small projects (value £10k) to support innovations in
 product design, processes or services at Small to Medium Enterprises. They allow the SMEs
 access to the R&D expertise within the Unit which is outside the SME’s capability. Occasionally
 these projects lead to Advanced Innovation Projects and in one case an Innovate UK KTP
 (Safehinge Ltd, secured in 2021 due to Covid-related delays).


 PGR Examiner Roles

 Staff from the Unit have carried out external PGR examiner roles at the following institutions:

    •       University of Glasgow
    •       University of Wales Trinity Saint David
    •       University of Aalto (Finland)
    •       Liverpool John Moores University
    •       University of Jordan, Amman
    •       Auckland University of Technology
    •       University of Strathclyde
    •       Nottingham Trent University.


 Media Coverage

    •       Charissis was interviewed by STV 9 O'clock News, STV Glasgow late bulletin, and
            Science (June 2015) about Head-Up Displays, and Virtual and Augmented Reality in
            future vehicles; by the Scotsman Newspaper (2016) about VR Current Trends and
            Future; by the Daily Record (Sept 2014) about VR/AR and collision avoidance systems;
            and by the Daily Mail (2014) about smart windscreen displays. This interview was also
            published by Le Figaro (France), WallStreet Online (Germany) and other media across
            Europe. Charissis presented the effects of drinking and driving in support of the new
            Scottish regulations in a radio and TV interview titled “Putting Scotland’s New Drink Drive
            Limit to Test” (Dec 2014), broadcast by 13 radio stations across Scotland. Charissis was
            interviewed by Strategy Analytics New York (2020) about Digital Twin Cities and AI.
    •       Knox has provided expert comment about the science of hearing and sound perception
            on a range of radio broadcasts, including the BBC Radio Scotland Science programme
            Brainwaves.
    •       Cassidy has provided expert comments on music and wellbeing and applied games in a
            range of media forms from BBC radio shows to BBC and ITV segments.

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Jenkins received TV media coverage following an article in The Conversation about
        using satellite systems for monitoring birds of prey.
    •   Mannion was interviewed by the Scottish Daily Mail about AI in general and spiritual
        robots.
    •   Farrell’s climate change game work was covered in The Conversation. He also provided
        expert comments on general gaming issues e.g. the promise of console-free gaming to
        Wired magazine: https://www.wired.co.uk/article/google-stadia.


 Engagement with Research Users, Beneficiaries, Policy Makers

 Mannion wrote GCU’s Research Strategy in 2014 and contributed to its refresh in 2017.
 Between 2012-2016 he served on Universities Scotland Research & Knowledge Transfer
 Committees, represented GCU at UUK research events, and orchestrated GCU’s input into the
 UK and Scottish Government’s research and knowledge exchange policy developments. He was
 also a member of the Scottish Funding Council’s FE/HE ICT Strategy Group to advise the
 Scottish Government on the FE and HE sectors’ approach to the implementation of the
 McClelland Review of ICT Infrastructure in the Public Sector in Scotland. In 2020 he gave oral
 evidence to the Independent review of SFC's research pooling initiative (Sept 2020). From 2011-
 2015 he represented Universities UK on the board of the Higher Education Academy.

 Charissis was invited to participate as a member of Transport Scotland specialists’ advisory
 board Strategic Partnership Board (SPB) (2018-2019) for the planning of future policies of
 Scotland’s Road Safety Framework 2030.

 Farrell’s climate change simulation game, funded by the Mellon Foundation, was co-designed
 and evaluated by climate change policy advisers. It was played and evaluated by international
 climate change policy negotiators at the UN Climate Change Conference in Bonn 2018 and the
 UN Climate Change Conference in Katowice 2019. Farrell’s general knowledge of game-based
 learning was exploited and translated into a book resource for teachers
 (http://eduproject.eu/game-based-learning/downloads/GameOn-Book-V1.pdf) under an
 ERASMUS project Game-Based Learning in School Education (Game On) (2016-17). Farrell’s
 diet education game for the Engaging Adolescents in Changing Behaviour (EACH-B) Games for
 Health project directly involved adolescents to help with its design, development and evaluation.

 Cassidy’s work on the Playlist for Life Project involved patients with dementia, their loved ones
 and carers, through stakeholder analysis, co-design and development of a unique app to support
 and enrich wellbeing for those living with dementia through the use of personalised playlists,
 while addressing the digital inclusion agenda. Her work on the Opportunities' and Outcomes of
 Music Games for Music Education involved engaging user beneficiaries in an event to transfer
 knowledge and practical experience of engaging with and applying music technologies to bridge
 formal and informal musical activity.

 Gibson co-organised and ran the Video Quality Experts Group (VQEG) Glasgow Meeting (2015)
 in the University of the West of Scotland, involving participants from universities, including RISE
 (the Research Institute of Sweden), Ghent University, London Imperial, and participants from
 various companies, including Qualcomm, Intel, Adobe, Netflix, Amazon, Sky.

 Moore ran the Action on Hearing Loss summer studentship (2016) in collaboration with the
 MRC/CSO Institute of Hearing Research Scottish Branch, a major hearing research group in the
 UK undertaking international-class research.




                                                                                             Page 16
