Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Lincoln

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 The Art and Design Unit of Assessment (UoA32) at the University of Lincoln extends across the
 College of Arts and the College of Science with researchers located within the School of History
 and Heritage, the School of Design, the School of Fine and Performing Arts, and the School of
 Chemistry. This range is indicative of the interdisciplinary nature of the Unit: researchers work on
 a coherent set of specialisms from a range of disciplinary perspectives. There are 17.7 FTE
 academic staff returned in REF 2021, compared to 13.1 in REF 2014. The income for the Unit
 has grown 104% since REF 2014, from £940,851 to £1.9 million (based on HESA return). These
 achievements have allowed the Unit to sustain its strong links to external partners and continue
 its publication record, commercially orientated research, exhibitions and creative practice. Within
 conservation, our commercial research Unit now trades as ‘Lincoln Conservation’ (formerly
 ‘Crick-Smith Conservation’).

 In our Unit, cultural history and critical heritage studies blend with creative practice, materials
 science and conservation practice, a range symptomatic of our interdisciplinary work. While we
 embrace the University’s encouragement of ‘the academic freedom of individual researchers’
 (University Strategic Plan) we encourage the collective identity of groupings within the Unit
 through groups such as the Nineteenth-century studies group, and the Global and Transregional
 Studies Research group, the Critical Heritage and Place Consumption seminar and the Critical
 Encounters Lecture series. Since REF 2014, we have expanded existing strengths in critical
 heritage studies and conservation, initiated a new research area in the history of art and
 sustained activity in both design and fine art.

 Achievement of REF 2014 Research Strategy

 In REF 2014 our Unit (then UoA 34) proposed five themes for the following REF cycle: Art,
 Design and Cultural History; Contemporary Art and Curatorial Practices; Participatory Arts and
 Sustainable Design; Design and Designing; and Heritage Science and Conservation. These
 themes were to be developed through objectives such as the creation of research centres,
 raising the quality of our research outputs, attracting research-led staff, strengthening
 postgraduate research, increasing external income generation, improving dedicated research
 space, and developing collaborations. A strong response is evident to many of the REF 2014
 objectives although our implementation of them has evolved in response to changes in staffing
 and institutional structures. Strategies have been initiated by both individuals and groups, many
 being agile responses to commercial and intellectual opportunities.
 A consensus emerged within the Unit that research groups, rather than centres, fitted the
 diversity of our research interests. Two research groups have recently been formed, the Critical
 Heritage and Place Consumption Group and the Global and Transregional Studies Research
 Group. These groups foster the integration and support of ECRs, PGRs and visiting researchers.
 For example the Critical Heritage and Place Consumption Research Group evolved from a
 seminar series on Heritage and Flooding in 2019 and since 2020 has hosted external and
 internal speakers including co-investigators on funded projects. This group is strongly aligned
 with the institutional priority theme of heritage (see Institutional Environment Statement) allowing
 for collaborative, cross-disciplinary research opportunities. Long standing research groups, such
 as ‘Nineteenth-Century Studies’ provide a platform for internal, external and PGR speakers.
 Research outputs have been encouraged and developed through the Individual Research
 Planning process (see section 2) where each researcher’s achievements and plans are
 assessed by a senior member of staff to encourage quality and enable research activity in the
 context of other responsibilities. As an example, this research mentoring has helped Vescovi to
 plan outputs, submit funding bids and achieve institutional research leave in 2021.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since REF 2014, a strategic aim of our Unit has been to build on staff expertise and develop
 cross-school collaborations through projects and research funding applications. In line with this,
 research-led staff have been recruited in line with the Unit’s REF 2014 themes. We have
 prioritized Art History: the appointment of a professor (Morrison) and two lecturers (Corry,
 Vescovi) has given the Unit specialists in Scottish painting, Renaissance studies and medieval
 spatial and sculptural studies. We have strengthened contemporary art with two theorist-
 practitioners (Klee, Lang), while interior design has been enhanced by a specialist in spatial
 perception and colour (Ulusoy). Heritage science and conservation have been broadened
 through an appointment in heritage and climate change (Daly) while conservation practice has
 been consolidated by the appointment of an accredited painting conservator (Clarricoates).
 Postgraduate research completions reflect our REF 2014 themes: history of art (Julie Bush
 2017), fine art (Michael Lent, Yuen Fong Ling and Cilla Eisner, 2014, 2016, 2017), participatory
 design (Emmanuel Etsaname, William Wilson, 2017, 2018); conservation and cultural history
 (Alison Fairhurst, 2015), critical heritage (Anastasia Samara, 2019) and materials science
 (Nicole Fielding, 2015).
 We have nurtured the experience of academic staff by pairing experienced supervisors with new
 staff: Smirniou worked with Hoskin (UoA 28), while Skipper and Daly worked with Cheshire
 (UoA 27). These three new supervisors have now all supervised projects to completion.
 Curatorial collaborations have taken place across the REF 2014 themes: ‘Madonnas and
 Miracles’ at the Fitzwilliam Museum (cultural history), ‘3D Printing: The Good, the Bad and the
 Beautiful’ at National Centre of Craft and Design (Design, co-production), ‘Bummock: the Lace
 Archive’ at Nottingham Trent University Lace Archive (Fine Art), ‘Kobi Levi and the Playful World
 of Shoes’ at Northampton Museum and Art Gallery (design studies), ‘The Typographic Dante’
 (design studies). Conservation and heritage practitioners collaborate continuously with
 commercial clients through Lincoln Conservation and with policy makers through commissioned
 research on heritage and climate change.

 Achievement of Impact Strategy
 Our central impact goal of REF 2014 was to ‘influence policy and practice and enhance public
 awareness and understanding of art, conservation, cultural heritage and design’. We have
 achieved this goal through the appointment of outward facing staff, a culture of exhibiting and
 curating and co-production and impact mentoring. Institutional investment in impact infracture
 has resulted in the establishment of the Lincoln Impact Literacy Institute (see Institutional
 Environment statement) and the appointment of two Impact Support Administrators within the
 College of Arts. The former has guided staff in the formation of impact goals while the latter has
 supported staff in articulating their impact actitivies. These appointments have been
 supplemented by the appointment of a Professor for the Public Understanding of Research.
 Newly appointed staff Daly (previously a commercial conservation consultant) and Clarricoates
 (previously commercial conservation practitioner) have expanded institutional knowledge around
 public policy and commercial practice and both feature in the Unit’s Impact Case Studies.
 Curatorial practice and exhibiting across the Unit encouraged the interaction of academics,
 gallery staff and visitors: Chick’s work on exhibition design and visual impairment resulted in
 new recommendations for curation based on the experience of partially sighted visitors, while
 Tullett has reached a range of audiences through exhibitions of his work in London, Dublin and
 Edinburgh. In terms of heritage, Waites’ work used community archaeology and a residency to
 enhance awareness of the value of post WW2 public housing: this work used co-production to
 help residents understand and engage with their lived environment. Impact has been integrated
 with research activity through an evolving series of structures: the ‘AIM’ strategy and ‘College of
 Arts Impact Focus Group’ have been rationalized into the more comprehensive annual Individual
 Research Plan process through which every active researcher’s outputs and impact activity are
 identified and monitored through mentoring.

 Our investment in commercial infrastructure has enabled impact activity for academic staff. For
 example, Daly’s research commissioned by the Department of Arts Heritage, Regional, Rural,
 Gaeltacht Affairs of Ireland (2016/17) funded the relief of her teaching workload which allowed
 her to contribute to policy development and legislation: she is one of the co-ordinators of the
 ICOMOS International Climate Change and Heritage Working Group. She attended the World

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heritage Committee meeting in Bahrain June 2018 and took part in policy discussion for
 UNESCO World Heritage (Vilm October 2017), ICCROM & IUCN (Rome 2018), Irish
 government (2018). This initial period of leave led to further consultancy: in 2018-19 Daly was
 employed as lead researcher and author for ‘Climate Change Adaption Sectoral Plan for Built
 and Archaeological Heritage’ a Department of Culture, Heritage and the Gaeltacht Public
 Consultation. This research activity has formed the basis for one of the Unit’s Impact Case
 Studies.

 Lincoln Conservation has been developed into a more balanced and broader operation, now
 capable of handling external projects involving digital reproduction and painting conservation in
 addition to existing strengths in historic interiors and architectural paint research. Critical
 heritage studies now sits alongside our work in conservation practice with researchers exploring
 the importance of heritage to migrant communities, community archaeology and heritage and
 climate change, (Catalani, Waites, Daly). Beyond the Unit the university initiative to launch
 ‘Heritagedot’, an international digital heritage conference, brought together a number of
 academic disciplines and heritage organisations, Smirniou was on the organisation committee
 while Croft and Smirniou delivered papers. Design theory has been pursued through projects
 relating to product obsolescence and sustainability and the relationship between modernist
 planning, place and memory (Maycroft and Waites). Outward facing partnerships and
 collaborations have been expanded in a number of different areas as outlined in Section 4.

 Research & Impact Strategy for the Next Five Years
 During the next REF cycle, we will enhance the quality, rigour and relevance of our research and
 facilitate our ability to reach new audiences. In order to do this, we will: -

    •   Enhance and consolidate our existing strengths through collaborations between the arts and
        science, both within our institution and externally. We will encourage this through investment in
        digital heritage practice, in particular scanning buildings and presenting related Virtual
        Immersive Environments.
    •   Increase external income through grant applications by encouraging staff with successful small
        bids to develop larger projects: Catalani, Smirniou and Maycroft all have projects (outlined in
        section 4) which can be scaled up into major grant applications.
    •   Increase external income through commercial projects by prioritising tenders in excess of
        £20,000 and staffing these projects through specific appointments.
    •   Build on socially engaged heritage research through submitting at least two large
        interdisciplinary research grant applications (over £100K) and two smaller applications (c. 30K) to
        national research councils.
    •   Expand our international collaborations by making use of current research projects in
        design ethics, co-production, critical heritage and art history and pursue links made through
        visiting fellowships and academic networks (see section 4). This will include projects led by
        Maycroft, Chick, Catalani, and Vescovi.
    •   Enhance impact through delivering Continued Professional Development and short courses
        within the heritage industry.
    •   Develop PhD provision and completions through bidding for external schemes (such as
        AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards), utilising local archival and laboratory-based
        resources and supporting the integration of part-time teaching and doctoral study..

 Progress towards Open Research
 Our Unit is committed to the policy of open access and the University is a signatory to the San
 Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (see Institutional Environment Statement).
 Through the University repository, all members of staff have access to a site for open
 publication. All journal publications published since January 2014 are fully compliant with the
 demands of green open access, as specified by REF, via the University of Lincoln Repository.
 Smirniou is Managing Editor of The Journal of Conservation and Museum Studies, an Open
 Access journal and we are gradually increasing our proportion of ‘gold’ open access outputs as
 evidenced by publications by Corry, Vescovi and Daly (3 outputs).

                                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 Staffing Strategy
 Since REF 2014, our Unit has undergone a number of changes, concerning both its key
 research areas (the Unit has expanded into Art History, Critical Heritage Studies, Participatory
 Design and Interior Design) and the recruitment and promotion of its research-active staff. These
 changes have been largely the result of strategic staffing in emerging areas, which tackle
 contemporary global challenges (e.g., climate change and the impact on cultural heritage; co-
 production and co-design in museums; forced migration and heritage practices) and partly the
 result of staff moving to posts in other institutions. Hence, the recruitment of staff has been
 central to the Unit’s research strategy, closely aligned with the University’s research objectives,
 which aim to produce “purposeful research with impact”, from “local to global” scale (see
 Institutional Environment Statement).
 During the past 6 years, there have been 9 new appointments to strengthen and further the
 unit’s research themes: 3 new ECRs (2015-2018: Smirniou and Clarricoates [Conservation];
 2015 Daly [Critical Heritage Studies]; 2 Lecturers (2017, Klee [Fine Art]; 2019: Corry [History of
 Art]; 3 Senior Lecturers: 2019: Ulusoy [Interior Architecture and Design]; 2016: Lang [Fine
 Art]); 2015: Vescovi [History of Art]) and 1 Professor (2019: Morrison [History of Art]). There
 has also been 1 promotion (as part of the annual academic promotions process) from Senior
 Lecturer to Associate Professor (2016, Maycroft [Design]). These appointments and promotions
 have been made at different points of the REF cycle in order to consolidate existing, key
 research areas (Fine Art, Conservation) and to expand new ones (History of Art, Interior Design,
 Critical Heritage Studies).
 In addition to academic staff, the Unit employs 2.0 FTE eligible independent research staff in
 Lincoln Conservation: Clarricoates & Croft. The research fellows are supported by two
 Associate Professors with management roles built into their workload: Gardiner (returned in
 UoA 15) acts as Director of Lincoln Conservation and Cheshire (returned in UoA 27) acts as its
 historical consultant. The Research Fellows and Managers are supported by the College
 Business Development Manager.

 Staff Development
 The development of Unit staff is supported through a number of initiatives and mechanisms,
 both at College and School level. At College level, all staff with research responsibilities go
 through an annual Individual Research Plan (IRP): this includes the identification and monitoring
 of the yearly targets for research dissemination, the planned and submitted research funding
 applications, the assigned doctoral supervisions, the individual research esteem indicators as
 well as the longer-term (3-year) research plans. The IRP is discussed with a school senior
 research colleague, which not only facilitates the identification of areas of personal development,
 but also provides opportunities for regular, individual research mentoring as well as informing
 further forms of support from School and the College of Arts. Through the Research and
 Enterprise Research Office Newsletter, staff are made aware of regular training opportunities
 (including bid writing workshops) and research funding calls (both national and international).
 Furthermore, staff planning grant applications are offered the support of the University research
 officers and all research active staff are invited to attend meetings with funding bodies including
 the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust. Following these meetings, a number of staff have successfully
 applied to the AHRC: for example Waites is now co-investigator on Decommissioning the
 Twentieth Century funded by the AHRC.
 All staff are encouraged to apply for the research leave scheme (run by the College of Arts),
 which provides teaching relief for one semester to focus on the delivery of specific research
 outputs. Vescovi was awarded research leave in 2021. Three times per year, research staff and
 PhD students can apply for the College of Arts research funds calls which regularly funds
 towards research fieldwork expenses, conference attendance and conference presentations.
 Across the Unit’s Schools there is a uniform and consistent approach to career and research
 development, through the annual academic appraisal scheme, whose purpose is to review
 progress and explore development needs and career aspirations. This happens through:
 dedicated allocation allowance for research and scholarly activity in the workload for staff;
 regular research seminar series attended both by staff and postgraduate students and writing
 workshop / away days for colleagues at all career stages to explore writing strategies (for

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example a total of 6 writing retreat days have been held to support conservation practice staff).
 ECRs have a more generous research allowance and for the first year of their appointment, they
 also have a limited teaching load so that they can develop their own research and practice.
 Additionally, staff and students have access to ‘Project Space Plus’, the University dedicated
 exhibition space, where they can test and put into practice new research ideas or exhibit their
 work in-progress, while sharing their research and reaching out wider audiences, beyond the
 University. For example, Bracey (Fine Art) together with independent artist Annie Morrad
 curated an exhibition (2017) which included the reproduction of historically important paintings,
 through the application of a layer of clear gesso and the recording of its reaction with the
 photographic print when moved on a surface.
 Our Unit has been home to fixed-term international visiting research fellows and artists in
 residence since 2014, including, Witiya Pittugnapoo (Design: 2015 British Council and 2016-
 2018 Newton Research Fellow), from Naresuan University, Thailand who has been exploring the
 impact of flooding on cultural heritage sites and developing a set of guidelines for best practice.
 As artists in residence, the Unit has hosted Chunnmei Lui and Zhang Tao (2015-2016), China;
 Ruth Ewan, Raqs Media Collective and Anneka Erikson as part of the ‘Gymnasium’ project
 2015-16. Eleni Kotoula was employed from 1/2/2018 to stimulate activity in digital heritage and
 ran digital humanities workshops for staff in 2018.
 The University’s approach to research integrity is governed by the Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity and the University’s Code of Practice for Research (see institutional
 environment statement). Staff are supported in research integrity through mentoring and the
 university new online ethical approval process (see Institutional Environment Statement).
 Mentoring takes place through the IRP process and through School research ethics
 representatives: Catalani sits on College and University Research Ethics committees and
 reviews applications on the new online system. Ethical approval is required as part of PGR
 progression and on a project-by-project basis for academic staff. Ethics and research integrity is
 a standing item on the respective School Research Groups. PGR students and their supervisors
 review ethical aspects of the student’s research every year as part of the annual monitoring
 review (see Institutional Environment Statement).

 Support for PGR students
 As future researchers and creative practitioners, our PhD students are supported, both by the
 Schools and by the College, both in terms of their research and professional development. The
 Unit’s PhD student numbers have increased since the last REF cycle, with each School having
 been able to attract high quality and dedicated students. In addition, the Unit has hosted a
 visiting PGR student from an international University (2015-2016, School of Design Wilailak
 Chochooy, University of Bangkok, Thailand). We also have a record of joint PhD programmes
 with other institutions. For example, Morrison has established a co-tutelle agreement in the
 History of Art in collaboration with the University of St. Andrews.
 All PhD students are aligned to the relevant School’s research group and University theme and
 engage actively in their activities (including presentations at the Schools’ research seminars).
 Training, supervision and personal development needs of PhD students are closely monitored
 by the student supervisors, the relevant School Director of Research and by the School/College
 research degree committees. Our staff help to manage and mentor PhD students, for example
 Maycroft acts as postgraduate research lead for the School of Design.
 PhD students are supported by a supervisory team consisting at least of two supervisors (with
 one of the two having had at least one PhD completion) with whom they meet monthly. The
 supervision process is monitored and supported by the university’s Doctoral School and through
 Progress Meeting forms, which monitor the student’s progress as well as their training regime
 (through a training needs analysis). Bespoke training events have been hosted within the Unit,
 Chick, for example, contributed in 2018 with a session focusing on doing research with external
 partners and co-creation. The Unit’s PGR students are given opportunities to engage with the
 school’s teaching activities, so that they can maximise their career opportunities while
 developing a range of transferable skills and building up teaching experience.

 PhD completions have increased slightly since the last REF cycle. Our doctoral graduates have
 been remarkably successful in finding permanent jobs: Emmanuel Estename (graduated 2017)

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 was appointed as Senior Lecturer at the Federal University of Technology (Akure, Nigeria); Will
 Wilson (graduated 2018) was appointed as Lead Neighbourhood Planner for Bassetlaw District
 Council; Yuen Fong Ling (graduated 2016) was appointed Senior Lecturer at Sheffield Hallam
 University and Michael Lent (graduated 2014) is currently Head of Fine Art at Teesside
 University.

 Our PhD students are encouraged to disseminate their work by attending, presenting and
 discussing future practice and current research at the annual College of Arts PG Research Day
 and at the monthly ‘Tower Talks’. Josephine McKenzie (Conservation) gave a talk in 2019 about
 her research on 19th century ecclesiastical interiors. Finally, the University recognises that space
 is really important to form collaborative networks, develop healthy working practice, discuss
 career plans and to maintain a healthy work-life balance. Hence, our PGR students, at college
 level, are provided with dedicated desk space, lockers and IT facilities. Since the outbreak of
 Covid-19, students have been allowed to interrupt their studies without this impacting their
 registration period and supervisors have been maintaining contact with students via online
 tutorials even if the student has opted to take interruption.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Art and Design is a well-balanced Unit in terms of gender: just over 50% of our FTE are female.
 3 female academics are in leadership roles, 2 Professors (Chick, Colston) and 1 Associate
 Professor (Catalani) however, we aim to increase the number of female academics in
 leadership roles by the next REF cycle. In terms of inclusion, staff of the Unit with caring
 responsibilities and other protected categories benefit from flexible working hours during the
 teaching semester. Two members of staff have been supported by the university’s enhanced
 maternity leave scheme, while another has benefitted from adoption leave during this REF cycle
 (Corry, Wroe, Catalani). Catalani participates in the ‘Reimagining Lincolnshire’ project: a
 university wide initiative to reassess the county’s heritage provision in response to the Black
 Lives Matter movement.
 The Eleanor Glanville Centre (see Institutional Environment Statement) is a key factor in
 creating university wide progress towards EDI goals. Colston is the founding Director of the
 Eleanor Glanville Centre and 0.5 of her FTE is allocated for this purpose. Skipper was
 supported by a grant of £10,000 from the Eleanor Glanville Centre’s ‘Academic Returner’s
 Research Fund’, which enabled a period of research leave immediately after her period of
 maternity leave in 2014.
 Colston has been awarded an EPSRC Inclusion Matters grant to develop new research
 interests in innovative strategies and mechanisms for measuring, monitoring and evaluating the
 impact of EDI interventions on attitudes and behaviours in the research environment. Colston is
 also UKRI Gender Equality Act Compliance External Advisory Board (2019 - present) and a co-
 founder of the Newton Academy - the science club for girls. The Unit is committed to the Athena
 Swan charter’s principles, Colston is the institution lead for this scheme.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 External income generation within our Unit has increased 104% since REF 2014. This increase
 has been facilitated by grant application activity and investment in commercial infrastructure
 which in turn has allowed investment in equipment and external facing opportunities for staff.
 Grant income has been generated both through UK Research Councils and Arts Funding
 bodies.

 Commercial research and consultancy are encouraged in our Unit through a well-developed
 business infrastructure, grounded in the university wide Research and Enterprise office, which
 encourages commercially funded research activity. Lincoln Conservation
 (http://www.lincolnconservation.co.uk/ ) is an outward-facing research and enterprise centre that
 generates income, provides research opportunities and facilitates impact. Since restructuring in
 2017, its annual income has built steadily: 2018–19: £191,977; 2019–20 (Covid affected)
 £59,317; 2020–21 (five months only) £191,325. From a limited focus on Architectural Paint
 Research, Lincoln Conservation has expanded its range of services to historic material analysis,
 historic buildings consultancy, conservation of historic interiors, three-dimensional scanning and

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 replication and paintings conservation. In addition, Lincoln Conservation supports continuing
 professional development and knowledge exchange through providing continuing professional
 development within the cultural heritage sector. The ‘Lincoln Conservation Business Plan 2018-
 21’ gives a strategic overview of current activities, developing areas and projected income.
 Three permanent research fellows (two independent researchers Croft, Clarricoates) are
 supported by two associate professors with management roles built into their workload: Gardiner
 (UoA 15) acts as academic director and Cheshire (UoA 27) acts as historical consultant and
 academic liaison. The research fellows and managers are supported by the College Business
 Development Manager. Research fellows and management staff attend fortnightly meetings
 when current and potential contracts are discussed. Academic members of staff from History
 and Conservation are invited into meetings to discuss potential involvement with commercial
 projects and explore the use of equipment and facilities. Staff that have benefitted from Lincoln
 Conservation projects include Shultz (conservation project at Ripon Cathedral £7,340), Vescovi
 (training and use of building scanner for research on Lincoln Cathedral). Daly’s consultancy for
 the Irish Government was encouraged and administered through Lincoln Conservation, this
 comprised two periods of consultancy (£22,371 in 2018/19 and £4,064 in 2016/17), this research
 forms the basis on one of Unit’s Impact Case Studies. All projects are recorded and
 administered through the University’s ‘Awards Management System’.

 Staff seeking to make research bids are supported in a variety of ways. At School level they
 receive one to one mentoring from the School Director of Research or another appropriate
 senior colleague. A College-level system of reviewing proposed bids ensures that they all
 receive appropriate guidance. Staff must submit an ‘intention to submit’ form which alerts their
 School Director of Research to their bidding proposal and allows assessment and guidance at
 the start of the bidding process. All bids are blind peer reviewed (by one reviewer for bids up to
 £50,000 and by two peer reviewers for bids over that amount). At College level, away days have
 also provided intensive workshops on writing bids with experienced mentors available to guide
 those making their first bidding attempt. The university’s Research Office provides one-to-one
 guidance on costings for bids and through its on-line research bidding scheme guides staff
 through the process of completing on-line bidding systems. In addition, it provides regular
 training events, distributes details of new and current bidding rounds focused on the relevant
 School, and provides the opportunity to meet with, and listen to, representatives of funding
 bodies, including AHRC, the British Academy, the Leverhulme and ESRC.

 AHRC grants include: Unearthing Utopia, £3,000 & £20,000 (Waites, Co-I). Arts Council
 England Grants include ‘Bummock’, £12,000, £12,925 & £14,375 (Bracey); ‘Taking the Lead –
 research through action’, £1,060 (Waites). British Academy Grants include: ‘Flooding adaptation
 and strategy for cultural heritage and landscape preservation’, £28,884 (Catalani);
 ‘Technological change and transmission in the Silk Road: A study of the early glass industry’,
 £5,160 (Smirniou). Other grants were awarded by the British Council: ‘Flood resilient planning
 strategies for cultural heritage in Southeast Asia’, £14,180 (Catalani); Social Research
 Foundation: ‘The Thrown Away: Towards a Manifesto of Dispossession’, £3,000 (Maycroft);
 ‘Rakow Grant for Glass Research (Corning Museum of Glass) ‘Study of early Islamic glass from
 the site of Otrar, Kazakhstan’, £4,110 (Smirniou). A Robert R Wark fellowship at the Huntington
 Library USA for a period of 2 months has recently be awarded to Clarricoates ($3,500 per
 month, delayed by Covid-19).

 Research trips and conference attendance are supported through a College-level Research
 Resources Allocation Fund, to which applications can be made three times a year. Ten staff
 have received grants from this fund amounting to £8,248 over this REF census period. These
 grants have facilitated: conference participation, fieldwork, library and archive visits and
 additional research days. Staff in the Unit have access to the University Library and Cathedral
 Library, support from an academic subject librarian and unlimited interlibrary loans (see
 Institutional Environment Statement). The Unit has also created close links with its unique local
 resources, especially the Lincolnshire Archives & Lincoln Cathedral. Staff play important roles in
 helping to administer and promote these bodies. For example, Clarricoates serves on the


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Diocesan Advisory Committee for Lincoln Cathedral, while Bracey stages exhibitions rooted in
 creative interpretations of archival objects.

 Facilities
 Strategic university investment has provided Lincoln Conservation with a dedicated staff office
 and a specialist laboratory. Through internal bids for central university funds, the Unit has
 acquired a handheld XRF device (c. £30,000) and 2 Polarising Light Microscopes (c. £3,000
 each) to aid commercial analysis of materials and pigments. The purchase of a SciQuip
 environmental chamber (£15,595) has recently been approved: this will enhance the correction
 of colour values analysed through architectural paint research.
 Lincoln conservation purchase and maintain technical equipment that is also used by members
 of our Unit. This has aided the adoption of digital technologies by academic staff, for example a
 ‘Faro Focus S laser scanner ‘ (£47,000) has the capability to scan buildings and was used by
 Vescovi as the basis for a bid for a research fellowship – he was trained by Croft and
 McDonnell. A ‘Matterport 3D scanner’ (£2,400) is currently being used for scanning objects and
 building and the presentation of Virtual Immersive Environments. The School of History and
 Heritage purchased a ‘surtronic surface characterisation machine’ for use during field work in
 2016 at a cost of £ 2,270: this allowed Daly to conduct a long-term experiment to measure
 environmental degradation of different types of building stone.
 Commercial infrastructure has generated both of our Unit’s impact case studies, while outward
 facing staff, exhibitions, impact mentoring have enhanced impact across the Unit. The Impact
 Case Study ‘Climate Change and Cultural Heritage’ (Daly) has been facilitated by structures that
 have enabled commercial consultancy and teaching replacement. The Impact Case Study
 ‘Enhancing Heritage Sites and the Heritage Profession through Conservation Research’ (Croft,
 Clarricoates, McDonnell) has been generated by research fellows in Lincoln Conservation.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The work of our Unit often focusses on global challenges and beneficiaries beyond higher
 education. Exhibiting, curation and co-production are important methodologies of collaboration
 within our research and we work with a range of academic, commercial and community partners.

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 Art Historians collaborate extensively with key national institutions: Morrison supervises an
 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award with National Galleries Scotland on Scottish History
 Painting (ongoing) while Corry collaborated with the Fitzwilliam Museum on the exhibition
 Madonnas and Miracles, the Holy Home in Renaissance Italy (2017). Vescovi was a Mercator
 Fellow (2017) at the University of Heidelberg (Germany) for the research project: Materiale
 Textkulturen, and this project funded one of the Unit‘s ‘gold‘ OA outputs.
 Researchers working within Design, Conservation and Critical Heritage Studies collaborate with
 academic networks and policy makers on heritage & climate change, migration, visual
 impairment and sustainability. For example, Catalani participated in research networks on
 heritage and climate change funded by the British Council with Ho Chi Minh City Institute for
 Development Studies, Vietnam and Faculty of Architecture, Naresuan University, Thailand and
 has research links with Manchester City of Sanctuary and Rethink Rebuild (a charity run by
 Syrian volunteers in Manchester). She has also given a guest lecture on: ‘Heritage and forced
 migration’ at Centre for Applied Heritage, Linnaeus University, Sweden (2017). Catalani was
 also one of the co-chairs of the Working Group: ‘Memory and Migration’ (2018-2020) , Memory
 Studies Association and a Trustee of Manchester City of Sanctuary (May 2020-December 2020).
 She is currently part of the scientific committee of the Intangible Cultural Heritage International
 Network (2016- ongoing) and is a member of the scientific committee of the Conference series
 Tourism and Creative Industries. Trends and Challenges (Croatia, 2017-ongoing). Daly’s
 collaboration with the Department of Culture, Heritage and the Gaeltacht, Ireland, (2019 –
 ongoing) has resulted in the formation of major policy developments for Ireland as detailed in the
 Impact Case Study. Chick collaborated with a European network on addressing food waste
 through design research, participating organisations included the Dutch Design Foundation, In

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ovo, Greenco Packing, (Netherlands); Innovatiesteunpunt, Flanders Food, (Belgium); Spessart
 Regional, Fachhochschule Fulda (Germany); AC3A, Laval Mayenne Technopole (France); Irish
 Fishery Agency, and Clean Technology Centre (Ireland). Maycroft was an invited participant in
 Bodies of Planned Obsolescence; Digital Performance and the Global Politics of E-waste an
 AHRC network. Research performance and exhibitions took place in the UK, Hong Kong and
 Nigeria, and involved participants from London School of Speech and Drama, Hong Kong
 University, University of Ibadan, Nigeria, Watermans Art Centre, Victoria & Albert Museum;
 'Uselessness’ as a response to ambiguity: diminished things and marginal places’ was delivered
 in Unnecessary, Unwanted and Uncalled-for: A Workshop on Uselessness, 29-30 March, 2017,
 UVA, Amsterdam; ‘Consumerism: reflections in a splintered paradigm’ was delivered in: Human
 Being, Society, Culture: Critical Multidisciplinary Reflections On Essences And Research
 Paradigms, University of Kiel, Germany (2016).

 The lecture series ‘Critical Encounters’ invites a wide range of external and internal speakers to
 engage with academics, students and artistic practitioners beyond the academic sector, Bracey
 and Klee have co-curated this series. The Unit’s artists and designers have exhibited
 internationally in a range of venues: Bracey has exhibited across China, Australia and the UK:
 ‘Bummock: The Lace Archive’ (2018), ‘Textiles and Place’ at Manchester Metropolitan
 University and Backlit Gallery, Nottingham (2017); ‘Rummage to Bypass: Alternative Ways of
 Accessing the Archive’, The Archive Unbound, Cardiff University (2016); ‘Bummock’, hARTSlane
 Gallery, London (2015); The Work is a Score, The Lock Up, Newcastle, Australia (2015);
 ‘Midpointness’, Airspace Gallery, Stoke-on-Trent (2016); ‘The Work is a Score’ part of TransArt
 Trienniale The Lock Up, Newcastle, Australia (2015); ‘Documents Alternatives’, Verge Gallery,
 Sydney; BSAD Gallery, Bath; ONCA Gallery, Brighton (2017); ‘There, But Different’,
 Cornerstone Gallery, Liverpool (also curator); ‘Re-defining the Artistic Canon’, Jing Shi Gallery,
 Beijing; ‘East Meets West’, China University of Mining and Technology, Beijing (2015). Klee has
 exhibited at LAM Gallery, Los Angeles (exhibition, 2016), Acadia Missa Gallery, London
 (exhibition 2016), Five Years gallery, London (2015), Töne Festival, Chatham Historic Dockyard
 (2014: performance and exhibition titled Too Prolix: A Tour Out of Time) and Lang has exhibited
 at 'Fit for work', London, Nottingham, Rotherham (2019, London), and 'Derelictus' (2016,
 Canterbury).

 Tullett has performed and exhibited widely for example: Talk / performance The Contemporary
 Poetics Research Centre – Steve McCaffery’s Carnival, Birkbeck University, London, Bronaċ
 Ferran (2019); Performance of ‘Song for an Art School’ Whitechapel Gallery, London (2015);
 ‘The Typographic Dante’ in Poetry by Design: a re-appraisal of visual poetics, University of
 Leeds (2019); ‘Typography, poetry, artists’ books, Dante’s Inferno’, Norwich University of the
 Arts, Norwich (2018); ‘The Typographic Dante’ Mouth: Poetry and Illustration Forum, Falmouth
 (2018); ‘Typewriter Art and The Caseroom Press’ Northumbria University, Newcastle (2016);
 ‘Typewriter Art and Single Sided Books’ Edinburgh College of Art, Edinburgh (2016); ‘The Ghost
 in the Machine (Portraiture and the Typewriter)’ eleventh International Conference on The Image
 , Liverpool (2016); ‘The Technology of Typewriters (of Progress and Loss)’ Face Forward
 Symposium, Dublin (2015).

 The Lincoln Centre for Culture and Creativity was established in 2016 to facilitate knowledge
 transfer and impact between academic research and a range of regional and national
 communities (see Institutional Environment Statement). Our Unit’s staff have both used and
 facilitated this interface between research and local beneficiaries. Waites is a regular participant
 in C4CC’s ‘Mansions of the Future’ project, through the ‘Lincoln Creates Network’. Publications
 co-written by Maycroft underpin the ‘Creative Lincoln Shire’ Project, a research and
 development programme to support the growth of the creative economy across Greater
 Lincolnshire. Smirniou, Croft and Cheshire have been instrumental in planning HeritageDot, a
 digital heritage conference co-hosted by the University of Lincoln, the National Lottery Heritage
 Fund and Imperial War Museums.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Users, beneficiaries, audiences
 Our Unit’s collaborations address a wide range of users, beneficiaries and audiences.
 Conservation and heritage researchers have well established relationships with professional
 bodies: Daly delivered the guest lecture ‘Climate Change & World Heritage; a view from Ireland’
 at the annual alumni meeting of the Board of the International Association of World Heritage
 Professionals e.V. at BTU Cottbus-Senftenberg (2019) and ‘Climate Change Planning for
 Culture; Ireland Developing a National Adaptation Plan’ the Sea Change conference organized
 by Blackpool Council and the World Monuments Fund 6th September 2019. Daly also
 participated in a seminar organised by Catalani: ‘Heritage and Climate Change: communities
 responses and cultural institutions', funded by the British Academy and Newton Fund, 5
 December 2018, part of the Critical Heritage and Place Consumption Seminar series.
 Clarricoates and Croft’s work for Lincoln Conservation resulted in continued professional
 development for RIBA and extensive benefits for heritage organisations as outlined in the Impact
 Case Study. In addition, Clarricoates’ work as a conservation practitioner for commercial clients
 has benefitted a range of heritage organisations including: Stowe House, Buckinghamshire
 (2018- ongoing); Stamford Town Hall (2018); Kettering Baptist (2019); Bonington Gallery and
 Nottingham Trent University (2019); Derby Cathedral (2019). Her work has also been
 disseminated via guest lectures to Friends of Lincolnshire Museums and Art Gallery on the
 conservation of paintings at The Usher Gallery (2018) and her paper ‘The role of digital
 replication in the reinstatement of an early 20th century ceiling’ at HeritageDot, University of
 Lincoln (2019). Croft’s work as a conservator has been of particular benefit to maritage heritage
 organisations: his work on H.M.S Victory, H.M.S Caroline (both for the National Museum of the
 Royal Navy) has had major benefits for heritage visitors. Skipper delivered lectures to the
 Museums Development East Midlands (MDEM) Regional Collections Symposium (2017 and
 2019). Since 2015, Wroe has been a member of the Executive Committee of The Costume
 Society, and web media co-ordinator, helping to build relationships with existing and new
 audiences.

 Waites has combined co-production and community engagement by working with residents of
 a post WW2 Housing Estate in two projects. ‘Back to the Future 1965’ (2015-2016) was an
 on-site residency comprising a 1960s living room installation, which formed the basis for two
 films that captured community engagement with the project: 200 people have since viewed
 the films and Waites’ blog post about the project has attracted over 1900 page views.
 ‘Exploring Middlefield’s Archaeology’, was a community archaeological dig that took place
 over two weekends in May 2016. 20 test pits were excavated and finds recorded by nearly
 100 residents, schoolchildren and other volunteers, working alongside Waites and Lewis
 (returned in UoA 15). Residents benefitted from the opportunity to build their social and
 cultural capital and, as a result, the vast majority of those involved felt they knew more about
 the archaeology and history of the area than before the project, and helped residents to
 fundamentally re-conceptualize their estate as a resilient place with an interesting and
 worthwhile history of its own. This project also worked with KS1 pupils at the nearby Hillcrest
 Early Years Academy who were taught how to dig their own test pits within the school
 grounds.
 Schoolchildren were encouraged to engage with the Unit’s research through the European
 Commission-funded Marie Curie festival of research, LiGHTS in 2016 and 2017 (see
 Institutional Environment Statement) an initiative designed to enthuse wider publics about
 research. For LiGHTS Skipper, Daly and Smirniou staged conservation-in-action
 demonstrations and research displays in St. Mary Le Wigford Church including sections on
 architectural paint research and materials testing and analysis. The event as a whole
 attracted over 1000 schoolchildren from over 20 schools across Lincolnshire on each
 occasion, along with local visitors of all ages. Skipper and Daly also engaged with broad
 audiences for two Lincolnshire Heritage Open Days, through leading laboratory tours and
 running displays designed to engage broad public audiences at the Lincolnshire Show in
 2018, where they interacted with children from over 60 different schools. PEARL (Institutional
 Environment Statement) was established in 2017 to embed public engagement within
 research, Chick was awarded a Vice Chancellor’s award through PEARL for working with
 blind and partially sighted heritage audiences through inclusive exhibitions in 2018.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Many of the Unit’s researchers work with the museum and gallery sector, thus addressing a wide
 range of visitors. Catalani was guest curator of ‘Kobi Levi and the playful world of shoes’
 Northampton Museum and Art Gallery (2014). Chick worked with the National Centre for Craft
 and Design, Sleaford on an exhibition that explored how visually impaired visitors could benefit
 more from museum displays (2017), this was followed by her guest lecture delivered on:
 ‘Inclusively designed and curated exhibitions for visually impaired visitors’ at the 1st International
 Conference on Disability Studies, Arts, and Education, (2017), Aalto University, Helsinki,
 Finland. Tullett has done a series of gallery-based talks: ‘Typewriter Art’ New Monday Art
 Group, Usher Gallery, Lincoln (2017); ‘Utopian Tales’ Fruit market Gallery, Edinburgh (2015);
 ‘Utopian Tales’ Small Publishers Fair, London (2015); ‘Typewriter Art’ Fruit market Gallery,
 Edinburgh (2015).

 The Unit’s research addresses wide audiences through collaborating with broadcasters:
 Clarricoates featured in numerous national and international media reports of the architectural
 paint research for the Elizabeth Tower (Big Ben) restoration project, including: Channel 4, the
 BBC News, Daily Mail, The Evening Standard, Yorkshire Post, The World News and
 Lincolnshire Live. Morrison acted as consultant for a for 4 part series on Scottish Art (BBC 2,
 BBC4, 2015) and published in national print media (‘The Story behind Scotland’s art is not being
 told – here’s why’ Independent 14/10/2016) and contributed two pieces to a Podcast
 (‘Reflections: Art, Life and Love’, 2019) and (‘Reflections: Art, Life and Love’). Corry worked on
 the PBS documentary ‘Leonardo: Art and Science’, while Lang has published in art magazines,
 including Trebuchet (2018 and 2019) and the Jackdaw (2017). Waites was commissioned to
 write an exhibition catalogue essay (2016, 'Extramural: Public Art in Britain 1951-2016'), in The
 Russell Chantry: Lothar Gotz/Duncan Grant, The Collection Lincoln. He was also invited to write
 a book review (‘Breaking ground: art, archaeology & mythology’) for the International Journal of
 Heritage Studies (2017) and took part in two radio interviews on the archaeology of the post-war
 council estate (BBC Radio 4 ‘Making History’ programme 2017 and BBC Radio 3 'Free Thinking'
 programme 2018). Drawing upon her research expertise on heritage and the impact of flooding
 Catalani was invited to publish a review (2016) of an edited volume about the relation between
 water and heritage (International Journal of Heritage Studies). Clarricoates has published two
 reviews for the Journal of Architectural Conservation (2015 and 2017) both on the standards in
 architectural paint research.

 Wider contributions and activities

 Our Unit’s researchers have been serving as peer-reviewers and as associate editors in a range
 of journals. Chick (Design) has been on the editorial board of The Design Journal since 2013.
 Clarricoates (Conservation) (2012-ongoing) has been a technical editor for a series of post
 prints from conferences hosted by the Institute of Conservation’s Paintings Group, published by
 Archetype Publications. Smirniou is Managing Editor or The Journal of Conservation and
 Museum Studies. Journals where our academics serve as peer-reviewers include: African
 Conflict and Peace Building Review, The Antiquaries Journal, Capital and Class, Journal of
 Cleaner Production, Journal of Conservation and Museums Studies, the Design Journal,
 European Journal of Marketing, Journal of Marketing Management, the Journal of Material
 Culture, The Mediaeval Journal, Museum and Society, Open Sage, Science Museum Journal,
 Speculum, Third Text, Journal of Tourism and Cultural Change and Visual Communication
 Journal.

 The contribution that the Unit’s researchers make to research is acknowledged by their activity
 as reviewers, in national and international research councils. For instance, Colston is part of the
 peer-review college for the EPSRC and a panel member for: Research Promotion Foundation
 (RPF) Cyprus, The Netherlands’ Research Council, NWO (Council for the Humanities of
 Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research), EU-JPICH (Joint Programming Initiative in
 Cultural Heritage), and the Association of Commonwealth Universities Promotions (Professorial).
 Catalani has been a reviewer for research grants AHRC (2015), ESRC (2019), HERA (2018),
 UKRI (2020) applications. Chick is a regular peer reviewer for the AHRC; Klee was a member
 of the Selection Panel C (Arts Practice), allocating AHRC grant money (CHASE consortium),

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 held at the Courtauld Institute (2014 & 2015); Morrison has been an External Expert Evaluator,
 Killam Research Fellowship, Canada Council for the Arts (2015).

 Our staff interact with a number of other institutions through doctoral projects. Morrison
 established an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership with the National Galleries of Scotland
 on the subject of Scottish History Painting; Catalani is the second supervisor of Claire Montado,
 a PhD student enrolled at the University of Gibraltar. Unit staff have acted as External examiners
 for a number of Doctoral Vivas, including: University of Kent (Klee, Fine Art); the University of
 Edinburgh (Morrison, History of Art); the University of Cagliari, Italy (Vescovi, History of Art).




                                                                                           Page 12
