Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: Liverpool Hope University

Unit of Assessment: C23 - Education

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Introduction
Research in the School of Education encompasses education in all its individual, familial, societal,
and institutional forms, underpinned by principles of equity and social justice, to address present
and enduring challenges. The School is developing a strong track record of impactful research
that contributes to educational, religious, cultural, social and economic life locally, nationally, and
internationally, through a strategy focused on supporting the development of staff at all career
stages, cultivating impactful partnerships, building a critical mass of researchers, and translating an
enhanced understanding of research excellence into successful external funding applications and
contributions to the research base.
The School hosts two of the University’s six research centres, the Centre for Culture and Disability
Studies and the Centre for Education and Policy Analysis. The research centres and the Early
Childhood Forum have each supported the School’s areas of strategic focus through their
activities:
The Centre for Culture and Disability Studies (CCDS; led by Prof. Bolt) was established in 2009
and represents expertise in cultural representations of disability; ontology and epistemology of
disability; curriculum reform and inclusion (Bolt, Barden, Cheyne, Feeney, Hodkinson, Houston,
Penketh, Pereira, Pritchard, Waite).
The Centre for Education and Policy Analysis (CEPA; led by O’Connell and previously Budd 2015-
19) was established in 2014 and represents expertise in higher education; citizenship, social
cohesion, and social change; philosophy, education, and society; and education for advantage, led
by Teacher Education (Bagelman, Bamber, Cronin, Crutchley, Germain, Hiett, Hodgson,
Hodkinson, Kum, Maslen, O’ Connell, O’ Neill, O’ Siochru, Parr, Poulter, Rao, Sampson-Chappell,
Spohrer, Su, Tillson, Ververi).
The Childhood Research Forum (CRF; led by Nikiforidou and Pattison) was established in 2014 to
provide a focus for research activity in family and child development; learning in early childhood;
social justice and policy; diversity and variability; early years professionalism (Anderson, Boyle,
Cook, Hadwin, Nikiforidou, Oztop, Pattison, Poulter, Stack).
Leadership of the School’s research centres are supported by a Steering Group and a School-level
Research Committee and are accountable to the institution’s Research Committee. Stakeholders
from our partner organisations (e.g. schools, community organisations) are encouraged to be
involved in the Steering Groups, representative of the collaborative approach to research design
that characterises the School.
These groups give coherence and representation to the areas of expertise within the School. They
have been instrumental in pursuing the School’s strategic aims, which align with those of the
institution (cf. REF5a).


1.2 Strategy since 2015
In 2015, the School devised an inclusive and comprehensive strategy to further embed the culture
of research-informed teaching across all programmes and to foster an environment in which
scholarly enquiry is nurtured and celebrated.
The strategy set out focused, ambitious but achievable targets to further enhance the quality and
quantity of research in Education at Liverpool Hope University as follows:




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staffing strategy and staffing development
Increase the proportion of staff qualified to doctoral level
Ensure 90% of category A staff have a full submission of outputs for REF2021 with GPA>2.5 and
80% of category A staff in accordance with the target profile (GPA=3.1).
Indicators of our success:
In REF2021 the Unit consists of 27 members of staff, more than double the 12.2 FTE reported in
REF2014. Our 2021 submission includes 5 colleagues entered in 2014. The majority of the
additional staff are new appointments to the University.
By September 2020, 100% of academic staff at Lecturer Grade 7 and above in the School of
Education have doctoral qualifications, an increase from just over 50% in 2014.
We have produced more than 400 research outputs during this REF cycle (available via the Hope
Institutional Research Archive). The majority of over 150 research outputs submitted for external
review have been assessed as 3* and 4* quality.


Postgraduate Research
Increase the number of EdD and PhD completions
Indicators of our success:
There has been a fourfold increase in doctoral completions in this REF cycle, comprising 8 PhD
and 17 EdD students. The development of the Professional Doctorate has enabled supervisory
capacity to be increased in the School as staff at all career stages have furthered their experience.


Income, infrastructure and facilities
Achieve a year-on-year increase in external funding, in terms of both number and value
Indicators of our success:
Research income since 2015 is double the previous five-year period. Successful applications
represent submission to a range of funding bodies, from UKRI to small subject-specific
organisations, involving staff at all career stages (Further detail in Sections 2 and 3).


Contribution to the discipline internationally
Host international academic conferences in each centre every 2 years with identified links to
impact
Indicators of our success:
CCDS hosts a biennial conference whose attendance has tripled since its inception in 2011 and
seen the group establish its international reputation for world-leading scholarship in the field of
disability studies. The impact of the centre’s research is highlighted in the related Impact Case
Study and the international acclaim of their theoretical contributions, referred to by peers as having
‘reinvigorated the field of Disability Studies in the humanities right at a key moment when many of
its founding energies were flagging’ (Prof Mitchell and Dr Snyder, George Washington University,
2015).
As leaders of the Teacher Education for Equity and Sustainability Network (TEESNet) since 2014,
the School hosts the annual conference that brings together international researchers, policy-
makers and practitioners focussed on Education for Sustainable Development and Global
Citizenship (ESD/GCE). The Network has enabled the development of responsive, policy-oriented,
impactful work, e.g. Bamber’s international review of ESD/GCE in Teacher Education, which
informed updated UNESCO guidance on ESD/GCE internationally.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The School has also hosted subject-specific symposia, such as the CEPA Pathologies of
Professionalism event, as well as larger conferences, including the British Educational Studies
Association Annual Conference (2017). These have been convened alongside the research
centres’ regular seminar series, which have resulted in significant contributions to the field (Further
detail in Section 4). Doctoral Conferences for PGR students from Hope and affiliated centres
(Newman University, Birmingham and St Mary’s, Twickenham) are hosted annually and feature
international keynote speakers (e.g. Rocha, UBC, Canada; Dahlbeck, Malmo, Sweden).


Impact
Develop capacity to identify and capture research impact and embed in research design
Indicators of our success:
Since REF2014, the School, supported by Professorial Fellow Professor Cook, has developed a
model for embedding and capturing impact. Specifically, the School’s research partnerships
promote co-design of research that enables sustainable changes to practice and outcomes. Our
capacity to capture research impact has also been supported by ongoing staff development, e.g.
impact-focused research workshops, inclusion of impact in staff annual academic reviews. Since
2016 our practice-focused research has been disseminated via the School’s open access peer-
reviewed journal, Research in Action, to colleagues, partner institutions, and trainee teachers.
Examples of impactful research developed include:
Hope Challenge
Researchers in Teacher Education have developed successful models of partnership working with
education professionals at all career stages through the Hope Challenge, a practitioner research
framework that has underpinned a series of bespoke school-based projects focused on enabling
new teachers to work with confidence and ambition in schools in challenging socioeconomic
contexts (Cronin; Poulter; Parr).
Early Years Leadership
Research with early years leaders has positively influenced approaches to CPD in the sector and
in turn led to improvements in practice (Anderson, Cook).
Challenging Attitudes To Disability
CCDS research has contributed to changing societal attitudes to disability. Bolt’s tripartite model of
disability, a critical framework used to avoid one-dimensional representations (Bolt, 2019),
instigated change in a number of charities and social enterprises (e.g. Royal National Institute for
the Blind). Barden’s work on social media use has been included in Digital Access to Science
Learning Resources, funded by the Primary Science Teaching Trust, which aims to make new
research more widely available. Barden advised the BBC on the representation of learning
difficulties in two episodes of the television drama Waterloo Road. Innovative, anti-ableist
pedagogies developed by Penketh have been adopted into school and university practices.
Challenging Extremism
The rise in xenophobic hate crime after the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union
informed an investigation into educators’ understanding and implementation of policy relating to
Fundamental British Values and Religious Education. Outcomes include the creation of a toolkit for
countering extreme narratives in schools and wider communities (Bagelman), development of
training materials for teacher trainers (Lundie, Bamber), and a contribution on the Prevent
legislation to the 2018 Green Paper consultation on the MHCLG Integrated Communities Strategy
(Lundie, Pattison).
Further detail is given in Section 1.3.2, Section 3.3, Section 4, and the related Impact Case
Studies.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.3 Three Key Initiatives
Three specific initiatives have contributed to the achievement of the strategic aims outlined above:
      Mentoring: to develop researchers at all career stages and to enhance supervisory
       capacity
      Partnerships that impact practice: to develop impactful research that benefits the local
       education sector
      Consolidated Research Time: to enable staff to complete significant writing, research,
       and impact activities; to build research capacity

1.3.1 Mentoring
Research mentoring is provided for staff at all career stages, either internally or externally as
appropriate. Mentoring entails providing one-to-one feedback on articles and funding applications
in progress and being a point of contact for advice on career progression. This support, facilitated
through the research centres to ensure appropriate alignment of expertise, has been particularly
beneficial to early career researchers who have identified shared areas of interest with mentors
and more senior colleagues, collaborated on joint publications, developed sole-authored
publications, and developed their international networks.
Mentoring is enhanced by the expertise of Professorial Fellows (Stronach, Aubrey, Cook, Shortt,
and Pilkington) and Visiting Professors who collaborate with colleagues across the School, have
supported the development of the impact model, provided guidance on research leadership to
research centre leads, facilitated writing workshops, and contributed to the programme of the
Professional Doctorate (EdD). For example, the establishment of CRF was supported by
Professorial Fellows Papatheodorou (2015-2016), Aubrey (2016-2018), and Cook (2017-) who
provided guidance to its convenors (Nikiforidou, Pattison). CEPA has been supported by Visiting
Professorships held by Professor Barnett (previously IOE) and, since October 2019, Professor
Clayton (Warwick) and Dr Sellar (Manchester Metropolitan University) and their research expertise
in higher education, citizenship and values education, and policy sociology, respectively.


1.3.2 Partnerships that impact practice
The Teacher Education Partnership Office is central to the development of research collaboration
between the School and local partner organisations. The Hope Challenge project is a notable
achievement in this regard, winning a Higher Education Academy National Collaborative Award for
Teaching Excellence in 2016. (Further detail is given in Section 3.3).
A dedicated Head of Partnership Development (Sampson-Chappell) and a collaborative, research-
informed approach to teacher education ensures that we develop teachers and leaders able to
make sustainable changes to practice and outcomes. Postgraduate provision designed in
collaboration with school leaders supports educational practitioners and leaders in challenging
schools to undertake research that has a sustainable impact on their practices and outcomes.
Researchers in CCDS have a strong track record in the co-production of knowledge with research
participants, using workshops to explore the potential of new pedagogic practices (Penketh) and to
challenge cultural and historical representations of disability (Barden; Bolt; Cheyne).


1.3.3 Consolidated Research Time
The Consolidated Research Time (CRT) initiative was introduced by the School in 2015 and has
since been implemented across the institution. Since 2015, 62 applications for CRT have been
approved within the School, providing release from teaching and administrative duties to enable
completion of articles and monographs, prepare external funding applications, undertake impact-
related activity and research visits, and to complete doctoral research. The scheme is monitored to
ensure awards across the School year on year are distributed equitably.




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Future Developments
Since the restructuring of departments in 2019, the School of Education has comprised Education
Studies, Early Childhood Studies, and Teacher Education. This change afforded the opportunity to
reassess how CEPA and CRF can enhance our impactful partnerships across Merseyside and
beyond. This is illustrated by the four research themes detailed below, which build on established
areas and enable new lines of collaboration, which will be central to the research strategy pursued
from 2021.
Philosophy, Education, and Society
Activities in this area further establish the School’s reputation for scholarship in the field of
philosophy of education, as reflected in its strong track record of outputs. The School has
successfully bid to host the international Philosophy of Education Society (PESGB) Summer
Schools 2021 to 2024. Alternating between undergraduate and postgraduate events, they entail
masterclasses from renowned international scholars in the field and focus on policy and practice-
relevant themes. Summer School convenor Tillson is co-I on an international collaborative project,
Pedagogies of Punishment (with Dr Thompson, Ohio) that brings analytic philosophical frameworks
to bear on the question of punishment in schools.
Hodgson is co-convenor of the European Philosophy of Education Doctoral Colloquium, funded by
the PESGB, in collaboration with KU Leuven, Belgium, University of Padua, Italy, the Autonomous
University of Madrid, Spain, and Galway University, Ireland, which enables doctoral students in the
field to present works in progress and develop international networks at an early stage of their
careers.
Collaboration between researchers Hodgson (CEPA) and Anderson (CRF) on the digitisation and
securitisation of upbringing has resulted in an interdisciplinary suite of articles in Ethics and
Education (Hodgson & Ramaekers 2020; Anderson 2020). Hodgson is involved in ongoing
collaboration with Prof. Ramaekers (KU Leuven), who will also act as Visiting Professor affiliated to
CEPA from 2020-2022, that will build on their growing body of work in ‘Culture and Upbringing
Studies’ (e.g. Hodgson and Ramaekers, 2019).


Higher Education
The relationship between the university and the community it serves is central to all research
themes. The ‘Communiversity’ programme of monthly online events ('dialogues'), funded by the
Cathedrals Universities Group, is a collaboration between CEPA and Hope’s Centre for Socio-
Economic and Applied Research for Change (SEARCH; School of Social Science) that engages
our external networks of community groups, social enterprises, and education practitioners to
develop partnership projects in topical areas relating to social need. This informs our approach to
our impactful partnership working and builds on our strong track record in higher education
research, e.g. on academics’ understanding of metrics and the related ‘Pathologies of
Professionalism’ research developed by O’ Connell (in collaboration with Lybeck, Manchester).


Education for Advantage
The CEPA research stream ‘Education for Advantage’ builds on collaborations with partner
organisations to address local educational challenges. The responsive, co-designed research with
partner schools initiated through Hope Challenge is informing current research to support Everton
in the Community’s Lifelong Learning Strategy. As the charity arm of Everton Football Club, the
organisation seeks to address educational inequality in the L4 ward of the city and to evaluate
existing projects currently in progress to support schools.


Citizenship, Social Cohesion and Social Change
Five members of the School form part of the interdisciplinary research team collaborating on the
$188, 966 project ‘Personal Liberty, Mutual Respect and Tolerance’ funded by the Templeton


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Foundation. This builds on Bagelman’s work with the Schools of Sanctuary network, engaging the
40 affiliated schools in Liverpool to explore how schools present shared values and how individual
students makes sense of these.
A recent participatory mapping project (InSite Maps) has used GoogleMyMaps to support refugee
and asylum seekers in the process of resettlement. Bagelman piloted this project with children at
Liverpool City Council’s accommodation centre for newly arrived children through field trips and
participatory mapping of local sites (e.g. community gardens). It has been endorsed by Liverpool
City Council’s Refugee and Asylum Seeker Education Strategy Co-ordinator, and is now used by
Liverpool Red Cross, Refugee Action, Collective Encounters, Bedsit Liverpool, and a number of
other resettlement organisations. Bagelman’s work has been used in ITE to enable trainee
teachers to implement the practices developed with refugee children in their teaching placements.
Spohrer, Germain, and Bagelman are convening a symposium, ‘Funds of Knowledge for the 21st
century: Towards pedagogical justice in diverse societies’, funded by The Sociological Review.
This event will involve five external speakers, from the UK, Spain, China and the USA, and will
form the basis of an edited collection. The symposium will encourage dialogue and future
collaborations between scholars, teacher educators, and teachers to further enhance collaboration
internally and externally.


Summary
The research activity outlined above illustrates how the strategy pursued since 2015 has
embedded a culture of research excellence, enabled personal development at all research career
stages, and consolidated clear, sustainable areas of interdisciplinary research expertise. The
School Research Committee has consulted with colleagues, partners, funding bodies and potential
research beneficiaries on the strategy for the next five years. Our ambition is to further enhance
research-informed educational practice through impactful partnerships and support research
collaboration to increase our ability to attract external income. We will extend our successful
mentoring programme to increase the number of colleagues producing world-leading research.
The success of the EdD programme has led to the establishment of further professional
doctorates, supported by the School of Education, in Social Work and Social Care (launching
October 2021), which will further develop the postgraduate research community at Hope, promote
collaboration between Education and Social Sciences, and enable further development of research
supervision and leadership capacity.
The School is proactive in ensuring ongoing development of research and scholarship in spite of
the physical limitations necessitated by the pandemic, with collaboration, dissemination, and
mentoring undertaken via online platforms. Our research partners will be an important focus for the
co-design of evaluations of the impact of the pandemic on teachers, children, and families.


2. People

2.1 Strategy
The School’s commitment to attracting, developing, and retaining high-quality, committed staff
ensures that we continue to develop as an inclusive research environment that supports a
research-informed teaching ethos. Since 2015 we have made appointments that specifically
enhance our capacity for research impact and research leadership. Regardless of career-stage,
staff are encouraged to engage in research and scholarship, through individual or collaborative
research and knowledge exchange activity or through the development of expertise in teaching
and learning through the university’s Communities of Practice and centralised staff development
programmes, with clear progression routes at all career stages.
The School’s 2015 research strategy identified specific aims relating to staffing, namely, to:
      Ensure 70% of staff in the School have a PhD/EdD (In 2015 this stood at just over 50%)
      Ensure 90% of category A staff have a full submission of outputs for REF2021

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Increase publication opportunities for early career researchers
      Build research capacity through increased flexibility in teaching and administrative
       arrangements
      Promote individual research success internally and externally
      Enhance research leadership
      Develop understanding of research excellence

Specific actions were taken to ensure the development of an inclusive, stimulating, and sustainable
research culture, in which good research practice and research integrity are embedded. In addition
to the Mentoring and Consolidated Research Time initiatives (discussed in Section 1), these
actions focused on recruitment, monitoring research capacity at individual annual review, internal
CPD, provision of external review of research, and developing improved means of promotion and
dissemination of research.


2.2 Staff Development
The Mentoring and Consolidated Research Time initiatives have been instrumental in achieving
strategic aims sustainably and inclusively. Staff have been enabled to complete significant writing
projects, such as monographs (e.g. Lewin) and doctoral qualifications. 100% of academic staff in
the School at Lecturer Grade 7 and above have doctoral qualifications. CRT has ensured that the
balance of staff workload makes key strategic aims achievable, e.g. submitting external funding
applications, publishing high-quality research, gaining doctoral qualification.
Mentoring support has provided particular benefits to early career researchers. For example,
through CEPA, Maslen (early career researcher), Houston, and Kandemir (then doctoral students,
externally and at Hope, respectively) contributed to a symposium on Fundamental British Values at
the International Congress on Qualitative Inquiry (Chicago, 2017), supported by Stronach and
Hodkinson. CCDS, as home of the quarterly Journal of Literary and Cultural Disability Studies
(JLCDS), has supported the development of conference papers and journal articles by early career
members (e.g. Waite, Houston), enabled early career researchers to gain experience of peer
review (e.g. Rose), and provided opportunities for postgraduate taught students. For example,
based on a CCDS seminar series, JLCDS published a special issue on ‘Disability and the
Emotions’ including an original article by Barden and comment pieces by two Hope MA Disability
Studies graduates. In CRF, Boyle was supported by Pattison in her first year in the School to
develop research presented at the EECERA conference for publication.
The more defined focus and continued development of research centres since 2014 has
strengthened the research leadership capacity in the School. Professorial Fellows have provided
mentorship to the research centre directors to support their strategic aims, particularly relating to
defining the Centre’s specific profile of expertise, external communication, capturing impact, and
developing successful collaborative research funding applications. Development of the EdD and
institutional investment in doctoral scholarships also enabled early- and mid-career staff to gain
experience of research supervision, thereby enhancing capacity in this regard. Research
Supervisor Training is provided centrally to staff with supervisory status.
All staff at Senior Lecturer level and above are expected to submit at least one application for
external funding per year. This institutional requirement is supported at School level by the
research centres and mentors, the School Research Committee, and the wider leadership roles
held by staff externally (Further infrastructural detail provided in Section 3). CRT also supports this
expectation by providing dedicated time for the development of strong applications.
Professors Elliott, Smith (both Durham), and Menter (Oxford) have served as external referees for
publications by School staff, giving valuable feedback that helps to identify ongoing research
development needs as well as emerging research leadership and mentoring capacity.
Since 2014 the School has made 30 appointments to positions with responsibility for research (27
FTE). In that time, 17 staff have progressed from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer, 5 from Senior
Lecturer to Associate Professor, 1 from Senior Lecturer to Principal Lecturer, and 1 from Associate
Professor to Professor.
                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Supporting Professional Tutors to undertake practice-related research and pursue doctoral
qualifications illustrates the School’s commitment to sustainable and supportive development of the
research capacity of its staff. Internal staff development programmes ensure all staff can develop
and maintain skills and knowledge with regard to research ethics, supervision, and internal
examination. In addition, since 2018, inter-departmental and cross-departmental research
communication and collaboration has been supported by devoting one of the tri-annual whole-
School Learning and Teaching Days to research.

Staff at all career stages are supported to pursue professional development externally, e.g. through
ERASMUS+ exchange visits. These have fostered research collaborations and developed
professional networks, e.g. with the universities of Seville, Arhus, Malta, and Cyprus. An Erasmus
visit to Nantes led to the participation of Drs Demetriou and Nikiforidou in the international project
‘Children’s Worlds’, funded by the Jacobs Foundation, which explores children’s subjective
wellbeing. As part of the team representing Greece, Nikiforidou was involved with data collection
and analysis of the survey of 842 10-year olds' self-reports on wellbeing and contributed to the
national report on Greece. A related book chapter is now under review (Rees et al., eds,
Handbook of Children’s Risk, Vulnerability and Quality of Life: Global Perspectives, Springer).
The research environment and capacity in the School is further supported by the University’s
Research Office and dedicated subject librarians who actively support the development of research
skills at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels.


2.3 Postgraduate Support, Training, and Supervision
The majority of PGR students in the School of Education are pursuing an EdD. The Professional
Doctorate programme, revalidated in 2020, draws on the interdisciplinary expertise across the
School to develop postgraduate researchers who can design and undertake research related to
their professional practice.
Each doctoral student is supported by a Director of Studies, Research Supervisor, and Research
Advisor. Postgraduate research students also receive dedicated research training to which
Anderson, Barden, Hodkinson, and Pritchard contribute, structured in line with the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework and also available to those at partner institutions, St Mary’s,
Twickenham and Newman University, Birmingham. This research training encompasses ethics,
social research methods, and writing for publication. In addition, EdD students receive specific
training in educational research methodologies, both qualitative and quantitative, during the taught
phase of their programme. PGR training is led in the School by a dedicated PGR Coordinator
(Hodkinson), supported by the School Research Committee and School-level administration, and
overseen at university level by the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research.
Both postgraduate taught and research students are encouraged to participate in the wider
research culture. To facilitate this, seminars and workshops involving internal and external
speakers, external keynote lectures, and inter-university doctoral conferences are incorporated into
the EdD programme, research students are invited to present as part of internal seminar series,
and taught postgraduates are encouraged to consider the practical relevance of their dissertation
research through the annual CEPA Policy Brief competition. Events are scheduled to support
accessibility, e.g. invited lectures and seminars are incorporated into the EdD teaching
programme, regular seminars are held during school hours or in the late afternoon/twilight.
Doctoral students are also given the opportunity to gain teaching experience, thus enabling them to
gain broader experience of work in higher education, translating their research into teaching
material, and working towards Advance HE Fellowship status.
Research students benefit from comprehensive support and monitoring systems. For the EdD, the
monitoring system is managed by the PGR Coordinator and EdD Phase 2 leaders (Hodgson,
Hadwin) supported by the EdD Director (Barden) and central PGR administration. The nature of
the Professional Doctorate means that students are supervised not only by experienced
researchers but also by those with significant professional experience in educational practice.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Students are supported by their supervisory team to develop their research proposal, assessed by
double marking and an oral defence - the Confirmation of Doctoral Registration Interview (CDRI) -
designed to confirm a student’s readiness for Level 8 study. EdD research phase students are
represented by the PGR Student Representative at the University Research Committee.
Since 2014, the School has supervised two Vice-Chancellor’s Doctoral Scholarship students via
the traditional PhD route, Sophia Deterala (graduated 2019) and Asli Kandemir (jointly with
Sociology). During this period, eight staff members have completed doctoral qualifications
(Stevenson, James, Poulter, Waite, Gadsby, Parr, Sampson-Chappell, and Houston). Education
staff Rose and McNicholl, and Social Science staff Massey, Blundell, and Ramsey, are due to
complete EdD study at Hope in the next two years. In 2018, a further MPhil/PhD student, Davison,
was recruited in Early Childhood Studies, supervised by CRF and CEPA researchers. As a
Professional Tutor in our outreach provision, Davison is a further example of the support staff
receive to develop as researchers.
Our investment in people has seen some significant success in terms of research career
progression. Four former undergraduate students have been supported to gain Masters degrees
and to progress to doctoral studies: Ms Burch (graduate of both BA and MA at Hope, ESRC-
funded Ph.D. student, University of Leeds, now returning to teaching role at Hope), Mr Bygroves
(graduate of BA and MA at Hope, now EdD student and Director of Rushton Futures, a Liverpool
organisation for young people with complex needs and sensory impairments), Dr. Houston
(completed PhD externally while teaching at Hope, now Lecturer in Disability and Education,
Liverpool Hope), Dr. McKay (completed PhD at Hope, now Lecturer in Education, University of
Chester).




3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Strategic actions in the area of income, infrastructure, and facilities have focused on:
      Increased research income from funding:
       through enhanced collaborations, development of external funding applications, and
       increased postgraduate scholarships
      Infrastructure:
       empowering Research Committee and Ethics Committee to pursue the School’s objectives
      Promoting collaboration with library services:
       depositing outputs in the Research Repository; investment in resources, e.g. books and
       journals; dedicated subject librarians
      IT support and website maintenance:
       ensuring accurate and timely communication and external visibility of research activity

3.2 Research Income
Since 2015 the refined focus of the research centres has enabled the School to secure a mixed
portfolio of project/research income. Research income has doubled from the previous five-year
period. This increase is significant in very competitive times for a relatively young institution in
terms of its research status.
To support the aim of increasing research funding income, the School Research Income Advisory
Group (RIAG) was established in 2017, led by Dr Penketh. The Group provided support to identify
appropriate funding calls and develop proposals, and enabled the appointment of graduate interns
and postdoctoral research assistants to provide research support. The dedicated support of RIAG
contributed to an improved understanding of the process and requirements of the application
process, an increased capacity to make competitive external applications, and increased
involvement of early career researchers in the funding application process. For instance, the
successful application to the Templeton Foundation for $188,96 involved six members of the
School (Bamber, Bagelman, Maslen, O’Siochru, Tillson and PI Lundie, left Hope 2019). This

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
interdisciplinary project, ‘Personal Liberty, Mutual Respect and Tolerance: from values to virtues’,
involves researchers at all career-stages, including two early career researchers, and builds on
research on ‘Challenging Extremism’, outlined in 1.2 and in the related Impact Case Study. In a
further example, CCDS early career and doctoral researchers were awarded external funding to
host an event as part of the 2018 ESRC Festival of Social Science. The event, 'Challenging
Disability Stereotypes through Art', was attended by young disabled and D/deaf artists, and the
work was developed into a paper accepted for the CCDS 2019 conference.


3.2.1 Internal funding
The Mentoring and CRT initiatives are supported by internal funding and complemented by existing
structures for progression and career development (see Section 2).
The School has made use of specific funding schemes and processes introduced centrally to
facilitate impact, e.g. iREFund, a central internal research funding application portal, Hope's
Institutional Research Archive (HIRA), on which all outputs are recorded and made available in
open access where possible, and REFlect, which enables collation of evidence on research
impact. HEIF Route to Impact funding has supported practical applications of research expertise
and findings – for example, ‘Putting Disability Studies to Work in Art Education’ (Penketh, 2017),
‘Changing Social Attitudes Towards Disability’ as part of DaDaFest (Barden, 2015) – by matching
externally-awarded funding, e.g. by the charity Curious Minds for research to develop teacher’s
expertise in cultural education with eight cultural organisations in NW England (Penketh and Hiett).
The HEIF funds have also been used to support open access publication (e.g. Hodgson et al,
2017).
External funding bids often build on research activity enabled by internal CEPA seedcorn funds.
For example, CEPA support for the project ‘Metricisation of English Higher Education: Academics’
perspectives on the impact of TEF and REF on professional practice’ (O’ Connell, Rao, O’Siochru)
has laid the groundwork for subsequent publications (O’ Connell et al, 2019), collaborations (joint
book contract with Prof. Lybeck (Manchester) awarded by Palgrave), events (Pathologies of
Professionalism colloquium), and external funding awards (see 3.2.2 below).
Internal funding of the CCDS, CEPA, and CRF seminar series enables the School to sustain and
develop a diverse, stimulating research environment, accessible to staff and wider networks, by
enabling forums for internal and external dissemination and development of research.


3.2.2 External funding
The consolidation of the research centres and the guidance of RIAG has enabled a more focused
approach to collaborative, interdisciplinary research development and funding applications. The 29
projects awarded external funding in the last 5 years involve both early-career researchers and
more established staff, and illustrate the areas of strength across the School.
Applications are peer-reviewed internally by the School Research Committee and their
development supported by School-specific research mentors and the University’s Research Office.
CCDS, CEPA, and CRF communicate area-specific funding opportunities to their memberships,
and each has seen considerable success from a variety of external sources, including UK
Research Councils and national funding bodies, subject-specific societies, charities and local
authorities. Successful funding bids have been made to the following organisations by each
research centre:
CCDS: AHRC; British Academy; Curious Minds; ESRC; Romance Writers of America; Wellcome
Trust
CEPA:
Higher Education (specifically metricisation and academic identity): BAICE, Church Universities
Fund; HEA, QAA, SRHE, SEDA



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Education for Advantage (specifically developing teachers and education practitioners): School
Improvement Liverpool
Citizenship, Social Cohesion and Social Change (specifically Religious, Moral, and Civic
Education): British Academy; Culham St Gabriels, Templeton; University of Illinois
CRF: Culham St Gabriel’s Trust; ESRC; Northumbria T&W NHS Trust
These awards illustrate an enhanced capacity and confidence to apply to larger funders, such as
ESRC and AHRC, as well as to identify smaller, subject-specific organisations, such as PESGB,
SRHE, and Romance Writers of America. They also represent a capacity across career-stages,
disciplines, and approaches. The examples listed above indicate success from both early- and
mid-career researchers, in both foundational, theoretical and applied, practice-focused work, from
across the research centres and forum.
Collaboration is supported and encouraged externally and internally, and is developed in view of
the School’s priorities. Led by Prof. Bolt, CCDS has established an international profile, illustrated
by the volume co-authored with Prof. Rodas (CUNY) and Prof. Donaldson (NYIT). The School has
established a Memorandum of Understanding with the University of Illinois, enabling sustained
collaboration in events and publications and future staff and student exchanges. Staff are actively
collaborating with colleagues nationally and internationally, for example, KU Leuven (Hodgson,
collaboration with Ramaekers; internal funding from CEPA and external funding from PESGB for
interdisciplinary conferences 2019 and 2021), Ohio State University (Tillson collaboration with
Thompson; awarded £15,900 by Center for Ethics & Education).


3.2.3 Postgraduate Scholarships
The award of two Vice-Chancellor Scholarships reflects the university’s recognition of our growth in
terms of research supervisory capacity. They represent a significant investment in the School,
which has seen very positive outcomes for the doctoral students themselves, not only as
researchers but also as teachers in higher education, and for the supervisory teams who have
collaborated on publications and conference submissions with them and gained valuable
supervision and leadership experience.


3.3 Infrastructure
The research groups and the Education Partnership Office are fundamental to the research
infrastructure of the School, particularly in supporting collaboration with educational organisations
with whom we have developed impactful research partnerships. The Hope Challenge programme
is a particularly successful example: Education researchers worked with trainee teachers,
Liverpool School Improvement, Ofsted, and local schools facing challenging socioeconomic
circumstances (where Pupil Premium is at least 25%) to develop specific interventions to improve
learning outcomes. The programme develops research-informed teacher education and enables
staff and students to undertake action research to shape future practice. First piloted in 2014, it
won a Higher Education Academy National Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence in 2016.
Rationalising the focus of the research groups since 2014 has provided focal points for
communicating research internally and externally. Each centre hosts a regular research seminar
series that features both internal and external speakers and is open to wider networks. These
provide a forum for research dissemination and development. For example, the thematic seminar
series convened by CCDS has hosted internal, national, and international speakers and provided a
forum for the development of collaborative projects, including the 6-volume series A Cultural
History of Disability (eds. Bolt and McRuer (George Washington University)). The CCDS, CEPA,
and CRF seminar series have led to the publication of edited collections that include contributions
from both experienced and early-career researchers in the School, e.g.:




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Bolt, ed., Changing Social Attitudes Toward Disability: Perspectives from Historical,
       Cultural, and Educational Studies (Routledge, 2014)
      Bolt and Penketh, eds. Disability, Avoidance and the Academy: Challenging Resistance
       (Routledge, 2015)
      Owen, A., ed. Childhood Today (Sage, 2017)
      Bamber and Moore, eds. Teacher Education in Challenging Times: Lessons for
       professionalism, partnership and practice (Routledge, 2018)

The research centres issue regular communications on events, funding calls, and publications to
their memberships and partners. Visibility and reach of research activity are enhanced via social
media, including a CEPA blogsite, twitter feeds (@hopeschoolofed, @hopeteachers,
@HopeCEPA, @INLCDS) and the CCDS Youtube channel. External dissemination is supported
by School-level, research centre, and institutional funding to support conference attendance and
open access publication.
The research culture across the School, from undergraduate dissertations to staff research
practice, is underpinned by a commitment to uphold high standards of research ethics and
integrity. The field-specific BERA Research Guidelines are introduced to students and adhered to,
supported by specific committees at School and institutional levels. These standards are upheld
administratively across the School by the members of the School Research Ethics Sub-Committee,
formed of active researchers who assess each application for ethical clearance. Research
involving vulnerable participants is assessed at University Research Ethics Sub-Committee level.
Research ethics and inclusive research practice are an explicit part of mentoring, CPD, and
curricula across all levels. The committee structure enables a responsive approach to questions of
research ethics, e.g. the School of Education developed guidance in 2020 to help colleagues and
students adapt their research for online research environments as necessitated by the pandemic.


3.4 Facilities
Since 2015 the School has developed its collaboration with the library and IT services to enhance
the research environment. Education subject librarians play an active role in research skills training
for undergraduate, PGT, and PGR students. Within the library, PGR students have access to a
dedicated study space, comprising both hot desk and bookable areas, and to regular scheduled
and drop-in research support and training with subject librarians. As with undergraduates,
postgraduate students have access to dedicated online learning resources via Moodle, through
which training materials (text, video, and audio) are provided and dedicated library resources
identified.
In liaison with the subject librarians for Education, staff and PGR students undertake regular
reviews of materials to ensure that resources are up-to-date, accessible, and appropriate for
progressing research and research-informed teaching. The library holds approximately 50,000
unique titles (87,000 items) of which 22,500 unique titles (32,000 items) are in the Education Stack.
Accessibility of materials is enhanced by the purchase of ebooks as well as hard copies. The
Education collection includes 1719 e-books in addition to EBSCO ebook database access. We
hold subscriptions to 84 Education-specific journals, of which 64 are accessible online, and have
access to 630 titles via Education Research Complete, as well as further titles via the Academic
Search Complete, JSTOR, and Emerald databases. Research in Education also benefits from
collections in cognate disciplines (e.g. Philosophy, Psychology, Social Work, Sociology, and
Theology). Staff in the School of Education will benefit from the Library’s investment in new ‘pay-to-
publish’ subscription models that enable staff to publish in open access.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1
The School’s 2015 strategy identified 6 key areas for development in relation to collaboration and
contribution to the research base, economy, and society. These are outlined below with
illustrations of actions and outcomes.


4.2 Alignment of UG/PG curriculum development and research to ensure research-informed
teaching
The improved focus and growth of research since REF2014 has enabled the co-design of new
PGT modules in 2016, ‘Education Policy, Practice, and Professionalism’ and ‘Learners and
Learning in a Changing Landscape’, which draw directly on the interdisciplinary research and
methodological expertise relating to policy and governance in the School and offer clear
progression from the Single Honours undergraduate programme. In addition to the MA
programme, an MEd route enables students to pursue a four-year programme that involves a
placement-based research project in collaboration with a local educational organisation. The
development of these programmes has enabled research to inform and form part of teaching and
initiates education professionals into practices of collaborative, co-designed research to enhance
educational practice and outcomes.


4.3 Promotion of national and international collaborations and networks
A vibrant programme of collaborative events and projects has been convened by the research
centres and partner organisations, as outlined below.


New Perspectives in Philosophy of Education
Research activity in this field continues a strong track record of innovative work by early and mid-
career researchers (Hodgson, Lewin, Lundie, Tillson, Vlieghe, Zamojski). The School of Education
is home to the North West branch of the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain, which
has hosted a number of seminars in collaboration with CEPA involving national and international
speakers, situating the School within a wider international network of scholars. The School will
further develop this as host of the PESGB undergraduate and postgraduate annual Summer
Schools and as co-convenor of the European Philosophy of Education Colloquium, which will
enable international exchange between Hope and other institutions of higher education and
contribute to the development of the next generation of researchers in the field.
CEPA and PESGB co-funded two events held at KU Leuven that have further strengthened
collaborative research links. First, a one-day ‘How Important is Neuroscience for Educators?’
conference (2018). This was developed into further interdisciplinary collaboration on the digitisation
and securitisation of upbringing (see Philosophy, Education & Society, Section 1.4). This
collaboration has led to the appointment of Prof. Ramaekers (KU Leuven) as a CEPA Visiting
Professor (2020-2022). Second, a 2018 symposium on ‘Postcritical Perspectives on Higher
Education: reclaiming the educational in the university’ (ed. Hodgson et al, 2020) including
chapters by Budd, Hodgson, Vlieghe, and Zamojski, and contributors from Belgium, Germany,
Israel, Poland, and United States. This work builds on the earlier ‘Manifesto for a Postcritical
Pedagogy’ (Hodgson et al., 2018) that has been followed by a number of Special Issues in
response (e.g. Ethics and Education, 2019, 14 (4); On Education, 2020, 9). This work marks an
important methodological contribution to the field and to the School’s research on higher education.
These initiatives further enhance the international reputation of Hope researchers in this field and
represent methodological and theoretical innovation in this foundational subject.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Expanding JLCDS
CCDS is home to the Journal of Literary and Cultural Disability Studies (Liverpool University Press;
founding co-editor-in-chief Prof. Bolt; Comment Ed., Barden). Launched as a biannual online
publication in 2006, in 2017 the journal became a quarterly print and online publication, indicating
its position as a highly respected venue for new work in the field. Since 2014 Special Issues
initiated by Liverpool Hope researchers include ‘The Biopolitics of Art Education’ (2019), guest
edited by Penketh in collaboration with Prof. Adams (University of Chester), and ‘Representations
of Dwarfism’ (2020), guest edited by Pritchard in collaboration with Prof. Kruse (Geography, West
Liberty University, USA). The credibility, vitality, and sustainability of the journal have been
confirmed on an international scale by the support of both Project MUSE and Scopus.


TEESNet
As leaders of the international Teacher Education for Equity and Sustainability Network
(TEESNet), the School has initiated collaborative research (Lundie, Bamber; Bullivant (TEESNet);
Clarke (Liverpool World Centre)) to examine the implementation of the Prevent Strategy and the
requirement to teach Fundamental British Values. The research (see Bamber et al., 2019)
highlighted the different models of agency adopted by schools in their efforts to reconcile the new
strategy with previous national and community level programmes relating to multiculturalism and
tolerance. This research informed the ‘Wider Perspectives in Education’ element of the School’s
teacher education provision supporting 1143 trainee teachers over the last four years. As indicated
in the related Impact Case Study, the reach of our work leading TEESNet and collaborating with
Liverpool World Centre encompasses community projects in Liverpool and beyond, involving
partners across the UK and Europe.


4.4 Academic staff to present research at external events
The School has been well-represented at international peer-reviewed conferences (e.g. BERA,
EECERA, PESGB, PES, SRHE) and other dissemination events, many of which illustrate the
development trajectory of research themes and projects. For example, the Colloquium, ‘Can
national identity ever have “fundamental values”?’ (O’ Connell, Hodkinson, Nahaboo, Maslen,
Houston, Kandemir) presented at ICQI in 2017 was further developed for the BERA Conference
(‘Can British Values ever be Fundamental? What? Who?’, Hodkinson, Pattison and Anderson,
2018), culminating in a Special Section of International Review of Qualitative Research (Stronach
and Hodkinson, eds, 2020) featuring Hodkinson, Houston, and Pattison.
The research team collaborating on the Templeton-funded project ‘Personal liberty, mutual respect
and tolerance: from values to virtues’ (Lundie, Bagelman, Tillson, Bamber, Maslen) presented an
initial outline of the project at the BERA Conference, 2019.
Research presented at the Society for Research in Higher Education (‘Metrics in Higher Education:
Technologies and Subjectivities’, 2018) and further developed at the CEPA event, Pathologies of
Professionalism in Higher Education, resulted in a co-authored publication in Studies in Higher
Education (O’ Connell, O’ Siochru, Rao, 2019).
The School’s international recognition is illustrated in invitations to present keynote lectures, which
include: Su (International Conference of Teaching, Professional Recognition & Innovation in Higher
Education, Universita degli Studi, Bari Aldo Moro, 2020), Bamber (UNESCO ESD/GCE
international symposium Ottawa, Canada, 2018), Hodkinson (World Congress of Special Needs,
Cambridge, 2018), and Nikiforidou (OMEP UK Annual General Meeting, London, 2015 on
‘Education for Sustainable Development in Early Childhood’ and Winterschool 2016, Bielefeld
University, Germany, ‘International perspectives on stages of life: Well‐being of Children and Youth
around the world’).




                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.5 Organise conferences, symposia, colloquia workshops, seminars
The research centres have strong track records in convening events that further build their
contribution to the research base and collaborative partnerships with local educational
organisations, e.g. the CCDS seminar series led to Bolt’s edited volume, Changing Social Attitudes
Toward Disability: Perspectives from historical, cultural, and educational studies (2014; paperback
edition 2016; Korean translation, 2018), which includes chapters by Barden, Caslin, Hodkinson,
and Penketh, along with 10 external colleagues. The series also shaped a Special Issue of JLCDS,
‘Disability and the Emotions’ (2020), which includes articles by Barden and five international
contributors.
CCDS has also convened a biennial conference since 2011, growing from 40 to 120 delegates by
2019. The conference led to a number of publications (including e.g. Bolt and Penketh, eds, 2016,
which features contributions from Barden, Hodkinson, and Waite, along with 16 international
contributors).
The CRF has hosted regular seminar series featuring international contributors, including
‘Exploring Childhood Today’ (2014/15) and ‘Childhood Today’ (2015/16), which resulted in an
edited book (Owen, ed., 2017) whose chapters represent the interdisciplinary experience of
researchers and teacher educators across the School (Nikiforidou, Stack, Caslin, Aubrey, Cronin,
Mulhaney, Pearson, Anderson, Owen, Waite, Pritchard).
In 2018, as part of their involvement in the European Early Childhood Research Association
(EECERA) ‘Holistic Well-being’ Special Interest Group (SIG), members of CRF hosted an
international conference at Hope, ‘Debates in Child and Family Well-being’, with keynote speakers
Profs Pascal and Bertram, Directors of the Centre for Research in Early Childhood. A co-edited
collection in the Routledge EECERA series is in development.
CRF hosted an ESRC Festival of Social Science event, ‘A day in the life of an early years leader',
led by Anderson in collaboration with Dr Malone from the School of Drama, Music, and
Performance and students. Further ESRC Festival of Social Science events were held in 2019 to
mark 30 years of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Convened in
partnership with local arts organisations the ‘Celebrating Children’s Rights through Arts’ events
(convened by Nikiforidou) provided creative workshops for children, parents, and carers who might
not otherwise access Liverpool’s free cultural offer.
The annual TEESNet conference hosted by the School resulted in the edited collection ‘Teacher
Education for Equity and Sustainability’ (Bamber, ed., 2019) including chapters from researchers
across eleven different countries.


4.6 Engage with editorship, peer reviews, grant review
Staff demonstrate research leadership across their scholarly communities, e.g., as editors of
journals and book series on higher education, philosophy and sociology of education, comparative
education, disability studies, and curriculum studies, and as members of editorial boards (unless
other roles indicated), including:
      Journal of Child Care in Practice (Boyle)
      Journal of Literary & Cultural Disability Studies (Bolt, Editor in Chief; Barden, Comments
       Editor; Cheyne, Editorial Advisor)
      Journal of Philosophy of Education (Hodgson, Reviews Editor)
      International Studies in Sociology of Education (Hodgson, Spohrer)
      On Education (Hodgson, International Advisory Board member)
      Ethics & Education (Hodgson)
      International Journal of Art and Design Education (Penketh, Joint Co-editor)
      International Journal of Development Education and Global Learning (Bamber)
      Disability and Society (Bolt, Houston, Pritchard)
      Social Inclusion (Barden)



                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff also undertake peer review for a number of journals including the European Educational
Research Journal and Educational Philosophy and Theory.
Research undertaken in partnership with local schools has been disseminated through the
School’s Research in Action journal (eds, Bamber, Moore, Lloyd, Pilkington). Contributions and
contributors reflect the diversity of partnership schools that Liverpool Hope teacher educators work
with, e.g. investigation of the Schools of Sanctuary programme, in which 40 Liverpool schools
participate (Bagelman).


4.7 Contribute to committee memberships and associations
School staff hold elected positions in learned societies including:
      British Education Research Association (BERA; Pattison co-convenor Alternative Education
       SIG)
      British Educational Studies Association (BESA; O’Siochru, Executive Committee)
      European Early Childhood Educational Research Association (EECERA, Anderson,
       network co-convenor)
      History of Education Society (HES; Crutchley, Treasurer)
      Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain (PESGB; Hodgson, Treasurer and
       Trustee; Tillson, Executive Committee)
      Society for Research in Higher Education (SRHE, Rao and Su, network co-convenors)
      World Organisation for Early Childhood Education and Care (OMEP UK; Nikiforidou,
       Executive Committee)

Staff draw on this experience in their mentoring of early career colleagues and postgraduate
students and in their contribution to the research environment, e.g. by hosting or convening
international conferences (e.g. BESA; TEESNet, BAICE and regular seminar series, e.g. PESGB).


4.8 Evaluation and responsiveness to policy
4.8.1 Bringing research expertise to bear on the effectiveness of policy interventions
through direct evaluation and external analysis
Boyle was Co-PI of a study (pre-birth-3) completed in 2018 to assess the impact of the Area Based
Childcare Programme (ABC) in the Republic of Ireland. This national evaluation, commissioned by
the Department of Children and Youth Affairs, found evidence that the ABC Programme improved
outcomes for children and families and informed the Irish government’s new strategy for prevention
and early intervention from 2019 and beyond.

The model of evaluation embedded in research undertaken by Cook and Anderson enabled early
years leaders and their supporting organisations to identify strengths and weaknesses in their
practice and to address limitations in their understanding of their professional role. For example, by
challenging the psychological basis of the concept of ‘school readiness’, a more holistic conception
has been adopted, leading to improvements in practice and outcomes. Building on this, a broader
scale action research project involving over 60 EYLs across Liverpool Local Authority led to more
effective communication with parents, enhanced pedagogical knowledge, and a model of
evaluation to further improve outcomes for children and families.

Research on parents’ right to withdraw children from religious education (Lundie, O’ Siochru)
contributed to discussions at government level. At a House of Lords event on curriculum reform in
RE hosted by Baroness Butler-Sloss Lundie presented evidence of teachers’ wide support for
reform and lack of understanding of the legal status of the right to withdraw. The event was
attended by representatives from twenty-four organizations with an interest in RE, including the
Department of Education, OFSTED, the Religious Education Council, the Commission on
Religious Education, and Westminster Foundation for Democracy.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research by Barden (2016) on hybrid physical/online learning spaces provided a founding tenet of
innovative classroom/studio/event space The Foundry, part of the national Institute of Coding at
Department of Computer Science and Creative Technologies at UWE Bristol.
4.8.2 Research expertise and media engagement
The relevance and reach of the School’s research is reflected in media engagement and coverage.
Examples are given below.
CCDS
Bolt was interviewed by Mark Mardell on BBC Radio 4’s World at One. As a result, a subsequent
RNIB campaign, How I See, offered far more complex representation of blindness than the
previous one-dimensional approach. Bolt’s critique of cultural representations of disability was
reported in The Liverpool Echo and discussed further on BBC radio programme The Roger Phillips
Show by Jim Moran, former Chief Executive of the blind organisation Bradbury Fields.
Barden’s work on digital technology and dyslexia was featured in Educate magazine and
discussed in the Daily Dot blog.
CEPA
Bagelman’s research with refugees in Liverpool received local press coverage.
Hodgson’s research on the parenting culture has led to invitations to contribute to The Daily
Telegraph feature ‘From pubic hair growth to boyfriend updates: Forget sharenting, it's today's
teens who dish out TMI’ and the Liverpool Echo’s Menopod podcast series. Her research on
parenting and digitisation (Ramaekers and Hodgson, 2020) led to an invitation to contribute to the
LSE blog, Parenting for a Digital Future.
In relation to her work on the relationship between philosophy and community, Hodgson was
interviewed on the US-based podcast ‘Philosophy Bakes Bread’.
Spohrer’s research on the discourse of aspiration (Spohrer et al., 2018) was featured on the LSE
Politics and Policy blog.
Tillson contributed to the podcast ‘The Emotional Curriculum’ to discuss his Pedagogies of
Punishment research project.
CRF
Anderson’s research with ‘Nature to Nurture’, Merseyside’s first outdoor nursery, was featured on
BBC’s The One Show. She discussed how children engage with their outdoor experiences and
how this influences socio-emotional and cognitive development.




                                                                                             Page 17
