Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment: 10 Mathematical Sciences
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Unit context and structure
 Research in our small Mathematical Sciences Unit of Assessment is carried out within
 STORM, the Statistics, Operational Research and Mathematics Research Centre
 (established in 1992). STORM lies within the Mathematical Sciences Group (MSG) of the
 School of Computing & Digital Media (SCDM).
 STORM comprises four research active members of staff, Professor E. Kissin (Director
 of STORM), Professor R. Rigby, Professor M. Stasinopoulos, and Dr Z. Hou. Their
 research lies in many different interdisciplinary areas of Mathematics.
 Kissin specialises in the theory of Operator algebras, Invariant Subspace theory and the
 theory of Algebra and Group Representations in Hilbert and Banach spaces and in the
 spaces with indefinite metric (Krein and Ponrjagin spaces).
 Hou works in the field of Ordinary Differential Equations and Dynamical Systems. He is
 also involved in interdisciplinary research in the area of Mathematical Biology: theoretical
 biology and many population dynamics.
 Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos have been conducting collaborative research in
 Statistical Modelling and software development over several REF cycles. They developed
 one of the most widely used statistical modelling techniques in the world: Generalized
 Additive Models for Location, Scale and Shape (GAMLSS). The GAMLSS models,
 methodology and software have been used worldwide in many different scientific fields
 such as actuarial science, biology, biosciences, energy economics, genomics, finance,
 fisheries, food consumption, growth curves estimation, marine research, medicine,
 meteorology, rainfall, vaccines, etc.
 STORM complements the extensive teaching programme of the MSG, where there are a
 number of other staff teaching mathematics and statistics and carrying out pedagogic
 research and other activities.
 We are a small group, but our reach is wide. We have several international collaborations,
 and we are often approached by those who wish to work and study with us, including
 international scholars and students who wish to share our intellectual interactions.
 Consequently, STORM has dedicated office space with spare capacity for visiting
 researchers.


 Strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period
 Our strategy for research and impact over the assessment period was described in our
 REF2014 submission. In 2014 we committed ourselves to:
 1) carry out high quality research and disseminate the research through publications in
 high quality journals, published books, delivering invited international short courses and
 invited keynote international talks, and presenting research papers at international
 conferences (with papers published in conference proceedings),
 2) increase our recruitment of PhD students and to integrate them more fully into the
 research culture of the group,



                                                                                       Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3) expand our extensive international research collaboration and further develop
 collaboration with users leading to increased impact,
 4) contribute to the larger scientific community through membership of editorial boards,
 refereeing academic publications and refereeing research proposals.


 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment
 period
 Evidence of the achievement of the above strategic aims is given below:
 1) 28 papers published in refereed journals,
      Two books published,
      Seven invited international short courses delivered,
      Three invited keynote international talks given,
      Seven articles published in international conference Proceedings,
      Two external PhD examinations undertaken.
 2)    Five PhD students successfully completed (an increase of one).
       Three PhD students registered at universities outside the UK, (from Brazil and Italy)
         visited STORM each for between 4 and12 months).
 3) STORM’s established, excellent international research reputation, and extensive
 international research collaboration and durable impact is clear. This is evinced clearly in
 the wide-ranging usage of the work described in, among other places, our Impact Case
 Studies.
 Specifically, in terms of research outputs, our international research is well-evidence:
    Thirteen of the 28 journal papers, and the two books mentioned in 1) above were results
 of international collaborations with researchers who are resident outside the UK, in many
 different countries, including Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Italy, Japan, Netherlands,
 Portugal, Russia and Spain.
    Seven of the 28 journal papers were interdisciplinary, with publications in journals
 including The Bulletin of the World health Organization, Statistical Methods in Medical
 research, Journal of Sports Sciences, Energy Policy, American Journal of Human Biology
 and Food Microbiology.
      All seven published conference articles in 1) were produced with international
      collaborations with researchers who are resident outside the UK in several different
      countries.
      The research centre STORM received many international visitors including:
       One post-doctoral researcher for 5 months (from Italy) who collaborated on research
        on centile estimation, and four academics from Australia, Brazil, Netherlands and
        Russia (for up to a week). During their visits, current collaborative projects were
        discussed that resulted later in publishing two books and several of the papers
        mentioned above, as well as plans for future collaboration were considered. These
        are significant numbers in relation to our small size.
 4)    Two researchers in STORM are members of Editorial Boards of Mathematical
      Journals.



                                                                                       Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Researchers in STORM have refereed 52 papers for international journals, refereed
    one book and refereed one research grant proposal.
   They also published numerous reviews for Mathematical Reviews and Zentralblatt
   Mathematics.
    Members of STORM have developed and managed substantial software (specifically
    they manage 10 packages in the R CRAN library).
   Members of STORM manage a website (www.gamlss.com) with, for example, over
   13,000 hits in 2019.
  Internally, as a part of the Mathematics Team, the members of STORM won the London
 Metropolitan University VC Award for 2018.


 Impact during the assessment period.
   Our approach to achieving impact has been to disseminate our research activity through
 activities listed in 1) above, together with providing substantial and very general applied
 software for statistical modelling and data analysis (the GAMLSS packages in R),
 maintaining a website (www.gamlss.com) to provide information and assistance in the
 application of the GAMLSS methodology and software, and providing advice to
 practitioners through meetings, emails and skype.
 For example in our ‘Centile and Growth Curves Estimation’ impact case study, the impact
 resulting from the World Health Organisation (WHO) Child Growth Charts followed a 3
 day visit by members of STORM to WHO in Geneva to explain the GAMLSS methodology
 and demonstrate the use of the GAMLSS software, followed by around 100 email
 exchanges. Similarly, the impact resulting from the INTERGROWTH-21st Project
 International Standards for newborn weight, length and head circumference followed from
 the attendance of a key researcher at our GAMLSS short course in Rotterdam, followed
 by subsequent emails.


 Strategic aims for research and impact during the next five years
 STORM plans to continue and expand the activities in areas 1), 2), 3) and 4) above.
 The University has developed an effective policy to further stimulate research in STORM
 by attracting high quality researchers and by offering support to members of staff who
 have not yet been strongly involved in research.
 The medium-term aim of STORM is to
   1) continue and expand the high quality research;
   2) expand our extensive research collaboration with colleagues in the UK and abroad
 and expand our collaboration with users, particularly in the area of statistical modelling;
   3) disseminate our research through publication in the high-quality journals, participation
 in international conferences, giving talks at UK Universities and abroad and also through
 short courses in the UK and abroad;
   4) continue and expand our contribution to the larger scientific community and take part
 in various professional activities such as organizing and participating in workshops and
 conferences;
   5) participate in peer review, scientific committees and Editorial Boards of Mathematics
 Journals;

                                                                                        Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    6) continue to recruit PhD students, provide them with a good environment and ensure
 timely completion;
   7) to attract and employ high quality researchers in order to maintain our core strengths;
   8) bid for funding to attract and recruit PhD students and post-doctoral researchers, and
 provide staff development leave for the existing staff;
    9) develop current and new relationships with practitioners, especially in the application
 of Statistical Modelling to produce impactful practical applications.
 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
  STORM is a research centre within the Mathematical Sciences Group (MSG) of the
  School of Computing & Digital Media (SCDM). Currently STORM has 1.9 FTE staff.
  SCDM has a well-established and inclusive staffing strategy and staff development
  in place. With regards to staffing strategy, since REF2014, STORM has recruited
  one research orientated academic staff member and endeavors to recruit further
  research active staff to consolidate our research activities.
  In addition to STORM staff with an established research track record, the unit
  encourages other staff within MSG to engage in research and to produce high quality
  and impactful research. During the assessment period one member of MSG has
  successfully completed his PhD (Dr Getachew Zergaw) and another member who
  completed her PhD in 2012 (Dr J. Gill) is working on a series papers linked to her
  thesis. We wish to grow our FTE numbers who are active in research, which is line
  with the University’s strategic mission.
  The School offers a variety of supporting mechanism for researchers. We have a
  mentoring scheme; we provided workloads for research; we have a sabbatical
  scheme, which has benefited several colleagues per year; and we provided financial
  support for colleagues’ research both locally and through two university-level
  schemes.. Our excellent parental leave policy (providing leave entitlement to both
  fathers and mothers) and a carefully managed return to work process has been
  established.
  The School adopts a balanced approach (in terms of gender and ethnicity) in the
  composition of panels for appointments. Unconscious bias training is provided.
  When we make new appointments are assigned senior staff members with related
  research as mentors, quickly incorporating new staff into the SCDM research culture.
  The unit has mentoring systems and Professors regularly mentor Early Career
  Researchers (ECR).
  SCDM has a well-established mechanism for promoting staff and monitoring staff
  development via our annual staff appraisal system.
  In the REF period within UoA-10, Professor Robert Rigby has advanced from being
  a Reader to Professor.
  During the appraisal, staff development is identified, and appropriate tasks are
  considered as deliverable targets. Researchers are given time, between 20% and
  40%, for research related activities. When the University also gives sabbatical leaves
  to the researchers to focus on their research, their teaching and other duties are
  covered collegially by other members of staff and by HPLs (hourly-paid staff).
  The unit is part of the School’s Industrial Liaison Group where industrial research
  and secondment to industry is identified and brought to the attention of line managers

                                                                                        Page 4
     Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and Directors of research centres for approval.
       Staff are regularly funded by the School to attend research conferences and
       workshops.
       Members of the school frequently collaborate with each other on research bids and
       on research papers. Teams, typically made up of researchers at every stage of their
       careers, interact energetically throughout the processes of planning, applying for,
       and undertaking projects. Research bids are read and critiqued by other research
       staff before submitting them, allowing researchers to learn about each other’s
       research.


       Support mechanisms:
       The University’s Research & Postgraduate Office (RPO) provides support and
       training to both research active staff & students. RPO brings together postgraduate
       research students, academic staff, and others, across the University to make
       academic life as a postgraduate research student as smooth as possible. This
       includes academic support for students at every stage, advising prospective
       applicants, and giving PGR students a platform to give feedback and contribute to
       the student journey. Staff training includes supervisory training, and sessions on
       chairing the PhD viva. RPO delivers PGR student training sessions designed to help
       research students negotiate the different phases of study and the varying challenges
       each phase presents. The RPO plays a key part in supporting PGR students and
       research staff in a variety of ways including induction, drop-in sessions, training on
       research philosophy, critical review of the literature, writing a successful research
       bids, research ethics and research project management.
       RPO has formed a postgraduate research society (PGRS) whose general aim is to
       build a research community thereby enabling research students from different
       Schools within the University to work together. Through the PGRS, research
       students can:
       (i) Connect with like-minded people for mutual support and peer support.
(i     (ii) Socialize with others through social events, academic seminars and meet-ups
            outside University.
       (iii) Promote and develop a research community from all backgrounds and studies.
       (iv) Meet to develop research ideas among peers and create network opportunities.
       (v) Attend activities aiming at developing research skills.
       All research active members of staff, whether experienced or early career
       researchers are also given opportunities for a sabbatical period on a regular basis
       (currently 6 months leave every 3 years). Their teaching loads are covered by other
       members of staff and by HPLs. Furthermore, research members of staff are
       encouraged to attend conferences, workshops and short courses to enhance their
       research knowledge and skills.


       Training and supervision of postgraduate research (PGR) students:
       PhD students are an integral part of our research strategy, playing an active part in
       research activities from writing papers to presenting at the SCDM research seminars, as
       well as presenting papers at international conferences. All students have 2 supervisors.

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  a Director of Studies (DoS) and a second supervisor. They have a room with desk, IT
  facilities, an extensive library, and good access to online resources.
  As part of a strategy for transferable skills training, we provide students with
  opportunities to learn skills, which may help in the achievement of personal and
  career development goals. Research students are expected to discuss their training
  needs with their supervisory team and identify which activities are
  appropriate/necessary for their research and personal and career development.
  The University wide Researcher Development Programme provides a range of
  training and development opportunities for PGR students. The courses are designed
  to support researchers in developing a full range of transferable professional,
  personal, research, and career skills and knowledge. The Programme offers a range
  of courses in four domains:
  (i)     Knowledge and Intellectual Abilities – the knowledge, intellectual abilities and
         techniques needed to carry out research.
  (ii)    Personal Effectiveness – the personal qualities, and career and self-
         management skills needed to take ownership of and engage in professional
         development.
  (iii) Research Governance and Organization – the knowledge of the standards,
        requirements and professional conduct needed for the effective management of
        research; and,
  (iv) Engagement, Influence and Impact – the knowledge, understanding & skills
       needed to engage with, influence and impact on the academic, social, cultural,
       economic and broader context.
  We encourage our students to make full use of these programmes of training and
 support.


  Information on progress monitoring:
  SCDM and STORM operate a rigorous progress monitoring mechanism for PGR
  students, involving detailed 6-monthly progress reports and an annual review at
  Research Student Progress Group (RSPG) meetings in which a panel consisting of
  research supervisors and Directors of Research Centres & Groups advise on
  research progress and subsequent progression.
  The Schools provide funds to enable all PGR students to attend international
  conferences during their studies on the condition they have published an output.
  Once annually PGR students are expected to present a poster on their work at the
  annual Research and Enterprise Day. Effective interaction between PGR students
  and staff in the School is promoted through regular seminars and social events.
  External speakers participate in the School’s Research Seminar Series, which raises
  awareness of key research developments and helps to encourage interdisciplinarity.
  First year PGR students receive an induction programme including general and
  specific taught courses mentioned above, and targeted Health and Safety training.
  Students are required to complete a post-registration progress review form twice
  annually. This includes: description of the progress they have made on their research
  project since the last report to the RSPG; identify any challenges or problems
  encountered for which additional support, training or guidance might be required;
  and, an updated outline of their anticipated timetable for completing the research.
  Supervisors are required to comment on the student's progress in respect of their
                                                                                        Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  programme of research. An independent reader also comments on the student's
  progress. As part of their training research students are expected to present their
  research at conferences and symposia. During the assessment period the STORM
  PhD students have presented their work at various international venues.


  Supporting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion:
  SCDM and STORM operate within University policies and procedures for equality,
  diversity and inclusion. The University disseminates policy and good practice in
  relation to both staff and students. It provides training and advice on interpretation
  and implementation of policies and codes of practice. The University’s Equality,
  Diversity & Inclusion addresses gender, marital status, age, race, religious belief,
  political belief, disability, sexual orientation, and responsibility for dependents. The
  University is preparing application for bronze status of the Athena Swan Charter to
  promote equality for women in STEM subjects. The University has entered the
  Stonewall Diversity Champion programme and have joined Stonewall's Workplace
  Equality Index process, to assist us in implementing LGBT+ inclusive policies and
  practices across the University. The University is taking part in the government's
  Disability Confident scheme as a Disability Confident Committed employer and have
  published information to help and support our staff and our managers. SCDM
  supports equality of opportunity through open communications to staff about
  strategic initiatives, funding opportunities and training.
  SCDM is supportive of the family and personal obligations of all members of staff,
  such as parents of young children. We allow people with caring responsibilities
  flexible working conditions, protecting them from teaching and other duties that
  require University attendance in especially pressured times. This is partly enabled
  by a culture that supports and encourages staff members to share work
  collaboratively with colleagues.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Staff of STORM contribute to the teaching programme of the Mathematical Sciences
 Group and receive a significant time allocation (20% to 40%) for research, consultancy
 and staff development. Income earned from the REF 2014 helped to provide funding for
 teaching relief for members of STORM. There is dedicated office space for STORM
 members, with spare desk capacity for visiting researchers. STORM has modern
 computing facilities, with fast printing and copying facilities. The University provides
 excellent library facilities with a well-established series of ‘traditional’ journals and
 receptive to the acquisition of new journals and research texts. Online journal access is
 also available through the library’s system. Research students have a dedicated office
 room with their own desk and PC.
 The university central services provide dedicated staff to support the general-purpose
 computer science labs, networks and standard software builds for computers.
 A large suite of software products is available for research using state-of-art tools.
 The Research Office and a Finance Officer provide administrative support for the School
 in terms of preparing, costing and submitting research funding bids.




                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 Despite being a small research centre, STORM has made substantial contributions to and
 collaborations with the research base and the practitioner base world-wide, resulting in
 significant impact. STORM plans to continue and enhance this over the coming years.
 Specific contributions are given below.


 Statistical Modelling
 Professor R. Rigby and Professor D. Stasinopoulos
 Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos have a long record of collaborative research in
 statistical modelling and software development. They have developed what is now one of
 the most widely used statistical modelling techniques in the world, namely Generalized
 Additive Models for Location, Scale and Shape (GAMLSS). In 2014 their GAMLSS read
 paper to the Royal Statistical Society was one of the most downloaded papers of the Royal
 Statistical Society’s publications and has over 1700 citations (in Google Scholar) to date.
 Their two published books on GAMLSS, provide the detailed theory, methodology and
 practical application (using their R software) of GAMLSS, to help both researchers and
 practitioners and expand the impact of GAMLSS. Their GAMLSS software comprises 12
 packages in R (10 of which they manage). During the assessment period Professors
 Rigby and Stasinopoulos have published 13 papers in refereed journals, and also refereed
 7 journal papers and one research grant proposal and supervised 3 successful PhD
 students.
 The GAMLSS models, methodology and software have been used in many different
 scientific fields such as actuarial science, biology, biosciences, energy economics,
 genomics, finance, fisheries, food consumption, growth curves estimation, marine
 research, medicine, meteorology, rainfall, vaccines, etc. For example, the GAMLSS
 methodology and software were adopted by the Department of Nutrition for Health and
 Development of the World Health Organization for the construction of the worldwide
 standard growth (centile) curves for children.
 During the assessment period, Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos have further
 developed a lively international environment in STORM by:
    1) hosting international visitors (for periods from 1 day to 1 year),
    2) giving international invited short courses, keynote talks at conferences, and
       presenting papers at conferences,
    3) maintaining a dedicated GAMLSS website (www.gamlss.com) with world-wide hits,
    4) maintaining 10 GAMLSS R packages in the R CRAN library,
    5) providing world-wide on-line consultancy on the GAMLSS methodology and
       GAMLSS R software,
    6) publishing two books, in collaboration with researchers who are resident outside
       the UK, and publishing 13 papers in refereed journals, of which 9 are in
       collaboration with researchers resident outside the UK.


 Details of the above activities (during the assessment period) are given below:



                                                                                      Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1) Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos have hosted many international visitors
       including: 3 PhD students registered at universities outside the UK (Dr Luiz
       Nakamura, Dr Fernanda De Bastiani, both from Brazil, and Dr Andrea Marletta
       from Italy, each staying between four and twelve months), and hosted one post-
       doctoral researcher (Dr Marco Enea from Italy staying five months), and two
       academics (Professor Gillian Heller from Australia and Professor Paul Eilers from
       the Netherlands, each staying several days).
    2) Professor Stasinopoulos has given seven international invited short courses on
       GAMLSS around the world (in Austria, Columbia, Italy, Netherlands and Spain),
       and 2 international invited keynote talks at conferences (in Austria and Columbia).
       Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos have published six papers in international
       conference proceeding (in Austria, Brazil, France, Germany and Spain).
    3) The dedicated GAMLSS website (www.gamlss.org), managed by Professor
       Stasinopoulos, has been active throughout the assessment period receiving
       multiple world-wide hits. For example, during 2019, the website received 14,639
       hits from 9,987 different users from 123 different countries, of which 22% were from
       the USA, 14.1% from Brazil, 10.0% from the UK, 6.1% from Germany, 5.5% from
       China, 3.3% from Japan, and the remaining 39% from the other 117 countries.
    4) The GAMLSS software of Professors Stasinopoulos and Rigby now comprises 12
       R packages (of which 10 are managed by Professor Stasinopoulos) in CRAN, the
       R software library. For example, their main R package is called GAMLSS.
    5) Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos have provided world-wide consultancy on
       their GAMLSS models, methodology and software throughout the assessment
       period (by email, skype, etc.).
    6) Professors Rigby and Stasinopoulos published 2 books on GAMLSS, in
       collaboration with researchers resident in Australia and Brazil. They also published
       13 papers in refereed journals, of which 9 are in collaboration with researchers
       resident outside the UK.
 For example, they collaborated with Professor Van Buuren, (University of Utrecht, The
 Netherlands), and Dr D. J. Hayes, Dr F. O. Ter Keile and Dr D. J. Terlouw (Liverpool
 School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, UK), on optimizing age-based dosing of
 antimalarial drugs, and with Dr Vlasios Voudouris (Chief Data Officer, Argus Media, UK)
 and Dr Matsumoto (Kyoto University, Japan) on natural gas production.
 Professor Stasinopoulos has also collaborated on interdisciplinary research in nutrition
 health, biology and sport science, resulting in four papers published in refereed journals.


 Pure Mathematics
 Professor E. Kissin
 Edward Kissin specializes in the field of Operator theory, the theory of Banach and C*-
 algebras, invariant subspace theory and the theory of algebra and group representations.
 He works closely with Professor Victor Shulman (Russia), who is a former full-time
 member of STORM, and with Professor Yuri Turovski (Azerbaijan).
 During the assessment period, Kissin has published 6 papers in refereed journals, of
 which four were international collaborations with researchers resident outside the UK. Two
 more joint papers are accepted for publication.
 In a joint paper with his PhD student T. Formisano, Kissin investigated the structure of
 Lp-spaces of operators between Schatten ideals and obtained some analogues of
                                                                                      Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Clarkson-McCarthy inequalities for these spaces.
 In a series of collaborative papers Kissin and Professor Shulman (Russia) investigated
 non-unitary representations of nilpotent groups, their groups of cohomologies and neutral
 cohomology cocycles. They applied these results to the study of the decomposition of the
 extensions of representations of nilpotent groups. This approach, in turn, led to the further
 development of the theory of J-unitary representations of nilpotent groups on the spaces
 with indefinite metric which is widely used in Quantum mechanics. They are now working
 on the extension of these results to connected groups with connected normal Engel
 subgroups.
 Together with his collaborates: Professor V. Shulman (Russia) and Professor Yu. Turovski
 (Azerbaijan), Kissin worked on the development of some new approach to abstract lattice
 theory that allowed them to apply its tools and the results to various problems of Operator
 Theory, the theory of Banach algebras and to the structural analysis of C*-algebras. In
 particular, they used it to characterize the structure of the lattices of two-sided ideals in
 C*-algebras, their largest GCR-ideals, the largest nuclear ideals, AF-ideals and exact
 ideals in terms of the radicals of certain relations in these lattices.
 Using this lattice theory approach further, Kissin obtained a full description of special type
 relations and their radicals in the lattices of projections in W*-algebras.
 A new radical approach has also been developed in a joint paper with V. Shulman and
 Yu. Turovskii to the joint spectral radius theory in Operator algebras.
 In another paper they introduced various modifications and new methods in the proof of
 Pontryagin-Krein Theorem.
 Since 2010, Kissin has been a member of Editorial Board of Eurasian Mathematical
 Journal.
 He was an invited lecturer at Belfast conference on Harmonic Analysis and has given talks
 at various British Universities and abroad.
 He acted as an external PhD examiner at Leeds University.
 For the last three years Kissin has been the London Metropolitan University
 correspondent for Isaac Newton Institute of Mathematical Sciences (Cambridge).
 He is a member of the professional network for scientists “Research Gate” with score
 25.66 and has numerous reads and citations.
 Professor Kissin hosted many international visitors including: Prof Yu. Turovskii
 (Azerbaijan), Professors V. Shulman and A. Helemskii (Russia), Professors V.
 Lomonosov and B. Simon (USA).
 During the assessment period Kissin has been a peer review assessor of one book and
 of 28 articles submitted to leading mathematical journals such as Journal and Proceedings
 of the London Mathematical Society, Journal of Functional Analysis, Transactions of the
 American Mathematical Society, Indiana University Mathematical Journal, Proceedings of
 the Edinburgh Mathematical Society, among others.
 For many years Kissin has also been refereeing numerous papers for Mathematical
 Reviews.


 Z. Hou
 Zhanyuan Hou specialises in the field of ordinary differential equations and (discrete and
 continuous) dynamical systems. During the assessment period, he has published 6

                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 papers in refereed journals. He has also refereed 17 papers for journals.
 In particular, he is interested in the area of Qualitative and Asymptotic Behaviour of
 solutions of some classes of ordinary and functional differential equations. Hou’s work in
 this area involves theoretical analysis of behaviour of solutions of some class of differential
 equations with or without delays. This includes existence of a fixed point, local and global
 stability of a fixed point, a fixed point as a global attractor or a global repellor restricted to
 a certain manifold, vanishing components, periodic solutions, bifurcation, oscillation, limit
 cycles, and behaviour near limit cycles.
 Hou also works in the area of Mathematical Biology and dynamical systems. In theoretic
 biology, many population dynamics are modelled mathematically by dynamical systems
 (discrete or continuous). Thus, effective investigation of species evolution relies on our
 knowledge about the solution behaviour of the model. Hou’s research in this area is mainly
 on qualitative and asymptotic behaviour of some type of biological models, e.g. Lotka-
 Volterra and Kolmogorov systems, in response to prediction for long term future of the
 species coexistence or extinction.
 Hou has been doing collaborative research since 2010 with Dr Stephen Baigent (UCL),
 who specializes in mathematical biology and dynamical systems. They have published a
 series of joint papers. This collaboration of research will continue in the immediate and
 longer term, to produce high quality outputs (and possible external funding). Dr Hou is
 also interested in discrete dynamical systems and has published some joint papers on
 difference equation with his PhD student S. Wu.
 Since 2013 Hou has been a member of Editorial Board of the Journal of Mathematical
 Research and Applications. He has been refereeing articles for many academic journals
 (e.g., Theory in Biosciences, Acta Math Sci, Journal of Biological Dynamics,
 Communications on Pure and Applied Analysis, Journal of Applied Mathematics and
 Computing, Mathematical Bioscience, Nonlinear Analysis, Proceedings of American Math
 Soc, etc.) and contributing reviews for Mathematical Review and Zentralblatt Math.




                                                                                           Page 11
