Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cumbria
 Unit of Assessment: UOA23: Education
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Institutional Structures and Research Themes
 The University of Cumbria (UoC) draws on the signficant outcomes of educational training,
 research and pedagogy from its legacy institutions, St Martin’s College and Charlotte Mason
 College, across campuses in Lancaster, Carlisle, Ambleside and London. Across 4.72FTE In
 REF14 (UOA25), 94% of outputs were 3* (internationally excellent) or 2* (internationally
 recognised) and 70% of impacts at 2* or 3*. For REF2021, 9.8FTE are being submitted in UOA23.

 A cohesive physical and virtual research environment (see Fig. 1) is facilitated by the Learning
 Education and Development (LED) research centre and the Centre for National Parks and
 Protected Areas (CNPPA). Four research themes embed interdisciplinarity, with submitted
 educational researchers representating three UoC academic institutes (REF5a, 1). An Outdoor
 Studies Research Group formalises interdisciplinarity across two themes in this area.

 Researchers named in bold are Category A staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR,
 see UoC REF2021 Code of Practice, 2.10) and those in bold and italics are individuals who left
 UoC during the REF assessment period. Individuals in plain are non-submitted UoC staff –
 including staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR, see UoC REF2021 Code of
 Practice, 2.12), Research Assistants (RA), Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) and
 honorary/retired staff. Names followed by a number (e.g. Prince1) cross reference to REF2
 outputs.

  Fig. 1: Structures for
  facilitating educational
  research at UoC and
  positioning of Category
  A/SRR and ERR staff.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Unit Mission, Objectives and Research Themes

 Between 2014 and 2017, educational research was facilitated by the Research Institute for
 Professional Learning in Education. To promote a wider and more inclusive research culture, the
 ‘Learning, Education and Development’ (LED) research centre formed in 2017 to provide three
 interdisciplinary themes for active and emergent educational researchers. The Centre for
 National Parks and Protected Areas (CNPPA) also formed in 2017, adding a fourth theme to
 this Unit, combining existing areas of research excellence in conservation, outdoor studies,
 forestry, geography and cultural landscapes.

 By bringing this educational research community together, this Unit focuses on its mission to
 dismantle disadvantage and promote social justice by engaging in purposeful educational
 research grounded in practice. This aligns to UoC’s mission outlined in the Strategic Plan: to
 raise aspirations and educational attainment and contribute to the social, cultural and economic
 well-being and prosperity of our communities. These missions have informed this Unit’s strategic
 objectives for research to:
       Facilitate staff development through clear governance and support structures for setting
        individual research objectives that contribute to the four themes
       Increase capacity and capability of staff through training and development to produce high
        quality educational research outputs (and co authoring) from ERRs and SRR researchers
        with a particular focus on social justice and interdisciplinary work
       Grow income through research and enterprise projects enhancing staff capability in
        engaging externally, including with research users and beneficiaries to achieve impact and
        dismantle disadvantage and inequality in educational opportunity
       Develop partnerships with employers, charities and other organisations to add value to our
        research environment, reach and impact.

 The Unit’s four research themes are as follows with leads in brackets:
       LED: Research and Practice in Higher Education (RPHE) (Chapman and MacDonald)
        RPHE explores aspects of Higher Education and hosts two independent networks,
        Assessment in Higher Education (AHE) and Teacher Education Advancement
        Network (TEAN), both with an annual conference and international network of members.
        TEAN and AHE faciliate collaborative research projects and nurture the development of
        emerging staff. McDonald (appointed as Lead, September 2020) is a member of the
        Institute of Health, and this appointment supports his trajectory from ERR to SRR.
       LED: Community (Hayes)
        This theme takes a transdisciplinary approach to research participation and engagement
        in communities, focussing on inclusion and effective ways to access and listen to
        community voices. It complements and collaborates with community research,
        participation and engagement activities across research centres, institutes and external
        partnerships.
       LED: Outdoor Learning (OL) (Prince)
        This theme focusses on facilitated experiences in the outdoors for a range of outcomes in
        health and wellbeing, personal, social and intellectual development and for enhanced
        relationships with nature and place for children and young people. It includes collaboration
        with the Institute for Outdoor Learning (IOL) in the UK, as the lead for the national network
        of research-practice hubs and comprises a number of experienced researchers with
        international roles in the field.
       CNPPA: Human-Nature Relations (HNR) (Loynes)
        This theme explores how the engagement of people with nature produces a landscape.
        Personal, social, economic and political actions interact with natural processes, habitats
        and species in dynamic relations, and this theme takes as its subject these relations. An
        examination of the informal and formal processes of engagement identify systems that
        contribute to social justice and sustainable human nature relations.

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaborative thematic work supports the development of supportive networks to facilitate
 research, income generation and partnerships with stakeholders and communities. REF2 outputs
 reflect foci within the themes and the mission:

       RPHE: Higher education (HE) researcher identity in professional fields, assessment in HE
        and teacher education, with an emphasis on partnerships
       Community: schools and teachers, with an emphasis on values, beliefs, equality,
        inclusion and disabilities, and the wider community (children, young people and families)
       OL: schools and communities, adventure education and journeys, devleoping new
        methodologies to identify outcomes
       HNR: radical and innovative educational approaches for sustainability and inclusion.

 The physical co-location with different members of research staff facilitates further interdisciplinary
 working. PHE and Community focuses engagement on campuses at Lancaster, Carlisle and
 London with HNR and OL focused at Ambleside.

 1.3 Performance against REF2014 Objectives and Objectives 2021-2028
 The strategic objectives outlined in REF2014 included:

       Creation of a new research centre for educational research
       Increasing focus on scholarly and research outputs in induction and appraisal processes
       Support for the development of new researchers, including increasing the numbers of staff
        registered for higher degrees, encouraging co-authoring of papers and mentoring
       Strengthening internal and external research networks and development of an online open
        access journal
       Appointment of honorary research professors
       Development of research networks and brokering of collaborative research
       Development of research areas including: Enhancing teaching, learning and assessment
        in Higher Education; initial and continuing teacher education; and enhancing school-based
        practice
       Encouragement and support for high quality practitioner research by lecturers, student
        teachers, and by teachers in our partnership schools.

 A number of successes are evident in relation to achieving these objectives:

       The LED research centre has enhanced the research environment and infrastructure for
        those undertaking educational research.
       Induction and appraisal with Principal Lecturers and their staff around scholarly and
        research outputs has been improved via the research pathways (see REF Code of Practice
        2.10-2.12).
       The number of REF eligible outputs has increased 82% between 2014 and 2019.
       Co-authoring with ERR staff and PGRs is apparent in REF2 (Elton-Chalcraft2 with
        Copping) as well as with local teachers (Boyd1 with Ash, Jackson1 with Burch).
       Research networks have grown to incorporate TEAN, TEAN Conference and Journal, AHE
        Network, Practitioner Research in Higher Education Journal and Outdoor Learning
        Research-Practice hubs (Section 3.2).
       Utilisation of 12 honorary research positions, contributing to PhD supervision (4), keynotes
        (2), research projects (2), CPD seminars (2), academic writing retreats (1), and
        publications (2).
       Collaborative research projects with teachers in Europe via Erasmus funding, the
        Cathedrals Group, Practitioners in Sail Training and Outdoor Education, and other UK
        Universities (Newcastle, Stirling, Leeds etc.)
       Commissioned research with schools, educational business, charities, professional and
        educational bodies.


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Two European Regional Development Fund funded PhD studentships in this Unit (Section
        3.1)
       Expansion of Unit research themes to reflect four discrete areas of research excellence
        (see Fig. 1). Chapman as Theme Lead, also represents the UoC Centre for Academic
        Practice, which has contributed to the development of RPHE since 2014.
       Practitioner research with schools including ‘Learning Dispositions’ and ‘Learning
        Conversations’; ‘Mathematical Mindset; Science and Religion; and partnering with schools
        to support Initial Teacher Education provision development and CPD.


 1.4 Research Strategy 2021-2028

 This Unit will carry forward its mission established in 2017 into the next REF cycle to dismantle
 disadvantage and promote social justice by engaging in purposeful educational research
 grounded in practice. The research strategy will continue to align to the objectives outlined in
 1.1.2, and be additionally underpinned by the following KPIs:

      Increase in educational research outputs and co-authoring from all LED/CNPPA Early
       Career Researchers (ECRs), ERR and SRR staff.
      Improved awareness of ‘Research and Scholarly Leave’ (RASA) planning to increase
       capacity and capability, evidenced through increase in research plan submission.
      Increased activity for research and knowledge exchange bidding, and increase in secured
       funding to deliver projects with external partners
      Improved focus on ‘research impact’ from LED/CNPPA outputs by compiling impact
       information annually.
      Maintenance of the TEAN and AHE (Section 3.2).
      Improve the vibrancy of the Ambleside campus for students, staff and our community
       aligned to the CNPPA.

 The University is consulting on a 2030 strategy across 2021, and this Unit’s research strategy will
 be reviewed once this concludes to ensure ongoing alignment and complementarity.


 1.5 Enabling Impact

 Underpinned by UoC’s clear strategic intent to “contribute to the social, cultural and
 economic well-being and prosperity of our communities”, this Unit ensures that impact is
 integral to research activity. The Unit leads (Boyd 2014-19, Elton-Chalcraft 19-20) delivered
 a number of ‘Identifying and Evidencing Impact’ workshops across the assessment period for Unit
 staff. This supplemented the Impact workshops delivered centrally (REF5a, 4), and provided
 researchers with tools to demonstrate and evidence how their research has benefitted individuals
 and society, beyond academia. This Unit produced six Impact Case Study (ICS) drafts (inclusive
 of those submitted) across professional learning, international teacher training, philosophy in
 nature/outdoors for housing and nature engagement with young people.

 This Unit’s internal and external funding leverages impact. Professors Prince and Elton-
 Chalcraft serve on the management teams of their respective Institutes, and utilise these as
 vehicles for identifying and exploring research impact. This Unit’s two submitted ICS’s (in addition
 to the four reserves) have all been supported by an element of internal and external funding,
 including ECR grants, allocations from QR-Strategic Priorities Fund, and income from
 commissioned and/or grant-funded research.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.6 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

 This Unit embeds interdisciplinary working across each of its themes. This is evidenced in
 the theme leads being representative of three academic institutes – Health, Education and
 Science, Natural Resources and Outdoor Studies. This enables the Unit to draw in colleagues
 from across UoC to support educational research. The Research Centre Directors, as well as staff
 within the Research and Knowledge Exchange Directorate, meet bi-monthly to facilitate
 interdisciplinary research. A spirit of interdisciplinarity is also prevalent through the postgraduate
 supervision provided by academics at UoC with eight staff on supervisory teams with colleagues
 submitted in other UOAs.

 Across OL and HNR, the Outdoor Studies Research Group comprises researchers working in
 Outdoor Learning and Human-Nature Relations with complementarity through engagement in
 outdoor environments in a range of contexts including and out with education. In RPHE, the
 Assessment in Higher Education network is a multi disciplinary group of scholars from different
 disciplines, including from health/science, business and different educational contexts. Research
 in Community evidences interdisciplinarity, including Hayes1, a story-based approach drawing
 on original research, and incoporating geography, environment and nature, youthwork,
 experiential, outdoor and adventure education and child/adolescent development and play.
 Lockney1 brings together scholars from a variety of disciplines drawing on poetry, the arts and
 geographic place to explore the significance of identity and place in education.

 1.7 Supporting an Open Access Environment

 Journals hosted by this Unit within the RPHE and Community themes (TEAN, Student Teachers
 Perspective (STEP) and Practitioner Research in Higher Education (PRHE) journals are all open
 access publications. STEP journal papers include submissions from MA Professional Practice
 students (practising teachers) which supports direct application into school settings. The success
 of the TEAN journal is evidenced in Jackson’s ability to recruit external editors.

 As a direct result of the establishment of the Research Hubs with the Institute for Outdoor Learning
 (IOL) and its support for a PhD studentship, the Outdoor Studies Research Group worked with
 the IOL to make research more accessible to practitioners. This included the creation of a bespoke
 website with links to research papers and reports, and blogs on key topics via
 https://www.outdoor-learning-research.org/Research.

 Across OL and HNR, members also write for professional journals such as Horizons (IOL) and
 the Professional Mountaineer (UK training, leaders and guides) The research group also hosts
 three groups on social media for: postgraduate students, the Research Hubs and the European
 Institute of Outdoor Adventure Education and Experiential Learning to share knowledge, outputs,
 projects and initiatives nationally and internationally. Prince, as Associate Editor of the key
 international journal in Outdoor Learning (the Journal of Adventure Education and Outdoor
 Learning) promotes 30-day free access papers in liaison with Taylor and Francis publishers.

 1.8 Supporting Research Integrity

 This Unit actively promotes research integrity by engaging with staff and PGRs about the
 Concordat. Evidence of active engagement includes Cammack, Elton-Chalcraft, and Mallabon
 serving (or having served) on the UoC Research Ethics Panel. This Unit utilises centralised
 resources for integrity (REF5a, 3.1), including Research Skills sessions delivered by eleven staff
 within this Unit. Supervisor training is provided to academics undertaking research supervision,
 and four colleagues in UOA23 delivered sessions. Boyd and now Elton-Chalcraft have also
 facilitated the Academic Writing Workshop & Retreat. Staff also contributed to the Vitae
 programme of research training and the Virtual Doctoral Training Network via GuildHE (Prince).




                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The Unit’s overall staffing strategy is as follows:

 2.1.1 Enhance academic capability through successful recruitment, staff development and
 progression

 To build capability and critical mass, staff are recruited with a PhD or with a commitment
 to achieve this. In OL, Fenton was recruited in 2016 from the University of Kent, receiving her
 PhD the same year, and McPhie achieved PhD in 2018. In HNR, Loynes works collaboratively
 with Prince to support colleagues to study to doctoral level, including Ensoll and Towers. In
 Community, Moore completed in 2020. Hayes joined UoC as a PGR in 2013, became a lecturer
 (2014), received the ‘Vice-Chancellors Award for Early Career Research Excellence’ in 2016, and
 was awarded PhD in 2018 (now supervising two PhDs). Hayes also won Royal Geography
 Society - Institute of British Geographers higher education group reflective essay postgraduate
 prize in June 2015 (PhD supervised by Prince). In RPHE, Warner, Toyn, Leslie, Copping, Burch
 (all with ERR) were provided with funding to take sabbatical leave and complete their PhDs or
 Professional Doctorates. In OL, Ensoll, MacGregor and Towers and being supported to undertake
 PhD study.

 Professoriate members Boyd, Prince and Elton-Chalcraft coordinate staff development,
 progression and publishing. This includes ensuring that all staff plan Research and Scholarly
 Activity (RASA) time and ensure alignment to the four research themes. PPDR’s and individual
 Research Plans are annually reviewed to identify opportunities for mentoring, training to support
 staff progression. Evidence of this Unit’s success in these areas includes:
       100% of this Unit’s Category A staff are on permanent contracts, evidencing commitment
        to ensuring continuity of staff and of individual research areas.
       Facilitation of research mentorship within the Unit, which builds confidence and capacity
        across the four research themes with eight Unit staff serving as active research mentors
        (Boyd mentored up to seven colleagues before retirement in 2019).
       Prince and Elton-Chalcraft’s progression to Professor in 2019.
       Elton-Chalcraft’s progression to LED Director in 2019, succeeding Boyd (2017-19,
        appointed Professor in 2015 and Emeritus in 2019).
       Loynes’ promotion to Reader in 2006, McPhie to Senior Lecturer in 2018 and Mallabon
        from Senior Lecturer to Principal Lecturer.
       Lockney’s promotion to Programme Lead for in 2017.
       Hayes and McPhie contributing to reserve ICS’s.
       Fenton as the only researcher globally in bushcraft received support to publish with two
        researchers of professorial standing (Fenton1).


 2.1.2 Ensure external relevance and impact through engagement with stakeholders and research
 users

 Staff within this UOA are encouraged to engage in exchanges between academia and
 industry or other professional bodies.

       In HNR, staff are enabled to engage with strategic groups related to Natural England, the
        Institute for Outdoor Learning, Council for Learning Outside the Classroom, and Historic
        England. Opportunities for commissioned work are also supported, such as Loynes’ work
        with the Ministry of Education in Singapore (2015 and 2017) to support their development
        of outdoor education policy and practice.



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       In OL, Prince sits on the Education Advisory Group of the Eden Project North initiative,
        including outdoor curriculum development and research on impact for children in
        Morecambe Bay. She was commissioned by Lowe Alpine (Equip Technologies) to
        research and test a range of backpack designs for women and the CEO presented at the
        UoC Research and Enterprise conference as an example of an integrated enterprise,
        research and student enhancement project. Fenton has a global following after many
        years in practice following apprenticeship with Ray Mears, and this Unit enables her
        continued engagement in this emerging practice. This includes with military training for
        resilience, bushcraft shows, Sloyd education in Sweden, and establishment of a research
        base to the re-vitalised Wilderness and Bushcraft Society. She gave a Royal Geographical
        Society presentation entitled ’Bushcraft in Research: Research in Bushcraft’ (2017).
       In Community, Cammack worked with international school inspectors on school efficacy
        and social justice, and Boyd upskilled teachers in use of Promethean Active Expression
        ‘pods’ (also providing opportunities for ERR researcher, Leslie). Staff have worked
        collaboratively with ORISIS Education to embed Growth Mindset theory into practice in
        Blackpool schools and Elton-Chalcraft led a project funded by the ‘Cathedrals Group’ of
        14 Universities exploring this group’s role in local community projects. Elton-Chalcraft’s
        article with a local Headteacher was awarded runner up best article of the year 2019 in the
        Management in Education Journal, uncovering alleged racist and sexist attitudes in school
        leadership career progression (funded by an educational consortium).

 Four Unit’s staff are recognised as research experts for Parliament and Government to advise on
 aspects of the impact of COVID-19 pandemic.


 2.1.3 Develop staff skills and capacity to engage in research in a supportive and enabling
 environment.

 A comprehensive programme of support develops staff skills and capacity. Two-day
 Academic writing retreats (3 times a year) for educational researchers were opened up in 2017
 to all PGRs and staff. These provide a focused opportunity for participants to make significant
 advances in their research and scholarly writing. A series of fortnightly Lightning Talks via virtual
 platforms provide SRR and ERR staff with an opportunity to present research, for interdisciplinary
 discussion and feedback from experienced researchers and practitioners. These are available to
 researchers across all the themes. Educational research seminars across all campuses enable
 sharing, celebration and discussion of research. ERR staff are supported through internal funding
 to host conferences, seminars discussion groups and workshops with other researchers and
 professional partners (e.g. Outdoor Learning Symposia in 2018 and 2019, including MacGregor
 on her research in Initial Teacher Education).

 Future research development within this Unit will utilise the strategy 1-3 outlined above. This will
 ensure that staff continue to progress in their research careers, leading to an increased proportion
 of eligible Category A staff across the next REF cycle. The immediate focus will be to develop
 ERR staff to SRR, whilst continuing to improve the infrastructure that enables an increase in
 research income, collaborations and impact. Alongside development of existing staff, this Unit will
 work with internal recruitment panels to strengthen appointments and attract experienced
 researchers to the institution.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Research Students

 Across staff in this UOA, PhD completions over the REF2021 period stand at 19.00 FTE,
 compared to 6.00 for REF2014.

 The Unit’s training and supervision has developed a research culture into which PGRs are
 fully integrated and prepared for further research activity. PGRs align to the research themes
 and benefit from opportunities for engagement and interaction with experienced researchers in
 addition to their supervisory team. PGRs are invited to educational research events and attend
 the annual research student conference (REF5a, 3.2). Several full-time PGRs have organised
 research events to encourage PGR interaction across the research centres (e.g. Ackroyd in RPHE
 (recipient of a PhD bursary: dedicated PGR writing workshops) and experienced researcher/PGR
 interaction seminars (e.g. Harvey in OL). Academic writing retreats have attracted PGRs from
 other universities enhancing the Unit’s research culture through wider engagement. PGRs deliver
 tutorials, mentor undergraduate students, and are provided with additional training to do this; able
 to deliver 30 hours in total. RPHE researchers deliver formal training to support this activity.

 PGRs are provided with extensive opportunities to develop skills that prepare them for
 future careers. This includes publishing with more experienced researchers, presenting at, and
 organising, conferences and working on applied research projects. Within the Unit, experienced
 researchers publish with PGRs, for example, in Community and RPHE, Elton-Chalcraft2 and
 Boyd1. PGRs also contribute to TEAN, including on Committee, and in presentation of research.
 Warner acted as a Research Assistant in a project contributing to Impact2301. Boyd engaged
 PGR Ash in a number of his externally funded programmes, including Mindset Theory, and Maths
 Mastery (Section 3.1).

 In OL, PGRs have presented research at the International Adventure Conference in 2019,
 provided keynotes at the Institute for Outdoor Learning conferences (2019), and organised
 regional professional body conferences. PGRs have attended international conferences of the
 Association for Experiential Education (2019), the International Association for Environmental
 Philosophy (2018) and the Society for Phenomenology and Existential Philosophy (2018). Prince
 and Loynes provide opportunities for PhD students (staff and non-staff) to be involved in live
 projects. For example, Hordern on the REALISE project, Breeze on the Learning Away project,
 Hedges on the Research Hubs, and Council for Learning Outside the Classroom projects, and
 Harvey on the Penrith Place project. Hayes (as staff PGR) presented at the 20th International
 Play Association (IPA) Triennial World Conference in Calgary, Alberta, Canada (2017).

 This Unit has encouraged career development, and PGR’s in Community and RPHE have taken
 up roles as Department Heads and academic positions at the University of Southern Denmark, St
 Andrews, Glasgow University, Manchester Met, and Lancaster University. Successful PhD
 candidates in OL are now in positions including Head of Research at Brathay Trust, and Associate
 Head of School, Students and Nations (Open University). Hayes, as a PGR, featured in the
 postgraduate supplement in The Independent (23 March 2016) and was also commissioned by
 Plantlife to develop a pedagogical toolkit to be used for CPD purposes by practitioners who are
 working with SEN/D young people in outdoor spaces.

 The Unit’s monitoring and support mechanisms allow for PGRs with protected
 characteristics to contribute to the environment. Centralised policies are utilised to support
 PGRs (REF5a, 3.2). The Professoriate office for the Outdoor Studies Research Group is situated
 next door to the PGR study room, which enables frequent interaction, debate and response for
 those students in attendance, whilst virtual platforms are used extensively for those who study
 remotely. Following the Unit’s mission to engage in purposeful educational research grounded in
 practice, our PGR community attracts candidates who are experienced education professionals
 with considerable contextual understanding of practice; recognising the value of evidencing their
 practice through research. Such PGRs coming from leadership and management roles may need
 enhanced support on their return to study as offered by the Unit and Graduate School (REF5a,
 3.2). A high-level commentary on EDI data for this Unit’s PGRs has been provided below.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Table 1. EDI Data for UOA23 PGRs
  Key consideration Unit Considerations/Actions
  36% <39; 43% 40- This represents an even balance. An older demographic reflects the fact
  49; 14% 50-59; 7% that many PGRs study alongside practice. This creates a diverse
  >60.                 research environment with a range of skills and experiences. The staff
                       pool (see Table 2) is typically an older demographic.
  71% female and Higher proportion of PGRs are female, compared to staff pool (see Table
  29% male             2). All supervisors have completed unconscious bias training (UBT)
  7% BAME              Higher figure in comparison to staff pool, all supervisors have completed
                       UBT.
  14%        declared Below institutional figure and staff pool. This Unit ensures that PGRs are
  disability           made aware of institutional structures to support health and wellbeing,
                       including signposting to Disability Officers.
  0% LGB               14% refused information, below institutional figures and staff pool. The
                       Unit promotes institutional LGB networks to PGRs.
  29% part-time        Ensure that part-time PGRs engage with Unit activities, and if in practice,
                       their experiences contribute to Unit vitality.


 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 UoC has a centralised EDI policy and EDI steering group (REF 5a, 3.3) that actively works
 to ensure that UOA’s culture is inclusive, prioritises staff and student wellbeing. The
 Professoriate and theme leads ensure that EDI is central to the Unit’s research approach. Elton-
 Chalcraft and Lockney are members of the EDI Steering Group and academic representatives
 for UoC’s Athena Swan self-assessment team. Lockney is the UCU Equalities Representative
 at UoC and with Elton-Chalcraft presented at the Race2B Black Lives Matter conference. They
 are working collaboratively with other stakeholders to make Cumbria Anti-Racist. This builds on
 Impact2301 through establishment of a Cumbria Race Equality network with a mission to raise
 awareness and celebrate the contribution of BAME people in Cumbria and to challenge and
 disrupt individual and institutional racist attitudes and behaviours.

 Unit staff undertake research related to EDI. Elton-Chalcraft’s research on Prevent includes
 foci on gender and race. McPhie’s novel research addresses how mental health and well-being
 are distributed in the environment - politically, socially and ecologically (subject of his reserve
 ICS). Mallabon1 focuses on the psychological health and well-being benefits of physical activity
 in nature. Hallett1 & 2 deal with issues and perceptions of disabilities amongst children and young
 people in the USSR, where the existence of disability was effectively denied until the fall of
 communism.

 Unit staff undertake other roles that support and promote EDI. Chapman works with new
 academic staff on the PgC Learning and Teaching in Higher Education as Personal Tutor,
 supporting with wellbeing and workload issues. The PgC programme includes inclusive teaching
 and learning and accessibility issues informed through working closely with our Accessibility
 Manager. Hallett supports Education programmes in SEND/Inclusion and SEND student
 teachers are invited to organise an Inclusion Conference. The 2020 conference secured speakers
 from the Universities of Exeter and Oxford. Hallett also chairs sessions at the Inclusion Network
 of the European Educational Research Association (EERA).

 More broadly, the Unit utilised data from the Equality Impact Assessment exercise on output
 distribution and eligible staff to identify EDI actions (see REF Code of Practice, 1.8 for schedule).
 This has included working directly with the institution’s EDI Officer to understand and interpret the
 data and identify mitigating actions. These actions have then been raised with the LED Research
 Centre Director and IoE Director, and also form part of our institutional approach to responding to
 these data (REF5a, 3.3). These considerations and actions are provided below (PNTS=Prefer not
 to say) in Table 2.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Table 2. EDI Data for Unit Staffing and Output Selection

  Category        %    Considerations                           Proposed Actions

  Age
  30-39           0    OL professionals need to have            * Staff retention at London
  40-49           21   technical and academic                   campus
                       qualifications. Thus, age profile for    * Consider how younger staff
  50-59           43   research is skewed towards older         can be better supported.
                       age categories. Output pool mirrors
  >=60            36   age profile.
  Gender
  F               57   Reflects institutional data. IoE staff   * Female majority follows sector
  M               43   predominantly female; OL staff           norm in Education.
                       predominantly male yet all OL
                       female staff submitted to this Unit.
                       Output pool mirrors gender profile.

  Orientation
  LGB+            7    Reflects institutional data. Output      * Promotion of networks available
  Heterosexual    79   pool mirrors profile.                    to staff and encouragement of
                                                                input into working groups.
  PNTS            14
  Religion
  Religious       43   No conclusions                           * Promote existing faith networks
  Non-Religious   36                                            and external bodies.
  PNTS            21
  Ethnicity
  White           93   Below institutional data (5%             * Supporting researcher
  BAME            0    BAME). Few BAME researchers in           development in London.
                       OL in UK.                                * Positive action statements in
  PNTS            7
                                                                recruitment.
  Disability
  Disability      0    Potential non-declaration (13%           *More support for staff with LDs.
  Declared             institutional data). Specific learning   *Improved signposting to
  No Disability   93   difficulties (LDs) can make it           Accessibility Officer (in post from
  Declared             challenging to engage in research.       2018).
  Information     7
  Refused
  Contract
  Full Time       64   High numbers of PT and 100%              * Highlight strengths to Institute
  Part Time       36   permanent contracts are strengths        Directors.
  (PT)                 of this Unit. Output pool mirrors        * RASA planning for PT staff.
                       profile.




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 Overall, the UOA has returned (to HESA) research income of £188,257.

 3.1.1 OL and HNR
 The strategy for generating research income has focused on 1) collaborations with industry and
 practitioners to extend and develop research on aspects of outdoor residential provision, and 2)
 engagement in knowledge exchange (KE) activities to facilitate research and development.
 Research income returned to HESA includes:

  Table 3. OL/HNR HESA Research Income
  Learning Away Project £24,500         (Paul Improving outcomes for children and young
                        Hamlyn Foundation) people through residentials and creating an
                                               evidence base for long-term benefits.
  Outdoor Learning      £26,000 (Institute for Identifying the current and future research
  Research Hubs         Outdoor Learning)      needs of practitioners in Outdoor Learning.

 Additional income returned as consultancy/regen supported further research and KE, including:
       An £11,000 commission from Ocean Youth Trust North
       £19,500 grant from the CHA-Invited Guest Fund for the REALISE project (‘Researching
        Experiential Active Learning Initiatives for Staff/Student Engagement’).
       A portion of an ERDF grant (£85,579) for two externally funded PhDs with the Institute for
        Outdoor Learning (Harvey) and The Lakes Currency Project as part of ‘Eco Innovation
        Cumbria’ (REF5a, 2.4).
       £2,500 from the Cathedrals Group for research into health and place.

 3.1.2 RPHE and Community

 This strategy for generating research income has focused on 1) utilising an extensive network of
 school partnerships for research in schools and 2) opportunities for research with industry, local
 authorities or HE partners. Research income returned to HESA includes:

  Table 4. RPHE/Community HESA Research Income
  Evaluation of     £16,251         An international project aiming to create tools and
  School            (Erasmus)       strategies for evaluation of school leaders and teachers,
  Leadership and                    bringing together school Inspectors from Basque Country,
  Teaching                          Lithuania, Romania, Portugal, Italy, with teacher
  Practice                          educators from the Open University, Cyprus and Cumbria.
  ‘Learning         £3,690          Primary school curriculum development and evaluation.
  Dispositions’     (Primary
  R&D               School)
  ‘Learning         £13,675         Teacher practitioner research project exploring early years
  Conversations’    (Teaching       teachers' professional learning, conversational expertise
                    Alliance)       and children's speech and language development
  Studio School     £3,587      (St Investigating school values and curriculum development.
  R&D               Christopher’s
                    Trust)
  Developing        £14,860         To survey and describe curriculum approaches related to
  Learner Skills in (Cumbria        ‘developing learner skills’ in Cumbrian primary schools.
  Cumbrian          County
  Primary Schools Council)




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Table 4. RPHE/Community HESA Research Income cont.
  Mindset         £12,722      Practitioner-research projects to investigate and evaluate
  Courses         (School      applications of mindset theory in Blackpool schools.
                  Improvement
                  Fund)
  Learner         £50,000      Investigating how 36 primary school teachers mediate a
  Response R&D    (Bowland     newly introduced classroom learner response technology
                  Trust)       system to shape classroom learning environment.
  ‘Mathematical   £9,000 (Deep Professional development research project ‘Mathematical
  Mindsets’       Learning     Mindsets.’
                  Alliance)
  Other           £13,058      Including research with Britain’s Energy Coast University
  Educational                  Technical College; the National Institute for Christian
  Research                     Education Research and evaluation of BAME and Women
  Projects                     into School leadership projects.

 In addition, this Unit received a portion of an ERDF grant (£8,362 returned as regeneration income
 from Eco Innovation Cumbria, see REF5a, 2.4) for an externally funded Master’s evaluating a
 school neuro-development programme delivered by PGR Raven and supervised by Hayes.
 Across all Unit themes, external funding has been used to provide opportunities for PGR students
 to engage in live projects (Section 2.2).
 The forward strategy for research income will focus on:
       Strategic grants which facilitate a step change in our work with partners and collaborators
       Prioritisation of funding evidencing strong alignment to the themes and Unit mission.
       Utilising theme leads to identify opportunities, circulate to relevant staff and coordinate bid
        and project development.

 3.2 Commercial income and Unit infrastructure for researcher development
 The annual TEAN conference, emerging from the TEAN Network of 900 international teacher
 educations, has additionally generated £311,199 of non-HESA Unit income between 2014 and
 2020. This supports investments in educational research and staff development, and funds the
 LED Research Administrator, who provides capacity for conference and event organisation, for
 research and KE project costing, bidding and contracting, and internal/external reporting.

 The TEAN conference supports this Unit’s infrastructure more widely, by attracting more than
 150 delegates, with internally funded places for ERR staff to attend and present research. We
 estimate that 40% of newly appointed university-based UK teacher educators (lecturers in teacher
 education) have attended TEAN academic induction workshops. In 2019 TEAN’s governance has
 been further developed to consist of an executive committee with academics from 10 UK
 universities (current president from the University of Manchester). The TEAN committee includes
 Elton-Chalcraft, Leslie (Chair) and Boyd.

 The open access TEAN Journal publishes papers concerned with innovative practice in teaching
 and teacher education, with editors and peer reviewers facilitated across LED and the TEAN
 network. It has had 22 issues since 2010 and considerable reach with 33263 abstract views and
 17843 downloads in 2019. The STEP Journal is an online journal, published by TEAN,
 showcasing excellent research and scholarly activity from student teachers. These journals
 support this Unit’s infrastructure by providing opportunities for staff to gain publishing experience.

 The Assessment in Higher Education (AHE) Network focuses on developing research-
 informed practice in assessment and feedback in higher education. The AHE Conference has
 genereated income of £249,141 of commercial income. Growing from a one day campus-based
 event in 2012, an annual event now attracts 220 world-leading researchers and academic
 developers from over 25 different countries. An annual AHE webinar is also offered in
 collaboration with the ‘Transforming Assessment’ special interest group based in Australia.

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The organisational infrastructure for online delivery (REF5a, Covid annex) has been
 effectively utilised to deliver a number of entirely online events, including:
      LED Research Centre monthly Lightning Talk Webinars (April 2020-ongoing)
      Assessment in Higher Education (AHE) Webinar (July 2020)
      University of Cumbria Erasmus+ Conference Practical Solutions to Educational Inequality
         (May 2020)
      LED Research Conference (December 2020)

 3.3 Research income in support of impact activities

 This unit has utilised research (and other types of income) to generate impact.

       In OL and HNR, Prince and Loynes have worked collaboratively to develop Impact2302,
        and this has been underpinned by income related to the Learning Away Project and
        Outdoor Learning Research Hubs.
       In Community, Elton-Chalcraft, and Hayes received internal funding (2019) from the
        institutions QR-Strategic Priorities Fund allocation in support of impact. Hayes utilised
        funding and engagement in the ERDF programme, to explore the impact on outdoor
        education/play (becoming a reserve ICS). Elton-Chalcraft received Research Assistant
        time (PGR Hempsall) in support of engagement with stakeholders and beneficiaries from
        the research, informing this Unit’s Impact2301.
       In RPHE, Cammack’s Erasmus funded research contributed to his work around school
        leadership, the subject of a reserve ICS. Boyd’s funding for ‘Learning Conversations’ and
        work in Everton on adult-child dialogue was also a reserve ICS.

 3.4 Campus investments and staffing infrastructure

 Researchers and PGRs in OL and HNR are based at Ambleside and since 2014, the University
 has invested in total ~£10.3M on facilities and infrastructure to support research undertaken by
 the Unit. This includes significant capital investment to update and expand the Ambleside
 Campus, developing a suite of four new laboratories, library facilities, dedicated PGR offices, as
 well as providing student social working spaces and residential accommodation.

 OL and HNR also draw upon a large field equipment pool within the Institute of Science Natural
 Resources and Outdoor Studies, supported by 2.1 FTE of field technical support and ~£0.24M
 investment in equipment since 2014. This supports environmental research in UOA14, but also
 comprises an extensive portfolio of expedition, climbing, caving and water-based equipment and
 boats, kayaks and canoes for working in outdoor settings. The Group benefits from access to
 minibuses to access locations and to transport clients and user groups as appropriate. Support
 for researchers using the latter equipment is provided by 1.5 FTE of specialist outdoor
 demonstrators.

 In support of RPHE and Community, the Sentamu Building (£9m, funded by Lancashire Local
 Enterprise Partnership) was built in 2017 and accommodated the LED launch and other LED
 conferences to date including the Extremism and Fundamental British Values conference. Shore,
 (LED administrator) works with central services to collaboratively deliver the AHE and TEAN
 conferences. LED lightning talks are streamed to all campuses and include engagement from
 Honorary/Visiting Staff and Emeriti Professors. Dedicated spaces for PGRs on all campuses
 facilitate peer support and many staff PGRs use these spaces to demarcate PhD research from
 their substantive roles.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Illustrative of our engagement in purposeful educational research grounded in practice,
 UOA staff have been involved in research collaborations, networks and partnerships:
       Staff in HNR and OL collaborate internationally. Mallabon with the Queensland University
        of Technology, Australia, developed a dynamic theoretical systems framework for
        therapeutic outdoor applications; Loynes with colleagues from the Norwegian School of
        Sport Science, Oslo and Phillips University, Marburg, Germany through an Erasmus-
        mundus transcultural master’s programme, developed a new model for excursions and co-
        edited a key text. Visiting scholars from the Universities of Alberta, Waseda, Utah,
        Canterbury (NZ) and Monash have collaborated on joint research projects and elected
        UoC as host for the next International Outdoor Education Research Conference (2022).
        Graduates from this programme are now publishing their own research as a result of the
        training and networks we provided, thus illustrating a substantial multiplier effect. Fenton
        collaborated with Westcott (University of Idaho, US) on ethnobotany and indigenous
        knowledge to ground research in the Global Bushcraft Symposium. In respect of PGR
        training, Loynes led international research seminars at the University of British Columbia,
        Cape Breton University, Canada and the Institute of Technology, Tralee, Ireland.
       Also in OL, Prince collaborates nationally with Fletcher (Newcastle University) in joint
        research projects on sail training with invited presentations for practitioners at the
        Association of Sail Training Organisations national conference and international
        conferences (Sail Training International, 2017). McPhie has collaborated with Clarke
        (University of Edinburgh) to develop progressive theoretical frameworks for practice in new
        materialisms and outdoor environmental education and presented ‘Doctoral studies in
        environmental and sustainability education: contextualising the process’ at the University
        of Cambridge Summer School (2016).
       In RPHE, Elton-Chalcraft2 included collaboration with Canterbury Christchurch,
        Gloucester and Huddersfield, underpinning Impact2301. Elton-Chalcraft has also
        contributed to seminars at Warwick University and at the European Centre for Educational
        Research (Istanbul) and was Regional Coordinator for the Cambridge Primary Review
        Trust with the mission aim to dismantle inequality in education. Chapman is a Member of
        Organising Committee for OU’s Widening Participation through Curriculum Conference.
       In Community, Lockney is a member of Initial Teacher Education committee for the
        National Association for the Teaching of English. Hayes is Conference Officer for the
        Geographies of Children, Youth & Families Research Group, part of the RGS-IBG
        International annual conference, and co-convener of new special interest group within
        BERA: Nature, Outdoor Learning and Play.

 4.2 A strength of this UOA is the impact of research of staff beyond academia, and
 collaborations with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences:
       In HNR, with a strong interest in student wellbeing and training in counselling, grounded
        in her research, Mallabon worked with MIND to review their outdoor therapy programme
        through interviewing practitioners and clients. She produced the first review on outdoor
        therapy in the UK that has supported the development of ‘green’ MIND initiatives.
        McPhie, in addition to the Arts Council, and the Kendal Mountain Film Festival, worked
        with Homes UK and an Eindhoven-based housing association on the design and
        development of housing schemes ‘for living’ (reserve ICS).
       In OL, much of Fenton’s collaborative work with practitioners through her research has
        inspired changes to education and therapeutic approaches globally. For example, her
        presentation at the 8th International Therapy Conference in Sydney, Australia (2018) on
        Sloyd education and greenwood carving has contributed to discussions of the curriculum
        of folk schools in the US and Sweden. She has been asked to write a book for the popular
        authoritative market using her research on bushcraft and indigenous knowledge as part of
        the Berghahn series Studies in Environmental Anthropology and Ethnobiology.

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

       In Community, Hayes was invited (2019) to join Natural England Strategic Research
        Network for Learning in Natural Environments and Outdoors for All, and in RPHE, Boyd
        has acted as a Research Mentor supporting teacher researchers at the Deep Learning
        Teaching School Alliance, Wirral; Robert Ferguson Primary School, Carlisle and the North
        Liverpool Teaching Alliance impacting on the mindset of teachers and young people to
        improve life chances particularly for disadvantaged groups. Moore contributes to the
        Slovenian National Commission for UNESCO, drawing on his research into Archaeological
        Heritage and Education.

 4.3 Reflecting our mission an important aspect of our research has been with under-
 represented communities and EDI.
       In OL and HNR, some of this has been through our work with deprived families (PGR
        Breeze) and sex workers (PGR Maynard) and with trans and non-binary participants
        (Prince and Bren, in review). We have worked with ‘hard to reach’ young people
        (REALISE project) and PGR Harvey (ERDF funded project) in disadvantaged
        communities.
       In Community, Hayes was interviewed by the ‘I Newspaper’ (2016) for an article title ‘Kids
        need to fall over. That's part of being alive’; raising awareness about appropriate risk
        taking. Lockney is a member of the national development team for ‘Poetry by Heart’ and
        acts as a consultant and author for BBC Bitesize poetry resources, drawing on her
        experience of working with young people through poetry.
       In RPHE, TEAN has improved the quality of teacher training by collecting resources within
        the TEAN Storehouse and holding teacher education events and conferences, Jackson
        led TEAN until 2019. Boyd’s ‘Becoming a teacher educator’ workshop at TEAN
        conference, accompanied by the ‘Guidelines for induction’ published by AdvanceHE,
        provides (on a national level) academic induction for ~500 recently appointed teacher
        educators since 2009.

 4.4 As an indicator of wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and
 society, staff have contributed to the sustainability of educational research through
 engagement with national initiatives.
       In HNR and OL, McPhie has also hosted local events to enhance public understanding of
        his research, as well as ‘walks in the park’ (Mcphie & Clarke, 2015), funded by the Arts
        Council. Fenton is part of a network of leading bushcraft practitioners globally (The
        Association of Survival Instructors) and raises awareness of her new unique contribution
        to research in this area through TV, radio and the tabloid press (e.g. Radio 4 Women’s
        Hour; BBC Countryfile magazine podcast on taking a woodland walk to learn bushcraft,
        tracking and survival; Interview with Russell Band on Radio X, Consultancy for Apple TV
        ‘SEE’ Blockbuster). She is an invited contributor to the Bushcraft Journal on ‘Living by
        Nature’ and was instrumental in its re-launch. Staff have wider influence in their research
        across Europe through visiting lectureships: Philipps University, Marburg, Germany
        (Prince, Loynes), Tampere University, Finland (Loynes), University of Santiago de
        Compostela, Spain (Prince) and as a visiting professor - Norwegian School of Sports
        Science, Oslo, Norway (Loynes).
       Community and RPHE expedite the Unit’s mission through their wider educational
        research roles, with Elton-Chalcraft and Hayes being special interest leads for British
        Educational Research Association. Hallett is convenor of SEND for the European
        Educational Research Association and Elton-Chalcraft has been North West lead for the
        Cambridge Primary Review Trust.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Across the Unit, staff are renowned international speakers in the discipline and many
 of these presentations outreach to key research users:
       In HNR and OL, Fenton was keynote speaker, at The Global Bushcraft Symposium,
        Alberta, Canada. ‘Bumping heads: Bushcraft and its cognate domains’ (2019), considered
        by the field and profession as highly influential. Loynes was keynote speaker at the
        Innovation Education Conference, Szczecin, Poland. ‘Learning without walls: the many
        faces of outdoor education’ (2015), at the Natural England International Conference,
        London, ‘Learning Away. Lessons Near and Far’ (2015) and at Outward Bound 20th
        Anniversary Conference, Helsinki, Finland. In respect of the wider research base in
        academia, McPhie was keynote speaker at the 5th International Adventure Conference,
        Tralee, Ireland ‘The Wasp, the Cave and the Lamppost’ (with Dykes, 2016) and at the 6th
        Conference on Outdoor and Adventure, Treuchtilingen, Bavaria, Germany (2018). Prince
        was an invited speaker at the 8th International Outdoor Education Research Conference,
        University of the Sunshine Coast, Queensland, Australia, ‘Publishing: Pitfalls and
        Possibilities’. McPhie was an invited speaker to: ‘The Environmental Arts Collaboratory:
        Shifting atmospheres, pedagogies, and temporalities’, Biosocial Research Lab, Education
        and Social Research Institute, Manchester Metropolitan University (2019).
       Similarly in RPHE, Hallett was keynote speaker (2019) at nasenLive - a one-day SEND
        CPD conference and exhibition and Elton-Chalcraft has given keynotes at Bishop’s
        College Kolkata, and on fundamental British values at Limerick University. Boyd has been
        keynote speaker at the Maths Mastery Leadership conference (Dubai) and Assessment in
        MENA (AIM) conference at the University of Abu Dhabi. Boyd is a Visiting Professor of
        Academic Development at Newman University.
       In recognition of contribution to OL research nationally with impact on practice, Prince was
        awarded the Institute for Outdoor Learning Research Prize (2019) and McPhie’s student,
        Butler-Eldridge, was awarded best student dissertation prize (2019), presenting at the 4th
        World Congress of Psychogeography, University of Huddersfield (2019). In Community,
        Hayes received the 2018 Anna Craft ‘Creativities in Education’ Prize from the British
        Educational Research Association (BERA).

 4.6 Extensive key texts have been published across the research themes:
       In OL, Prince has made a substantial contribution through her International Handbook of
        Outdoor Studies, 2016; Research Methods in Outdoor Studies, 2019; and the forthcoming
        Outdoor Environmental Education in Higher Education: International Perspectives, (2021).
       In HNR, Loynes through his role as Chair to 2018, currently Vice Chair, of the European
        Institute of Outdoor Adventure Education and Experiential Learning co-edited The
        Changing World of Outdoor Learning in Europe, 2018; McPhie published Mental Health
        and Wellbeing in the Anthropocene: A Posthuman Inquiry.
       In Community and RPHE, Elton-Chalcraft has published key texts for teacher educators,
        including Professional Studies in Primary Education (2020, now 4th Edition), Teaching RE
        Creatively (2015) and has been an invited panel member for the International Professional
        Development Association conference on ethics, and extremism. Boyd, Hymer and
        Lockney published Learning Teaching: Becoming an Inspirational Teacher – targeted at
        new teachers. Moore has contributed to Teaching History Creatively.

 4.7 Staff in the UOA are active journal editors and reviewers across the themes (selected
 examples below):
       In key OL and HNR journals, for example: Journal of Adventure Education and Outdoor
        Learning (Prince, Associate Editor, Loynes, McPhie reviews); Journal of Environmental
        Education Research (McPhie, Editor double Special Issue), Journal of Outdoor and
        Environmental Education (Loynes, McPhie, Prince reviews). To contribute more widely
        to educational research, staff also review for Education Sciences (Prince), Education 3-
        13 and British Education Research Journal (Loynes reviews).

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        In Community and RPHE journals Jackson was Editor of TEAN and STEP Journal and
         Cammack is a Member of Editorial Advisory Board for the Journal of Global Education
         and Research. Staff are active in BERA, for example Jackson Conference reviews.
         Hallett is Editor of the British Journal of Special Education and a reviewer for the Journal
         of Research in Special Educational Needs, promoting best practice internationally for
         children with Special Needs.
        In RPHE, Boyd served as Editor of Practitioner Research in Higher Education (Chapman,
         Cammack and Elton-Chalcraft have reviewed). The journal aims to disseminate
         evaluations and research of professional practice which give voice to all participants in
         higher education based on ethical and collaborative approaches to practitioner enquiry.


 Conclusion
 This Unit’s active, strong and vibrant research culture reflects the commitment of its constituent
 researchers to its mission, to dismantle disadvantage and promote social justice by engaging
 in purposeful educational research grounded in practice for the needs, interests and inclusion
 of its key research users and beneficiaries. Its positioning across four themes in two research
 centres enables interdisciplinary work, reflecting robust and exciting educational research
 outcomes for regional, national and international impact. The Unit’s infrastructure within a
 cohesive and expanding institutional environment, ensures security of research endeavour and
 the sustainability and development of further high quality educational research at UoC.




                                                                                             Page 17
