Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 6
 Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Science
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Introduction and context
The University of Reading (UoR) is the only university in the UK to have held a top ten QS World
University Ranking for Agriculture and Forestry from 2017-2020 inclusive and held the top UK
ranking in this area throughout the entire REF period. This global reputation reflects the continued
commitment of UoR to invest in people and infrastructure to enhance one of its strongest areas of
research. The Unit sustains a critical mass of over 350 researchers collaborating across an array of
relevant disciplines that enables us to pursue a truly interdisciplinary approach across the entire food
system (see figure 1). The Unit benefits from the largest and most influential group of economic and
social scientists focused on agriculture and food in the UK. We have longstanding expertise in
integrating large, complex and diverse datasets to provide insight and impact spanning global food
systems, and the ability to synergise quantitative with qualitative approaches to inform both policy
and practice. The Unit is one of the cornerstones that places UoR in a unique place within UK HEIs
to address the global challenges of managing climate change, food and nutrition security,
environmental and human health, and sustainability.
Over this REF cycle, we have expanded from a strategy that focused on parts of the food chain, to
one that addresses the whole food system, which includes a range of actors and inter-linked activities
associated with the production and consumption of foods. We foster collaborative working across
the University and externally, and engage extensively with research partners, industry and
stakeholders worldwide. The Unit’s approach to impact has been strengthened by investments that
support large-scale partnering with users of research to promote innovation and entrepreneurship.
Successful implementation of the strategy outlined in our 2014 Environment Statement has placed
us in a strong position to capitalise on our expertise and capabilities to address Sustainable
Development Goals and global societal challenges in relation to agriculture and food. For example,
UoR played a leading role in the successful development of the EIT-Food KIC, a €430M research
platform to transform the food system (Williams), complemented by the UoR-led BBSRC
FoodBioSystems DTP (Methven), delivering the next generation of agriculture, food and nutrition
researchers and industry specialists. More recently we were awarded one of four transdisciplinary
projects funded from the UKRI/GFS/government £47.5M ‘Transforming the UK Food System for
Healthy People and a Healthy Environment Strategic Priority Fund’ programme (Wagstaff). We are
distinctive in our ability to carry out research encompassing the entire food system and we are
structured to facilitate the fulfilment of this ambition.

1.2 Unit structure
The Unit (Figure 1) sits within the interdisciplinary Agriculture, Food and Health (AFH) research
Theme, one of four Themes that underpin collaborative research across the University of Reading.
AFH comprises six Research Divisions, each with 20-40 core research staff plus technicians,
research assistants, post-doctoral researchers and PhD students within a shared research area.
Three Divisions within AFH map directly to UoA6: Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems (SAFS,
n=32); Food and Nutritional Sciences (FNS, n=30) and Agri-Food Economics and Social Science
(AFESS, n=20). SAFS and AFESS are populated by staff within the School of Agriculture, Policy
and Development, whilst FNS is populated by staff from the Department of Food and Nutritional


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sciences, which sits within the School of Chemistry, Food and Pharmacy. Each Division has a
Research Division Leader (RDL) to help stimulate and strategically guide research both for their
Division and collectively as a Community of Practice, and a Research Impact Leader (IL) to promote
and support impact activities. The Research Dean for AFH takes a strategic overview of research
within the Theme, providing leadership, practical support to develop research opportunities and
promotes collaborations that foster interdisciplinary working between Research Divisions and across
the wider university.




              Figure 1. A summary of the research environment within our Unit
                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2.1 Support for interdisciplinary research
In this REF period the University reconfigured its research support and governance structures to
specifically enable interdisciplinary research, moving away from school and faculty structures to
Research Divisions and Themes (see IES). This approach supports the Unit to take a food systems
approach that integrates STEM subjects with humanities and the social sciences in order to bring
about the scale of change and insight that we seek to achieve.
The AFH Theme is underpinned by a number of Interdisciplinary Research Centres (IDRCs) that
form part of our strategy to facilitate and support holistic interdisciplinary working. The Institute of
Food Nutrition and Health (IFNH), formed in 2016, is key to enabling staff across the Divisions to
work together and with others on a national and global scale. IFNH provides a vehicle to form and
develop international partnerships and collaborations, notably through supporting EIT Food grants,
the Ceres Agri-Tech Knowledge Exchange Partnership and partnerships with CGIAR centres such
as the International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). Research within
the Unit also benefits from collaboration with other IDRCs such as our Walker Institute (centred on
climate resilient development; UoA7), the Institute for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research
(nutrition related health; UoA3) and the Centre for Integrative Neuroscience and Neurodynamics
(diet and cognition; UoA4).
The InnovateUK Agri-Tech funded Agrimetrics continues to enable key issues facing the agriculture
and food industries to be addressed using data-driven approaches and has matured during this REF
cycle to become a self-sustaining organisation.
1.2.2 Research Divisions within the Unit
Agri-Food Economics and Social Science AFESS (RDL Srinivasan) represents the largest
collective of applied economists and social scientists in the UK focused on the agri-food sector and
undertakes interdisciplinary research across the food system, encompassing food and agriculture
policy, health and nutrition, and the environment. Our research incorporates agricultural,
environmental, and behavioural economics, focusing on issues central to higher and lower-income
countries, including how to provide sufficient, safe, and nutritious food; the impact of agriculture on
the environment; and managing natural resources such as tropical forests for both livelihood and
ecological benefits. AFESS contains the Agricultural Food and Investigation Team (led by Bennett)
who undertake the Defra-funded Farm Business Survey as part of the Rural Business Research
(RBR) consortium (see Section 4.2). The Division’s work, in collaboration with national governments,
international agencies, NGOs, commercial organisations, community groups and others, sustains
the Unit’s strategy for influencing policy at national and international scale and ensures that our
research has real-world impact.
Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems SAFS (RDL Hammond) is driven by the global challenge
of how to produce sufficient, safe and nutritious food to meet the needs of a growing population,
ensuring that our production systems do not damage the environment or waste resources. The
Division comprises the Departments of Sustainable Land Management, Crop Science and Animal
Sciences. Staff from SAFS provide academic leadership for the Waitrose Collaborative Training
Partnership (Potts) and the Berry Gardens CTP (Hadley). They work on the sustainable
intensification of crop production systems through the study of plant genetics and physiology, crop
modelling and seed science, expand knowledge of the links between animal-derived foods and
consumer health and broaden our understanding of the environmental cost of using animals as food
producers and its mitigation. The relationship between land use, biodiversity and ecosystem services
drives a portfolio of projects in the Centre for Agri-Environmental Research. Research within the


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Division supports policy and drives change on farms and in managing ecosystems nationally and
internationally.
Food and Nutritional Sciences FNS (RDL Charalampopoulos) has a global reputation for innovative
research that enhances food product and process sustainability, improves the organoleptic and
nutritional quality of food, and evaluates impacts on health, cognition, nutrition, the human
microbiome and well-being. The Division comprises the Nutrition Research Group (known as the
Hugh Sinclair Unit for Human Nutrition), Food Research Group and Food Microbial Sciences Group.
FNS leads the FoodBioSystems DTP (Methven) which exemplifies our interdisciplinary and holistic
approach to research. Staff expertise covers a vast discipline reach, leading to an interdisciplinary
approach to many projects, and is complemented by our many industry partners spanning the food
system. Staff from FNS advise government on food-related policy development with our research
impacting industry practices, government policy, behavioural change, and the nutrition and health of
citizens.
The three research divisions enable research across the entire food system, influencing both practice
and policy e.g. the BBSRC-funded “Development of novel value chain from cocoa pod husks in
Indonesia: Technological, environmental and socio-economic challenges of a value chain” project
was led by Charalampopoulos (FNS) and included Hadley, (SAFS) Srinivasan, Balcombe
(AFESS).

1.3 Delivery on REF2014 research strategy
Our REF2014 overarching mission was to carry out world-leading research to better understand the
interactions between components of the food chain to deliver improvements in the agri-
environment, productivity, surety of provision and human health. Over the 2014-2020 REF cycle we
have developed more influential ways of conducting and communicating our research and developed
new strategic international collaborations that enable us to meet our objectives of enhancing the
sustainability and resilience of global food systems. Delivery on our REF2014 plans is evidenced
as follows:
    • Expand the reach of our research: evidenced by an increase from 182 (2014) to 210 (2020)
        papers per year. 20.9 % of papers are in the top 10 field-weighted citation percentile and 4.3
        % are in the top 1 field-weighted citation percentile (of papers from the same year; SciVal).
        Three staff (Gibson, Spencer, Potts) have remained in the ISI Highly Cited Researchers
        list, which recognises the production of multiple highly cited papers that rank in the top 1%
        by citations for field and year in Web of Science.
    • Support the development of the next generation of researchers in academia and
        industry: evidenced by our continued successful recruitment of a large and international
        cohort of PGR students, PDRA’s and ECR’s; over this REF cycle our PhD students came
        from over 60 countries and our PhD cohort in 2020 was 220 strong.
    • Increase annual research income: we continue to attract exceptionally high levels of
        research income (see section 3), with £47M of funding won during this cycle.
    • Increase the global reach of our unique resources: we provided underpinning capability
        to support data and genetic resources that are used by researchers and businesses
        worldwide e.g. the International Cocoa Quarantine Centre, Farm Business Survey, curation
        of the National Fruit Collection at Brogdale.
    • Influence policy relating to agri-food at national and global level: We provide advice that
        shapes policy (see section 4.1.5) and the research landscape overseas e.g. review of CGIAR
        Research Programme on grain legumes (Midmore, Dunwell, Wagstaff). The Unit has a
        strong track record of leading research on the Common Agricultural Policy and continues to

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       work with Defra on the co-design of the replacement Environmental Land Management
       Scheme and with the Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board (AHDB) on farmer
       engagement strategies. The Unit was a partner in Defra’s Sustainable Intensification
       Platform. Dunwell is Chair, Defra Advisory Committee on Releases to the Environment,
       2020-23, Robinson is Specialist Advisor for House of Lords Select Committee on Food,
       Poverty, Health and the Environment and Potts is a member of Defra’s Pollinator Steering
       Advisory Group. Lovegrove is Deputy Chair of the Scientific Advisory Committee on
       Nutrition, which advises the government on dietary policy. We helped form an All Party
       Parliamentary Group (APPG) on the Human Microbiome to advise MPs, Lords and other key
       opinion leaders on the impact of poor gut health and the positive consequences for UK
       productivity if gut health of the population can be improved (Gibson, Walton; Impact Case).

1.4 Strategic research objectives beyond 2021
Our strategy is to increase ambition and move beyond the food supply chain to work with greater
inter- and trans-disciplinarity and address food system challenges in a more holistic way. Hence
the Centre for Food Security evolved into the Institute for Food Nutrition and Health, and our
overarching research Theme of Agriculture Food and Health facilitated our vision of a systems level
approach.
Our vision is to provide world-leading research that drives sustainable agricultural and food
production for a healthy planet and healthy people. The unique expertise collectively present at
UoR encompasses climate science, agriculture, food, nutrition and soil science alongside economic,
social and psychology research excellence. We are positioned to lead the global perspective on
linking food, health and the environment and to provide the research needed to drive change in
government, business and citizen behaviours to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals.
To enable delivery of our vision we will achieve the following objectives over the next five years:
   • Building on our achievements, we will continue to undertake world-leading innovative
      agriculture, environmental and food systems research that addresses Sustainable
      Development Goals e.g. SDG 2.2. and SDG2.4, zero hunger, improved nutrition, sustainable
      food production systems, resilient agricultural practices, maintain ecosystems, strengthen
      capacity for adaptation to climate change, improve land and soil quality; SDG3.4 reduce
      premature mortality from non-communicable diseases; SDG12.1 sustainable consumption
      and production; SDG12.3 reduction of food loss and waste.
   • The large collaborative food systems initiatives that we are already leading e.g. the
      FoodBioSystems DTP and our SPF Food Systems project on transforming the UK food
      system for disadvantaged communities will be delivered over the next five years and the
      outcomes from the research will be leveraged to develop future synergistic partnerships that
      will increase the impact and visibility of our research.
   • External profiles of our staff, together with our distinctive expertise in economics and social
      sciences directly focused on agrifood systems, leads us to influence and shape policy.
      Specific areas we look to address in the next five years include: working with government to
      develop policy that addresses the health drivers of the human microbiome and helps mitigate
      diseases associated with poor gut health; informing the UK National Food Strategy;
      influencing national dietary guidelines and UK policy on food composition that leads to a
      reduction in salt, sugar and saturated fat in the diet; working with UK government and
      international policy makers to develop environmental and farming policies that support
      sustainable and regenerative agricultural practice and strong ecosystems services.



                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   We will make strategic use our National Institute for Research into Dairying (NIRD) Trust
       Fund (see section 3.4) to invest in agriculture and food infrastructure, equipment and people
       to support research excellence in the Unit, with tens of £M’s available over the next REF
       cycle. The funds will facilitate strategic partnerships with key international organisations,
       research institutes/centres of excellence and commercial organizations e.g. UN, CGIAR,
       other Universities in the top 10 QS World University Ranking for Agriculture and Forestry.
       These partnerships will create a global community of agri-food research excellence, build
       capacity and skills through shared PhD students and career development fellowships, and
       jointly tackle the challenges experienced in many different farming and food systems
       environments across the world.

1.5 Impact strategy
Our strategy is to ensure that our research meets end user needs by forming collaborative
partnerships and co-creating impact. We undertake purposeful long-term collaborations with
government bodies, industry bodies, companies and wider stakeholders to ensure relevance of our
research on policy, commercial organisations and wider society. The desire to generate real world
impact motivates our researchers and the championing of applied research is a distinctive feature of
UoR, with our strategic mission being “to transform lives at a local, national and global scale.” The
University resourced a major strategic investment in impact since REF2014 with which our Unit has
engaged strongly.
1.5.1 Facilitating and achieving impact
The Impact Lead (IL) from each Research Division promotes the research impact culture and works
with individual research groups to identify routes for transforming their research into practice (see
IES section 2.3). Each IL is supported by the University’s Impact Development Manager for the AFH
Theme who provides expert insight into developing and capturing impact, working as a team with
the IL and researchers to develop impact strategy for key projects. The Building Outstanding Impact
Support Programme (BOISP) provides a structured approach to identify, develop and deliver impact
and 18 projects in the Unit have been supported since 2014, ranging from those at an early stage of
development to those that have matured and been selected as our Impact Case Studies (ICS) for
REF2021; other impactful projects have been highlighted and supported throughout this assessment
period. Our submitted cases are a small subset and have been selected to demonstrate the breadth
of impact on policy, economics and society across the food system, from biodiversity and
ecosystems services management (Potts, Garratt: pollinators), to primary production innovations
such as novel polytunnel films (Hadley), to farming practices and food products developed to bring
human health benefits (Givens/Lovegrove: polyunsaturated fats; Gibson: prebiotics; Spencer:
polyphenols).
The Impact Development Manager works with the Knowledge Transfer Centre and Research and
Enterprise Services to identify emerging areas and to provide input on funding streams. This support
helped Senapathi secure a NERC Knowledge Exchange Fellowship (2019-2022) on Enhancing
Landscapes for Biodiversity and Multiple Ecosystem Services to develop transparent, evidence-led
processes to optimise land use choices to best meet the needs of different communities. The project
will create a knowledge hub comprising stakeholders from different communities coming together to
(a) gain information from existing projects, (b) inform researchers of evidence needs and (c) share
real-world experience and good practices. The same team assisted Rose, Elizabeth Creak
Associate Professor of Agricultural Innovation and Extension, to secure funding from the Elizabeth
Creak Trust for The Centre for Effective Innovation in Agriculture as part of a consortium of five UK
universities who will collaborate to address the gap between scientific research on innovation and

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
real-life farming experience. The Centre will focus on how research and development investment
can best support innovation to be adopted by farmers.
1.5.2 Future support for impact
This Unit is particularly well placed to leverage international impact because of the volume of
research delivered on a global scale across a range of agricultural systems, commodities and
environments. Our global reputation is built on our history of providing education and research that
has impact on agricultural, ecological and food systems across the world with our alumni in key
positions to drive change at scales ranging from smallholder farmer cooperatives through to
multinational global corporations.

1.6 Support for open research
Our staff benefit from and contribute to open research initiatives, for example using the MRC
epidemiology database at Cambridge or Biobank information and contributing to the Farm Business
Data from Defra. We were the first UK university to publish a statement on open research (see IES).
In addition to our open access repository for publications (CenTAUR), we established an
institutional Research Data archive in 2015, to host data which cannot be deposited in disciplinary
archives and our commitment to reproducibility is reflected by our early membership of the UK
Reproducibility Network, which we joined in January 2020. The University constituted a new
Committee for Open Research and Research Integrity, chaired by Yaqoob. Our open research web
pages have links to our internally funded Open Research Action Plan, Open Research handbook
and case studies of open research at UoR.
The Unit is in the process of appointing Open Research Champions for each Research Division and
is encouraging applications from people at a range of different career stages to continue to build a
culture of research openness. A dedicated data manager supports grant applications and
researchers are encouraged to use international repositories for data such as genomic or
phenotyping e.g. NCBI, CropStore. Researchers are increasingly using bioRxiv for the deposition of
preprints to increase the accessibility of our research to others. The genetic resources curated by
the International Cocoa Quarantine Centre and the National Fruit Collection are available to other
users, thereby forming unique open-access living research platforms for the wider scientific
community to use.

1.7 Supporting a culture of research integrity
Procedures are in place to ensure the highest standards of research integrity and Quality Assurance
in Research based around the University’s Ethical Framework, including the University Code of Good
Practice in Research, which is required reading for all researchers. Ethics approval procedures are
well-established within the Unit, with local ethics committees in FNS and APD; staff from the Unit
also sit on the University Ethics Committee. Local ethics committees are supported by members of
administrative staff who guide researchers through the process. Intervention trials using NHS
patients are subject to approval from NHS Research Ethics Committee. The Department of Food
and Nutritional Sciences holds a Human Tissue Act licence (Jackson). We invested in REDCap
(Research Electronic Data Capture), a web-based application to ensure participant-based research
data remains GDPR compliant, with Jackson a member of the REDCap Management Board.
The Head of both Schools submitting to this Unit sit on the University Animal Welfare Ethical Review
Body (AWERB) committee which reviews relevant projects from licence holders and takes a broader
view of the use of animals in research at Reading. The University is a signatory to the ‘Concordat on
Openness on Animal Research’ in a commitment to help the public understand more about animal
research and in 2018 its dedicated web pages were shortlisted for an Openness in Animal Research

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
award by Understanding Animal Research. The Centre for Dairy Research (CEDAR) cows are part
of a 570 strong commercial dairy herd owned by the University Farm, plus additional animals are
reared at Sonning for sale to the beef industry. All animals undergo routine testing for TB, along with
other susceptible species such as camelids.

 2. People

2.1 Introduction
Our academic achievements are a reflection of all staff associated with the Unit who provide a
positive and supportive environment for our researchers. This includes dedicated central university
support e.g. Research Development Managers supporting grant preparation, contracts officers,
finance administration, procurement, legal services, ethics, business engagement and
communications. Some central support colleagues are embedded within our Unit, such as our two
EIT Food Partnerships Managers.
Our Farms Manager ensures that our crop and livestock farms meet the needs of our researchers
and manages 15 farm workers. Research is enabled by our Technical Manager for the Crops
Research Unit at Sonning Farm, Research Manager and Research Co-ordinator at CEDAR Hall
Farm and Technical Manager of our Crops and Environment Laboratory (CEL) on the Whiteknights
campus. Field-based research is supported by technicians who facilitate production trials and assess
crop, dairy and meat quality. Specialist technicians manage the International Cocoa Quarantine
Centre that supplies disease-free cocoa germplasm globally.
Dedicated technicians provide expertise to analyse food and to support economic modelling and
sustainable land use. The manager of our 100m2 Food Processing Centre and a senior technician
support study design and delivery, facilitating the processing, packaging and analysis of foods, e.g.
UHT processing, ice-cream making, freeze drying, baking, nano filtration and 3D food printing. Our
Sensory Science and Flavour Centres also have technical specialists. The Hugh Sinclair Unit of
Human Nutrition has a full-time unit manager and three research nurses. We maintain a volunteer
database of >5000 individuals, enabling recruitment for studies that require particular demographics
or risk factors.

2.2 Staff development strategy
Development and retention of staff employed within the Unit is a priority, with a focus on developing
research leadership. To this end, academic staff develop annual Personal Research Plans (PRPs),
helped by mentors and line managers. Staff have considerable flexibility in relation to the research
they pursue and have an opportunity to influence the research strategy of the Unit. Staff are provided
with a range of support and development opportunities, available through a central UoRLearn
platform that enables staff to record their Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Undertaking
CPD is required within our Personal Titles promotions process.
All new staff are assigned a mentor and all have annual Performance and Development Reviews
with their line managers. Mentorship for personal titles promotion applications and for a whole range
of aspects of academic life, from managing work-life balance to supervising a growing research
group, is provided across the Unit. For academic staff a probationary meeting occurs within six
weeks of appointment to agree objectives which will span the normal three-year probationary period.
Staff then meet with their line manager on a regular basis to review progress against the objectives.
The Academic Probation Review Sub-Committee reviews progress against objectives at 18 months
and three years, with the option for exceptional staff to be confirmed in their permanent role at the
earlier timepoint.

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers has been championed by the
Heads of Schools in the Unit who have used all-staff meetings to highlight the opportunities it
presents to PIs and researchers, running Q&A sessions, and explaining the wide range of
development activities that could be undertaken – and how these could enhance both career
development of the individual whilst simultaneously bringing softer benefits to the research group
and wider environment.
A host of research leadership opportunities allow staff to understand the broader research landscape
and emerging priorities of funders. These include heads of School Research groups (mid-upper
levels), our BBSRC and NERC application Review Groups, Research Division Leads, Impact Leads
(mid-career), membership of the University Committee for Research and Innovation, Committee for
Research Infrastructure (ECR representation, Bell). Our PVC for Research and Innovation (Yaqoob)
is a highly successful researcher from this Unit.
The University of Reading was a founding signatory of the Technician Commitment in May 2017;
our professional services and technical staff are core members of the Unit and facilitate (and in some
cases lead) research, frequently co-authoring publications from the Unit. Many of our technical staff
hold PhDs and degrees in the area of their work. We actively encourage and pay for our technical
staff to seek professional accreditation status as Registered Science Technicians (RSciTech),
Registered Scientists (RSci) and Chartered Scientists (CSci). A research technician recently
received a Registered Scientist commendation for her CPD work from the Institute of Food Science
and Technology. Two Research Technicians have taken the opportunity offered to study for
Professional Doctorates registered at the UoR through the AgriFood Training Partnership. Our
support for the professional development of our technical staff has led to us being named as a
Science Council Employer Champion.

2.3 Staffing and recruitment policy
Within the period, our staffing strategy reflected our 2014 research plans and was linked to Division
and School 5-year operating plans. The strategy has been to recruit at all levels to areas seen as
distinctive research strengths of the Unit as well as those identified as of increasing strategic
importance to the Unit’s research excellence. In doing so we have ensured built-in succession
planning for areas that are cornerstones of our international research reputation within the Unit, such
as agri-food economics and social science and gut microbiology. At the REF census date, 38% of
eligible staff were Professor, 20% Associate Professor, 23% Lecturer, 19% Senior
Researcher/Researcher.
Only 15% of our appointments are fixed term contracts and these are largely due to the external
nature of their funding; we redeploy these staff into new projects wherever possible. We are
committed to appointing applicants who are both individually excellent and committed to our ethos
of shared success; a crucial part of our interview process involves finding out what background work
our applicants have done to identify collaboration opportunities with their potential colleagues. We
therefore appoint staff who seek to work across the broader research interests of the Unit and to
collaborate on inter-disciplinary research.
New appointments have been made in the area of economics and social science, substantially
enhancing research capacity in areas identified in the 2014 research plans: consumer behaviour and
food marketing (Macready and Asioli), health economics (Zanello), farm production economics
(Gadanakis) agricultural innovation and policy (Rose). Leadership by economist members has been
recognised internally and externally resulting in moves to leadership roles: Professor Bennett was



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
appointed as a Research Dean and Professor Tiffin was seconded to Agrimetrics as Chief Scientific
Officer.
We made appointments to enhance our research into the impacts of climate change on food systems
and biodiversity, and to maintain capacity for research on crop and livestock production systems.
These include Lecturers: Threats to food production systems from changing climates (Bishop),
temperate horticulture (Bell), food matrices (Grundy), epidemiology of crop pathogens
(Mikaberidze), insect ecology in crop production systems (Girling), mathematical methods applied
to the resilience of soils in response to environmental stresses (Todman), sustainability of animal
agriculture (Ray), sustainability of dairy production systems (Stergiadis), dairy animal welfare
(Meagher). Senior Research Fellows: dairy cow diet impact on human health (Kliem), growth and
quality of meat products (Juniper), ecosystems services (Garratt, Senapathi). Professor: soil
ecology (Tibbett).
Key appointments have invested in ECR talent to enhance food and nutritional sciences research
including food processing (Rodriguez-Garcia, Mavroudis), food waste valorisation
(Chatzifragkou), gut microbiota (Walton, Wijeyesekera), sensory/flavour science (Lignou),
nutrition and cardiometabolic health (Mills), appetite (Clegg). Mills and Clegg were appointed
through Hugh Sinclair Trust funds.

2.4 Support for ECRs
All ECRs have a mentor to provide guidance regarding development of research ambitions and
careers. New academic appointments are given reduced teaching and administrative loads (typically
<50% for ~3 years) to enable them to develop their research careers. They are provided with start-
up funds to spend on personal/career development, plus departments have pump priming funds for
ECRs. A range of training is offered to ECRs and the University’s Research and Enterprise Services
provides one-to-one support for ECRs applying for funding and developing collaborations. Many
PDRAs complete training to become associate fellow/fellow of the HEA to support future academic
careers. Several internal research funding schemes give priority to ECRs, e.g. Research Dean’s
annual research pump priming scheme, similar schemes by IFNH, RETF (section 3.4) and Heads of
Schools, and the University’s GCRF QR fund where agriculture and food are priority areas.
Allocations are made for ECR’s from the internal Annual Research Infrastructure Funds and from
external funds, such as research council capital awards. Recently, ~10% of our World Class
Laboratory Initiative award (£108K) was directed to ECR’s, thereby funding equipment for Bell,
Cheng, Rodriguez-Garcia, Mills and Todman.

2.5 Enabling time for research
Academic staff draw on University-level and Unit-level support to provide meaningful time for
research. The University supports research leave, often with matched funds from the School, for
teaching buy out for 1-3 terms. Support is prioritised for staff who can demonstrate a clear plan for
research activity that will take place as a result of being awarded research leave. At Unit level we
generate meaningful amounts of time through School-level sabbatical schemes by adjusting
teaching timetables and student allocation so that staff can free up all or most of a term to work on
a specific research activity. This often helps staff who have substantive field work overseas. Part-
time staff are provided with the same opportunities as full-time staff.

2.6 Facilitating engagement beyond the University
Research staff are proactively encouraged to engage with business, third sector and public bodies;
this engagement is key to underpinning the Unit’s reputation for policy influence and research that

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
is relevant to stakeholders across the food system. The University recently welcomed Bill Kilgallon
as a Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence who will work with staff to assist with
commercialisation of research. The University hosts Parliamentary Office of Science and
Technology (POST) training courses which are delivered by officials from POST and Select
Committees, and funds ~10 places each time, giving researchers at any stage of their career the
opportunity to learn how to engage with UK Parliament.

2.7 Recognising and rewarding excellence
Staff who excel at engagement beyond the university are nominated for our annual Research
Engagement and Impact Awards, recognising those who undertake high-quality engagement and
impact activities (e.g. Tibbett, Potts, Garratt), and/or have contributed to capacity building in this
area. Rewards committee considers cases for an additional increment for staff on grade 6 and cases
for research intensive staff (including PDRAs) to move from grade 6 to grade 7 (lecturer equivalent)
by meeting the criteria of sustained excellence; many are underpinned by permanent contracts. We
also have a scheme for awarding lump sums and vouchers to reward one-off activities of note.

2.8 Research student environment
The Unit provides a stimulating environment for students to develop their research skills, expertise
and knowledge; they are welcomed to all-staff School talks, Research Division coffee mornings
where new project ideas are discussed and they represent their communities on School Health and
Safety, Wellbeing Inclusion Diversity & Equality committees, Joint Academic and Technical Group
and Sustainability Group.
2.8.1 Recruitment of doctoral students
The Unit led in shaping University policies for recruiting doctoral students having developed a
Diversity & Inclusion policy and associated strategies for widening participation for its leadership of
the BBSRC FoodBioSystems DTP. Given the international reputation of UoR in the Unit area, we
attract students from all over the world where agriculture and food are significant contributors to their
home nation’s economy, giving scholars an opportunity to experience a research environment that
doesn’t exist in their own country. A wide range of mechanisms exist for doctoral study, including
part-time, working away from the University (e.g. at a research institute in the UK or overseas), thesis
by publication (for example for research technicians who have a number of papers in a particular
area to their name), and professional doctorates that enable study whilst working. The fees for these
non-standard options enable participation by people who would not otherwise be able to afford a
standard fee. Students are always interviewed by their prospective supervisors before being offered
a place.
2.8.2 Training partnerships and other funding sources
The Unit’s Food Security BBSRC-funded DTP (2012-2019; £3.4M) was followed by the
FoodBioSystems DTP awarded in 2019 (£12M) and is committed to providing CASE, placement,
training and internship opportunities. The DTP funds >15 four-year standard studentships and 6
CASE studentships per year and will deliver the next generation of scientists (>120 PhD graduates)
The Unit is a partner in BBSRC CTPs with Berry Gardens and Waitrose and a Marie Curie Training
Network in Sustainable Technologies. The Unit led the BBSRC funded FoodATP (2011-2016) and
AgriFood Training Partnership (2017-present) providing modular postgraduate training and
professional doctorate degrees for agrifood industry professionals, with >90 registered students at
UoR.




                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Sponsorship for doctorates comes from wide-ranging sources including Industrial CASE,
Government departments, charities and companies, the University’s RETF, the Reading-
Rothamsted Alliance, AHDB, EU funding and overseas scholarships, meaning that we work across
a scale ranging from a small charity (John Goldacre Foundation) to large multinationals
(GlaxoSmithKline, Mondelez).
2.8.3 Monitoring and supporting student progression
Each student has ≥ two supervisors with one having primary responsibility, chosen according to the
needs of the student and their research interests. Experienced academic supervisors work alongside
more junior colleagues to give the latter a supported route to build their research groups. In this REF
period, 274 UoA6 research students were awarded PhD compared to 210 in REF2014, averaging
3.56 awards per submitted staff FTE. 82% of full-time students submitted within 4 years.
Students have (and take) the opportunity to attend a wide range of research seminar series. They
celebrate their own research through showcase events, e.g. the annual Research Symposia in each
Department, which are organised by a student committee and attended by every PhD student. The
Graduate School hosts an annual Doctoral Research Conference at which, in addition to PhD
Researcher of the Year presentations, there are numerous competitions (film, poster, photo, poetry,
rap) which ensure high engagement.
A learning needs assessment is undertaken by students at the start of their PhD and a training
programme agreed. Subject-specific training within the Unit is complemented by the Reading
Researcher Development Programme (menu of >100 sessions), many led by academics from the
Unit. The Unit’s membership of IFSTAL (Interdisciplinary Food Systems Teaching and Learning) has
been a significant success (providing training to >1500 students) and in 2019 transitioned from
IFSTAL to EFSET (European Food Systems Education and Training) via EIT Food funding. Through
IFSTAL/EFSET we provide PGR students with holistic understanding of the food system and its
challenges, uncover intervention strategies, and help to contextualise strategies within their chosen
speciality or discipline.
Our PhD students have been recognised through externally awarded prizes such as:
   •   Winners of the BBSRC Biotechnology Young Entrepreneurs Scheme competition
   •   Postgraduate Student Award from the Nutrition Society (2015, 2017, 2018).
   •   European awards for best thesis in Sensory Science (2016) and Flavour (2016), leading to
       leadership programme places (2018)
   •   IFST Young Scientist winner (2018)

2.9 Commitment to equality and diversity
Heads of School have responsibility for ensuring that equality and diversity are embedded within
their activities. Their Wellbeing Inclusion Diversity and Equality (WIDE) Committees meet 1-2x/term,
representing staff and students from each research division across many roles. Schools have BAME
Staff and Student Networks. The Networks and WIDE committees have a mission to identify and
address issues affecting staff at all levels from all backgrounds; we have examined and adjusted our
committee structures to ensure that staff with protected characteristics and the relevant professional
expertise are represented at every level. Of the Unit’s REF2021 eligible staff population, 39% are
women, 66% are British (10% of BAME heritage) and 34% international (9% BAME). 16% per cent
of women in the Unit are Professor and 16% are Associate Professor. 10% of Professors and 6.7%
Associate Professors are of BAME heritage. Of the two Heads of School, one is female, School
Management Board in SAPD is 31% female; in SCFP 41% are female. One of the three research

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Division Leads is of BAME heritage. In relation to research students, 60% of our current cohort are
female and 52% of BAME heritage. SCFP holds an Athena Swan Silver Award, SAPD Bronze, and
the University has Athena Swan Silver.
Workload models take account of individual responsibilities; annual monitoring ensures workloads
are appropriate to the individual whilst providing all staff with opportunities for development and
advancement. There is a strong ethos that no member of staff should be disadvantaged by any of
the nine protected characteristics of the Equality Act. Staff are provided with support in terms of
equipment and ways of working etc e.g., making allowance for caring responsibilities, disabilities and
for religious practices.
Part-time and full-time staff have the same career opportunities; most posts have the potential to be
part-time and/or job-shared. Adjustments needed for disability are made; staff can return to work
from absences associated with maternity leave or ill health flexibly or part-time as suits their needs.
In these cases, staff are allocated a light teaching load or a sabbatical period for a year to enable
them to recover their research activity e.g., Mills, Lewis. Consequently, Mills submitted a New
Investigator grant (amongst several others) and Lewis is Research Division Lead-elect. Shared
parental leave is common and (male) members of the Unit take leading roles in the University’s
Parent and Family Network, for example lobbying that resulted in the University nursery opening
during vacations to support research active staff. Role models for flexible working exist at the highest
level from our Unit, with PVC Research and Innovation operating as a job share and a Dean post is
occupied by part-time staff.
Staff may experience a variety of circumstances that negatively impact their ability to evidence
sustained attainment of promotion criteria e.g. caring responsibilities, ill health, Covid-19. Every
applicant has the option of submitting a Personal Circumstances form alongside their promotion
case, which is agreed with their Head of School, and which stands as a record of how their
circumstances have impacted promotion criteria. At no point is the applicant expected to reveal the
precise nature of circumstances, so confidentiality is maintained.
In addition to the WIDE committee, SCFP has a Wellbeing Champion (Chatzifragkou), a role
created after a School Away Day in September 2019 which centred on wellbeing. Chatzifragkou has
subsequently undertaken staff surveys to benchmark stress, anxiety and its causes (Feb 2020) and
is currently running a follow up survey and focus groups, using the HSE Management Standards
and talking toolkit for tackling work-related stress, with our head of University Health and Safety.
Chatzifragkou also identifies and supports individual staff wellbeing cases, making use of the
extensive University wellbeing resources where appropriate. Staff can access professional
counselling through the Employee Assistance Service, plus many other resources linked to self-care
and group support.
2.9.1 Consideration of equality and diversity in forming the REF submission
In construction of the REF submission, all decision makers have undergone training in Equality,
Diversity and Inclusion, and managing unconscious bias. To develop our submission, a UoA lead
was appointed through open competition and, through the RDLs, ensured outputs were read and
scored internally by staff from across the submission, with ~3 individuals independently scoring each
output. Results and feedback were shared with the authors via our ROSS database to ensure
transparency. All staff returned their highest ranked output and the remaining submission was
populated with the highest scoring outputs, ensuring all outputs were compliant. We reflected on the
outcomes of the University’s interim Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and bias analysis (2021)
which identified no statistically significant differences for protected characteristics in our selection.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Funding strategy and attainment
The Unit has secured significant external funding from a diverse range of sources, amounting to
£48M of research income won across the REF period which represents an average of £6.9M per
annum, rising to £7.8M in 2018/19 and equating to £89k/FTE/year across our 77.15 FTE submission.
Our funding success rate from 796 standard research grant and fellowship applications is 27%. A
distinctive aspect of our Unit is the breadth of our 120 external research funding sources,
supporting 366 project awards, demonstrating the resilience of our funding streams (Figure 2).




Figure 2. Sources and value of funding income over the 2014-2020 REF period. Size of box
       is in proportion to funding received; colours indicate different funder types.

Many of our funding sources provide repeat cycles of income, enabling us to run significant long-
term projects and as a consequence to deliver substantial impact from our work e.g. the Farm
Business Survey provided £4.9M from 2014-2020 and EIT Food provided £5.8M from 2017- 2020.
This funding base underpins the volume of high-quality outputs and ICS associated with this and
future submissions.
3.1.1 UKRI
   •   BBSRC SARIC funding (£838k)/Defra funding (£3.6M) for ‘Investigating diverse forage
       mixtures to optimise ruminant animal production, nutrient use efficiency, environmental
       impact, biodiversity and resilience’.
   •   BBSRC DRINC funding (£575k) for ‘Mechanistic assessment of the acute and chronic
       cognitive effects of flavanol/anthocyanin intervention in humans’.


                                                                                        Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   MRC funding (£783k) for ‘Reducing cardiovascular disease risk through sustainable
       replacement of saturated fatty acids in milk and dairy products’.
   •   BBSRC GCRF funding (£573k) for ‘Traits and technologies to boost North African protein
       self-sufficiency’.
   •   BBSRC funding (£560k) for ‘Food Processing Waste and By-products utilisation network
       (FoodWasteNet)’.
   •   ESRC funding (£519k) for ‘Cognitive Biases and Behavioural Segmentation in Food
       Demand’.
   •   NERC funding (£501k) to investigate ‘Degradation of Odour signals by air pollution:
       chemical Mechanisms, plume dynamics and Insect-Orientation behaviour (DOMINO)’.
   •   Reading leads one of four £6M projects funded by UKRI/government in the Transforming
       the UK Food System for Healthy People and a Healthy Environment call to enable
       transdisciplinary research on ‘Co-production of healthy, sustainable food systems for
       disadvantaged communities’ to shape the future UK food system and influence the evolving
       National Food Strategy.
3.1.2 EU
EU funding is substantially enhanced by the EIT Food KIC (2017-20) with UoR receiving ~£5.8M to
date over 88 consumer-focused food projects. EU funding for Horizon 2020 includes:
   •   £432K for work to reduce nitrite in meat products (Phytome).
   •   £393K for advancing the cattle sector through better use of technology (SmartCow).
   •   £365K for investigating biodiversity and pollinators in the agricultural landscape (PoshBee).
   •   £325K for Linking farmland Biodiversity to Ecosystem services for effective eco-functional
       intensification (LIBERATION).
3.1.3 Industry Funding
Engagement and co-creation of research with industry and end users is an important part of our
work. In addition to large-scale work with industry through EIT-Food and InnovateUK, we have
secured direct support for individual projects from a large range of companies and industry bodies
including:
   •   £4.1M for curation of the National Fruit Collection.
   •   £3.5M from Innovate UK for the formation of Agrimetrics, the Agrifood Data Marketplace.
   •   £4.9M for undertaking the Farm Business Survey on behalf of Defra.
   •   £1M from Cocoa Research UK for research into climate change effects on cocoa.
   •   £429k from the Cocoa Research Association for running the International Cocoa Quarantine
       Centre.
   •   Participation in the £4.7M CERES Agri-Tech Knowledge Exchange Partnership.

3.2. Investment in exceptional infrastructure
Staff are mainly housed within purpose-built Agriculture and Food buildings containing 8133m2 of
laboratories and research facilities, supported by the additional bespoke facilities below. These
facilities enable us to work across the whole food system e.g. MRC-funded RESET project used
cows at CEDAR, milk was processed into dairy products in the Food Processing Centre, and

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
assessed in the sensory suite, human health outcomes were assessed in the Hugh Sinclair Unit of
Human Nutrition.
From 2014-2020, the University has invested nearly £5M in infrastructure to support our
research, including:
   •   >£200k in updating and enhancing field and postharvest analysis capabilities (plot scale
       machinery, NIRS capabilities, new grain nitrogen analysis equipment).
   •   £450K University investment in above- and below-ground crop phenotyping technology for
       field and controlled environments.
   •   Multispectral 3D imaging and field scale soil moisture monitoring capabilities delivered
       through Distributed Temperature Sensing fibre optic cables.
   •   Redevelopment of controlled environment facilities, including a new home for the
       International Cocoa Quarantine Centre and a unique modified environment orchard
       (0.6ha) in the National Fruit Collection to undertake long-term study of UK apple genotypes
       to warmer temperatures.
   •   Analytical equipment for assessing the interfacial rheological characteristics of food matrices,
       a tribology system and oral processing devices to monitor the textural and mouthfeel
       properties of food, chemical analysis equipment (e.g. HPLC, GC-QToF, DIONEX-MS, clinical
       analyser), a simulated moving bed chromatography system, and a triple quad LC-MS-MS
       instrument for metabolic profiling.


3.2.1 Livestock and Crop Research Farms
The Unit has two farms, commercial grade glasshouse and polytunnel facilities, and high-
specification controlled environment facilities for plant and animal production. These provide
underpinning research support for the wider farming and scientific community e.g. bovine TB studies;
specialist pig housing and production for Pirbright that are used for animal vaccine trials; llamas that
provide nanobodies for vaccine development, including for Covid-19 vaccines.
The farms are managed commercially, cover approximately 750ha, and include a 570-head
dairy herd at our Centre for Dairy Research (CEDAR). The facilities at CEDAR provide constant
access to livestock in a commercial setting that can be used for research. Infrastructure investment
at CEDAR during the REF period includes:
   •   £2.2M for additional farmland (75 hectares);
   •   >£1.5M for additional livestock research infrastructure, including:
          o A new transition cow unit
          o An expanded meat and growth research unit
          o Refurbished and refitted controlled environment rooms for animal research including
             pigs and poultry
          o Four indirect calorimeters together with metabolism stalls and cattle yards to enhance
             our infrastructure for research on greenhouse gas emissions, nitrogen use efficiency
             and the sustainability/resilience of animal production systems.
3.2.2 Crops Research Unit (CRU)
The CRU is equipped to produce arable and horticultural crops at plot to field scale, with >2,000 trial
plots drilled annually. It has adopted and developed remote/automated phenotyping systems and
has postharvest facilities to evaluate grain and fruit quality. CRU supports long-term field facilities

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including low-input rotation which mimics organic production systems, in production since 2003, to
facilitate side-by-side comparisons with conventional production systems. We also maintain
replicated plots consisting of three different rotational intensities. The CRU benefitted from the
addition of three new double span polytunnels for soft fruit production, including commercial grade
table-top strawberry production facilities and new laboratory and workshop facilities to support
research. The development of a Free Air Diesel and Ozone Enrichment (FADOE) facility, funded
through a NERC Capital Infrastructure grant to Girling (£200k), is being used to explore the impacts
of common air pollutants on insect behaviour and insect-mediated ecosystem services.
3.2.3 The Crop and Environment Laboratory (CEL)
Year-round capability to grow any terrestrial plant in environments mimicking anywhere across the
globe provides the capability to test responses of existing and novel germplasm (including GM) to
predicted future climate patterns, and how to extend production seasons and locations. This complex
includes: 12x Weiss-Technik Fitotron cabinets with full temp, light, day length, RH and CO 2 control;
6x Weiss walk-in growth rooms with temp, day length control; 6x Saxil CE chambers; Factorial
glasshouses with automated irrigation systems, heating (25°C uplift), supplementary lighting and day
length control; 5.5ha of experimental grounds where installations enable small-scale fieldwork.
3.2.4 Food Processing Pilot Plant
The Food Processing Centre (FPC) includes the largest food processing pilot plant in UK academia.
It is a registered food business and provides significant research capacity to manufacture food for
human consumption. Over the REF period there has been investment in a range of food processing
equipment including an extensive refurbishment of the dairy processing area (£900K), as well as the
addition of new thermal processing equipment, bakery ovens, freeze driers, and packaging
equipment (£130K).
3.2.5 Hugh Sinclair Unit of Human Nutrition (HSU)
The HSU has the personnel and facilities required for human clinical intervention studies including
nurses, trained phlebotomists, catering facilities, and equipment for collection, storage and analysis
of biological material. It facilitates over 1100 volunteer visits per year and has six clinical rooms, with
three of them devoted to vascular function assessment using different cutting-edge techniques,
including laser Doppler imaging and Flow Mediated Dilation.
The Unit received investment of >£300K from the University to construct an additional fully equipped
clinical room. Funds from the Hugh Sinclair Trust have been used to employ an additional
specialised research nurse (total of 3 research nurses). The Unit has also invested in a Dual Energy
X-ray Absorptiometry scanner, to determine bone density and body compositional analysis, and in
two cognitive testing rooms.
3.2.6 Sensory Science Centre (SSC)
SSC operates in partnership with MMR, a private sensory company, and enables high quality
organoleptic evaluation of foods of all kinds to address consumer and food industry challenges. The
Centre offers two separate suites of 16 and 12 state-of-the-art booths designed according to ISO
standards with controlled lighting, ventilation and temperature, a dedicated kitchen and a separate
room for panel vocabulary development and training. The CompuSense platform is used to support
our research. The Centre uses a panel of trained sensory assessors who characterise and evaluate
the organoleptic qualities of a wide range of products. A database of >5000 people enables
consumer liking or preference panels to be formed.




                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2.7 The Flavour Centre
The international reputation of this Centre is built upon its ability to undertake analytical flavour and
aroma chemistry using state-of-the-art instrumentation including a highly sensitive multidimensional
gas chromatography system (GC-QToF) allowing acquisition of full metabonomic data from complex
samples. Our GC-Olfactometry platform has been key to a study on parosmia and anosmia, which
has allowed the discovery of vital underpinning science behind the impact of Covid-19 on some
patients’ ability to smell. Staff from the Centre run the annual International Flavourists Course,
developed with the British Society of Flavourists and financially supported by the International
Federation of Essential Oil and Aroma Trades.
3.2.8 Gut Model and Flow Cytometry Suite
Our pioneering continuous culture colonic microbiology models are used to plan prospective dietary
intervention studies, thereby obviating the need for animal model work. Both in vitro and in vivo
approaches are supported by flow cytometry approaches for quantitative gene probing of microbial
genera/species, as well as assessment of different cell phenotypes by cell surface markers,
intracellular cytokine or transcription factor expression, apoptosis, cell activation, cell proliferation
and differentiation in culture. Metabolites are measured in our Chemical Analysis Facility (NMR, MS).
As such, we are able to correlate microbial shifts with functional assessments in response to
interventions.
3.2.9 Institute for Cardiovascular and Metabolic Research (ICMR)
ICMR brings together scientists to understand the development of cardiovascular diseases, and the
underlying obesity-related metabolic diseases. Facilities in ICMR include in vitro and in vivo imaging
equipment, which include a FlexStation Multi-Mode Microplate Reader and confocal microscopes.
Researchers from the Unit and ICMR collaborate to research the impact of nutrition, diet and lifestyle
on cardiovascular and metabolic disease risks.
3.2.10 Loddon Observatory
Together with the Department of Geography and Environmental Science, Hammond leads the
Loddon Observatory, working in collaboration with charities, public sector, business and other
research organisations to address ‘global’ challenges, through co-development of sustainable
solutions within the Loddon Catchment e.g. CALIBRE: Co-delivery of food and climate regulation
from temperate agroforestry (Lukac, NERC, £178k) which synergises cross-disciplinary skills in
Agriculture, Forestry, Environment, Economics and Policy.
3.2.11 Consumer, Economics and Social Sciences
Economics and social science facilities include a new (2020) and mobile Behavioural and
Experimental Social Sciences (BESS) laboratory, extensive computing facilities, virtual environment
facilities and monitoring and tracking equipment (e.g. eye tracking) that enables the study of
consumer intentions.
3.2.12 Shared Institutional Infrastructure
As well as specialist lab and field infrastructure, our staff use a raft of shared central University
facilities including the Chemical Analysis Facility (CAF) and the Centre for Integrated
Neuroscience and Neurodynamics (CINN).
CAF is a state-of-the-art instrument facility that provides NMR spectroscopy, mass spectrometry, X-
Ray diffraction and scattering, vibrational spectroscopy, thermal analysis, electron microscopy, X-
ray microanalysis, spectroscopic imaging (Infra-red, Raman), visible light microscopy and scanning
probe microscopy (AFM). Within the Unit, the facility is used to analyse of diverse subjects including

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
environmental pollutants, food contaminants, food structure, phytochemical/metabolite
identification/quantification, and design of complex polymers for the horticultural industry.
Facilities in CINN include a 3-Tesla Siemens Trio research-dedicated functional magnetic resonance
imaging (MRI) scanner; two high-density electroencephalography (EEG) systems, a high-resolution
MRI-compatible audio-visual stimulus display systems, with integrated high-speed eye tracking; a
MRI- and EEG-compatible transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) system and MRI-compatible
bioelectric physiological recording system.
In addition to these two specialist facilities, the following are also available to us:
    •   Relevant Library and Collections resources in the Museum of English Rural Life.
    •   The University’s new (2020/21) Health and Life Sciences building provides new laboratories
        and experimental facilities.
    •   The University’s Thames Valley Science Park is the base for >80 start-up and established
        companies, many of whom collaborate with our researchers e.g. Clasado, Dextra
        Laboratories, Herbalife.
    •   We have collaborative agreements with the Diamond Light Source (DLS; FoodBioSystems
        affiliate partner) and the national synchrotron science facility, which have been used by
        Unit researchers to characterise macromolecules with biological significance.

3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
3.3.1 Professional Resources
Our IES outlines our professional structures. The Unit works very closely with:
    •   The Knowledge Transfer Centre (KTC) supported the development of 110 industry-
        partnered projects in the Unit during the REF period.
    •   Research and Enterprise Services (RES) provides guidance and advice from concept to
        contract, with support tailored to each individual’s research specialisms and career stage
        (see section 2.4). Within RES, the Impact Team gives full-lifecycle support for research
        impact within and beyond the REF.
    •   Administrative support for research is provided by 11 School-based staff who assist
        academics and researchers with ordering, conference and travel booking, ethics
        applications, financial management of grants and event/meeting support.
3.3.2 Technical Specialists
We have a large team of highly-skilled technical and laboratory staff who provide vital expertise for
our research. Many are specialists in particular areas or methods e.g. operating and managing gut
models work, sensory, food or clinical trials, food processing, large animal calorimeter experiments,
animal feeding trials and controlled environment crop experiments.

3.4. Significant funds to support strategically important research and impact
3.4.1 Internal Funding Support
We have access to multiple internal funds to support research and infrastructure development within
the Unit including:
    •   The University Strategic Fund: supported five academic posts over the period.



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   UoR’s Research Endowment Trust Fund (RETF; ~£1.2million p.a. available to internal
       projects).
   •   A targeted Research Infrastructure Fund (RIF). University allocations from RIF supported
       large-scale strategic investments such as the £385K “Plant Resource Use Phenotyping
       Platform" at Sonning and £100K for tribology, rheology and computerized jaw tracking
       equipment.
   •   The Unit has been a priority area for internally awarded GCRF funding with £473K
       awarded during 2018-2020. We have also received >£250K of University-allocated HEIF
       funding.
3.4.2 National Institute of Research in Dairying Trust (NIRD Trust)
We also have unique access to funding from the NIRD Trust which is targeted to support research
in agriculture and food at the University (~£100M reserves in 2020). Over this REF cycle, this has
funded £1.5M of projects, including large-scale calorimeter chambers for metabolic research in dairy
science.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Working in partnership; developing impact from consortia research
We continue to develop and grow partnerships, having recently signed up to the Global Plant Based
Food Ecosystem, and became the first UK partner in the global Menus of Change University
Research Collaborative. We have formed a strong partnership with the CGIAR institute ICRISAT,
leading to reciprocal staff mobility. Examples of established partnerships during this REF cycle are:
   •   We were one of five partners who led the European Institute of Innovation & Technology EIT
       Food bid, with the North West Co-Location Centre based in Reading. This is a 7-year
       €420M EU-funded food system consortium with 60+ core partners comprising research
       institutions and food companies across 13 countries in Europe and beyond. Major companies
       (e.g. Nestle, PepsiCo, Sodexo, Waitrose, Bosch and Siemens) are partners together
       with many smaller food companies including start-ups. Academic and research partners
       currently include Universities of Cambridge, Queen’s Belfast, Aarhus, Hohenheim, Helsinki,
       Madrid, Turin and Warsaw, Technical University of Munich, and Quadram Institute. Since
       commencing in 2017, Reading has undertaken 88 projects with consortium partners
       developing innovative products and services that directly impact the food industry to improve
       the food supply chain.
   •   We are a founding partner (with Universities of Cambridge, East Anglia, Hertfordshire
       and Lincoln) in the Ceres Agri-Tech Knowledge Exchange Partnership, a unique platform
       founded in 2018 through a £4.8M Research England Connecting Capability Fund award
       to identify, incubate, and run commercially viable agri-tech development projects. Funding
       is coupled with >£15M commitments from technology investors and UoR currently has two
       projects running.
   •   We are core members of Agrimetrics, a Centre for Agricultural Innovation funded by
       Innovate UK that includes Rothamsted Research, NIAB and SRUC. The Scientific Director
       (Tiffin) is Professor of Applied Economics within our Unit. The Centre, based at UoR,
       provides expertise in data science, smart analytics, bioinformatics and knowledge exchange
       for the agri-food sector. Agrimetrics has developed commercial innovations such as Field
       Explorer that uses/connects data from a wide range of sources relevant to agrifood.


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Rural Business Research (RBR) is a long-standing consortium (Universities of Reading,
       Cambridge, Newcastle and Nottingham, Askam Bryan College, Duchy College). RBR
       provides data and information to farmers, policy makers and others. It undertakes the Defra-
       funded annual Farm Business Survey and works closely with government in relation to the
       provision of farm business, performance, environmental data and statistics to inform policy
       at national and EU levels, providing valuable benchmarking data for farm businesses. The
       team at UoR (lead: Bennett) has responsibility for RBR operations management, playing a
       key role in a range of research projects examining land use, rural economy and the farming
       industry.
   •   We are consortium members of EU-funded SmartCow which integrates important European
       cattle research infrastructures. CEDAR is a LEAF (Linking Environment and Farming)
       Innovation Centre and has a role in communicating practices to help deliver more
       sustainable food and farming.
   •   We led the EU-funded Cereal Renaissance in Rural Europe: Embedding diversity in
       organic and low input food systems (CERERE) involving 26 UK/EU partners. Impact
       includes discovering the health benefits derived from eating whole and ancient grains such
       as a significant reduction in the risk of chronic non-communicable diseases.
   •   The Unit led the BBSRC FoodWasteNet Network (2014-2019) and is a key partner in the
       follow-on Biomass Biorefinery Network (2019-2024). The BBSRC-funded Horticultural
       Quality and Food Loss Network (£500k, 2020-24) is jointly led by Reading and Cranfield
       Universities with 19 other universities, research institutes, civil organisations and government
       departments on its Management and Advisory Boards and already >200 members. These
       networks include academia, industry and NGOs, providing a collaborative, multidisciplinary
       approach drawing on our excellent basic science to inform innovative solutions for their
       sector.
   •   Bennett is part of the coordinating group for the BBSRC-funded Animal Welfare Research
       Network, now in its 6th year of activity and with over 800 scientist members. The network
       promotes high quality fundamental and applied animal welfare research with particular
       emphasis on supporting ECRs.
   •   We were a consortium partner in PROHEALTH, (EU-funded, €11.9M, 2013-2018),
       researching sustainable pig and poultry production systems. UoR focused on economics and
       social science, demonstrating how improved animal health/welfare benefits all actors in the
       supply chain.
   •   We are a partner in The UKRI GCRF TRAde Development and Environment (TRADE)
       Hub which aims to make sustainable trade a positive force in the world by tracing its impact
       throughout supply chains on biodiversity from a biophysical, social, political and economic
       point of view.
4.1.1 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
Ten KTPs have been undertaken by the Unit with commercial partners during the period. KTPs and
a number of innovative R&D projects undertaken in collaboration with Ella’s Kitchen have helped
support the company throughout its journey from being a start-up to becoming the leading multi-
million-pound baby food brand. Simon Dale, Ella’s Senior Technical Manager, says “without
University of Reading there’s no way we could have done it.”




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.1.2 NHS Trusts
The University has developed a strong strategic relationship with the Royal Berkshire NHS
Foundation Trust, which provides access to facilities, patients and clinical samples for
collaborative projects, particularly in the area of gut health. The partnership is jointly funded (£1.15M
over 3 years) with the Unit benefitting from ~£75K for collaborative projects e.g. effects of dietary
nitrates on heart health. We are an associate partner in Southampton’s Biomedical Research
Centre funded by the National Institute for Health Research. Our role is to supply expertise in
relation to food and nutrition.
4.1.3 Training Partnerships (see also section 2.8.2)
We participate in numerous Doctoral Training Partnerships, including:
   •   The Food Security DTP (2015-2019; £3.4M, BBSRC) included five partners: Reading,
       Surrey, Lancaster, Southampton Universities plus Rothamsted Research.
   •   The    Reading-led       FoodBioSystems DTP       (2019-2024;    £12M,     BBSRC) also
       partners Aberystwyth, Brunel, Cranfield, Queens Belfast and Surrey Universities, plus EIT
       Food Co-Location Centre North West Ltd, British Nutrition Foundation, Science and
       Technology Facilities Council Food Network+ and the Diamond Light Source as Associate
       partners, plus >50 industry, NGOs, learned societies committed to providing CASE
       placement, training and internship opportunities.
   •   We are a lead partner in the Science of the Environment: Natural and Anthropogenic
       Processes, Impacts and Opportunities SCENARIO DTP with the University of Surrey (2014-
       22; 2019-27, £2.7M, NERC).
   •   We are a core partner in the Quantitative & Modelling Skills in Ecology & Evolution QMEE
       CDT with Imperial College (2017-23, £2.8M, NERC)

We led the Food Advanced Training Partnership (2012-2018) and Agrifood Training Partnership
(2019-present), providing postgraduate level taught and research training to food industry
professionals, totalling >£4.1M. Professional development activity has received a further £350k of
funding by EIT Food to lead the development of a pan-European framework. These activities are
enhanced by our leadership of the Interdisciplinary Food Systems Teaching and Learning (IFSTAL)
and European Food Systems Education and Training (EFSET) (see section 2.8.3).
4.1.4 Industry collaborations
The Unit performs translational research in collaboration with our large industrial partner base, which
includes key multinational players in the food system (e.g. Syngenta, John Deere, Arla, PepsiCo,
Mars, Nestle) and numerous UK and international SMEs, leading to new concepts and improved
products and processes. Moreover, we provide contract services to industry through Centres
described in Section 3.2 which have engaged with >100 companies and also offered consultancy
(e.g. Jacobs Douwe Egberts, Mars, Mondelez).
4.1.5 Policy Makers and Regulators
We have a substantial track record of engagement with policy issues such as those outlined in
section 1.3. In this REF cycle we have responded to emerging Brexit scenarios and policy need for
analyses, information and expert opinion, e.g. on co-designing post-Brexit Agricultural Policy and
the role of research in UK Parliament.




                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Key contributions towards a diverse and inclusive society and improved economy
   •   Our research contributes to equality and a diverse and inclusive society in the UK and
       globally. Volunteers from diverse ethnic populations which are reflective of the UK population
       are recruited into our human nutrition studies, allowing translation of research outcomes to
       the wider population.
   •   Over the last three years we have developed close links with the ‘Crime Reduction Initiative’
       and the ‘Salvation Army’, facilitating new research which engages with vulnerable minorities.
       Funding has been secured for a pilot intervention study in homeless and minority groups
       which access food banks in Oxford and London.
   •   The nutrient analysis database is continually updated with foods from multi-cultural
       populations, which ensures our ability to accurately determine dietary intake in all groups.
       Collaborations in Thailand, India, Brazil and Sri Lanka over the past year have allowed
       evaluation of the interaction between genes, nutrition and health in global populations with
       an ambition for inclusivity.
   •   Through a GCRF rapid response project (Wagstaff, Daymond, Hadley) in Dominica we ran
       training schools and provided field guides to support cocoa orchard recovery post Hurricane
       Maria; we also provided cocoa germplasm that shows tolerance to tropical diseases of cocoa
       from the International Cocoa Quarantine Centre.
   •   In 2019, the University signed a research agreement with ICRISAT to work together on how
       crops can provide a healthy and sustainable diet for future generations

4.3 Ensuring the sustainability of the discipline
Our size and reputation within our areas of research means that we have a responsibility to act as
good academic citizens, contributing to the ongoing sustainability of our disciplines including:
   •   Lovegrove has been a member and Deputy Chair of the UK Scientific Advisory Committee
       on Nutrition (SACN) advising government and Public Health England on dietary policy;
       member of the International Life Sciences Institute’s working groups (on Nutrition and
       Cognitive Function; Saturated Fatty Acids and Health (Chair); Diet and Metabolic Syndrome)
       together with Spencer; and an expert advising the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA)
       with Kuhnle.
   •   Kuhnle is a member of the UK Food Standards Agency Committee on Toxicity. Tiffin,
       Balcombe and Macready also have advisory roles with the Food Standards Agency.
   •   Wagstaff is on UKRI working groups for Agriculture Food and Health and Covid-19 and
       Global Food Systems.
   •   Srinivasan advises the Secretariat of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources
       for Food and Agriculture.
   •   Gibson is a Member of Governance Body, Microbiome Otago, New Zealand; Science
       Adviser, Tianyi Health Sciences Institute, Zhenjiang, China and Visiting Professor, Imperial
       College, Institute for Global Health Innovation, London.
   •   Bennett has provided advice to the UK government (both Houses) and other organisations
       (such as the British Veterinary Association) on economic aspects of farm animal health,
       welfare and trade, including the implications of Brexit and post-Brexit policy. He has been a
       Trustee and Member of Council of the foremost animal welfare science charity, the
       Universities Federation for Animal Welfare, and of the Humane Slaughter Association. He
       was a member of the Sustainable and Responsible Investment Committee of the Insight


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Global Farmland Fund (New York Bank of Mellon) advising on sustainable use of farmland
       and animal welfare.
   •   Rose provided evidence on the Environmental Land Management scheme to the
       Environmental Audit Select Committee. He provided information and evidence to the National
       Food Strategy Team on ways to support the adoption of agricultural innovations by farmers.
   •   Robinson was a board member of the Lancet Countdown and advised the WHO and
       Wellcome Trust.
   •   Reynolds serves on advisory boards and committees for Defra, British Society of Animal
       Sciences and as a member of the BBC Rural Affairs Advisory Committee.
   •   Ellis is a Director of the Board of the World Vegetable Center, Chair of the Advisory Board
       of the UK Vegetable Gene Bank, and a Trustee of the National Fruit Collection Trust.
   •   Potts has served on the UN Intergovernmental science-policy Platform on Biodiversity and
       Ecosystem Services (IPBES): Co-Chair; European Commission’s European Pollinator
       Monitoring Scheme Expert Group (2018-2020; Chair); Co-Chair of the IUCN Wild Bee
       Specialist Group of the Species Survival Commission (2020-) and member of the Horizon
       2020 Societal Challenge 2 Advisory Group; Defra’s Pollinator Expert Advisory Group (2013-
       2016); Pollinator Advisory Steering Group (2016-); Sustainable Intensification Platform
       Research Advisory Group (2015-2018); Member of the National Centre for Universities and
       Business Food Economy Task Force (2013-2015); Advisor to EFSA, European Parliament,
       DG Agriculture, DG Environment, FAO, CBD, UK Parliamentary Office of Science and
       Technology (with Tibbett); Waitrose Agronomy Group (with Wagstaff), Innocent Drinks and
       Co-op Biodiversity Strategy.

4.4 Influence of our staff
4.4.1 Awards:
   •   Keshavan Niranjan – Distinguished Service Award by the International Association for
       Engineering and Food (2019); Fellowship of the International Academy of Food Science
       and Technology (2020)
   •   Ian Givens – BBSRC Innovator of the Year (2015)
   •   Vimal Karani – Nutrition Society Silver Medal (2020)

4.4.2 Membership in Research Council Committees, assessment panels and working
groups including:
   •   Programme Advisory Group for the GFS Food Systems Strategic Priority Fund (Williams)
   •   BBSRC DRINC Steering Group (Yaqoob), BBSRC Strategy Panel (Spencer), BBSRC
       Follow-on Funding Committee (Charalampopoulos), BBSRC DTP Panel (Yaqoob), BBSRC
       Committee B (Shaw Deputy Chair, 2015-2019).
   •   MRC Review Committee; Population and Systems Medicine Board (Lovegrove); Global
       Nutrition Panel (Yaqoob).
   •   Academy of Finland Food Panel (Wagstaff, Chair), Swedish Research Council (Wagstaff)
       and REF2021 UoA6 Panel (Wagstaff).
   •   Industry advisory boards e.g. Quaker Pepsico, Kellogg’s, Apetito, (Gibson, Methven,
       Rastall).

                                                                                         Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Farm Animal Welfare Committee (Bennett) chairing the Ethics, Economics, Education and
       Regulation Committee.
   •   Advisory Committee for Releases to the Environment ACRE (Dunwell, Chair).
   •   Review panel for the Spinoza Prize (Tibbett).
   •   Board of Standards Committee (Australian Academy of Science) 2015-present and sole
       international partner on the Australian Cooperative Research Centre for Transformations in
       Mining Economies (Tibbett).
   •   UKRI, DfID-funded global Zoonoses and Emerging Livestock Systems programme M&E
       group and the UKRI Zoonoses and One Health Advisory Group (Bennett).

4.4.3 Example committee membership of Learned Societies and Associations:
   •   Nutrition Society, UK and Ireland (Lovegrove – President 2019-2023)
   •   British Grassland Society (Reynolds President 2018-19)
   •   SCI Committee Food Group (Oruna-Concha, Parker, Mills)
   •   AfN Accreditation Committee (Lovegrove (Chair 2014-2019), Clegg)
   •   International Scientific Association for Probiotics and Prebiotics (Gibson, Co-Founder and
       Board Member)
   •   Member of Advisory Board of the Agricultural Economics Society (Tranter)
4.4.4 Organisation of conferences:
Staff have led the scientific organisation of numerous national and international conferences (e.g.
the Pangborn Sensory Science, Weurman Flavour Research symposia, Total Food International,
Food Chemistry, Nutrition Society, Gordon Research, Eucarpia Leafy Vegetables and Royal Society
of Chemistry conferences.
4.4.5 Editorships:
Several staff are Editor-in-Chief and Editor in high impact factor journals such as Journal of the
Science of Food and Agriculture (Hadley, Executive Editor), Nutrition and Aging (Spencer, Editor-
in-Chief), Journal of Food Engineering (Niranjan), Food Chemistry (Elmore, Charalampopoulos),
Journal of Molecular Horticulture (Wagstaff), Soil Research (Tibbett, Editor-in-Chief), European
Journal of Nutrition (Kuhnle) and Environmental and Resource Economics (Robinson, Co-Editor),
Journal of Food Composition and Analysis (Elmore, Editor-in-Chief).
4.4.6 Public Engagement
Every year, Unit staff participate in numerous international conferences, give public lectures,
contribute to broadcast media, and are involved in strategic events that raise our research profile
(e.g. Food Matters Live, Royal County of Berkshire Show).
   •   In 2014, we led gut microbiology demonstrations at Universities Week (Natural History
       Museum, London) and BBSRC’s Great British Bioscience Festival. The latter resulted in the
       ‘Colon Café’ exhibit, now housed at Winchester Science Museum. From 2015-2016, the
       Reading gut model was present in the Science Museum, London as part of an exhibition on
       cravings, reaching >6m visitors, then moving to the Manchester Science and Industry
       Museum.



                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   A regular exhibition at Kew Gardens, highlighting the importance of pollinators to the food we
       eat, reaches more than 2,000 visitors each year.
   •   Exhibits at the Royal Society Summer Science Exhibition and the Soil Security Programme
       (SSP) highlighted our soils research, reaching 14,000 visitors, including 2,500 school
       children.
   •   Our research has been highlighted by BBC and independent radio and television stations in
       the UK and elsewhere, and many times in the printed press. Examples include Jimmy’s Farm
       (BBC/C4), Secrets of your Supermarket Food (Channel 5), Horizon (BBC) and the Royal
       Institution Christmas Lectures.
   •   Researchers are involved in public engagement communication and education projects,
       including ‘Games of Foods’, ‘Don’t be a Food Waster’, ‘Food TrustTracker’ and
       ‘WeValueFood’; all funded by EIT Food. UoR is a founder member of FutureLearn and the
       Unit has launched six Online Open Courses (MOOCs) which have engaged over 42000
       participants.
   •   We host regular Open Farm events for local families with activities and displays drawn from
       our research.




                                                                                            Page 26
