Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-23 Education


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Overview

The unit comprises the School of Education in the Faculty of Social Sciences at the University of
Sheffield. Our mission is to conduct excellent educational research with subsequent impact on
theory, practice, society and individuals’ lives. Our aim is to be a leader of interdisciplinary
research, working across boundaries within and beyond the University. This ambition is
contextualised through a research strategy that provides focus within this breadth. Conceptualising
education broadly, within and beyond formal settings, and drawing on our expertise will allow us
collectively to address educational and societal grand challenges.

The School consists of 27.7 FTE staff, seven of whom are professors, one reader, six senior
lecturers (SL), one senior research fellow (SRF), one Vice-Chancellor’s Research Fellow (VCRF)
and 13 lecturers or early career researchers (ECRs).

Our research is organised into four research clusters, and building on our existing expertise in
early childhood, literacies, critical disability studies and education policy, we also have new areas
of excellence in developmental, and community psychology, mental health, and multilingualism.
The clusters provide interdisciplinary, inter-institutional and inter-agency synergies, enable agile
responses to a changing external research environment, and provide support for researchers at all
career stages. We have also benefited from the Faculty’s investment in the research institute
iHuman, which has supported the development of interdisciplinary research.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
This research infrastructure has been accompanied by targeted strategic investment in people (see
section 2), which has realised our REF2014 objectives. This includes eight ECRs (all of whom are
women) recruited since 2014, representing over 28% of staff in this submission, and creating a
pipeline of outstanding future talent within a collegial research environment.

Our investment in infrastructure and people has enabled further success, as evidenced in
increased grant income, high-quality outputs, and involvement in collaborative and community
projects to broaden public engagement, reach and impact. Our research income is £2.9m, with
£1.6m from UKRI, which represents a 140% increase since REF2014. We have written >170
publications in leading international journals, e.g.: British Educational Research Journal; British
Journal of Sociology of Education; Developmental Psychology, 20% of which are co-authored with
international collaborators. The reach and impact of our research is evidenced by our submitted
case studies and by broader impacts from work across the School, with examples including the
creation of a multilingual library in Sheffield; improving language learning and education apps for
business; and improving the training of and access to job coaches for people with learning
disabilities in Malaysia.

We aim to build on our investment in staff to further strengthen our research priorities. This
strategy aligns with major University £10m investment in four new flagship research institutes,
providing an excellent foundation for continued future success.

1.2 Research outcomes

Each cluster comprises members across academic career stages, from professors to ECRs,
enabling creative interaction, excellent mutual support and mentoring. Shared dissemination and
training activities (including PGR students) promote best practice in research, grant writing,
doctoral training and public engagement and impact, as well as inspiring joint research projects.
Many colleagues work in interdisciplinary collaborations across these formal groupings, thereby
generating theoretical and methodological innovations.

   •   Critical Psychology and Education Research Cluster: ten core academics with a focus
       on ‘education’ broadly, from informal and community-based settings and grassroots
       programmes to traditional institutions and formal curricula. The cluster is distinctive in its
       critical approach to studying education, psychology, educational psychology, disability, and
       mental health. Exemplars of research excellence and impact include key findings on the
       impact of austerity on the lives of disabled people which have impacted policy and practice
       in the UK and Malaysia (Goodley, Prof); innovative arts-informed, online and co-produced
       research with disabled young people with life-limiting/life threatening impairments which
       has informed research and policy strategy of two charities, Canine Partners and Scope
       (Profs Goodley, Runswick-Cole and Liddiard, SRF); Billington’s (Prof) Healthy Minds
       research has influenced mental health practice in Sheffield Children’s NHS Trust.

   •   Early Childhood Education Cluster: with six core members, this cluster incorporates
       research that intersects a range of disciplines, methodologies, and theoretical frameworks,
       and includes children, parents, families, carers, teachers, and the wide range of
       professionals who work with them. In addition to Nutbrown’s (Prof) impact case study on
       early literacy work with families affected by imprisonment, exemplars of research
       excellence include: Chesworth’s (L) work, funded by the Froebel Trust, has informed CPD
       for early years practitioners in multilingual contexts; Pearson's (SL) work on training
       needs of early childhood development (ECD) workforce in low- and middle-income
       countries (LMIC) has informed the UK Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office's

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       (FCDO) country guidelines on supporting ECD cadres; Wood’s (Prof) research on play has
       influenced early childhood education policy in Jersey and Ireland.

   •   Higher Education Research Cluster: five core members who undertake conceptual,
       empirical, policy and interdisciplinary research, nationally and internationally. Research
       excellence is demonstrated by firstly, the success of the cluster in attracting ESRC funding
       (e.g ESRC Centre for Global Higher Education on cross-national college and private
       sectors (G Parry (Prof) 2015-17) and Brexit and higher education (Papatsiba (SL) 2017-19),
       and collaborating in internationally funded research (e.g. Finnish Academy, European
       Science Foundation, EU Marie Curie fellowships), and secondly, in external recognition
       e.g., Ellis (VCRF) was awarded the Kevin Brehony Prize for best first single-authored book
       in History of Education, 2014; Allen’s (L) book Benign Violence was Shortlisted for the 2015
       British Sociological Association Philip Abrams Memorial Prize.

   •   Literacies Cluster: with seven core members, this cluster conceptualises literacy practices
       as multimodal and socially situated, as reflected by interdisciplinary research, including
       material cultural studies, cultural geography, sociology, and the humanities to conceptualise
       multimodal and multilingual literacy practices in home, community, and education contexts.
       Research excellence is demonstrated by two impact case studies based on research by
       Marsh (Prof); Little’s (L) work has increased the focus on multilingualism in literacy
       development by the National Literacies Trust. Bradley’s (L) linguistic landscape-based
       research in participatory contexts has impacted on practice in community arts, museums
       and education. Warmington’s (SL) work has impacted on the development of language
       learning apps.

1.3 Impact strategy

Building on REF2014 when our impact was very highly rated, we have progressed three strategic
aims:

   •   To enable transformative ambitious research that generates new knowledge as the basis of
       impact on education theory, policy and practice inter/nationally.

   •   To develop different types of impact (policy; practice; knowledge transfer) at varying scales
       (local, regional, national and international) and with a wide range of communities.

   •   To create a pipeline of impact activities at every stage of project development.

We benefit from the expertise of our Faculty Impact Associate, who has provided bespoke
disciplinary support to the design, delivery and monitoring of impact activity, complemented by
three impact interns (students on 100 hours work placements). We have also secured Impact
Accelerator Account (IAA), and HEIF funding of £650k over this assessment period. For example,
the Impact Associate worked with Goodley and Runswick-Cole to host a policy roundtable which
resulted in their collaboration with Youth Employment UK, and led them to developing guidance for
700 employers and for disabled young people; with Marsh (Prof), Buxton (RA) and R. Parry (L)
to access public engagement funding to deliver Makerspaces in local museums and at the
Playground Exhibition, which ran alongside the international Children's Media Conference, in 2019.
We have provided training and disseminated good practice in projects across our four clusters,
thereby extending engagement with research partners, policymakers, and the wider public.

Our three impact case studies, all based on excellent funded research, reflect how we have
achieved our three strategic aims with the support of the infrastructure we have put in place. They

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
also demonstrate different types of impact with a range of communities, across local, national and
global scales. Nutbrown (Prof) has built on the success of her earlier 4* case study by extending
the Raising Early Literacy Achievement (REAL) approaches with families in the UK, particularly
in disadvantaged communities, and to imprisoned parents, in collaboration with the Prison Advice
and Care Trust, The National Children’s Bureau and the parent learning charity Peeple. Impact on
education, home and community contexts is further exemplified by Marsh (Prof) whose research
on improving policy, provision, and practice for children’s digital play has transformed
understanding of young children’s playful use of technologies. These projects have developed new
conceptualisations of literacies and multimodal practices in the digital age, in collaboration with
BBC/Cbeebies and YouTube. Marsh’s ‘Transforming children’s digital literacy practices in
formal and non-formal learning spaces’ has identified the nature of children’s early literacy
development in the digital age in homes, early years settings and schools, with impact on
curriculum policies and guidance, and pedagogical approaches. Her interdisciplinary projects on
Maker education, in collaboration with Parry (L), Scott (L), Kay (L), Chesworth, (L) and Buxton
(RA), promote STEAM education for young children through changes in teachers’ knowledge and
practices. These projects have been conducted at local, national, and international levels,
significantly impacting on global education programmes delivered by LEGO, and international
education policy.

The international reach and significance of this work is demonstrated by Marsh’s (Prof)
appointment as Chair and Grant-holder of an EU COST (Cooperation with Science and
Technology) Action, The Digital Literacy and Multimodal Practices of Young Children (DigiLitEY), a
network of researchers from 36 European countries with Australia and Brazil (2014-19).

We recognise that meaningful impact occurs within and beyond any single REF period, and
sustained support has resulted in emerging research impact in several new areas. Building on our
conceptualisation of education within and beyond formal settings, our future seven-year strategy
will develop the impact of collaborative research on multilingualism, literacies and technologies,
mental health and well-being, family health and education practices, early childhood education,
and improving the lives of disabled people.

1.4 Interdisciplinary research

Our clusters focus on individual and collective research strengths, and enable educational
researchers to work across disciplinary boundaries, connected by a shared commitment to
equality, diversity, and social justice. Our research is interdisciplinary, inter-institutional and inter-
agency and draws on the foundational disciplines of educational studies; psychology; sociology;
philosophy; history and the arts. During this assessment period, we have concentrated on the
development of working groups/research projects in early childhood education; disability;
arts/multi-modality; multilingualism; superdiversity; mental health and wellbeing; global higher
education; literacies and digital society. Research is informed by innovative theoretical orientations
and methodologies with children, young people, families, and other allies in their communities
locally, regionally, and internationally.

We have invested significantly in the interdisciplinary iHuman Research Institute (co-directed by
Goodley) creating a vehicle to bring together staff researching disability, digital literacies, and
mental health. Three members of the School are members of the iHuman executive committee and
a further ten are core members. A third of staff align themselves with iHuman or another of the
Faculty interdisciplinary research institutes such as the Sheffield Institute of International
Development (SIID), which is helpful for facilitating the global reach of our research. Engagement
with research institutes has led to recent grant capture, with four interdisciplinary projects


                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
beginning in 2020-21: Bradley’s (L) ‘XR StoryBox: Multimedia Storytelling’ (AHRC); Buxton’s
(RA) ‘MakerMove’ (Royal Academy of Engineering); R. Parry’s (L) ‘Storyland’ (AHRC) and
Olusoga’s (L) ‘Play in the Pandemic’ (ESRC).

1.5 Research integrity and open research

We are committed to supporting a culture that respects the importance of the ethical dimension of
educational research and in which all colleagues and PGRs have an appropriate awareness of
their obligations under relevant legal and professional frameworks. All research projects led by the
School are subject to rigorous peer review by our dedicated Research Ethics Committee, chaired
by a senior academic Weighall (R), who is also a member of our Executive and sits on the
University Research Governance Sub-Committee. Members undergo University ethics reviewer
training and regularly share experiences and discuss emerging issues, such that members develop
and deepen their knowledge and experience of conducting ethics reviews. Working with children,
young people and marginalised adults raises specific and challenging ethical issues for our
researchers so our Ethics Committee works in close collaboration with the University Research
Ethics Committee (UREC), ensuring that all research carried out by staff and students meets the
highest standards. Staff and students also meet the requirements of their professional bodies
(The British Psychological Society; The British Educational Research Association).

The University facilitates research integrity, providing resources on authorship issues and conflicts
of interest as well as an open procedure for whistleblowing (see REF5a). All our PGRs undertake a
compulsory research ethics and integrity module, per University policy, and produce a data
management plan as part of the confirmation review process (see also REF5a). Maintaining strong
integrity underpins our aims to conduct impactful research that will stand the test of replicability.

Feedback on our good practice from UREC’s recent 2019 review commended the following:

   •   Allocating time to staff for ethics reviewing in our workload allocation.

   •   Cultivating experts who advise colleagues on developing age and situation-appropriate
       information sheets and consent forms, specifically the re-wording of the GDPR in
       accessible language, and alternative, ways of gaining consent where written consent is
       inappropriate.

   •   Comprehensive online resources including ethics case studies and video vignettes.

Our distinctive approaches to co-production have enabled colleagues to develop a range of
innovative methodologies which ensure non-academic collaborators inform ongoing assessment of
ethical values and processes in our research (e.g. Hart’s (L) work with the Jamie Oliver
Foundation; Liddiard’s (SRF) work with Canine Partners; Rosowsky’s (SL) work with faith
communities in Sheffield).

To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 301 outputs
deposited over this assessment period were downloaded over 56,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, supported by a Faculty fund, or hybrid where required for funder
compliance. Altmetrics demonstrate the inter/national reach of publications and their impact: for
example, William’s (SUT) work has informed UK government policy on managing SARS-COV-2
transmission.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.7 Future research strategy

Our future research strategy includes recruiting and retaining motivated and ambitious colleagues;
mentoring and support; developing existing and new areas of research, and sustaining reach,
engagement and impact. Its effectiveness will be evidenced by increasing the quantity and value of
successful grant applications; high-quality research outputs in leading international journals; further
diversification of income streams and research collaborations, and sustained impact in a wide
range of contexts and communities at national and international levels.

   •   Our recruitment strategy will be driven by the principles of equality, diversity, and
       inclusion (EDI) as we replace three professors due to retire, and support research
       innovation and leadership at all career levels. We will make effective use of our career
       development structures, annual review and the new Academic Career Pathways (see
       REF5a), informed by Athena SWAN principles, to further increase diversity amongst staff.
       We will maintain our distributed leadership model to provide research leadership
       opportunities at School, Faculty and University levels, and with external organisations.

   •   We will enhance mentoring and support for research through a process of review and
       monitoring and through the equitable application of probation and mentoring processes,
       appraisal objectives, and research review meetings with the Research Director and REF
       Director, to drive up the quality of publications and innovative externally funded research.
       Staff will be supported to achieve research excellence in a collegial and inclusive culture.

   •   We will develop existing strengths (critical disability studies; literacies; early childhood
       education policy and practice) and emerging areas of strength (developmental and
       community psychology, mental health, family health practices and multilingualism). We will
       review the research cluster organisation to support these emerging areas of research
       excellence.

   •   We will enable staff to achieve reach, engagement, and impact of their research, locally,
       nationally, and internationally, through external and internal funding schemes, collaborative
       projects, and develop further productive research partnerships in a range of contexts and
       communities.

   •   We will promote EDI in the PGR community through targeted recruitment and by ensuring
       that PGRs are fully embedded in the research culture of the School through membership of
       the research clusters and Faculty research institutes.

Taken together, our future strategies will support the development of innovative theoretical and
methodological approaches in education, psychology and interdisciplinary collaborations that
address globalisation, and educational and technological change supported through University
flagship institutes (Neuroscience; Healthy Lifespan) and with Faculty research institutes (iHuman;
SIID; Sheffield Robotics).


 2. People


2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

We pride ourselves on our collegial community, a collaborative work ethic, and a supportive
environment where research ambitions can be realised.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our strategic aim has been to recruit, retain, develop and reward research staff who will further
enhance the diversity of research. We have provided the facilities, resources and mentoring
necessary to sustain research excellence and to invest in future growth and sustainability of the
School through succession planning supported by our distributed leadership model. We have
improved representation of staff with protected characteristics through appointing four minority
ethnic staff; one disabled member of staff and 15 women (two professors; one reader; two SLs;
one SRF; 10 lecturers) over the assessment period.

   •   Expertise in literacies has been extended by the appointments of R. Parry, who is a leader
       in the emerging field of children’s film scholarship; Scott, who was awarded the UK Literacy
       Association Research prize for her PhD in 2020, and engages with sociomaterial theories
       to understand young children’s intra-actions with digital devices and texts, in collaboration
       with CBeebies, Twinkl, the publishers, and the Lego Foundation; and Bradley, who leads a
       research project, ‘Multilingual Streets: Translating and Curating Linguistic Landscapes‘
       (AHRC, 2019-2021) which explores engagement with language diversity in public spaces.

   •   The Early Childhood Education cluster has been strengthened by the appointment of
       Pearson (SL) whose work on the globalisation of early childhood policy and practice is
       carried out with international development partners; Kay (L) whose research theorises the
       impact of curriculum and assessment policy frameworks on teachers and children, and
       leadership in England and Australia; Olusoga (L), a historian whose research focuses on
       play and the discursive construction of children and childhood. Chesworth’s (L) work on
       play and pedagogy is informing the sector-led 2021 ‘Birth to Five Matters’ policy guidance
       in England.

   •   Expertise in the Critical Psychology and Education cluster has been extended by the
       appointments of Powell (L) who uses innovative co-design methodologies in complex
       interventions for children and young people with neurodisabilities; Easton (L), an applied
       social psychologist, who researches the use of technology for mental health; Warmington
       (SL) whose research examines the intersection between cognition (i.e. attention, working
       memory and cognitive flexibility), language and literacy in multi/monolingual individuals
       across the lifespan; and Weighall (Reader), a cognitive developmental psychologist,
       researching the relationships between sleep, memory and learning, spoken language
       development and vocabulary acquisition in children and adults. Lawthom (Prof and Head
       of School) is known internationally for her research leadership in critical and community
       psychology.

   •   The appointments of Liddiard (SRF), a sociologist known internationally for her work on
       intimacy and disability and co-produced research, and Runswick-Cole (Prof), a critical
       psychologist and leading scholar in disabled children’s childhood studies and critical autism
       studies, have strengthened existing expertise in critical disability studies.

   •   Doharty’s (L) appointment brings expertise in the sociology of education, Black history,
       critical race theories, and critical/anti-racist pedagogies to the cluster.

   •   Ellis’s appointment as Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow brings expertise in the history of higher
       education to the Higher Education research cluster.

We have encouraged career progression at other institutions and we celebrate the successes of
Mills (L), who took up the post of senior lecturer; Levy (L) who became associate professor; and
Kontopodis (SL) who was promoted to professor.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Succession planning is addressed by the development of future leaders from within the School
through mentoring, professional development, and a distributed leadership model; and attracting
and appointing exceptional researchers.

2.2 Staff support and development

We systematically implement four approaches to research support and capacity building:

Probation: Probationers/early career appointments are supported by an advisor during the three-
year probationary period to meet ambitious targets for grant capture and publications, and to
identify training needs. Probationers also engage with our one-to-one mentoring support,
Faculty/University research centres and institutes, and Faculty training events on funding
applications, impact, and public engagement. They are mentored within funded projects with
external research partners, and supported to attend UK and international conferences and
seminars. There is a reduced teaching allocation for probationers and all staff preparing new
lectures are supported with double preparation time.

Mentoring: All staff are mentored by colleagues, as appropriate to career stage and research
strengths, and access informal mentoring through research clusters, projects and collaborations.
The Director of Mentoring (Pearson) is responsible for assuring the quality of the mentor/mentee
relationships. Our staff have also participated in the Faculty Future Leaders in HE programme, with
the aim of developing capacity in research leadership through increasing knowledge and networks
in HE.

Study leave: The Workload Allocation Model (WAM) ensures that staff have a balanced workload,
and can be flexed to allow additional time for research and impact activities. Study leave enables
colleagues to have intensive periods of time (in addition to the standard 40% research allocation)
to undertake research and impact-related activities. Staff can apply for a full semester leave or for
shorter periods of one to two months. Applications are considered by the School Executive, and
include a study plan and report on the outcomes to the Head of School. Study leave has been
granted to seven staff during the assessment period. Indicative outcomes include: R. Parry (L)
submitted two journal articles; and Winter (SL) undertook a study trip to Australia and
subsequently submitted a successful British Academy small grant. In addition, staff returning from
parental leave are supported by access to return-to-work research stimulation funds and the
University’s Women Academics Returning to Work programme. Staff are also rewarded through
the exceptional contribution scheme and are supported for promotion through ACP.

Resources: Staff are supported by access to resources:

   a) Research clusters and interdisciplinary research institutes provide further support for
      ECRs and PGRs, enabling them to be full members of the academic research community
      through in/formal meetings, research seminars, conferences and writing retreats. ECRs
      engage in activities organised by both Faculty and University research centres where they
      can develop interdisciplinary collaborations. The Research and Scholarship Committee
      includes an ECR member on a rota basis, in order to remain transparent, inclusive, and to
      build research leadership. These strategies ensure that ECRs have opportunities to
      develop external links, research outputs and build pathways to impact. We design research
      support for all staff. For example, this year’s research development programme was co-
      designed with iHuman and was inclusive of staff at all career stages.

   b) Bespoke support for impact is available to facilitate exchanges between academia and
      business, industry or public or third sector bodies and charities locally, nationally and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       internationally. Our strategy involves ensuring that staff are positively encouraged and
       supported to undertake impact activity in the following ways:

       •   impact is conceptualised as an integral part of allocated research time;

       •   impact objectives are discussed as part of research planning and annual appraisal;

       •   impact generation activity is reinforced by embedding the principles of ACP in review
           and mentoring processes.

       We benefit from the bespoke support of our Faculty Impact Associate to maximise research
       impact; for example, supporting R.Parry secure an IAA-funded secondment with the
       National Videogame Museum leading to the development of materials which won the
       Galleries and Museums Award for innovative use of digital technology in education
       materials.

   c) Funding, which comes from project grants, IAA, and HEIF, enables research clusters to
      support public engagement and impact activities. Examples include Billington’s (Prof)
      sessions on improving children and young people’s mental health in schools delivered to
      key stakeholders from across the Sheffield city region (June 2019). Subsequently, cluster
      members (Billington, Prof & Cameron, L) developed two research projects (with
      educational psychologists and teachers in the Yorkshire and Humber region) and the
      results will inform strategic planning in the future training of educational psychologists in
      children and young people’s emotional wellbeing and mental health.

Membership of research clusters has facilitated exchange between academia and business by
raising the profile of researchers through their collaborative networks. For example, this has led to
Warmington’s (SL) work with Babbel, the language training software developer, and Marsh (Prof)
and Scott (L) have worked with Twinkl, provider of teacher assessment and planning materials, on
app development.

In addition, our research stimulation fund supports staff to develop networks and partnerships,
and they can use their research time to engage with key stakeholders. For example, Powell (L)
developed her co-produced research with young people with ADHD. This funding is complemented
by pump-priming money for bid preparation from iHuman Research Institute, SIID and Global
Challenges Research Fund (GCRF) leading to the submission of grant applications (e.g.
Chesworth, L; Pearson, SL; Webb, SL).

In line with our PGR and staff development strategy, all staff are involved in doctoral supervision,
with a maximum of 6 FTE students. ECRs co-supervise with an experienced member of staff and
are supported, through training, to undertake doctoral confirmation reviews and vivas.

2.3. PGR students

The aim for our graduate school is to prepare our PGRs for a range of careers within and beyond
academia. Our reputation for research excellence attracts international applicants, diverse in age
and experience who contribute to the research community. There have been 308 doctoral
completions during the assessment period (fractional awards show where a student is supervised
with another unit).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Year                    Professional             PhD                      Total
                          Doctorates
  2013-14                 27.0                     6.0                      33.0
  2014-15                 35.5                     12.5                     48.0
  2015-16                 27.0                     9.0                      36.0
  2016-17                 37.0                     13.5                     50.5
  2017-18                 42.0                     13.0                     55.0
  2018-19                 27.0                     14.5                     41.5
  2019-20                 32.0                     12.5                     44.5
  Total                   227.5                    81.0                     308.5

49% of students are part-time and 76% are women. Currently the proportion who identify as
minority ethnic (1%) and disabled (0.5%) is lower than we would like. However, we are addressing
this by enhancing our outreach and marketing to ensure our PGR offer is accessible to all. We are
also aware that there may be more students within these groups who have not identified as such,
therefore we are creating an environment where people feel able to identify more openly.

Studentships

Our strategy has been to ensure that PGR students are supported by a wide range of funders. We
have successfully secured 10 studentships through the ESRC-funded White Rose Doctoral
Training Partnership (WRDTP). Winter (SL) was the deputy director supporting the ‘Education,
Childhood and Youth pathway’ of the DTP until August 2020, this role is now fulfilled by
Chesworth (L). We actively support colleagues to seek studentship funding from other bodies,
which has included the development of ESRC collaborative research awards with partners
including Conflict Resolution Education in Sheffield Schools Training (CRESST), a local charity;
the Development Education Centre South Yorkshire (DECSY); Sheffield City Council, and
CBeebies. We also have studentships from the governments of Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Malta.

Training

Our training and support is designed to ensure that students develop skills to engage in and
beyond academia. This support is quality assured through focused discussions with the Faculty
PGR Director, taking into account PGR feedback through the Postgraduate Research Experience
Survey (PRES). Our PGRs work with their supervisors on an individually tailored training needs
analysis, then participate in the University Doctoral Development Programme (see REF5a) to
develop their skills and prepare for their future careers, including compulsory research ethics
and integrity training and access to the University’s Think Ahead training to support career
trajectory. The Sheffield Methods Institute provides a programme of social science specific
training and development throughout the year, focusing on research design, qualitative and
quantitative methods. Support for academic and thesis writing, and speaking skills is also available
through the University’s English Language Teaching Centre. All PGRs must complete a data
management plan and participate in student-led research seminars to share their work with peers
and staff.

To ensure relevant support and timely progress, PGRs undertake a confirmation review, in the
form of a viva voce with two examiners, typically, 9-12 months into their programme of study; this is
a key mechanism for maintaining quality assurance, intellectual rigour and preparation for the final
viva.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All PGR students have dedicated academic and pastoral support sessions with supervisors. For
EdD students, this is also provided through study school weekends, and DEdCPsy students are
also supported by their fieldwork supervisors. Progress is monitored through attendance and
progress monitoring checkpoints, and contributes to our strong record of in-time submission rates.

The benefits of our inclusive research culture extends to our PGR, PGT and BA cohorts through
research-led teaching and supervision, within a community of experts whose work reflects diverse
theoretical and methodological approaches. PGRs are encouraged to join our research clusters,
and are supported to publish and present their research, including at our annual Research and
Scholarship Day, with the support of established researchers who publish in inter/national contexts,
reflecting a range of themes that have inter/national relevance. PGRs are supported by academic
colleagues to organise and run seminars and symposia e.g. New Directions in Critical Disability
Studies, 2020.

We have a transparent and equitable process to enable PGR students to gain experience as
Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTA), contributing successfully to our BA and MA programmes.
Further bespoke career development is offered via our contribution to the iHuman Career
Development Programme addressing UKRI funding, understanding the ACP, and writing for
publication. This supports career progression and capacity building.

The excellence of the PGR community is evidenced in two ways:

   1. Awards and prizes: Three students (Bulman, Parry, Scott) have won the UK Literacy
      Association Student Research Prize for their PhD theses. Baker was the 2019 winner of the
      British Journal of Sociology of Education’s Annual Best Early Career Article prize for the
      first publication from her thesis.

   2. Career progression: Abdi took up a lectureship at Sheffield Hallam University and now
      works as an independent education consultant; Grech became a lecturer in Mental Health,
      University of Malta and Mater Dei Hospital; AlWadaani is working with the Ministry of
      Education in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to design new national teacher preparation
      education programs to influence policy and practice, and change attitudes towards disability
      and disabled children; King (EdD) works for the National Council for Curriculum and
      Assessment in Ireland on the revision of curricula in Senior Cycle Sciences. R. Parry and
      Scott are both now lecturers in this School.

2.4 Supporting and promoting EDI

Our ambition to sustain an inclusive and open research environment is delivered through our EDI
strategies. EDI is a key priority, and the EDI lead is a member of our Executive. The Faculty Co-
Director of EDI is a member of the School (Williams, Senior University Tutor) and plays a key
role in leading the EDI agenda in the School and across the Faculty. We actively engage with and
contribute to University strategies in relation to race, gender, LGBTQ+ and disability. We are
working towards our Bronze Athena SWAN application.

Our commitment to EDI means that all staff can routinely access flexible and/or remote working.
Some staff members have had extended periods of flexible and remote working. For example, four
staff with caring responsibilities for older adults have been able to work flexibly and remotely; one
member of staff has been supported to work flexibly to care for their adult disabled child, and
several members of staff have had adjusted working patterns following a bereavement and there
has been support for staff with increased pressures during the COVID-19 pandemic.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All staff members, regardless of contract type or FTE, are supported in their career pathways
through the University’s Academic Career Pathway (see REF5a) and through the School’s
support mechanisms as detailed above.

Our Research and Scholarship Committee manages a conference fund that supports staff and
research students to attend inter/national conferences, with applications open throughout the year.
We have recently modified the terms of reference for the conference fund to allow staff/PGRs to
apply for support with caring responsibilities and/or additional support, such as a personal
assistant, for conference attendance.

We endeavour to ensure that research activity is carried out, whenever possible, during Athena
SWAN core hours and that training opportunities are also offered during core hours.

We adhere to University policies on phased and supported return to work following periods of ill
health or leave of absence (staff and PGRs). Long-term illness is managed through reasonable
adjustments, informed by HR policies.

We recognise that we have an anticipatory duty to meet the needs of staff with protected
characteristics. Teaching and seminars are carried out, wherever possible, in accessible
buildings. In the next REF period, we will move into new accommodation and EDI issues are at the
forefront of planning for the transition. We aim to maximise accessibility and inclusivity in the
design to meet and exceed the requirements of the Equality Act (2010). In 2016, we moved
buildings after consulting staff and PGRs about the design, facilities and layout, and responding to
requests. With an anticipated move to a new building in 2022, co-located with other units within the
Faculty, we will continue to work closely with all staff/students to ensure accessibility.

Staff wellbeing is supported through formal and informal mentoring, participation in the research
clusters and day-to-day interactions in an open plan office environment. The Head of School has
‘open-door’ availability whenever possible to facilitate informal interactions. Wellbeing is supported
by flexible working as detailed above. In response to COVID-19 all staff, including those with
leadership roles, are encouraged to prioritise wellbeing in decision-making. Staff can access the
University counselling services and wellbeing resources via Juice Sheffield, which have been
updated to support staff during the COVID-19 pandemic.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income

Our mission to address societal and scientific grand challenges is underpinned by sustained
increases to our external funding. Over this assessment period our research funding strategy has
seen income increase to £2.9m, including £1.6m UKRI funding. This success results from the
strategic creation of a research environment that features and supports excellence across all
academic career stages, and is the result of our strategic support for researcher development,
including mentoring and research infrastructure. We have won 62 grants, with 54% of staff and
across all career stages acting as PI. We also strategically targeted funding from UKRI, the British
Academy and charitable foundations as part of our strategy to develop a broad portfolio of funders,
and to encourage all staff to engage with opportunities relevant to their expertise and career stage
and to sustain a pipeline for continued research excellence.

The ESRC is a priority funder for us and their recent priorities for mental health and innovations in
social and health care are closely aligned with our strategic ambitions and thematic strengths.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Examples of successful ESRC applications include: Goodley (Prof), Liddiard (SRF) and
Runswick-Cole (Prof) ; Marsh (Prof) ; Olusoga (L) ; Papatsiba (SL) . Olusoga, (L), the UKRI
rapid response COVID-19 call. We plan to ensure that ESRC will be a major funding source for our
research agenda in the short and medium term. The AHRC has also been a major source of
funding for the School with successful applications by Pahl (Prof); Wood (Prof) and Bradley (L)
(AHRC OWRI Cross Language Dynamics). A further three projects, two led by R. Parry (L) and
one led by Bradley (L), have also commenced.

In line with our strategic goal to maintain a broad base for research funding, we have attracted
support for our research by prestigious funders other than UKRI, including Wellcome and Nuffield
and the British Academy. The diversity of our research strengths is also reflected in grants
awarded by charitable foundations: Chesworth (L) (Froebel Trust); Liddiard (SRF) (Wellcome);
Little (L) (European Education Research Association); Marsh (Prof) (Lego Foundation); Weighall
(R) (Nuffield Foundation).

Additionally, the global ambition, significance and reach of the research is reflected by our success
in attracting international funding. Marsh (Prof) (European Commission Horizon 2020); Runswick-
Cole (Prof) (Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada); Scott (L) Australian
Research Council; Wood (Prof) (Australian Research Council).

Our staff have received in-kind support from community partners including Sheffield Libraries’
space and staff time to facilitate Little’s (L) ‘Multilingual Libraries’ project. The National Video
Games Museum supported R.Parry’s (L) research through dissemination and free access to their
annual conference. Bradley (L) received support from Whitworth Gallery Manchester who
provided workshop space for the Multilingual Streets project. Marsh (Prof) undertook a project in
collaboration with Autodesk to review computer aided design software (Tinkercad) for use in early
childhood settings. Autodesk contributed 20 hours of staff time to the project.

3.2 Infrastructure and research support

The University and Faculty have made a substantial investment in infrastructure and research
support through the Faculty research institutes and four flagship research institutes (REF5a). We
have also benefited from support for research development provided at Faculty level. Research
support received substantial investment from 2019 via expansion of Faculty Research Services
team (1.8 FTE) to a Faculty Research Hub (2.9 FTE; 3.4 FTE from 2020), Faculty Research
Growth Team (1.8 FTE), and academic and Faculty support for KE, impact and public engagement
was expanded from 1 to 6 FTE. The teams work closely together to provide a co-ordinated service
to staff across the Faculty, specifically to provide complementary knowledge and expertise
covering the external environment, faculty research strengths and non-academic collaboration. The
teams ensure that support is responsive, helpful, scalable, and priority-driven with the focus on
adding value through expertise; provides support where it is most impactful (for example, ECRs,
complex and non-standard applications, and capacity and community development); responsive to
and influential in the academic leads’ steer, for example, by providing supporting data, evidence
and experience; builds and is integrated across the University and beyond to maximize
opportunities.

Research is supported by a psychology technician whose role includes online/crowdsource
research methods; experimental techniques and wearable technologies (e.g. actiwatches;
overnight sleep). There is a designated lab with a high-spec research machine that houses access
to a 14-channel mobile EEG (EMOTIV Epoch+), wearable action watches that can log activity,



                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
single-use sleep electrodes for home deployment and standardised psychometric tests (the British
Picture Vocabulary Scale, the WAIS/WISC, the YARC, TOWRE-2).

Our Kaltura and Echo360 channels host a range of research-related materials including consent,
ethics, data analysis, internet mediated research methodologies and design. Staff and students
have access to specialist software to support research activities, with centrally managed secure
storage. In addition to our own facilities, staff have made use of shared research infrastructure both
in the UK and overseas. For instance, Runswick-Cole has used Re*Storying Autism digital story-
telling facilities at the University of Guelph.

As part of our EDI strategy, there is a commitment to supporting staff on temporary contracts in
acquiring research funding, e.g. Goodley (Prof) supported Liddiard (SRF) to secure research
funding and she is now a permanent member of staff. All staff are supported through mentoring
and with annual one-to-one meetings with the Research Director and REF Director to support
medium to long-term research planning.

The change in office environments, in 2017, and move to open plan working has facilitated cross-
team collaborations. Our city centre location and new facilities have enabled the research
community to capitalise upon our links with local schools and agencies across the city region and
inter/nationally. We have excellent access to research resources in the School of Education
including a comprehensive library of educational assessments and analysis software, and digital
technologies to support research projects.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Research engagement

Collaborative research is a key priority for us. Staff engage and develop relationships with research
users, beneficiaries, and audiences to ensure sustained collaborations, networks, and partnerships
ensuring research impact. We have further developed a vibrant research community and diverse
pathways to engagement, collaboration, and impact during the assessment period.

We share outputs of research through online resources and public-facing events. We engage with
diverse communities and public via a range of events, for example:

   •   Seminar series convened by the research clusters. Examples include: Young people and
       mental health: A psychosocial model for education, (June 2019) included practitioners and
       researchers from across the University, Sheffield City Council and Sheffield NHS Children’s
       Trust. ECE Research Cluster/iHuman Research Seminar (January 2019).

   •   A social media strategy which includes an active blog “Education Matters” where public
       engagement and impact activities are shared; and a regularly updated Twitter feed which
       promotes our work and supports strategic alliances with partners.

   •   Public engagement and impact events. e.g. Pint of Science, ESRC Festival of Social
       Science (FSS); Festival of the Mind. Examples include Chesworth (L): ESRC Festival of
       Social Science 2017; 2018; Liddiard (SRF): ESRC FSS, 2017, 2018, 2019; Little (L):
       ESRC Festival of Social Science, 2018; Pint of Science, 2019; Goodley (Prof), 2015,
       2016; Marsh (Prof) ESRC FSS: 2017, 2018 and 2019; Rosowsky (SL): Festival of the
       Mind 2018); Webb (SL): Festival of the Mind, 2018. [Total funding = £35,667]



                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Keynotes and research masterclasses for local authorities and national organisations
       e.g, Early Education; National Children’s Bureau; Nursery World; Eureka! Children’s
       Museum; Young Dementia UK Research Network; Royal Society for Medicine.

Our strategy has been to accumulate expertise in the research clusters through the appointment of
ambitious staff, and by deepening existing and creating new research partnerships. These
partnerships have impacted upon policy and practices in industry; education; local, national and
international policymakers; and the third sector and wider communities:

   •   Industrial impacts: Hart’s (L) research informed the work of The Jamie Oliver
       Foundation’s healthy school’s initiative; Warmington’s (SL) work with Babbel, a language
       learning app company based in Berlin, has enhanced the efficacy of their app development
       and engagement of stakeholders. Marsh (Prof), R. Parry, (L) and Scott (L) have
       collaborated with the Lego Foundation.

   •   Educational impacts: Doharty (L) collaborated with the educational publisher Hodder &
       Stoughton to revise their AQA-approved sociology curriculum drawing on research-
       informed evidence related to diversity and inclusion; Papatsiba (SL) is a member of the
       ESRC/OfS Centre for Global Higher Education and its Research Management Steering
       Group;. Nutbrown (Prof) has been consulted by the Social Mobility Commission, Early
       Years Commission and DfE on early education workforce qualifications.

   •   Policy impacts: G. Parry (Prof) was appointed to the Department for Education Expert
       Reference Group for the Review of Education at Level 4 and Level 5 in England. Expert
       and confidential briefings by G. Parry to government departments on higher technical
       education and G. Parry’s work was cited in the Augur panel review report on post-18
       education and funding (2019) and reports by the Department for Education on its review
       and consultation about Level 4/5 education. Runswick- Cole and Goodley’s (Profs)
       collaborative research with the Institute of Public Policy Research North have been used by
       MPs and journalists. In April 2019 Liberal Democrat MP, Tim Farron, tabled an Early Day
       Motion citing the report and in July 2019 Laura Smith (MP Crewe and Nantwich) cited the
       report during a debate on the DfE budget. In 2016 Wood (Prof) was commissioned by the
       States of Jersey Education and Home Affairs department to lead a scrutiny panel on the
       age of starting school. A subsequent review by the states of Jersey of early years provision
       (2017) incorporated recommendations from the Scrutiny Panel report for policy and practice
       in transitions from preschool to school.

   •   Impacts on Third Sector: Goodley and Runswick-Cole (Profs) organised a policy round
       table attended by Youth Employment UK (YUEK), the secretariat for the All-Party
       Parliamentary group for youth employment. This resulted in a programme of work in which
       the team developed resources with YEUK, including a podcast and on-line materials, for
       their 700 membership organisations to support disabled young people into employment.

       Following a joint presentation with Sheffield Children's Library on the Multilingual Children's
       Library project at the UK Literacy Association (UKLA) conference in 2019, Little (L) was
       invited to convene a new Special Interest Group for UKLA, bringing together academic
       researchers, teachers, and policy makers to drive forward issues around Literacy and
       Multilingualism. In July 2020, Little (L) ran a staff development session for the entire staff
       at the National Literacy Trust (NLT), and was subsequently invited to collaborate with the
       NLT on adapting their annual literacy survey for young people (taken by 58,000 participants
       in 2019) to increase the focus on multilingualism in literacy development.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Research collaborations

Research collaborations are supported through a conference fund that enables colleagues to
network at inter/national conferences and seminars. For example, Kay (L) presented Re-forming
and reforming the Early Years Workforce in England, at the Australian Association for Research in
Education, Sydney, December 2018. Webb (SL) presented a paper at the International
Conference on Critical Education: On Teaching to Transgress in London in July 2018. In addition,
research stimulation funds are available to pay for travel and subsistence to bring together
non/academic stakeholders to co-produce research bids, and ensure findings are shared with non-
academic partners. For example, Webb (SL) held a workshop with key stakeholders to develop a
collaborative project on pedagogies of hope. Many of our projects have webpages to link with
stakeholders, detail public engagement events and share findings (for example:
livinglifetothefullest.org; humanactivism.org; makeyproject.eu).

Collaborations with non-academic partners enable us to respond critically to global discourses in
education, in national and local contexts. These collaborations have enriched the research
environment, enabling the development of local, regional, and inter/national research. They build
on established and emerging areas of expertise: early childhood education; disability; arts/multi-
modality; multilingualism; superdiversity; mental health and wellbeing; global higher education;
literacies and digital society Our staff contribute to the sustainability of the discipline through
interdisciplinary projects, which respond to inter/national priorities and initiatives. This is evidenced
in the following ways:

   •   Staff are regularly asked to be members of review panels and editorial boards, selected
       examples include: Allen (L) was a member of PESGB Large Grants committee member
       (2016-18); Billington (Prof) reviews for the ESRC, NIHR and MRC; Ellis (VCRF) reviews
       for the AHRC; Weighall (R) reviews for the ESRC, Nuffield and Action Medical Research;
       NIHR, and Health Technology Assessment. Wood (Prof) reviews for the ESRC, AHRC,
       Research Council of Norway, Research Council of Switzerland, Hong Kong University
       Research Council; Ellis (VCRF) co-edits History of Education (2019 onwards); Marsh
       (Prof) is the Founding Editor of the Journal of Early Childhood Literacy (2006 - present).
       Nutbrown (Prof) is founding editor and Editor in Chief of Journal of Early Childhood
       Research (2006-present). Runswick-Cole (Prof) is Voices Editor for Community, Work
       and Family (2016 - present).

   •   Inter/national exchange: Staff from every career stage are highly sought after as invited
       speakers and keynotes inter/nationally. For example, Cameron’s (L) invited talk: ‘How do
       students and educators in higher education talk about learning, learning difference, and
       'intelligence'?’ at the University of Birmingham (2019); Weighall (R) ‘Sleep to learn - The
       importance of sleep in learning and development’ at the education and intervention CPD
       meeting, Royal Society of Medicine (2019); Goodley (Prof) ‘The interplay of perspectives
       in disability Studies’ in a keynote address to the Third Hungarian Disability Studies
       Conference, ELTE University (2015).

   •   Senior staff also hold a number of visiting roles including Billington (Prof) is visiting
       professor, Faculty of Social Sciences, Malta (2014- present); Goodley (Prof) has been
       visiting professor at the University of South Wales, Ghent and Iceland; Sikes (Prof) is
       honorary professor at the University of Kwazulu Natal, Durban, South Africa (2014 to
       present); Wood (Prof) is visiting professor at the University of Auckland (2016-2021),
       Australian Catholic University (2016-2021), and Stranmillis University College (2015-2021).



                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Our staff, at every level, are highly sought after as doctoral examiners. Examples include:
       Chesworth (L): Brunel (2019) and Huddersfield (2017); Olusoga (L) Flinders University,
       Australia (2020); Rosowsky (SL): Lancaster (2015) and Exeter (2018); Winter (SL)
       Institute of Education (2016), and University of Otago, NZ (2019); and Billington (Prof):
       Tilberg, Netherlands (2016).

   •   We attract large numbers of requests from visiting scholars, applications are accepted
       where they can make a strong contribution to our research strengths and mission. Over the
       assessment period, we have hosted 20 visiting scholars visiting 11 academics from 20
       institutions in 14 different countries from every career stage. Examples include Dr
       LaGarrett King, University of Missouri, Columbia, whose visit enabled Doharty (L) to raise
       the profile of her research inter/nationally; and Dr Tsitsi Chataika, University of Zimbabwe,
       whose visit to Goodley (Prof) resulted in an application to the GCRF.

   •   International research collaborations include Marsh’s (Prof) as a co-investigator (2020-
       2025) in the Australian Research Council Centre of Excellence for the Digital Child, an
       Au$34million centre run by Queensland University of Technology; Runswick-Cole’s (Prof)
       work as an international collaborator on ‘Re*Storying Autism’ (Social Science & Humanities
       Research Council) has given access to digital storytelling facilities; Wood (Prof) has been
       the international partner investigator on two projects funded by the Australian Research
       Council with colleagues in Australian Catholic University, and has contributed to research
       publications, academic seminars and professional conferences.

   •   All staff are invited to and supported in making overseas institutional visits. Examples
       include Chesworth (L) visited the University of the Western Cape and Project for
       Alternative Education in South Africa (2019) using internal GCRF seed funding to develop
       research collaboration. Pearson (SL) visited the Aga Khan University, Karachi (2019) to
       share research and visit field sites. Goodley (Prof) visited National Institute of Education,
       Singapore; Deakin University and the University of Malaya (2018-2019).

   •   Professional associations and learned societies. Ellis (VCRF) is a member of the
       executive committee of the History of Education Society (2019-2025), and co-convenor of
       the BERA History SIG. Papatsiba (SL) is a member of the Global Higher Education and
       Research (GHEAR) Steering Group of Worldwide University Network (WUN). Billington
       (Prof) is a member of the BPS Child Protection Committee. Nutbrown (Prof) is President
       of Early Education. Our research environment also incorporates the scholarship of
       University/Senior University colleagues, whose research is focused on practice (HE
       pedagogies; doctoral supervision; assessment in HEI) and demonstrates wide
       dissemination beyond the Unit.

   •   Staff have been awarded the following fellowships: Allen (L) was awarded a fellowship
       from the Philosophy of Education Society of Great Britain (PESGB) in 2014. Sikes (Prof)
       was awarded the BERA John Nisbet Fellowship for an outstanding contribution to
       education research over a career.

   •   Research excellence has also been recognised in the award of prizes: Ellis (VCRF) was
       awarded the Kevin Brehony Prize for best first book in History of Education 2014: Little (L)
       won the UKLA prize (2019) for her work on multi-lingual libraries.

Our research environment will continue to support the development of world-leading educational
research through high-quality appointments, doctoral students, grant capture, infrastructure, and
leadership. We are positioned to take forward our mission to conduct excellent research in the

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
context of EDI and social justice. Furthermore, we will continue to contribute to educational debate,
policy critique and practice developments across the life course. It is a testament to the strength of
the research environment that during the COVID-19 pandemic, our systems and research activities
continued to support success in grant capture and high-quality publications.




                                                                                             Page 18
