Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Sheffield Hallam University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA17 - Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 Business and Management research is undertaken within Sheffield Business School (SBS),
 bringing together colleagues from three departments (Management, Finance Accounting &
 Business Systems, and Service Sector Management). Our research addresses the global
 challenges of responsible leadership (including ethical employment practices, and new models
 for social, community and not-for-profit organisations), sustainability in production and
 consumption (e.g. responsible marketing, food provenance, sustainable supply chains and
 logistics), and regional and international economic development and entrepreneurship. Central
 to the Unit’s mission is the generation and dissemination of applied knowledge that is relevant and
 useful to business, practitioner, societal and policy stakeholders.

 SBS research is positioned within the Social and Economic Research Institute, one of four new
 institutes within the University, as described in the Institutional Statement. The Institute facilitates
 dialogue across research disciplines; the multi-disciplinary nature of our research is illustrated by
 the 25 Business School colleagues submitted to UoAs 3, 23, 24 and 34, in addition to the core
 group in this submission.

 Our Unit has achieved very significant growth and we have reached several important milestones
 during the assessment period. We have realised ambitious plans to increase and diversify our
 academic staff base, and we have made stepwise changes to develop the quality of our research
 environment, significantly improving support for our research-active colleagues and doctoral
 students. Our success has been recognised, for example through the achievement of AACSB
 accreditation, which places significant emphasis on the quality of the research environment. This
 accreditation places SBS within a group of 36 top UK Business Schools, the majority of which are
 highly regarded for the quality of their research.

 Research Strategy: Progress Against Objectives

 Our strategy set out in REF2014 sought to reinvigorate a research culture under new strategic
 leadership, focusing on sustainable growth and development of the Unit through our staff base,
 our doctoral programmes and our research environment. In particular, we have taken decisive
 action to address the concerns expressed by the 2014 sub-panel in relation to the size and
 sustainability of the Unit, the limited representation of Early Career Researchers and the number
 of research themes in relation to the size of the Unit. As a result, significant progress has been
 made against our objectives and research activity across the Unit has grown significantly in
 quantity and quality since REF2014.

 a) Promoting academic research as a career option through recruitment and career
 progression: we have exceeded our target of growth in research capacity (from 6.8 FTE to 18 by
 2020), with 29 colleagues (24.9 FTE) submitted. This has been achieved through targeted
 recruitment, the development of existing staff, and investment within a sustainable and supportive
 research environment (see section 2).

 b) Developing the national and international reputation of our research through outputs
 and environment: much SBS research is international in nature and we work with scholars and
 research groups across several countries, including partner organisations such as Munich
 Business School, Zagreb School of Economics and Management, and La Trobe University in
 Australia. An increasing number of the Unit’s outputs are co-authored with international partners
 and are published in leading international journals. Examples include Journal of International

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Business Studies, European Journal of Operational Research, Economic History Review, Human
 Relations, Regional Studies, Organization Studies, and Technovation.

 International research activities have been developed over the REF period, for example Tietze’s
 work with Piekara and others (O3058), focusing on the role of language and in particular
 translators in the context of SMEs and multinational organisations; and Zheng’s collaboration with
 colleagues in China (O3065, O3135, O3078) to investigate the causes and consequences of
 inward investment. The Unit has hosted visiting academics from, for example, Queensland
 University of Technology, La Trobe University, Mondragon University, University of Nebraska at
 Omaha and Orebro University in Sweden. Further examples of our networks and collaborations
 are presented in section 4.

 The development of the Unit’s research environment is a result of substantial investment in
 growing our research capacity and capabilities, including increased allocation of research time
 and significantly improved individual research planning and Academic Workload Planning (AWP)
 processes. We have augmented our research leadership through investing in the development of
 a larger Professoriate (see section 2).

 c) Strengthening the PGR programmes and further improvement of the PGR completion
 rate: our strategic focus on the strengthening of our PGR programmes resulted in a three-fold
 increase in doctoral completions in the Unit, from 24 in REF2014, to 74 in the current period
 (see section 2). Staff have also been supported to achieve doctorates and thereby enhance their
 contribution to our research activities and environment.

 d) Developing research income: our 2014 strategy set out some ambitious targets for research
 income, which have not been achieved. Over the assessment period we concluded that, in order
 to compete within the increasingly complex arena of research funding, our key priority should be
 to increase the quantity and quality of our research outputs and environment, in order to lay the
 basis for a renewed focus on income generation over the coming period. We have achieved this
 and, in so doing, we have begun to record some notable successes in terms of research income
 (see section 3).

 We have implemented a new approach to income generation through an oversight group to lead
 our efforts in this area. This includes developing knowledge exchange opportunities, reflecting the
 applied focus of our research. We are also working closely with the University’s Social and
 Economic Research Institute to enhance cross-University collaborations. Strategic University
 funds have helped to pump-prime research activity, enabling us to be responsive to research
 challenges.

 e) Developing and implementing a clear impact strategy: our three impact case studies
 (outlined in more detail below) exemplify the success of our approach to impact through
 engagement with business, policy makers and professional communities. These include an
 innovative model for stakeholder participation in decision-making and rewards (ICS1), and a
 reverse logistics toolkit that has resulted in significant savings and environment benefits for the
 UK retail and logistics sector (ICS3). We have also sought to increase our knowledge exchange
 activities such as Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTP), and initiatives such as the Sheffield
 Innovation Programme (SIP), which supports consultancy projects with regional SMEs to drive
 business engagement and our impact agenda.

 Research Groups

 Sheffield Business School is inherently and purposively multi-disciplinary. Colleagues have a
 range of research interests within the Business and Management field, in many cases working in
 collaboration with colleagues in disciplines such as food, nutrition, hospitality, tourism, sports,
 health, social policy, languages and culture, engineering and computing. Our research strategy is
 focused around four themes, underpinned by our commitment to responsible management and


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sustainability, exemplified by our active role in the Principles of Responsible Research
 Management (PRME) network:

 Social, Non-Profit and Cooperative Enterprise and Sustainability (Ridley-Duff, Coule, Li). Our
 work in this field is highly regarded and has significant impact in the scholarly, practitioner and
 policy arenas, nationally and internationally. The theme is anchored by Ridley-Duff’s work around
 cooperative social enterprise and Coule’s work on voluntary sector organisations. Our research
 examines alternative forms of organisational governance and how these may benefit workers,
 organisations and society. Key contributions include a comprehensive analysis of the changing
 relationship between the state and the voluntary sector, which has important implications for
 contemporary debates (Coule O3043). Critical assessment of the ethics of social enterprise
 business models (Ridley-Duff O3055) underpinned the development of an innovative model
 (FairShares), designed to facilitate stakeholder engagement and fair reward within organisations.
 The FairShares model has been implemented widely across the globe and forms the basis of
 ICS1. The vitality, quality, reach and influence of our work in this area led to SBS being asked to
 host the 2019 conference of the leading international network, EMES (Emergence of Social
 Enterprises in Europe) on “Sustainable development through social enterprise, cooperative and
 voluntary action”.

 Work and Organisation (Richardson, Prowse, Tietze, Bennett, Koya, Snook, Brown). Research
 focuses on working conditions, employee relations, gender issues, teamworking and the role of
 language in organisational practice. Notable contributions include Prowse’s work on the Living
 Wage (O3053, O3066) and Bennett’s ground-breaking research on employer and trade union
 support for people suffering from domestic abuse. These areas of work have resulted in significant
 impact in terms of support for trade union actions and the adoption of good practice by employing
 organisations (including Sheffield Hallam University). Prowse and Snook provided evidence to the
 Annual Report on Care Homes for the Low Pay Commission (2019) and for the GMB union for
 their pay campaign for care home workers. Tietze’s work focuses on the multilingual organisation.
 She was PI for an AHRC project about the impact of language, culture and translation on
 multilingual communities. She has hosted international events for academics and practitioners,
 e.g. a workshop with Aalto University in Finland on practitioners’ experience of managing
 multilingual organisational groups. Tietze’s (pre-pandemic) research into home-work boundaries
 explores the complex relationship between families, boundary objects and the home worker;
 themes that have become more significant over recent months (O3039).

 International Business Management and Economics (Zheng, Pham, Owens, Berger, Liu,
 Serbera, Mali, Johnston and Johnson). Research contributions cover a range of topics, with
 particular focuses on determinants of foreign direct investment (FDI), and the economic, social
 and environmental impact of FDI (Zheng O3071); emerging markets, global supply chain
 management and the international context of interfirm relations (Serbera O3056, Berger O3016);
 international entrepreneurship, international education management and the coordination of
 economic actors (Owens O3029); and the impact of university research activities on the business
 community, the spatial scope of these links, and university-industry collaboration (Johnston
 O2670, O3023). The group has a wide-reaching scholarly impact via publications in world leading
 journals, books, book chapters and prestigious international conference presentations (Academy
 of Management, Academy of International Business).

 Marketing and Consumer Behaviour (Dean, Smith Maguire, Dunn, Jones, Schofield, Gorst,
 Breese). Researchers working in this theme have developed new insights into the nature of
 marketing; the social construction of markets and consumer behaviour; and in relation to a range
 of issues such as consumer culture and life experiences and how they influence values, attitudes
 and behaviour in different sectors including family decision making, informal elderly care, food and
 wine, escapism through television, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and social media, the
 process of retail returns, and political marketing and the work of cultural intermediaries. Key
 contributions include Smith Maguire’s exploration of ‘product patriotism’ (O3069), Dean’s work on
 emotional marketing in the context of the care of elderly relatives, Dunn’s (O3045) research into
 the relationship between social media and CSR, and Schofield’s study of factors underpinning

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 compulsive shopping and gambling (O3058). Sheffield Business School was invited to host the
 2020 Academy of Marketing Global Branding Conference (now postponed until 2022),
 showcasing the central role of Unit researchers in this field.

 Engagement and Impact

 Specific actions set out in our REF2014 Impact Strategy were re-visited over the REF period as a
 result of changes in organisational structure within SBS and the wider University; however, the
 overarching aims have remained unchanged. We have taken a focused approach to
 supporting engagement and impact based on exemplary areas of high-quality applied
 research, for example in reverse logistics.

 Central to SBS’s mission is the generation of knowledge that is relevant and useful to business,
 practitioner, societal and policy stakeholders. We have maximised active engagement of these
 groups in our research through mechanisms such as participation in professional and sector
 networks (including CIPD, Chartered Institute of Marketing, Project Management Institute and the
 Chartered Management Institute) and leveraging key funding streams such as Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships (KTP). For example, SBS has recently established a Management KTP with
 Equi-Trek, a horsebox manufacturer, to embed a TQM culture to strengthen the leadership and
 management capabilities of the business.

 SBS is accredited by the Small Business Charter in recognition of our research and engagement
 with the small business sector. This includes for example the government-funded Small Business
 Leadership Programme, which is delivered by a team comprising SBS researchers. Regional
 initiatives such as the Sheffield Innovation Programme (SIP) enable further academic engagement
 with SMEs.

 Our three impact case studies illustrate the success of this strategy. Central to our development
 of the FairShares model, led by Ridley-Duff, is engagement and co-creation with social
 enterprises, policy organisations, regulatory bodies, investors and other stakeholders across the
 globe - resulting in the adoption and roll-out of the model in 37 countries (ICS1). Gorst’s work on
 Reverse Logistics incorporates a research-informed toolkit, developed in close collaboration with
 the logistics sector. The toolkit has been utilised widely by business organisations, with estimated
 savings of over £3.5 million in the cost of the reverse logistics process for three of the businesses
 with which the research team worked directly (ICS3). Our long-established work on the regulation
 of the charity sector had significant impacts on policy and practice over the REF period, leading
 directly to the easing of financial reporting requirements on small charities, with an estimated
 saving to the sector in the UK of £40 million (ICS2).

 The Unit, and notably our impact cases study authors, has benefitted from University-level impact
 support from Research and Innovation Services in terms of maximising reach and evidence
 capture - the latter utilising a new impact tracking system. Additionally, individual research and
 innovation plans are conducted annually and include consideration of impact as part of work
 planning. Plans feed into annual appraisals, to understand staff development and support needs.
 This provides clear messaging that impact is factored into decision making processes at all stages.

 Open Research

 University provision for open access (OA) for outputs and research data is detailed in the
 Institutional Environment Statement; initiatives have led to good awareness of open research and
 a high level of staff engagement. Staff and students are introduced to the principles of open
 research, including the University’s Research Archive (SHURA) and Research Data Archive
 (SHURDA) as the principal means through which publications and data sets are stored and
 shared. In line with policy, the Unit strives to make outputs of research available as widely as
 possible through unrestricted online access, preferably via our institutional repository. Doctoral
 theses are available electronically via SHURA and made available to the public under a Creative
 Commons licence (CC BY-NC-ND). The University supports gold OA automatically when required

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by funders. It also funds Gold OA of other papers, assessed on the basis of research excellence,
 with priority also given to researchers returning from parental leave and ECRs, as a “career kick-
 start”. 80 papers from the Unit were published via Gold OA during the assessment period. Staff
 are encouraged to share publications through ResearchGate, Academia.edu and other academic
 networking sites, as well as via our professional networks and social media. Our public
 engagement activities also bring our work to the attention of a wider audience. We support staff
 to obtain an ORCID registration.

 Research Integrity

 The research undertaken within SBS is underpinned by a strong ethical framework and
 commitment to research integrity, underpinned by the University’s commitment to the Concordat
 to Support Research Integrity, as set out in the Institutional Statement. Collegiality is the central
 pillar of these processes, with a peer review college providing a conduit for the ethical review of
 research proposals. This system not only allows reviews to take place, but also strengthens links
 between academics in terms of awareness and understanding of each other’s research activities.
 The majority of staff in the Unit serve as ethics reviewers; University training is provided and new
 reviewers are supervised by more experienced staff.

 Interdisciplinary Research

 Business and Management research by its nature entails close collaboration between colleagues
 from different disciplinary backgrounds. Our department and subject group structures support
 the development of strong disciplines, while at the same time encouraging and supporting
 collaboration between disciplinary groups. This includes interdisciplinary seminars, workshops
 and training programmes, our SBS-wide PhD and DBA programmes, and a Business School
 research strategy that promotes interdisciplinary working with a focus on addressing key themes
 and challenges.

 The multi-disciplinary nature of our research environment is illustrated clearly by the fact that
 UoA17 is embedded within Sheffield Business School, while 25 additional colleagues are
 submitted to four other UoAs: 3, 23, 24 and 34. This reflects the broad scope of the School, which
 incorporates subject groups in food and nutrition, tourism, events, languages and culture. Several
 UoA17 researchers work closely with colleagues in these disciplinary areas.

 Specific examples of interdisciplinary research presented in the current REF submission include:
    • The application of Freire’s pedagogical framework to union learning and worker
         participation (Bennett)
    • Sociological and political analysis of the role of the not-for-profit sector in the context of the
         welfare state (Coule)
    • Integration of social care and marketing approaches to the nutrition and care of elderly
         people (Dean)
    • Place-based analysis of the relationship between food, communities, consumption and
         marketing (Smith Maguire)
    • Linguistics in the context of organisational culture within SMEs and multinational
         enterprises (Tietze)

 Future Research Strategy

 Going forwards, we will consolidate and build on the progress made in 2014-20. The Unit’s
 strategy focuses on the following themes:

 a) Building a strong innovation culture through our researchers: we will build on the positive
 trajectory established since 2014. We will expand professorial leadership through external
 recruitment and internal promotion aligned to our themes, with the net addition of one
 professorial role per year. We will utilise internal promotion routes to Associate Professor, as
 well as established Professorial pathways, providing mentoring support throughout. Support for

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our Early Career Researchers will ensure appropriate workloads to undertake research and we
 will build on our mentoring and support programmes with the aim of increasing the number of
 staff with Significant Responsibility for Research from 29 to 40 over the next REF period. We
 will continue to develop our international research networks and provide support for visiting
 researchers.

 b) Grow and develop our postgraduate community: we will pursue a year-on-year increase in
 PGR student recruitment across our research themes, supported by funding for a programme of
 institutional and College scholarships (e.g. six fully-funded GTA scholarships in UoA17 for 2021-
 22). Integration with and contribution to the research culture will be enhanced via the Research
 Institutes, to create a University-wide doctoral network.

 c) Financially sustainable growth of R&I income: we will target internal investment to further
 build our distinctive contributions across our research themes. We will build our capability and
 profile in grant funding, commissioned research and knowledge exchange activity, with the
 objective of developing sustainable long-term research programmes that have significant scholarly
 and societal impact. The new University Research Institutes will provide a critical mass and
 support interdisciplinarity research, enabling consortia building around the research platforms
 described in the Institutional Statement. Our target is to increase research and knowledge
 exchange income by 50% year-on-year over the forthcoming REF period.

 d) Research with economic, social, policy and cultural impact: we will continue to drive
 research agendas that focus on business, policy and wider societal challenges, engaging
 stakeholders within the research process, including co-production of research. Through impact
 champions across the UoA and a new institutional information officer role (to be established 2021),
 we will systematically capture and evidence our impact and raise profile with our stakeholders.
 We will further embed the recognition and reward of impact-related activities within our annual
 staff Performance and Development Review (PDR), workload allocation and promotion processes.
 As a result of this investment, we aim to increase further the reach and significance of our impact
 case studies for the next REF and to build a broader portfolio of impact examples focused primarily
 around our key research themes.

 e) Research-embedded teaching and learning: research will be more fully embedded into our
 teaching and learning activities through mechanisms including engagement with the University’s
 ‘Hallam Model’, which encourages students to ‘engage, collaborate, challenge and thrive’. We
 will set clear expectations that researchers with Significant Responsibility for Research actively
 contribute to teaching and learning, and conduct studies to develop innovative strategies and
 practices to ensure that learners benefit from our research expertise; leading to increased
 employability and wider graduate outcomes.

 f) Research-focused physical infrastructure: as part of the University’s campus masterplan,
 set out in the institutional statement, SBS will take residency of a new state of the art building in
 2025 on the city campus. We will enhance our research environment through quality, collaborative
 space for our PGR community, improving student satisfaction measures and the provision of
 integrated digital facilities for data collection, analysis and dissemination. The city location will be
 used as a hub to facilitate links with local and regional business, maximising potential networking,
 co-production and research impact.




                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                            Artist’s impression of the new SBS facility



 2. People

 The Unit has a critical mass of 29 academic staff (24.9 FTE), achieved over the period through a
 strategy of recruitment and development. It has more than tripled in size since the submission of
 6.8 FTE staff to REF2014. Only two of the 29 submitted colleagues are on fixed-term contracts.

 Our staffing strategy has focused on increasing research leadership, capacity and capability,
 thereby increasing the number of colleagues with SRR status, increasing the quality of outputs,
 and developing our research environment for staff and students, aligned to our AACSB
 accreditation strategy. Professors and Readers are expected to spend around 10% of their time
 on research leadership duties, including mentoring, delivering learning programmes, peer support,
 strategic delivery and support for colleagues within their departments or subject groups. Our
 leadership capacity has increased steadily over the period, enabling enhanced support for ECR
 and mid-career colleagues through mentoring and related activities.

 We have externally recruited six new Professors (four female; two male) with strong research
 backgrounds across our research groups. Johnson joined as Professor of Enterprise and
 Associate Dean for Research and Innovation; Prowse as Professor of Human Resource
 Management and Employment Relations; Smith Maguire as Professor of Cultural Production and
 Consumption; Tietze as Professor of Multilingual Management; and Zheng as Professor of
 International Business Management. Dean joined as Reader and was promoted in 2020 to
 Professor of Consumption Values and Practices.

 Our culture of recognition and reward has resulted in internal promotions to Professor or Reader;
 Ridley-Duff and Coule were promoted to Professors of Cooperative Social Entrepreneurship and


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Non-Profit Work and Organisation respectively, while Johnston was promoted to Reader in the
 Economics of Entrepreneurship and Innovation.

 Career Development

 We support career-long researcher development in line with the University's Academic Career
 Framework (ACF), detailed in the Institutional Environment Statement. The ACF recognises
 impact as an integral part of the researcher career pathway. This underpins annual Performance
 and Development Review (PDR) meetings between individual colleagues and their line manager.
 Discussions review progress over the previous period, consider any issues or constraints, and
 agree an action plan for the forthcoming year. They also record details of outputs produced and
 pinpoint development activities (including conference attendance, as well as training activities)
 that might help colleagues to work towards their career targets.

 Research-active colleagues are assigned a line manager who is a research leader (normally
 Reader or Professor). In addition, our collegiate ethos ensures that colleagues benefit from formal
 and informal mentoring from senior researchers. The Department of Management introduced a
 mentoring scheme whereby all senior researchers commit to mentor up-to three colleagues each.
 This is working well and is laying the basis for the further development of our research community.

 Other support mechanisms include regular seminars, events in conjunction with organisations
 such as the Northern Advanced Research Training Initiative (NARTI) and British Academy of
 Management (BAM), and research skills workshops on topics such as publishing, methodology,
 research supervision and ethics/integrity. The School holds an annual research day to discuss
 issues affecting research, and departments also hold research days and workshops. The
 academic calendar specifies three 'red weeks' throughout the year, during which meetings and
 other formal activities are minimised, to provide colleagues with time to focus on research.

 The University has held the HR Excellence in Research Award throughout the REF period. SBS
 has two representatives on the University group that oversees the action plan in relation to the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. At Unit level, we use the Plan to
 guide to our actions to support our researchers. These include the mentoring activities described
 above, providing time and peer support for researchers to develop their skills, and ensuring that
 recruitment and promotion panels are balanced and have representation from research staff.

 Early-Career Researchers (ECR)

 The development of ECRs is a central component of our strategy to enhance research capacity.
 ECR colleagues within the UoA have achieved some notable successes over this REF period:
 Dunn achieved her first published outputs and research grants; while Koya, Liu, Li, Mali, Pakgohar
 and Serbera have achieved (SRR) status during the REF period as a direct result of allocation of
 research hours and career development support.

 We adopt a broad definition of ECR, to include colleagues who have completed doctorates at a
 later career stage or who are seeking to return to a research career after focusing on other
 academic pathways. We have supported existing staff to pursue doctoral qualifications; 18 SBS
 colleagues have achieved doctorates during the REF period and many are on track to
 publishing their first outputs, with clear plans to develop to SRR status over the coming years.
 These staff benefit from our ‘Write a Paper in a Year’ programme, designed and facilitated by
 experienced researchers, including Tietze and Dean. This provides a supportive forum for less-
 experienced researchers to write and submit their first articles. The initiative has proved popular
 and successful, with 11 participants to date and nine articles submitted.

 Other support mechanisms for ECRs include “writing up” sabbaticals for staff who are near
 completion of their theses and research time allowances for staff following successful completion
 of their doctorates.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All newly appointed staff are required to follow a two-year programme - the Hallam Academic
 Award (HAA) - which includes modules on research and supervision of research students. Newly
 appointed colleagues and ECRs also have access to a range of programmes delivered by the
 University's Doctoral School, for example Epigeum online training resources, writing groups and
 research ethics/integrity training.

 ECRs are an integral part of the research governance process and representation is embedded
 at all levels including departmental research committees, the Research Institute Strategic Group
 and the University's Researcher Concordat Operations Group. Our ECRs are actively engaged
 with the University-wide ECR network.

 Research/Impact Leave/Sabbaticals

 In line with our REF2014 strategy, we have purposefully invested an increasing proportion of
 resources in allocating time to colleagues to undertake research and related activities against
 forward-looking research plans, guided by our institutional Code of Practice.

 Our sabbatical scheme was re-launched in January 2018 and has provided colleagues with the
 opportunity to undertake focused periods of research. Colleagues can apply for additional
 research time to ensure that they have one semester free of teaching and other commitments.
 Thirteen SBS colleagues were allocated sabbaticals in 2018-19 and 2019-20. For example, Tietze
 used her sabbatical period in 2020 to finalise a sole-authored book manuscript, submit two journal
 articles and complete a research funding application.

 Colleagues have access to the University’s Creating Knowledge Investment Programme (CKIP),
 which allocates strategic funding to support research development in line with the institution’s
 Transforming Lives strategy. Since its establishment in 2018, CKIP has pump-primed research
 networks in Food and Society (CHEFS, led by Smith Maguire), Accounting Finance and
 Economics (Mali), and funded a Chancellor’s Fellowship (Johnston).

 In addition to investment in staff time, other initiatives have served to direct resources towards
 research activity, including departmental staff development budgets to support conference
 attendance and to undertake learning and networking activities; and a budget held by the
 Associate Dean for Research and Innovation to support existing and emerging research themes,
 and Unit-wide activities such as seminars and workshops.

 Research Students

 Overview
 Postgraduate Research students are an integral part of our research community. Our research
 student population comprises 172 students, 113 of whom are following the DBA programme and
 37 are full-time doctoral students. Thesis topics are distributed across all our research themes.
 We have seen significant growth in our postgraduate community with a three-fold increase
 in doctoral completions, from 24 in REF2014, to 74 during this REF period.

  Year           Doctoral         Cumulative        PhD             DBA
                 Completions      Completions
  2013-14        8                8                 5               3
  2014-15        11               19                6               5
  2015-16        10               29                5               5
  2016-17        12               41                5               7
  2017-18        11               52                2               9
  2018-19        14               66                6               8
  2019-20        8                74                5               3



                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The doctoral programme makes a significant contribution to the research environment of the Unit.
 Eighteen doctoral completions were achieved by academic staff as part of our commitment to
 career progression and development. Twelve of these were DBAs, reflecting our applied research
 focus. Our DBA programmes are delivered collaboratively with Munich Business School and
 Zagreb School of Economics & Management, enhancing the international dimension of our
 programmes and engaging students from a variety of backgrounds, including managers from
 leading international organisations.

 Many of our doctoral graduates from this period have continued their academic careers - including
 seven now employed by the School as full-time academics and a further five currently employed
 as lecturers/senior lecturers at other UK HEIs.

 Management, Recruitment and Progression of Research Students
 The University Research Degrees Committee (RDC) has responsibility for establishing University
 regulations policies and procedures. Within SBS, the doctoral programme is led by the doctoral
 programme leads and course leaders, who provide academic leadership and management. This
 team represents SBS at the University Research Degrees Committee and implements policy and
 process through the SBS Creating Knowledge Board, working with departmental research leads,
 students and supervisors.

 Applicants are interviewed by the programme team and potential supervisor before an offer is
 made. Admissions criteria align with the QAA UK Quality Code for HE. An important criterion
 for assessment is the extent to which the proposed work is consistent with and contributes
 to our identified research themes. SBS actively seeks to attain funded doctoral studentships
 through sources such as the SBS-funded graduate training scheme (GTS - now incorporated into
 the University’s Graduate Teaching Assistant [GTA] programme) and doctoral bursaries,
 University-funded Vice Chancellor’s Scholarships, and industry funding. Throughout the REF
 period six doctoral students were funded via the GTS, eight students were funded via the SBS
 Doctoral Bursary Scheme and one student was funded through the highly competitive VC
 scholarship scheme. Industry engagement with our doctoral programmes is exemplified by
 sponsorship from the Institute of Couriers, and active involvement by employers such as Siemens
 and Telefonica in supporting DBA research undertaken by their employees. Opportunities for self-
 funded places are advertised through the University’s website and FindAPhD.com.

 Monitoring is undertaken with a Research Programme Approval form, assessed at 3 months (6
 months for part-time students) by an independent rapporteur. A full supportive progress review is
 undertaken at 10-12 months (24 months part-time), encompassing an oral presentation and viva,
 a written report in the style of a journal paper and literature review. A review and thesis completion
 plan early in the final year ensures monitoring and support throughout the study cycle.

 Research Student Training and Supervision
 Each student is allocated at least two supervisors, who must have a minimum of two completions
 amongst the supervisory team. All supervisors must complete the University’s doctoral supervisory
 course. Staff new to doctoral supervision are matched with a more experienced colleague, who
 acts as a doctoral supervisor mentor. During 2019/20, 19 members of staff were engaged in
 doctoral supervision for the first time.

 Electronic resources are available to our doctoral community via a Virtual Learning Environment
 (Blackboard), which complements the student-centred support provided by academic supervisors
 and Postgraduate Research Tutors (PGRTs). Student- and project-specific training needs are
 assessed at the start of the programme following completion of the Vitae Researcher Development
 Framework Planner. Researcher training and development is provided via the University’s
 Doctoral School, delivered through a combination of online training (Epigeum) and face-to-face
 delivery.

 Throughout the REF period we have continued to build on our strengths in research training
 specific to our discipline. Doctoral students must complete two modules: Philosophies of

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Business and Management Research, and Research Design and Execution for Organisation and
 Business. Within our DBA programme, students must complete three complementary modules:
 Critical Thinking in Business Administration, Contemporary Issues in Business and Management,
 and Research Approaches and Designs. We are also members of NARTI, enabling our
 researchers to gain advanced research training with leading experts in the field. Each student is
 supported with £1500 to support fieldwork, conference attendance and other activities related to
 their studies. The SBS Doctoral Residential takes students off-site, and activities are focused on
 community building, academic writing and preparing for life post-doctorate. The Residential is an
 annual event, usually for 2 days, and students can attend throughout the lifecycle. The event is
 structured to target students at different stages of their doctoral journey, so they can attend yearly.

 Students are encouraged to participate in departmental and University-wide research activities.
 SBS holds an annual Doctoral Conference where students are provided with a safe and supportive
 environment to present their research and gain constructive feedback. Sessions in the SBS
 Research Training Series are based on student feedback; topics covered include Imposter
 Syndrome, Working with your Supervisors and Writing a Critical Literature Review. Student-led
 initiatives include a weekly catch-up session and monthly meetings, where students present on
 topics such as: transcribing, recruiting participants, research design and data analysis. Students
 are also encouraged to participate in the annual University Creating Knowledge Conference and
 national initiatives such as the Three-Minute Thesis.

 Support for Research Students During Covid-19
 In response to the Covid pandemic, monitoring was intensified; PGRTs and administrators met
 more regularly to monitor student engagement and progress. Students were offered regular drop-
 in and catch-up sessions. Based on a risk assessment process, the University introduced
 additional support measures including fee-free three-month extensions and a further three-month
 extension available upon application. Eighty-five SBS research students were offered extensions
 as a result of this initiative.

 Equality and Diversity

 The Unit is committed to developing a culture of equality, diversity and inclusion for all staff and
 students in line with University policies and equality objectives (see Institutional Environment
 Statement), which enable all our colleagues to contribute effectively to our research environment.

 Our submission is comprised of 38% females, below the proportion of women in the overall
 University population. We are working to reduce this disparity through effective recruitment
 strategies - particularly in research leadership positions - such that four out of the six professors
 recruited externally are women (and one of an ethnic minority background). SBS is currently
 working towards Bronze Athena SWAN. Our submission is comprised of 24% staff from a
 BAME background, significantly higher than in the University academic population. One of
 our women professors (Zheng) has completed the new University programme “Leading into the
 Future”, a programme designed for minority ethnic staff at the University who aspire to leadership
 roles. We have actively pursued opportunities to improve equality through our recruitment and
 development processes; equality & diversity training and unconscious bias training are mandatory
 for all colleagues involved in recruitment or promotion panels, and any other form of research
 assessment.

 All staff can make a formal request for flexible working and we are committed to flexible working
 patterns to fit around the lives of our staff. Most staff hold full time permanent positions; however,
 two submitted colleagues are on fixed-term contracts and six are on part-time or fractional
 contracts. This approach has enabled three colleagues to work reduced hours to accommodate
 caring or similar commitments, and one colleague has a 0.2 FTE post in the transition to
 retirement. All part-time and fractional colleagues, and those on fixed-term contracts, are treated
 in the same way as full-time permanent staff, for example in terms of research hours allocation
 (pro rata) and access to internal funding and support initiatives.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Flexibility in relation to hours and location of work is strongly supported. Pre-pandemic,
 home-based working has been encouraged and supported, where appropriate, and colleagues
 can access University laptops to facilitate remote working. Online meetings were common practice
 pre-pandemic and are now widespread. We aim to time events to ensure that a wide range of
 colleagues, including fractional staff and those with caring responsibilities, can participate fully.
 SBS has agreed a protocol regarding email communication and the timing of meetings which takes
 into account equality issues, especially in the context of remote working.

 We strive to be inclusive of all staff and students, across all protected characteristics. As described
 in the Institutional Environment Statement, Sheffield Hallam has thriving disability, LGBT+, parent
 and gender support networks for staff and students. Our postgraduate students with disabilities
 can seek a learning contract, built on a research-specific template, to obtain the most appropriate
 support and environment for work and study. As part of our forward strategy and associated
 research infrastructure, accessibility is a significant consideration in the planning of the new
 Business School building.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Funding Strategy and Income

 Over the REF period our total income was £461,000, below the £2,000,000 target that we set in
 our 2014 Environment Statement, which in retrospect was an ambitious target in the context of an
 increasingly competitive funding environment. As detailed above, we adjusted our strategy during
 the last REF period to prioritise the development of our research environment to build critical mass
 and research quality, laying the basis for sustainable income growth in the future. At the
 same time, we have taken the following approach to support and nurture income generation across
 the Unit:

 a) Targeting the development of high-quality research grant submissions, commissioned and
 applied research and knowledge exchange projects in our areas of strength, where we have a
 clear track record of knowledge creation and dissemination. For example, we received a Horizon
 2020 grant of £8,000 (2017-19) to support our high-profile ‘FairShares’ work, £20,000 from AHRC
 in relation to Tietze’s multilingual organisations research (AH/P007228/2), and £26,000 in 2020
 from ESRC for Coule’s research into the impact of Covid-19 on the Voluntary and Community
 Sector (ES/V007610/1).

 b) The establishment of an SBS-wide 'Bidding Group', comprising leading researchers and other
 colleagues with experience of and interest in research and knowledge exchange funding. A key
 element of the group's work is to identify funding opportunities and to undertake peer reviews of
 proposals.

 c) Increased focus on cross-University collaboration/cooperation. Cross-University
 secondments have developed relationships with the Centre for Regional Economic and Social
 Research (CRESR), and the National Centre of Excellence for Food Engineering (NCEFE).
 Colleagues have utilised University funding to pump-prime research through, for example,
 Chancellor’s Fellowships (Johnston, 2019), Cluster grants (Finance, Business and Economics)
 and Covid-related research funding (Breese, 2020). These initiatives have generated significant
 potential for future external research funding.

 d) Collaboration with the recently established University-wide Research Institutes, primarily the
 Social and Economic Research Institute (SERI), to identify potential areas for collaborative
 research proposals and to ensure that Unit colleagues benefit from the support available from the
 University’s Research and Innovation Services (see Institutional Statement).

 e) Support for international links to develop research funding proposals. The University’s
 Developing International Research Funding Opportunities (DIRFO) and QR GCRF funding has

                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supported three colleagues to undertake international visits with a view to developing research
 proposals (Smith Maguire - South Africa; Ridley-Duff - Argentina, Nigeria, Tanzania; Mali - Korea).
 Smith Maguire and colleagues have obtained a small grant to develop research with our partners
 at La Trobe University, Australia.

 While achieved income fell short of our initial target, we are building a portfolio of grant funded
 research. In addition to the Research Council grants noted above, a number of small grants are
 building track records for staff in the Unit, for example a BA/Leverhulme Grant examining the
 ethics of living wages for low-paid staff in UK professional football clubs (SRG1819\190788), in
 collaboration with Birmingham University (£9,700); two Project Management Institute grants
 totalling £70,000 for Benefits Management research (Breese); and £5,000 from the Academy of
 Marketing for Dunn to examine consumer trust towards corporate social responsibility
 communication.

 The applied nature of our research is illustrated by several funded projects for industrial and
 commercial organisations including Enhanced Mentoring Internship (EMI) projects with Baldwin
 and Francis Ltd. (£27,000) and Mayflower Engineering (£26,000), and consultancy projects for
 regional SMEs, health and public sector organisations.

 As set out in section 1, our future strategy sets clear targets to grow our income by 50% year-
 on-year from the relatively low average figure of c.£66,000 p.a. over this REF assessment period.
 This would result in annual income of c.£1 million by 2027 and total income of c.£3 million
 over the forthcoming REF period. We will prioritise the development of interdisciplinary links
 within the University and externally. New Research Institutes at University level (see Institutional
 Statement) provide an excellent framework within which this strategy can be implemented. Our
 recruitment and staff development strategy has led to the appointment of several experienced
 research leaders, who are implementing their own research funding strategies, while providing
 support for colleagues who are less experienced in this area.

 Organisational and Scholarly Infrastructure

 Our Unit plays a key role in the new Social and Economic Research Institute (SERI), which
 facilitates enhanced disciplinary collaboration. SERI provides enhanced support for horizon
 scanning, pump-priming, collaboration and developing funding, and has a focus on enhancing
 research quality through staff development and mentoring.

 Research operates within the context of the University’s Creating Knowledge Implementation Plan
 (CKIP) and associated activities and budgets. The SBS Creating Knowledge Board, chaired by
 the Associate Dean for Research and Innovation (ADRI), meets on a quarterly basis to review
 progress and to consider future plans and proposals for initiatives. Membership of the Board
 includes research leads, PGR leads, professoriate representatives, Heads of Department, ECR
 representatives, ethics and finance leads.

 Professional support for research is provided primarily through Research and Innovation Services,
 with day-to-day administrative support available through College and departmental professional
 service teams. Financial advice and support is provided by the College Strategic Business Partner
 and the Research Finance team.

 Our research and scholarly infrastructure reflects an inclusive approach to research, which
 seeks to engage the majority of colleagues directly or indirectly in research activity, and to embed
 the crucial relationship between research, and teaching and learning. In the context of emerging
 University strategies and structures, and growth in the quantity and quality of the Unit's research
 base, we intend to establish more formal structures in the future, while ensuring that the underlying
 inclusive ethos remains in place.

 Research activity within the Unit is supported by the University’s Research and Innovation
 Services via a hub and spoke model. The central team provides governance, policy, funding and

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 commercialisation support, with a dedicated operations team within SERI - including new
 investment posts (2020) to drive research income and operations (Institute Manager) and
 knowledge exchange and innovation (Innovation Manager). The team also provides oversight of
 governance and the ethics review process.

 The Library integrates high quality academic information resources with excellent IT facilities,
 enabling staff and student access to a wide range of journals and other scholarly materials. Library
 staff liaise with the Unit to optimise spending of the journals budget. Staff and students can also
 obtain copies of articles in journals to which the University does not subscribe through the
 Document Supply Service, which is funded centrally.

 Facilities

 Research in UoA17 does not, in general, require extensive infrastructure in the form of
 laboratories, equipment or technical support staff. Colleagues are housed in the Stoddart Building
 within the University’s city campus. The building has quality office, IT, meeting and classroom
 facilities and staff have access to the facilities provided by the University, as set out in the
 Institutional Statement. As noted above, work has begun on building a state-of-the-art building
 for SBS within the heart of the city campus, providing an accessible, creative space for both our
 staff and student communities, and to facilitate an external presence with regional business. The
 ADRI and Unit colleagues have fed into the planning process from a research perspective, to
 maximise engagement across SBS.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 The quantity, quality and impact of UoA research is significantly enhanced through our
 collaborations with a wide range of scholars and institutions locally, nationally and internationally.
 Collaborations focus on our key thematic areas, notably responsible leadership, social and
 not-for-profit enterprise, food and consumption, and international business. Unit and University
 resources have been used strategically to support international links, and the School has actively
 encouraged the appointment of high-quality visiting fellows and professors with expertise related
 to key themes. The latter include Dr Angela M Eikenberry (University of Nebraska at Omaha), an
 internationally renowned scholar in the field of non-profit philanthropic studies, and Professor
 Christina Oberg (Orebro University, Sweden), who has worked extensively on international
 business and marketing projects.

 The range and significance of our international collaborations is demonstrated by several
 examples associated with our four key research themes:
    • Tietze’s ground-breaking work on multilingual management in SMEs, NGOs and
       multinational businesses has been undertaken in close collaboration with Aalto University
       in Helsinki, FH Voralrberg in Austria and Toulouse Business School. Two of Tietze’s
       articles on this topic are included in this submission.
    • Ridley-Duff has worked extensively with partners across the EMES global social
       enterprise research network, including Mondragon University, with Global Challenges
       Research Fund (GCRF) funding supporting embryonic cooperation with researchers in
       Tanzania. These collaborations have significantly enhanced the international reach of the
       FairShares model, which forms the basis of ICS1.
    • Ongoing collaboration with researchers in South Korea has enabled Mali to develop his
       research on the relationship between financial reporting and human resource
       management.
    • The Unit’s work on food and consumption is highly international in nature and forms the
       basis of Smith Maguire’s submitted outputs. Smith Maguire collaborated with the South
       African Wine Industry Value Roundtable and the University of Stellenbosch, part-funded
       by PRME seed funding, to carry out a study of South African wine farmworker heritage

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        stories. Impact was achieved by disseminating the findings to representatives of the South
        African wine industry.
    •   Dean has undertaken joint research on sustainable marketing with the National
        University of Vietnam and Universitas Muhammadiah Surakarta, Indonesia.
    •   Prowse led the Living Wage Special Streams at the AAIRANZ and BUIRA conference and
        has collaborated on publications with co-authors from Australia.
    •   Coule has undertaken significant editorial and writing projects with colleagues from the US
        (including University of Nebraska at Omaha, University at Albany - SUNY, and Seton Hall
        University) focused on elevating the profile/status of critical perspectives on voluntary
        action/non-profit organisations.

 Unit researchers are active across a range of domestic collaborations around our main areas of
 research strength. Examples include:
     • Coule is working with colleagues at Nottingham Trent University on an ESRC-funded
         project investigating the implications of Covid-19 for the voluntary and community
         sectors.
     • Johnson has researched entrepreneurial ecosystems, decent work and research impact
         with colleagues from the University of Huddersfield, Manchester Metropolitan University
         and the University of St. Andrews.
     • A Leverhulme-funded collaborative project on the Living Wage in football with the
         University of Birmingham (Prowse).
     • Other UK universities with which UoA researchers have collaborated over the assessment
         period include Cardiff, Leeds, Bradford, UCLan, Sheffield and Manchester Metropolitan
         University.

 In addition to the University funding sources described above, departmental budgets are typically
 able to provide funding for each colleague to attend at least one international conference per year.
 A key objective going forward is to further promote international research links and we are
 exploring how research might be more closely linked to existing international teaching and learning
 activities, for example in Hong Kong, China, Botswana, Germany and Croatia.

 Further activities that support colleagues to develop local, national and international links include
 the organisation and hosting of seminars, workshops and conferences. Recent examples include:
     • EMES European Social Enterprise Conference, June 2019
     • Conferences, seminars and events in conjunction with external organisations:
            o Methodology in entrepreneurship research (NARTI, 2019)
            o Research methodology in operations and logistics (British Academy of
                 Management, 2019)
            o Research in family business (Institute of Small Business and Entrepreneurship,
                 2020)
            o Academy of Marketing Global Branding conference (re-scheduled from 2020 to
                 2022 due to Covid)

 Engaging Research Users

 This is often project-specific, and a number of examples have been presented throughout this
 statement. The following examples illustrate the extent and nature of our engagement with and
 impact on users:
     • Prowse’s Living Wage research involves extensive engagement with football clubs, trade
         unions and the Living Wage Foundation.
     • Gorst’s highly impactful work on Reverse Logistics, which forms ICS3, entails interaction
         with a range of logistics businesses, from international organisations to local SMEs, who
         were engaged in the development of reverse logistics toolkits.
     • Breese worked closely with UK and US professional organisations concerned with Project
         Management to develop new guidelines based on his research.



                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Richardson undertook collaborative research with Derbyshire Unemployed Workers’
        Centres (DUWC) and UNITE trade union about precarious work, agency and zero hours
        contracts.
    •   Bennett’s work has contributed to the improvement of employer and trade union practice
        in relation to supporting staff members affected by domestic abuse, including the adoption
        of good practice guidelines underpinned by the research by several organisations.
    •   Research by Johnson and Johnston has been instrumental in advising bodies such as
        ESRC on engagement between HE research and business/policy organisations.
    •   Schofield has identified factors associated with problem gambling that have influenced
        the practices of some gambling organisations.

 Sheffield Business School is well connected with local, regional and national business and policy
 networks and has an active Advisory Board, which advises from time to time on research issues
 and how they impact stakeholders. Executives-in-Residence (EiR) and Entrepreneurs-in-
 Residence (EntRes) are a group of individuals who support the School and - among other activities
 - these partners provide advice and assistance with research projects. There are currently 47 EiR
 and 18 EntRes across the three SBS departments.

 Contributions to the Economy and Society

 Ensuring that our research contributes to business, society and policy is central to the Unit’s
 philosophy and approach. Our three impact case studies, discussed throughout this statement,
 illustrate the breadth and significance of the impact of our research. Unit researchers contribute
 regularly to wider engagement activities, promoting accessibility of our research, including
 inaugural professorial lectures that are open to the public, and regular SBS Management Lectures.
 Publications produced by Unit colleagues for The Conversation include Johnston on SMEs and
 Brexit, Prowse on the Living Wage in football, and Schofield on compulsive shopping.

 Other examples of our impact on the economy and society have been presented in earlier sections
 and will not be repeated in detail here. Impactful research not previously mentioned include a
 number of studies in collaboration with leading research institutes in Vietnam that have influenced
 economic policy in that country (Pham), and an applied research paper published by the Enterprise
 Research Centre that has fed into UK government discussion regarding SME internationalisation
 and innovation (Johnston).

 Engaging Diverse Communities

 Our research seeks to engage diverse communities, for example work on social enterprise,
 democratic management and the voluntary/community sector. Our work on the living wage and
 on workplace responses to domestic violence also reaches diverse groups. International research
 also engages a wide range of communities, for example including small-scale wine growers in
 South Africa.

 Richardson’s collaborative research with Derbyshire Unemployed Workers’ Centres (DUWC) and
 UNITE trade union about precarious work, agency and zero hours contracts led to local radio
 interviews and was presented at the 2017 TUC Congress in Brighton. The relationship with DUWC
 is ongoing.

 Contributions to the Discipline

 Notable contributions, in addition to widespread engagement by Unit colleagues in peer review for
 a range of journals and contribution to national international conferences and events, includes:
     • Prowse was Commissioning Editor for Special Issues in Labour & Society and Employment
        Relations and is currently on the editorial team of Work, Employment and Society.
     • Richardson is on the Editorial Advisory Board for Information Technology and People and
        New Technology Work and Employment.


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Ridley-Duff chaired the 2019 EMES international conference and played a leading role in
        the organisation of the annual Cooperative Research Network conferences.
    •   Smith Maguire is a member of the Journal of Marketing Management editorial board, and
        has served as guest editor special issues of Cultural Politics, Journal of Marketing
        Management and Food, Culture & Society. She is series co-editor of Critical Beverage
        Studies (Routledge).
    •   Johnson represents the School on the Chartered Association of Business Schools
        Research Committee.
    •   Coule is a core member of/contributor to international research communities: Elected
        Board Member of EMES (Europe); Elected Editorial Board Member of Voluntary Sector
        Review; Research to Practice Editor for NVSQ; scientific committee member for EMES
        PhD summer school; EMES international conference 2018, Co-Chair for 2021; invited tutor
        for PhD/ECR summer school for emerging African scholars (via ARNOVA/AROCSA) and
        Europe (via EMES).




                                                                                       Page 17
