Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chester

 Unit of Assessment: D31 Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The Department of Theology and Religious Studies (TRS) at the University of Chester rests its claim
to research excellence on its commitment to sustainability, transparency and public impact in our
research activity. We combine attention to rigour and accountability alongside concerns for equality
and diversity, values that are embodied in the shared management of research activity as well as
shaping the priorities of colleagues’ research across the sub-disciplines of Theology (Systematic:
Clough, Fulford; Practical/Contextual: Bacon, Graham, Morris); Religious Studies (Historical:
Jones, Vincent; Social-Scientific: Dossett, El-Yousfi; Knowles, Llewellyn, Tee), and Biblical
Studies (Collins, Evans, Middleton).

Institutional Context
The Unit corresponds with the Department of Theology and Religious Studies, which sits within the
School of Humanities in the Faculty of Arts and Humanities.

The Faculty is managed by a Dean with two Directors of School (Humanities; Arts & Media).
Leadership and coordination of the unit’s research strategy rests with the Research Advisory Group
(RAG), comprising Bacon, Graham, Middleton and Vincent: Head of Department (chair) and three
senior academics, representing the Department’s sub-disciplines.

TRS has historically been one of the pioneering research-active departments within the University
of Chester, and our research ambitions and infrastructure have evolved alongside those of an
institution with a vibrant tradition of impact through vocational education and public service. TRS
continues to exercise research leadership within the University: e.g. Morris is Faculty research lead
and on the University’s REF Steering Group; Graham and Vincent have served on the University
Research Committee; Vincent was on the committee which carried out the institutional REF2014
performance review.

Reflection on REF2014
Our REF2014 analysis indicated we achieved many of our strategic goals for the period 2008–14: in
particular, the establishment of a sustainable and vital research culture with a rising international
profile (individually and collectively). Yet we also concluded there were a number of priorities that
could be further developed, especially a more targeted and well-articulated research strategy,
supported by a clearly identified means of facilitating and measuring strategic outcomes.

In order to create a strategy that was fit for purpose, and to support the Department to achieve its
research ambitions, we identified strategic aims appropriate to the unit’s current state of
development. We reflected that our journey over the last twenty years had been characterised by
three distinct phases. TRS Chester first emerged as a viable unit of 4FTE, one of six units submitted
by the University, in RAE2001. After RAE2008 (5.75FTE), the Department entered a second phase
of rapid expansion, more than doubling in size through a strategy of hiring Early Career Researchers
supplemented by established academics from other institutions. This phase was characterised by a
conscious investment in sustainable growth, developing ECRs’ international profiles through
publication and conference participation. Of the 11.1FTEs (2/3 of the Department) entered in
REF2014, seven were ECRs.

Our strategy for the current REF cycle recognised the Department is populated primarily by mid-
career and more senior researchers, and so this third phase has focussed more on consolidation
and sustainability. We prioritised growth in research vitality, stature, and reputation of both
individuals and the unit, measured through outputs, grant capture and impact activity. There has
been remarkable continuity in staffing within this cycle. Of 14.5FTEs, only 2.5 have joined the
Department since 2014. Our research strategy therefore focussed on enabling established scholars

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to achieve their research ambitions in order to reach the next stage in their academic careers. We
achieved this through robust and transparent structures capable of demonstrably promoting and
delivering a clear, accountable, sustainable and vibrant research environment, gauged by high-
quality research outputs, innovative research activities, continued growth in PGR recruitment and
retention, and forms of community and stakeholder engagement.

Research Strategy 2014-2021
In order to realise our aspirations to greater research excellence, the RAG was formed and charged
with devising and implementing a clear research strategy consistent with the Department's core
principles of inclusivity, accountability, and transparency, informed by the university’s mission
and strategy. This strategy built on the substantial development achieved over the previous REF
cycle by further enhancing the research environment, taking account of our individual and collective
research ambitions as mid-career and senior researchers. We committed to focus on increasing the
quality and quantity of published research outputs, improving success rates of external grant
capture, and identifying, developing and managing high quality impact.

After a period of consultation through regular departmental meetings and a dedicated Away Day, we
finalised and agreed a new strategy consisting of six priorities:

   ●   To enhance the quality, character and reach of research outputs and activities;
   ●   To identify and support research projects likely to obtain external funding;
   ●   To promote engagement in research activities that impact on thinking, policies and/or
       practices in a range of contexts, nationally and internationally;
   ●   To promote equality and diversity in research activities;
   ●   To increase recruitment of high-quality students to PGR programmes, and enhance provision
       of support and training;
   ●   To foster cross-disciplinary, cross-institutional and international research collaborations.

Each priority was accompanied by several concrete actions for implementation as a means of
measuring progress. For example, enhancing the quality, character and reach of research outputs
and activities included commitments to provide regular time for research in staff workload, provision
of periods of research leave, and allocation of resources to support academic staff with research
responsibility, including the continuation of institutional funding to support research activity.

Impact Strategy
Immediately following REF2014, a Department Away Day review of current research identified six
projects with impact potential in and beyond the current cycle. The project leaders all received
internal funding for buy-out from regular duties in order to create time to produce draft ‘pathways to
impact’ documents. After reviewing these proposals, RAG selected two case studies to receive
further support and mentoring.

In order to ensure future sustainability, internal funding streams are also used strategically in order
to strengthen other pathways to impact within Departmental research activity. Colleagues are
encouraged to bid for Departmental QR money to be used for a range of activities (e.g., teaching
buy-out, research assistantships, grant-writing support, external consultancy) to create space and
time to develop the impact potential of their projects.

Implementation of Strategy
Pre-2014 structures to support individual staff research based around sub-disciplinary subject
clusters have been replaced by a more comprehensive and broad-based system of collective peer
review, both for the selection of prospective REF publications and to assist with various types of
work in progress, including publishable outputs and funding applications. Similarly, while provision
for research leave remains open to all research-active staff, further levels of accountability have
been introduced through processes of reporting to RAG and then to the departmental meeting, where
research is a standing item.



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
RAG meets six times a year to coordinate all aspects of departmental research activity, including
mechanisms for supporting, monitoring and evaluating research outputs; identifying and nurturing
impact case studies at an early stage; supporting new ideas for research funding bids; and creating
and sustaining a supportive environment for colleagues at all stages of their research careers. These
structures have had a demonstrable impact on research productivity, measured in terms of outputs,
funding, and impact:

   ●   Over the period 2014–2020, published outputs have more than doubled from the previous
       cycle. This includes significant monographs and articles in high quality journals.

   ●   Members of the Department have secured over £1.3 million in external grant income,
       compared to just under £160,000 in the previous cycle. Additionally, Scharbrodt was
       awarded a €1.9 million ERC grant prior to his appointment by Birmingham.

   ●   Pathways to impact have been strengthened through processes of identifying potential
       projects and allocating resources to release staff to develop their proposals. In addition to
       our two Impact Case Studies, we record other instances of public engagement and
       dissemination in Section 4.

We have also achieved our strategic aims in terms of equality and diversity, PGR student
recruitment, and collaborative research as discussed below. These demonstrate the successful
consolidation and development of the Department’s research culture, and provide clear evidence of
both the sustainability and the vitality of our research activity.

Research strategy beyond 2021
The Department strategy 2021–2026 responds to the University’s strategic priorities in the areas of
Health and Wellbeing, Culture and Society, and Sustainability and the Environment, while
maintaining our commitment to naming a specific set of core priorities with clear measurable actions:

   ●   Support the production of world-leading and internationally excellent research, including
       impactful research that has the potential to inform and benefit the economy, public policy
       and wider society at regional, national and international levels.
   ●   Increase our success with grant capture and support the incubation of fundable research.
   ●   Diversify our research environment and increase the recruitment of international students
       to all our PGR programmes.
   ●   Promote and integrate values of inclusion and diversity as a measure of research excellence.

 2. People

2a Staffing strategy and staff development
In keeping with the University Mission, our staffing strategy and approach to staff development derive
directly from our commitment to equality and diversity, collegiality, transparency, rigour, and
accountability. Within the particular context of a post-92 University, our strategy is especially
attentive to safeguarding research excellence against multiple competing demands for staff time and
attention. This is particularly evident in our innovative and proactive approach to the shared
ownership of research strategy, through staff recruitment, development, and joint responsibility
for the Department’s research culture.

This is evidenced by a number of features: a move towards a more transparent and results-based
emphasis in setting goals for individual research leave; an allocation of internal funding designed to
maximise opportunities to develop research and impact projects with potential for external grant
capture; and the open critical reading groups created to review and score potential REF submissions.

Staffing Strategy
As noted earlier, the strategic aims of the Department since 2014 have focused on sustainability,
providing support to colleagues at all stages of their career, including the retention and on-going

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development of high-quality senior academics. This strategy has been successful, as the
Department’s academic staffing has shown remarkable continuity from 2014–2020.

Shared ownership of research
A distinctive feature of the Department’s approach to staff development across all career stages is
our view of the development and maintenance of a vibrant research environment as a shared
responsibility. Accordingly, we have put in place structures to ensure that this is maintained. Updates
on ongoing research projects form a standing item on the departmental meeting agenda. Time is set
aside in the calendar of departmental events for peer review of works in progress and open
discussion of future research plans, something that represents perhaps the most significant step-
change in our research environment since 2014.

The current cycle has been characterised by the implementation of a robust and inclusive process
of internal peer review, in which colleagues are invited to meet together to assess and score potential
REF submissions. Responsibility for the maintenance of this review process rests with RAG, but all
members of the Department are invited to participate. This has developed into a mechanism for
discussions of pre-published work in progress, draft grant applications and impact case studies. It
also represents an important staff development opportunity as colleagues benefit both from reviews
of their own outputs and from evaluating the scholarship of others. This is a substantial time
commitment, but considered to be of sufficient importance to the Department’s shared research
culture and individual staff development to justify allocating a time allowance to all members of staff
through the Department’s workload model.

This practice is now firmly embedded in the research culture of the Department, and will be sustained
beyond this REF cycle. Moreover, these protocols for reviewing and scoring outputs have been
widely commended in Subject Associations, and adopted elsewhere. Our transparent scoring
system formed part of the University’s submission for its REF Code of Practice in June 2018.

Mentoring/Staff Development
The annual institutional Performance Development Plan (PDP), undertaken with line managers, is
the standard mechanism for reviewing staff development plans, including research. In addition,
several other strands of research mentorship and accountability are in operation.

In an effort to quickly and effectively integrate new members of staff into the Department’s research
culture, they are mentored one-to-one by a senior colleague for their first year, with a view to building
and maintaining a sustainable research trajectory. After the period of mentorship has expired, staff
are encouraged to participate in the various peer-supported research clusters that supplement the
main Department reading group, such as “writing Gyms” and peer accountability groups. These are
oriented toward setting goals and facilitating critical peer review. They have been instrumental in
raising ambitions for publication volume and quality, as well as developing initial ideas for funding
bids. For example, pieces by Dossett and Vincent included in this return developed primarily in the
context of peer supported writing sessions, and Clough’s CreatureKind project originated in a
discussion among an accountability group. Additionally, all members of staff are expected to present
to the Department research seminar on a regular basis.

Post-Doctoral Researchers (PDRs)
Within a context of relative continuity of core staffing, we have also maintained our momentum in
recruiting ECRs whose appointments have often come as a result of successful grant applications.
We are particularly conscious of our responsibility to fixed term and post-doctoral researchers in light
of our overall staffing strategy, and the challenges facing fixed-term staff members, especially
towards the ends of their contracts. A mentor is therefore allocated for the entire duration of their
period of employment, rather than the usual one-year term for permanent staff. Fixed-term staff
otherwise have access to the same levels of research support as permanent staff.

We take special care with the management and mentoring of PDRs to ensure that even though their
primary focus is research, they also benefit from carefully selected teaching and administrative
opportunities as a route towards a more senior position. This strategy has proved remarkably
                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
successful; all PDRs who have been employed in the Department between 2014–2020 have
progressed to permanent appointments (Abid, Bradford Institute for Health Research; Ali, Rutgers
University; Keady, University of Wales Trinity St David; Morgan, Sarum College, University of
Winchester; and Shanneik, University of Birmingham).

Research Leave/Research Time
In addition to the standard allocation of one day per week for research, and in keeping with the
University and Department commitment to equality, all permanent members of staff are eligible for
four months study leave every four years. A formal research leave proposal is presented to RAG for
approval, which is signed off by the Head of Department. Staff who demonstrate sufficient
justification are eligible to extend this period by an additional two months. The regular leave cycle is
funded as a normal part of the Department’s operating budget, but additional QR money has been
directed towards the funding of shorter periods of buy-out to promote additional grant writing and
impact activity, which has been utilised to good effect by e.g., Clough, Dossett, Graham, and
Vincent. This model has been a contributing factor to the increase in external funding capture over
the cycle.

All staff, regardless of contract status, are entitled to an annual staff development allowance to
support research activity (e.g. conference participation, fieldwork or archive study). The outcomes of
this funding are reported in the annual PDP.

2b. Research Students
The PGR community is an important element of the research culture of the Department and has
grown substantially since the institution gained research degree awarding powers in 2007.
Historically, TRS pioneered the provision of support and training for PGR students within the
University and is still responsible for a significant and disproportionately high number of Chester’s
PGR population (approximately 12%). An important element of our research strategy has been to
enhance the support and research environment for this constituency, evidenced by a strong, regular
programme of research training events, and the trebling of successful completions.

Recruitment
We recruit students to Chester on the basis of the disciplinary standing and international reputation
of the Department’s academics -- individually and collectively -- the scope, breadth and critical mass
of PGR students, the quality of our supervision and support (especially for part-time students) and
the vitality of the ‘learning community’ of PGR programmes.

Dedicated support and development of PGR students begins with our recruitment and admissions
policy. Prior to formal application, candidates are encouraged to seek extensive feedback on their
research proposal from an appropriate future supervisor. All applicants are then interviewed by two
members of staff before a decision is made, based on candidates’ academic suitability, potential,
and departmental capacity to provide supervision. PGR students are expected to attend both
departmental and institutional inductions, which introduce University facilities, procedures and,
crucially, the research culture of the Department. On admission, all PGR students are allocated a
principal and secondary supervisor. We ensure applicants are aware of the full range of facilities on
offer in terms of training, support, career development and study skills.

Progression
One of our central strategic aims since 2014 has been to ensure a sustainable research environment
which increased progression and completion rates of PGR students. This had two main dimensions:
ensuring full compliance with institutional frameworks for progression and monitoring; and
developing a comprehensive strategy for PGR training and formation that prepares students to
succeed during their University career and beyond. We implemented a plan aimed particularly at
retention within a diverse community which includes substantial numbers of part-time students, by
ensuring the robustness of our administrative and monitoring processes while instituting a proactive
training culture to support student flourishing.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Progression, together with quality management of the PGR experience, is enabled through a number
of supportive processes. The University Annual Progress Review system evaluates individual
progress against generic expectations appropriate to key stages of registration. Every review
requires both student and supervisor to report independently on progress, highlight problems,
identify training needs, and undertake forward planning. PhD upgrades are overseen by two
independent members of specially trained academic staff, including designated Faculty PGR tutors,
who can recommend appropriate action to address any issues identified in the review. This enables
student progress to be monitored, but also represents an independent means of student feedback
on training needs, supervision, and access to resources.

The quality of the Department’s provision is ensured through the University’s Continuous Monitoring
of Enhancement process, which includes evaluation of key metrics as well as feedback from student
liaison meetings. In addition, PGR students are represented on the Faculty Board of Studies. We
also place a premium on national measures of quality such as the annual Postgraduate Research
Experience Survey, and encourage students to participate. In 2019, this recorded overall satisfaction
in TRS provision at 94%.

Training
In order to fulfil our strategic aim to enhance the research environment for our PGR community, and
to equip them for successful completion and future employment, progression processes are
supplemented by an innovative and extensive programme designed to provide training appropriate
to PG students at every stage of their research journey. In the interest of meeting the needs of a
diverse cohort of postgraduate research students with work or family commitments, and to
encourage attendance, Departmental training is generally held on the same day as the weekly
Research Seminar series. As an important demonstration of our shared commitment to our
Postgraduate community, all members of the Department share in the provision of training.

Training sessions include core skills such as research ethics, literature reviews, qualitative data
analysis, and time management aimed at students early on in their doctoral career, as well as more
advanced topics such as getting published, conference planning, digital humanities, and the analysis
of key theoretical texts. Recordings of these training sessions are publicly available online, not only
for the benefit of our current and potential PGR students, but as a contribution to the wider Academy.

PGR students on the Doctor of Professional Studies programme are offered parallel provision by
means of termly residential research seminars, plus an annual summer school for professional
doctorate students across four HE centres of excellence in the field (Birmingham, Anglia Ruskin,
Glasgow, and Chester). Towards the end of their study period, all research students are offered a
formal mock viva.

While providing information and skills-training to support PGR students towards successful
completion, the training programme also provides sessions on employability, both in and out of the
academy.

In addition to training events, all students are required to participate in our regular programme of
research seminars. Students are also required to present a paper at the Department seminar or a
dedicated PGR symposium as a condition of their upgrade to PhD status. This is an integral aspect
of academic formation, and helps to forge the principles and practices of peer review, to the mutual
benefit of both presenter and audience. A simple but highly effective measure adopted within all our
seminars to build student confidence in a professional research environment has been to give PGR
students priority in Q&A during research seminars.

These measures have proven successful in instilling PGR candidates with the skills to participate in
national and international conferences, for which bursaries have been available to students giving
papers. Chester doctoral students have presented papers at many conferences, including AAR,
BIAPT, BNTS, EABS, ISRLC, SBL, and SOCREL.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR Outcomes
Our strategy to support PGR students at all stages of their study and beyond has been particularly
successful, as evidenced by rates of retention and completion, publication, and job placement. There
has been a strong improvement in retention, particularly in the part time constituency. We have
trebled the number of doctoral awards from 19 in the period 2008–2013 to 57 between 2014–2020.

Chester PhD and DProf students have made independent contributions to their fields through the
publication of articles in journals such as: Biblical Interpretation, Ecclesial Practices, Implicit Religion,
Journal of Anglican Studies, Journal of Global Buddhism, Journal of Jewish Studies, Journal for the
Study of the Old Testament, Journal for the Study of Religious Experience, Material Religion,
Practical Theology, Theology and Sexuality, and Studies in Higher Education.

Finally, the success of our PGR provision can be evidenced by the achievements of Chester
graduates who have been appointed to academic positions at institutions such as Durham University,
Manchester University, York St John University, Wesley House Cambridge, and the University of
Winchester, or who have been able to utilize their doctoral skills for career progression outside of
the academy, such as the current Anglican bishop of Egbu, Nigeria.

2c. Equality and Diversity
The promotion of a research environment characterised by Equality and Diversity has been one of
our key strategic aims since 2014, as well as a central topic of research for many colleagues within
the Department (e.g. Bacon, Dossett, Llewellyn, Morris, Vincent). The success of our actions can
be measured in several important publications and funded projects on Equality and Diversity issues,
the greater diversity of our PGR population, our attention to mental health and well-being as a sign
of institutional resilience, and in our efforts to overcome a gender imbalance at professorial rank.

Staff and students together represent a full range of religious belief and non-belief, and care is taken
to ensure that no disadvantage is incurred on these grounds. Similarly, staff and students who are
pregnant or with childcare responsibilities are positively supported through the appropriate HR and/or
Registry mechanisms, and a range of domestic arrangements, including but not limited to marriage
and civil partnership, may be observed among staff and students with no detriment ascribed to any
particular configuration. Gender reassignment is protected not only through the standard legal
mechanisms but also through practices such as tracking students via their preferred name and
pronoun. A wide range of ages is represented among both staff and students, and care is taken to
account for this range in the planning of departmental activities. All staff have received anti-
discrimination and implicit bias training and the Department is taking positive steps to promote
greater racial diversity within the field.

Promotion and Career Progression
Our approach to equality and diversity goes beyond the minimal commitment to ensuring that no one
is disadvantaged by virtue of protected characteristics or circumstances. We are instead concerned
to foster research excellence through encouraging and promoting research leadership from a range
of backgrounds and expertise. A key aspect of this strategy is proactive preparation for the
institutional promotions process through the annual PDP. This identifies potential gaps in career
profiles, and triggers steps to ensure colleagues are given opportunities to undertake additional
responsibilities and roles to enhance their professional skills. Colleagues involved in staff recruitment
or REF leadership are also required to undertake further specialist equality and diversity training by
the institution.

Another priority in this REF cycle was to rectify a gender imbalance at professorial level. Therefore,
we took full advantage of the University’s investment in the Athena Swan award scheme, and
encouraged members of the Department to participate in initiatives such as the Aurora Women’s
Leadership Training programme and the University women’s professorial forum. Female members
of the Department were particularly encouraged to apply for promotion with three successfully
achieving the title of Associate Professor (Bacon, Dossett, Vincent). As a result, the number of
women holding professorial titles has risen from one to four, more than half the number of Professors
in the Department.

                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We take seriously our responsibility to support all colleagues with protected characteristics, and to
address issues of under-representation. We are particularly mindful of the low representation of
scholars who identify as BAME in TRS and are taking proactive steps to address this, including a
curriculum review and series of workshops on race and decolonisation within the discipline. One sign
of successful progress in TRS Chester is that five of the seven postdocs, and two members of staff
appointed during this REF cycle, have identified as BAME. TRS staff have a diversity of family
circumstances, at least one has a declared disability, and a number of members identify as LGBTQ,
including several at Professorial level.

Wellbeing and Mental Health
There are formal processes in place across the institution for family leave, flexible working, and to
support staff and PGR students who experience illness to return to work.

In a climate across the HE sector in which the mental health of students is regarded as a major
concern, the Department has worked proactively to create a more sustainable working environment
through promoting staff and student well-being. Self-catering facilities in Hollybank enable academic
and administrative staff to meet regularly for daily morning coffee and to socialise at other times.
This has a tangible impact on the maintenance of good communications within the Department, on
the integration of new and part-time staff and PGR students into departmental culture, the
encouragement of better working practices, and a spirit of collegiality.

Recognising the increasing number of postgraduate students whose progress is impacted by mental
health difficulties, a number of staff have undertaken University-wide training in Mental Health First
Aid in order to raise awareness and develop more effective support for staff and students.
Supervisors and postgraduate tutors have been trained to be proactive in modelling practices of self-
care, and advising students of their entitlement to suspend studies with no detriment.

Using a £5000 grant to build a new knowledge transfer pathway from the Higher Power Project,
Dossett spearheaded an initiative to designate the University of Chester as a Recovery-Friendly
Campus to promote greater sensitivity towards staff and students in recovery from addiction. In
collaboration with the Home Office Recovery Champion and Public Health England, she ran a series
of workshops and briefings across the institution as part of the University’s Equality and Diversity
Festival in February 2020.

Equality and Diversity Within Postgraduate Research
The Department’s PGR recruitment strategy has sought to facilitate the participation of students from
historically under-represented backgrounds. This has meant building up a model of provision that
effectively supports a substantial cohort of mature, part-time students.

Our concern for diversity begins at the application and recruitment stage. All PGR interview panels
must include at least one academic trained in equality and diversity procedures. The Department
also organised training in unconscious bias for all its members. The typical application process
encourages prospective students to develop research proposals in consultation with prospective
supervisors, which permits staff to assess the capabilities of students whose prior record of
achievement may have been constrained by circumstances beyond their control. One external
examiner noted that the modular structure of the DProf programme, in particular, “means that the
Department offers the possibility of study at this level to students who (perhaps for reasons of
learning or career trajectories) might otherwise be excluded at admissions stage”. We have
supported students with declared disabilities, including the provision of BSL signers. Evans’s work
on the BSL Bible is also a significant contribution in this area.

Members of the Department play an active role in encouraging scholarly societies to be more
attentive to issues of equality and diversity, and the importance of extending the research base. In
his role as assistant secretary of the Society for the Study of Theology, for example, Fulford was
instrumental in establishing its Bursary Scheme for BAME scholars.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Since 2014, in response to our strategic review of research, we have overhauled our departmental
infrastructure to better promote and enhance the sustainability of our research ambitions. This
resulted in the establishment of RAG, the implementation of regular discussion of research plans at
departmental Meetings and Away days, and the development of a more robust and ambitious
approach to grant capture. This strategic deployment of resources, both human and financial, has
enabled the Department to interact with wider University strategy and infrastructure more effectively,
which undergirds our innovative research activity.

Infrastructure
Research in the Department is coordinated by RAG through the organisation of reading groups,
oversight of research leave, and provision of training and information events at Department Meetings
and Away Days.

The research activity of the Department is supported by a number of internal funding streams: in the
first instance, the Department’s staff development funding is ring-fenced to support individual
members of staff in conference attendance and research related travel. This is supplemented by the
Faculty through the provision of additional competitive research funding, from which members of
TRS have secured £17,000 over the current cycle, and University level funds, which support
international travel for research purposes; members of the Department have secured over £30,000
of this funding in the current cycle. The University’s Research and Knowledge Transfer Office
supports the writing and management of external funding bids.

The University’s library holds over 300,000 volumes, and there has been substantial recent
investment in the provision of electronic texts. TRS staff work closely with the library to ensure the
currency of holdings. The University also holds membership of library and information services
networks such as SCONUL, which greatly assists access to research materials for distance learning
PGR students.

Other additional external collections/archives complement and enhance the main University
collection. Gladstone’s Library, situated 8 miles from Chester, is an affiliate library of the University.
Its substantial historical archives and continuing acquisitions in the specialisms of theology, politics
and history represent a considerable research resource. Its residential and study facilities are
regularly used by the Department, for example DProf residential seminars and MA intensive study
blocks. The Department also benefits from a close relationship with Chester Cathedral, enabling
preferential access to its library holdings, including a substantial collection of 18th and 19th century
bibles. These have been particularly valuable to members of staff with specific interests in reception
history (Collins, Middleton).

Open Access
The University of Chester actively promotes an Open Access policy, and is committed to supporting
its researchers in making outcomes of research freely and publicly available, recognising
researchers’ freedom to choose how and where to publish outputs. In order to increase the visibility
and dissemination of its researchers, the University has a mandatory policy for research outputs,
which requires that the bibliographic metadata for and the full text of all items accepted for publication
after 1 September 2014 should be deposited in the Institution’s Repository (ChesterRep). This
ensures all research outputs are publicly available, subject to publishers’ restrictions.

Facilities
Each academic in the Department has a private office in a building dedicated to the work of TRS
(Hollybank), in which all teaching also takes place. The offices are reasonably large, equipped with
computers and other IT equipment, and ample space for bookshelves. With three good sized lecture
rooms, Hollybank is large enough to host medium-sized conferences, while the main University
campus has facilities to support larger events. This utilisation of space supports a vibrant community
of scholars engaged in an active research culture.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Visiting Lecturers have access to office space adjacent to Hollybank while PGR students have
dedicated study space provided by the University. Department and University Virtual Learning
Environment sites support research training and PGR student development. We have strong links
with a highly supportive and well-resourced University Learning Information Service, which regularly
records our research seminars and PG training sessions. These are then made publicly available on
the University website. Since Covid-19, these events have been hosted online via the University’s
virtual meeting platform.

Income Strategy
Following analysis of the outcomes of REF2014, the Department identified increasing external
research income as a major priority for the future. We determined to invest in an open, transparent
and effective infrastructure that would support and generate excellent research in terms of outputs,
impact, and grant capture. We quickly realised the process put in place for reviewing and
supporting publication could also be effectively employed to provide support for grant bids at all
stages, from inception to application. In addition, the Department allocated time in the workload of
three fixed-term postdoctoral researchers to assist staff in pursuing external funding applications.

We also put in place a series of competitive internal seed funding schemes to enable colleagues to
adopt a more strategic approach to bidding for externally funded projects. When potential projects
have been identified, QR funding is invested to release colleagues from regular duties to work on
projects with both impact and research grant capture potential at all stages of their development.
Funds may also be invested in paying for external review. This has been driven by an explicit
recognition of the long-term development of such projects as significant and valid activities for
research-active staff, both during ‘normal’ periods of research time and as the basis of applications
for regular study leave.

Our commitment to collegiality is demonstrated by substantial staff time investment in reading
groups, which review drafts of bids on a regular basis. Our processes are responsive to different
application procedures. For example, mock interviews are held where these are required by funding
bodies. This process, particularly the mock interview, was particularly effective in supporting
Scharbrodt in the preparation of his European Research Council application on transnational Shia
Islam, for which he secured a grant of €1.9 million in 2017, prior to his appointment at Birmingham.

Further success of our process is demonstrated by Clough’s £458K award from the AHRC for his
Christian Ethics of Farmed Animal Welfare project. Several rounds of funding were allocated to him
to develop the preparatory work, and then write the bid, in consultation with external mentoring and
review. At the same time, TRS and Faculty provision of staff development funds was crucial in
enabling Clough to attend international conferences which were instrumental in establishing
networks that resulted in the funding success for the related impact project (CreatureKind,
US$749K).

Other substantial grants have been awarded to Scharbrodt (Gerda Henkel Foundation, £210K),
Vincent (AHRC, £200K jointly with Manchester Metropolitan University; Templeton Religion Trust
£163K) and Tee (Templeton Religion Trust, £151K). Members of the Department have also received
smaller amounts from various funding bodies, including the Archbishops’ Council/William Temple
Foundation (Morris, £51K), Church Universities Fund (Middleton, £20K), Sir Halley Stewart Trust
(Dossett, £26K), AHRC (Baker, £12K), US Farm Forward (Clough, £11K)

The overall success of our strategic focus on increasing external funding has been dramatic. In this
REF cycle the Department’s external grant capture has risen significantly from £160,000 in the
previous REF cycle to more than £1.3 million in this REF cycle, not including Scharbrodt’s €1.9
million grant, won while he was at Chester.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our strategy since 2014 has sought to create a research environment which encourages individual
colleagues to enhance their professional reputations as subject experts and disciplinary leaders in
order to increase the visibility and influence of the Department as a whole.

Evidence of the success of this strategy is measured in the number of colleagues who have assumed
higher levels of responsibility and influence in scholarly societies, and undertaken other senior
research roles. Overall, as a result of our investment in a supportive and inclusive research
environment, there has been a dramatic increase not only in research outputs and funding, but
also leadership of learned societies, editorships, keynote invitations, and a range of research-related
public engagement.

Contribution to Discipline
A key element in the Department’s research strategy is to encourage and celebrate the role individual
researchers fulfil in national and international networks. Evidence of the growing prominence and
seniority of TRS Chester, both individually and collectively, is our substantial contribution to the
sustainability of the discipline through various forms of scholarly activity.

Leadership of Learned Societies
Since 2014, the increasing influence and reputation of TRS Chester has been reflected in the
prominence of Chester scholars within leadership positions in national and international bodies, with
full support and approval of the University. Chester TRS academics now occupy leadership positions
in many scholarly societies. Clough was President of the Society for the Study of Christian Ethics
(2014–18) and is due to become Vice President of the Society for the Study of Theology in April
2021, Vincent is currently President of the International Society for Religion, Literature and Culture
(2018–present), Middleton is Secretary of the European Association of Biblical Studies (2018–
present), and former Secretary of the British New Testament Society (2011–17), and Fulford is
Assistant Secretary of the Society for the Study of Theology (2019–present). In addition, virtually all
members of the Department serve in other leadership roles (committee members, conference
steering committees, programme leadership) in scholarly societies, such as AAR, BASR, BIAPT,
BNTS, BSA, EABS, SOTS, SOCRel, SBL, and SST. Chester also contributes significantly to the
health of the discipline nationally; both Dossett and Clough have served on the TRS-UK executive
board, and Graham is a patron of the same organisation.

Engagement with other HEIs
Chester TRS research expertise is in demand both nationally and internationally. Members of the
Department have given more than 80 invited lectures and seminar papers across North America,
Europe, Australia/New Zealand, and Asia, including: Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Edinburgh, St
Andrews, Durham, Harvard Law School, Princeton Theological Seminary, Hong Kong Chinese
University, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam and Uppsala University, and in 2019–20 Clough undertook
a substantial lecture tour of North America and Australia.

Chester academics are active in various forms of external research assessment. Senior colleagues
have acted as external reviewers for Professorial appointments for institutions such as: Aberdeen,
Birmingham, Exeter, Protestant Theological University Groningen (Netherlands), Richmond
University (USA), and National Research Foundation (South Africa). TRS staff serve as reviewers
for a number of funding bodies, such as the Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland,
Leverhulme, the British Academy, the National Science Centre (Poland), Swiss National Science
Foundation, and the Israel Science Foundation. Staff have also been singled out for honours such
as visiting fellowships at the University of Ghent (Llewellyn), Centre of Theological Inquiry, Princeton
(Middleton), and Goethe University, Frankfurt (Vincent).

Members of the Department have examined over 40 doctorates at institutions such as Aberdeen,
Cambridge, Edinburgh, Glasgow, King’s College London, London School of Economics,
Manchester, Nottingham, Åbo University (Finland), Leiden University (Netherlands), Lutheran
School of Theology (Chicago), and University of Oslo (Norway), and have served as external

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
examiners for postgraduate programmes at Glasgow, Queen’s University Belfast, Aberdeen,
University of Wales Trinity St David, and Durham.

Editorships and Commissioning
Chester TRS Staff take leading roles in shaping research in their respective fields through editorial
and commissioning responsibilities for journals, including Studies in Christian Ethics (Clough),
Bulletin for the Study of Religion (Dossett), International Journal of Practical Theology (Graham),
Practical Theology (Morris), Jewish Culture & History and Literature & Theology (Vincent, Reviews),
and book series such as Scriptural Traces (Bloomsbury/T&T Clark; Collins); Theology in Practice
(Brill; Graham); and Bloomsbury Series in Religion, Gender & Sexuality (Llewellyn). Members also
serve on editorial boards for book series and journals such as ‘The Bible and Critical Theory’
(Middleton, Wipf and Stock), ‘Studies in Ancient Religion and Culture’ (Middleton, Equinox),
‘Philosophy and Religion’ (Vincent, Brill), Journal for the Study of Religious Experience (Dossett),
International Journal of Public Theology (Graham), Journal for Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies
(Llewellyn, Vincent), Sociology of Islam (Tee), and the Journal for the Study of Interreligious
Relations (Vincent).

Chester’s reputation as an acknowledged centre of excellence in research is demonstrated by the
number of conferences and professional meetings which it has hosted in this REF cycle, as well as
by its appeal to international scholars as a destination for sabbaticals and study leave. Chester has
hosted over 10 conferences and symposia, including the annual meetings of British Association for
the Study of Religion, The Bible, Critical Theory and Reception Seminar, and the British New
Testament Society. The International Society for Religion, Literature and Culture was scheduled for
September 2020 but postponed due to Covid-19.

In addition, Chester staff are in high demand as speakers, delivering over 80 keynotes and invited
lectures, including the Edward Bailey Annual Memorial Lecture (Llewellyn); Association of Practical
Theology in Oceania (Graham); Nordic Committee on Bioethics (Clough); University of Wales
Trinity St David Interfaith Symposium (Dossett, Morris, Vincent); Annual Karl Barth Conference,
Princeton Centre for Barth Studies (Clough): British Sociological Association SocRel (Llewellyn);
Didsbury Lectures (Graham); Finnish Association of Death Studies (Middleton); Welsh Government
Living Room Annual Lecture (Dossett); Faces and Voices of Recovery Annual Conference
(Dossett); and Alister Hardy Religious Experience Research Centre Annual Lecture (Dossett).

Contribution to Wider Society
Embedded within the Chester TRS research strategy is a strong commitment to engage with external
stakeholders and wider society, which is credited through workload planning. Financial support for
these activities is made available through staff development funding, as well as competitive Faculty
and University Knowledge Transfer funding. In particular we have cultivated collaborative
relationships with media, faith communities, and schools as a natural outworking of and stimulus for
our research activity.

Media
The Department encourages members to promote their research expertise more widely through
engagement with the media. It supports this by periodic media training, provided either by University
staff or external consultants. Chester TRS staff contribute regularly to the public understanding of
religion through participation in, for example: BBC Television and Radio (Songs of Praise, Beyond
Belief, Sunday Sequence), Premier Christian Radio, Australian Broadcasting Corporation, Voice of
Islam, and Al Jazeera. We are also an expert resource for journalists in both national and local print
media, such as The Guardian, the Church Times, US Catholic Herald, and the Chester Chronicle.
Social media also plays a key role in promoting staff research: in addition to individual staff social
media profiles, activities such as publications, public lectures, and interventions in ongoing debates
are routinely aggregated and disseminated through the Department Twitter, Instagram, and
Facebook pages.

The Department’s media engagement strategy is aimed at making significant interventions in debate
and agenda-setting. For example, Graham’s research on the Sea of Faith archive at Gladstone’s

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Library fuelled interest from a radio producer in the work of Don Cupitt, resulting in a BBC Radio 4
programme broadcast in March 2019. Similarly, Llewellyn’s work with Chester Storyhouse has
produced a steady stream of local events which have centred on questions of religion and women’s
agency.

Faith Communities
The University of Chester has an Anglican Foundation, which is reflected in the Department’s
approach to community engagement. Several TRS staff (Clough, Evans, Fulford, Graham,
Middleton, Vincent) have undertaken collaborative initiatives with local, national and international
faith constituencies (Church of Scotland, Methodist Church, Church of England, Council for
Christians and Jews, Limmud). These have led to sustained and tangible outcomes in the form of
educational events, publications and policy initiatives, such as Middleton’s Church University
funded Sexuality and Anglican Identities Project, in partnership with Chester Cathedral; and
Clough’s CreatureKind Initiative, which seeks to encourage Christian organisations to adopt policies
advocating sustainable farming and default vegetarianism at local, regional, and national levels.

Similarly, Graham’s appointment in 2014 as Canon Theologian of Chester Cathedral provided a
forum for her to communicate her research specialisms—including laity development, ecclesiology,
apologetics and public theology—to a popular audience. Her 2015 lecture, ‘Whatever Happened to
the Laity?’ was instrumental in her appointment to the national Archbishops’ Task Group on Lay
Leadership (2016–17), and was subsequently published in Ecclesiology (2017). Her research
comprehensively informed the Group’s report, Setting God’s People Free (2017), and was followed
by a number of speaking engagements around the country, including a conference at Lambeth
Palace, to help advance the Church of England’s continuing work in lay discipleship.

Schools
A key aspect of the Unit’s involvement with organisations and institutions beyond higher education
has been its success in putting specific research expertise at the disposal of external groups either
through consultancy, membership of working parties or in-service training. A particularly noteworthy
aspect of this has been our engagement with schools. Research expertise within TRS informs the
school curriculum and enables members of the Department to exercise direct influence on other
sectors of education. Llewellyn’s consultancy work on the BBC ‘Bitesize’ Religious Studies series
was instrumental in ensuring the currency and accuracy of their learning resource across all key
stages. Middleton served on the HE Advisory Group for the Welsh Exam Board’s revision of their
A-Level and GCSE syllabus for Religious Studies, while Dossett provided key evidence to the
national Commission on Religious Education’s report “Religion and Worldviews: the way forward”.
Vincent currently serves as a representative on the West Cheshire Standing Acting Council for
Religious Education. Department members continue to provide RE training and resources for school
students and teachers in areas such as A-level study days, CPD for teachers, level 7 stand-alone
modules, and the popular ‘Christian Controversies’ conference hosted annually by Chester
Cathedral.

These relationships enabled us to make a distinctive and significant contribution to A-Level teaching
during the COVID-19 lockdown. We rapidly addressed the disruption to students’ studies by
providing a series of live webinars featuring members of the Department. These were
enthusiastically received by teachers and pupils alike, and have been viewed more than 3,500 times.

Culture of Collaboration and Interdisciplinary Research
The Department actively supports its members in interdisciplinary research. Colleagues have taken
leadership roles or participated in interdisciplinary research projects such as Gothic Heresy:
Investigating Religious Experience and Religious Knowledge in Contemporary Horror (Vincent), and
in University interdisciplinary centres, such as the Institute for Gender Studies (Bacon, Graham,
Vincent), of which Llewellyn was the founding Associate Director. Others have worked across
institutions, in projects such as the British Ritual Innovation under Covid-19 project run in
collaboration with Performance Studies at Manchester Metropolitan (Vincent), or the Bible and
World War I project organised with representatives from Biblical Studies and History from Chester,


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cambridge, and Munich (Collins, Vincent), and the Finnish Association of Death Studies
(Middleton).

In conjunction with Gladstone’s Library, TRS offers an annual Gladstone Research Fellowship which
provides a three-month term of access to archive collections and departmental research facilities.
Preference is given to visiting scholars whose research expertise complements those of the
Department in order to promote further collaborative networking. Our departmental culture
encourages the establishment of both national and international collaborative links, and in addition
to TRS Chester staff’s international activity discussed above, we have also hosted international
scholars from Norway, Malta, Turkey, Kenya, Canada, Sweden, the United States, and Australia,
greatly enriching and sustaining our already vibrant research environment.




                                                                                           Page 14
