Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 25 – Area Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Area Studies at Sussex is centred on the Department of Politics, which currently consists of 14
 FTE REF-eligible academic staff on research and teaching contracts, one REF-eligible
 independent researcher, two staff on non-research contracts (one of whom does not conduct
 research, but plays an important role in amplifying the external impact of our research), and 18
 doctoral researchers, based in the School of Law, Politics and Sociology.

 The Department’s research focuses on the thematic area of comparative governance, including
 clusters working on corruption and regulation; migration and citizenship; and representative
 democracy and party politics. We seek to describe, analyse and evaluate challenges to
 contemporary governance, whether they derive from corruption, European (dis-)integration,
 migration, economic crisis, or democratic institutions and processes. The Department is
 international in its approach, collaborating with academic and non-academic partners worldwide
 to enhance the quality and impact of its research. It routinely hosts international visiting scholars
 and practitioners with whom collaborations are developed.

 Our approach to comparative governance is multi-disciplinary in that it features the work of
 contemporary historians, sociologists and political economists as well as political scientists,
 enhanced by its relationships within the School, its engagement with and leading role in the
 University research centres referred to below, and its long-lasting networks of international
 academics. The single most important development since REF 2014 is the emergence of the
 Centre for the Study of Corruption as a unique and globally leading entity for research and
 knowledge exchange in the field of corruption and its regulation.

 Context
 Area Studies at Sussex has maintained and developed the research themes that were already
 present in REF 2014, while extending its geographical focus beyond Europe - its traditional
 strength. The strategic aim of producing high quality and policy-relevant research that crosses
 national boundaries remains unchanged. The unit now has particular research strengths in
 comparative politics, encompassing electoral and party politics, policy studies, and migration and
 citizenship. The major development since 2014 has been the expansion of our ground-breaking
 work on corruption.

 Three interdisciplinary research centres provide hubs for Politics faculty: the Centre for the
 Study of Corruption (CSC); the Sussex European Institute (SEI); and the Sussex Centre for
 Migration Research (SCMR). The first two of these are formally based in the School of LPS,
 while the latter is currently led from the School of Global Studies. To our knowledge, the CSC is
 the largest interdisciplinary university-based research centre on corruption in Europe.

 All our research clusters engage with, and produce research that is relevant to, governments,
 international organisations, the media, NGOs and business. The longest established of our
 research centres, the SEI, has always operated a strategy of producing ambitious scholarship
 that pushes forward the conceptual and theoretical boundaries of knowledge, while making its
 research policy-relevant and accessible to a wide range of non-academic audiences, including
 policymakers in national parliaments, government departments and the EU, think tanks, NGOs,
 the media and the business community. A recent example is a workshop on the extra-
 territoriality of EU law for academics and EU officials.

 This objective of policy-relevant multi-disciplinary research has also consciously shaped the
 SCMR and the new CSC, with strong links already being forged with government departments
 (DfID, Cabinet Office and Home Office), the EU, law enforcement agencies, think tanks, NGOs
 and the legal profession, as David-Barrett’s impact case study shows. Such links are mutually

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 beneficial – sharing and enhancing research expertise and understanding –and have led to
 engagement and consultancy that feed directly into policy development for these beneficiaries.

 Research strategy
 Our research strategy is built around three pillars, in continuity with those set out in REF 2014:
    1. to generate and support internationally excellent research that benefits from, and is
        valuable to, policy practitioners, the media and the wider public, as well as the academic
        community
    2. to recruit and train an ambitious and sustainable community of research students, with a
        thorough grounding in rigorous research standards, who will become integral to the next
        generation of scholars and practitioners
    3. through the above, to contribute to the political, economic and social wellbeing of the
        citizenry of Europe and beyond.

 We have deliberately widened the Department’s thematic and geographical focus, a decision
 driven by the desire to develop research and consultancy on governance challenges that exist
 across several world regions. Central to this has been the goal of growing our body of work on
 corruption and regulation, which necessarily incorporates, but takes us beyond, a concentration
 on Europe. In significant part, this is because it entails research on interactions between
 European donor governments and non-European recipients (see David-Barrett’s impact case
 study). Reflecting the wider focus, new appointments have been made (10 in all since 2013).
 The Department has also invested in staff development; diversified its research income; built
 strategic links with academic and practitioner partners; and invested in interdisciplinary research
 centres (see below for details). Investment in corruption-related appointments has meant that
 this staff component has grown relative to the other clusters, although the latter remain important
 to retaining a balanced and diverse research culture.

 The SEI received significant seedcorn funding to kickstart collaborative research grant proposals
 (for example, on Euroscepticism after Brexit) and to organise publication workshops (for
 example, on Brexit and gender).

 The CSC launched a series of activities to foster greater research collaborations among faculty,
 initiated a working paper series, strengthened its offering of professional development courses,
 appointed a new Professor of Anti-Corruption Practice, engaged with wider anti-corruption
 debates through the CSC blog, and established a strategic collaboration with the Basel Institute
 of Governance, which is headed by Professor Mark Pieth, previously Chair of the OECD Anti-
 Bribery Working Group. As part of the latter collaboration, we have organised three week-long
 joint seminars, two in Basel and one at Sussex.

 The SCMR organises a thriving research seminar and an annual conference with speakers from
 across the globe, and attendance of over 100 participants. Both of these are financially
 supported by the world-leading Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, which is edited by a
 team at Sussex, including James Hampshire, the Deputy Editor.

 Our strategy has led to significant success across the Department. In total, we have raised
 nearly £1.8 million in external research funding, a 40% increase on the previous REF cycle
 (£1.29 million), including some notable successes – see Section 3 for more detail.

 Impact strategy
 The activities set out in the previous section are central to achieving impact, along with other
 features of our strategy, such as the practitioner fellowship scheme, continuing professional
 development training, consultancy and pro bono work. The support system and infrastructure
 that has been developed to underpin this is described in Section 3 (below), but here we set out
 the key elements of our impact strategy and work.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Building individual capacity & improving researchers’ impact skills
 We seek to develop the 'impact-awareness' of researchers through management of the research
 process. Staff take part in training and workshops on the nature of impact and engagement
 work, communication with policy audiences, and on gathering evidence of impact. We also
 provide bespoke sessions for early-career academics and research students, and put in
 place mechanisms such as the assessment of impact plans of all new research funding
 proposals (as part of an internal peer review process).

 Impact discussion forms part of the annual appraisal process for each individual faculty member,
 while their personal research plans (which roll forward over a five-year planning horizon) take
 explicit account of how research may target particular users or communities and the types of
 impact strategy that might best promote engagement with them. We have appointed staff with a
 view to their potential for enhancing the impact of our research, including Robert Barrington, who
 was not appointed to conduct research himself, but whose background as former CEO of
 Transparency International made him an ideal conduit between our researchers and external
 policy practitioners.

 Beyond the School-level support for impact set out below, David-Barrett has served as the
 Department’s own impact leader, in which role she has produced a briefing for colleagues on
 what impact means, provided advice to colleagues on maximising impact from research,
 engaged with LPS management to ensure that impact is supported through access to additional
 funds, taken part in University Impact Days, and contributed to research grant applications.

 Sharing good practice between research centres
 The SEI and CSC are closely linked through co-location in the same School and Department, as
 well as an overlap of personnel, so are well placed to learn from each other's best practices. The
 SCMR is led from Global Studies, but includes active members from across LPS, who contribute
 towards its longstanding tradition of world-leading interdisciplinary research on migration.

 Practitioner fellows
 Area Studies has continued to attract a special category of visitor to Sussex: the practitioner
 fellows, who come from the world of policymaking both to enhance the understanding of our
 academics and to learn from them. This tradition goes back to the foundation of the SEI in 1992,
 and has been personified by its directors over the years: Dame Helen Wallace and Professor
 Jim Rollo OBE were both civil servants before they were academics, while Professor Aleks
 Szczerbiak was previously a political consultant.

 Currently, the SEI has two visiting academic fellows, Professor Brigid Fowler of the Hansard
 Society and Professor Jarek Pietras of the Council of the EU. In this REF cycle, the CSC has
 appointed Robert Barrington, the former Executive Director of Transparency International, as
 Professor of Anti-Corruption Practice, while Professor David-Barrett was a journalist. The CSC
 has also hosted practitioner fellows from industry, NGOs and government, including Dr Sue
 Hawley (Policy Director of Corruption Watch), Roger Best (Head of Fraud Investigations at
 Clifford Chance Solicitors), Jake Storey (Strategic Advisor at TRACE International), and
 Benjamin Hoff (Minister of Culture, Thuringia, Germany).

 Engaging with practitioners through events
 Most of the research centres’ major conferences, workshops and related activities involve, or are
 targeted at, practitioners. SEI staff were involved in book launches at the Polish Embassy and
 related cultural centres (2018), a report for MEPs at the European Parliament (2018), a
 workshop on the politics of asylum, immigration and Europe (2016). They also generated the
 regular publication of the Elections, Parties & Referendums Network briefings and blogs on
 elections in Europe, and the Euroscope newsletter, which are distributed to academics and
 practitioners.




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Specific research projects have also involved major engagement events. For example, Webb’s
 party organisation database project included a major launch conference for academics,
 journalists, politicians and think-tankers in Duesseldorf in May 2017. The policy-relevant
 approach of the SEI is continued by the CSC, whose major launch conference was held in
 conjunction with Transparency International UK in Canary Wharf in 2012. Similar events have
 been held in subsequent years during the REF2021 cycle. Other events have included a
 graduate conference on corruption (2015); an alumni event (2017) for Sussex graduates working
 in anti-corruption; a roundtable on collective action against corruption held in London in 2017
 with speakers from industry, think tanks and academia; a ‘research showcase’ event hosted by a
 City law firm in 2020; and a ‘blog symposium’ that David-Barrett coedited in Public
 Administration Review, which brought together posts from practitioners and academics about
 how to re-think corruption.

 CPD training for practitioners
 The relevant research centres at Sussex also disseminate and transfer research findings into
 practice through continuing professional development (CPD) training for practitioners. Most
 notably, the CSC now provides teaching on a part-time LLM in Corruption, Law and Governance
 co-hosted by the Rule of Law and Anti-Corruption Centre in Qatar. In January 2020, the CSC
 launched an online MA in Corruption and Governance, which allows practitioners to study
 alongside their employment. CSC staff have also delivered tailored training to the South Korea
 Anti-Corruption Agency and Saudi Anti-Corruption Agency, and have taught at an Organization
 for Security and Co-operation in Europe workshop specifically for Transparency International
 staff.

 David-Barrett has undertaken extensive work on procurement analytics and reform for economic
 donor governments, as set out in her impact case study. Most recently, this has resulted in a
 new CSC contract with the Home Office (issued in December 2020) for research on corruption in
 a domestic UK context. Worth £111,000, this work builds on previous Home Office research on
 economic crime in the UK, but will provide in-depth understanding of the nature and impact of
 corruption in eight particular sectors, and how it might be better prevented and mitigated.
 Additional reviews have also been commissioned on Scotland and Northern Ireland.

 Consultancy projects and pro bono advice
 SEI and CSC researchers contribute to impact on policy through consultancy projects and pro
 bono advice. There are various examples of this, which are set out in Section 4 below. David-
 Barrett’s impact case study highlights the CSC researchers’ ground-breaking engagement with
 various governments around the world. Other examples of consultancy and advice provided by
 SEI and CSC researchers are given in Section 4 below.

 Community engagement and media work
 Politics faculty at Sussex have been heavily involved in various forms of community engagement
 and media work. Again, there are many examples of this, some of which are outlined in Section
 4. Webb’s impact case study on party membership research serves as a notable example of
 media engagement.

 Supporting development of REF case studies
 Considerable time is required to develop and evidence impact case studies for REF2021.
 This has been assisted by the appointment of a senior member of the Department (David-
 Barrett) to work with colleagues as an Impact Coordinator, and the impact support teams
 provided by the School and the University (see below). These initiatives have been
 designed to help develop impact case narratives and collect evidence, including sourcing
 testimonies, to demonstrate change and impact

 Open Research
 Open access is integral to our commitment to public engagement. We have sought to go beyond
 the REF open access requirements by fostering a culture of open access. Open access policies

                                                                                          Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 are explained in research induction and are addressed in personal research planning meetings,
 supported by a range of information provided to departmental meetings and by the University’s
 Research Quality and Impact services. Compliance with open access requirements and the
 University statement on open access is formally achieved through Sussex Research Online
 (SRO). Placing items on SRO has become an integral part of the publications process. In the
 assessment period since 2013, 240 items were placed on SRO by Politics Department members
 (including PhD students and visitors), generating more than 24,000 downloads. Articles in peer-
 reviewed journals have been published on a Gold Open Access basis wherever dedicated
 project or University funds permit, or otherwise on Green Open Access basis. Faculty are also
 encouraged to make their research open access through other platforms such as academia.edu
 and researchgate.net. We encourage the posting of research data in a publicly available format
 with a Creative Commons Licence, and data sets that our researchers have generated are
 available for downloading in some cases. Webb’s Political Party Dataset, for example, has been
 downloaded in its various versions from the project website more than 12,500 times since 2017.
 Other datasets, such as the Party Membership Project (see Webb’s impact case study) are
 available through the UK Data Archive.

 2. People

 During the period 2014-2021, the Department made a number of appointments to develop
 strategic research areas. The study of comparative politics was strengthened by Dooley
 (comparative political economy), Power (comparative party finance) as well as Annesley and
 Moss (both gender and politics), while corruption analysis benefitted from appointing David-
 Barrett, Bratu, Power, and the former Executive Director of Transparency International,
 Barrington (on a non-research contract), as well as a postdoctoral researcher (18-month post,
 Ciara McCorley) in 2016-17. Barrington is not an active researcher himself, but his unique value
 to the Department lies in his capacity to help disseminate the Department’s research to other
 practitioners outside academia. The Department is multi-disciplinary, with a core of political
 scientists, plus contemporary historians (Robinson and Moss), sociologists (Bratu), French
 Studies (Collard) and political economists (Avdagic and Dooley).

 The Department is committed to nurturing the research talent of existing members of staff.
 Thanks to our supportive and collegial culture, we have an excellent staff retention rate. The fact
 that only three permanent members of staff have left since 2014 - Oppermann to a Chair in
 Germany, Hellmann to a Senior Lectureship in New Zealand (both reluctant departures
 motivated in significant part by concerns over Brexit), and Annesley to Dean of Arts & Social
 Sciences at the University of New South Wales after a period as Head of Politics and PVC
 Equalities & Diversity at Sussex - is testament to this. Our impressive record of promotions since
 2014 also bears witness to how research careers have been successfully developed. Between
 2014-2020, the Department has seen two promotions to Chair (David-Barrett and Oppermann),
 two promotions from Senior Lecturer to Reader (Oppermann and Hampshire), four promotions
 from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer (David-Barrett, Diwakar, Hellmann, Robinson) and Dooley and
 Moss have both moved from fixed-term to permanent contracts. Through appointments and
 promotions, we have achieved a good balance of current REF-eligible staff in terms of seniority:
 four lecturers, five senior lecturers, one reader, and five professors. We have also improved the
 Department’s gender profile: three of five new appointments since 2014 have been women; in
 addition, we supported staff through three maternity leaves since 2014, for example by providing
 a term of study leave on return from maternity leave. We now have one person of colour in the
 Department, plus three non-British white Europeans (and two others who left the Department
 during the REF cycle). Two of the Department’s members (Webb and Hampshire) have served
 as Directors of Research for the School of Law, Politics and Sociology, while Szczerbiak has
 served as Director of Doctoral Studies for the School’s research students.

 The Department provides research development support at all career stages, for example,
 through a ‘research buddy’ scheme (in which pairs of staff team up to review each other’s
 research ideas), research seminars, research away days, a mentor programme for early-career
 researchers, annual personal research progress meetings, annual appraisals, and a research

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 leave policy which entitles staff to apply for a semester’s research leave once every three years.
 We have also promoted an increase in the level and diversity of research income—for example,
 through teaching buy-outs, seedcorn funding, and internal peer review of grant applications. We
 promote and support international collaborations through visiting fellow and visiting practitioner
 schemes. The SEI currently has six visiting academic fellows (including Dame Helen Wallace of
 the LSE and Professor Nat Copsey of Aston University, College d’Europe and the Foreign &
 Commonwealth Office) and two visiting practitioner fellows (see above). Earlier in the REF cycle,
 it also hosted Professor Masahiro Iwasaki (Nihon University, Tokyo) and Professor Fortunato
 Musella (Universita Federico II, Naples). The Department has continued its tradition of attracting
 funded postdoctoral fellows, with Annika Hennl coming from Frankfurt on DFG (German
 Research Foundation) funding in 2014; Erica Consterdine moving from her PhD to a Research
 Fellowship on the Temper project listed below; and Marino de Luca arriving from the University
 of Calabria on a Marie (Sklodowska) Curie Fellowship in 2019.

 The effectiveness of these support structures is reflected in the quality and multi-disciplinary
 variety of the journals in which our staff publish their research. These include: The European
 Journal of Political Research; Comparative Political Studies; British Journal of Political Science;
 West European Politics; Political Studies; Electoral Studies; Governance; Political Geography;
 Journal of European Public Policy; The Journal of Ethnic & Migration Studies; The British
 Journal of Industrial Relations; The Slavonic & East European Review; Crime, Law & Social
 Change; World Development; New Political Economy; Public Integrity; Contemporary British
 History; Journal of the History of Ideas; and Europe-Asia Studies.

 Staff have also had significant funding success (see below) and have held prestigious research
 fellowships. For example, Hellmann was appointed a POSCO Fellow at the East-West Center in
 2016, while Hampshire and McGowan gained fellowships for research visits at the Berlin Social
 Science Center (WZB) and Carleton University, Ottawa, respectively (both in 2015). Webb was a
 Visiting Fellow at Nihon University, Tokyo in 2018.

 The Department has a thriving community of research students. Between 2014-2020, we have
 supervised 28 PhD researchers through to successful completion of their doctorates, while 19
 are currently registered. Thirteen of the current members of academic staff have been involved
 in supervisions. Students have received funding from a variety of external sources, including the
 Economic and Social Research Council, the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, and
 national funding bodies in China, Mexico and Saudi Arabia. Each research cluster is represented
 in the range of thesis topics, with work on corruption around the globe, migration, refugees and
 citizenship rights, economic and political transitions in Eastern and Central Europe, and various
 aspects of party politics, including electoral turnout and administration, party membership, and
 the impact of social media on campaigning. We provide effective support structures to nurture
 PhD students in their career development—for example, an induction programme, training in
 research methods and teaching skills, an annual review scheme, regular away days on a variety
 of topics (for example, how to get published, how to develop a media profile), and teaching
 opportunities. The effectiveness of these structures is evidenced in the success of our PhD
 students in getting published in peer-reviewed journals (including Journal of European Public
 Policy, British Politics, Commonwealth & Comparative Politics, and East Asian Studies),
 contributing to knowledge exchange (for instance, https://cspl.blog.gov.uk/author/rebecca-
 dobson-phillips/) and in receiving job appointments at leading universities (Exeter, Birkbeck,
 Lancaster, Sheffield, Akita International University Japan, and Linnaeus University in Sweden),
 think tanks (Electoral Reform Society, International IDEA), and the Civil Service Fast Stream.

 Our PGRs are considered partners in creating a vibrant LPS research culture. Provision for
 postgraduate research in LPS is based on internationally-recognised academic expertise, active
 and responsive supervision, and a positive research culture that spans students and academic
 faculty. The School has an overarching commitment to nurturing doctoral researchers able to
 produce advanced research and develop critical frames for thinking and analysis. They are
 equipped with well-honed professional skills, all of which should establish a solid basis for a
 research-based career either within or beyond academia. PGR training needs are identified in

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conjunction with supervisors at the beginning of the first year of the doctorate and are met, in
 large part, through access to the training and skills opportunities available to LPS PGRs within
 the MSc in Social Research Methods. Funds are available to send research students to more
 specialised methods training (e.g., analysis summer schools).

 Postgraduate researchers in the Department are integrated into, and contribute to, the School’s
 overall research culture. The School’s departments and research centres have vibrant
 programmes of seminars, workshops, discussion groups and conferences in which doctoral
 students are encouraged to present alongside faculty and externally invited specialists. The
 research students themselves also organise social events, debates and seminars on relevant
 issues, including a national graduate conference on corruption and a major interdisciplinary
 conference for academics and practitioners on Latin America, which one of our PhD scholars,
 (Lara Otaola) organised in 2014. As a consequence, PGRs in LPS represent a large and lively
 postgraduate research community into which Politics and Area Studies research students are
 well-integrated and in which they play a full and active role. The School also encourages PGRs
 to present their work at national and international conferences and operates a conference
 support funding scheme for PGR students that is designed to complement those run by the
 Doctoral School and research councils, and to promote active contributions in specialist,
 generally disciplinary and postgraduate conferences in the UK and abroad

 Underpinning the development of research careers for faculty and PhD students is our Equality
 and Diversity Policy. The School of Law, Politics & Sociology (LPS) has an Equality and
 Diversity (E&D) Committee, set up in 2015, made up of representatives of academic and
 professional services staff from all LPS departments, to cover as many protected and other
 relevant characteristics as possible. The Committee seeks to ensure that equality and diversity
 are integrated into all LPS structures and processes. The Chair is a member of the LPS senior
 management team, and reports to the monthly meeting. The Committee’s first Equality and
 Diversity Strategy (2017-2020) adopted an evidence-based framework (developed by LPS
 researchers, the Changing University Cultures collective) through which institutions and units
 can nurture capacities in contemporary higher education, namely: self-awareness; honesty;
 action; political consciousness; and empathy. The E&D Strategy has set in motion a process of
 cultural change in the School, aiming to nurture strong positive cultures that are more conducive
 to equality and diversity, to ensure policies and processes are more effective and that the
 wellbeing of staff is enhanced. The work of the Committee is informed by Sussex data on
 promotions, pay and ethnicity, and from staff surveys which have revealed problems with
 bullying and harassment and access and support issues for disabled staff. The Committee has
 commissioned and implemented training (on conduct and communication; disability awareness;
 and understanding the impacts of micro-aggressions in the work-place) and assisted with staff
 members’ requests for reasonable adjustments to support their research productivity. The
 Committee has reviewed the School probation processes to ensure that targets are consistent
 and fair and its Chair is a member of the promotions committee. The School has conducted an
 anonymous survey on the differential impact on staff of COVID, the lockdown and restrictions on
 teaching and research; in response, the Committee is offering support and guidance as School
 policies are developed, especially in respect of the intersection of dealing with COVID and caring
 responsibilities. Building on the first strategy, the 2020-23 Equality and Diversity Action Plan
 adopts an intersectional approach that addresses all of the protected characteristics under the
 Equality Act 2010 and has extended its remit to include socio-economic background.

 The Department seeks to develop all its staff to their fullest potential. Support for flexible working
 integrates the recently created University Flexible Working Policy. The Chair of the School
 Promotions Committee, together with HR, reviews all special circumstances statements to
 ensure that the promotions process is carefully conducted in accordance with our commitment to
 equality and diversity. Workload allocation is transparent through the published Annual Planning
 of Workload. Equalities work is specifically considered in annual appraisals, given its importance
 for a collegial and supportive working environment. Support for staff wellbeing, as well as
 support for staff and PGR students suffering from illness and returning from leave and ill-health,
 draws upon and integrates the University’s employee assistance programme, which includes a

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 24-hour helpline and mental health at work ‘toolkits’. Occupational Health advises on support
 and reasonable adjustments.

 We have adhered to the University’s REF Code of Practice but, given our commitment to
 equality, collegiality and a supportive research environment, we have gone beyond the Code of
 Practice in our REF preparations. The selection of outputs draws upon the views of internal
 reviews and the expertise of external research advisers. In promoting transparency, staff are
 provided with the predicted scores and justifying comments by the reviewers and are
 encouraged to discuss any aspect of the feedback or process with the UoA lead. Where outputs
 have similar scores, but are not all needed, we have selected outputs from female and junior
 colleagues.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Over the 2014-2020 period, staff have generated £1,786,000 in research income, which is a
 significant increase compared to the REF2014 (£1,286,202). £1,155,980 is currently live.
 Funding came from a variety of external sources, such as the Economic and Social Research
 Council, the British Academy, UK Department for International Development, the European
 Commission, Global Integrity, the British Council, the European Research Council, the Research
 Council of Norway, the German Academic Exchange Service, and the Academy of Korean
 Studies.

 This funding includes some notable successes. For example, in comparative electoral and party
 politics, Webb was part of successful collaborative funding bids to the ESRC on political party
 organisations (£159,000, including a linked PhD studentship) and on party membership in the
 UK (£733,000, of which Sussex’s share was £154,000). Hampshire was an investigator and
 work package leader for two large collaborative projects funded by the EU FP7 and Horizon
 2020 programmes, with a total value of £718,000 for Sussex (of which £297k came directly to
 the Department): the Temper project on labour migration (£200k, which funded a postdoctoral
 research fellow – see below) and the CEASEVAL project on EU asylum policy (£97k). In
 comparative gender politics, Annesley received funding from the National Science Foundation
 ($205,831) and the ESRC (£30,371). In corruption analysis, Hellmann and David-Barrett
 successfully applied for funding from the British Academy/Department for International
 Development (£750,000 in total), and the latter is Co-I on a Global Integrity-DfID funded project
 (£350,000). David-Barrett was also a key member of the multi-disciplinary team that won the
 IMF’s Anti-Corruption Challenge competition in 2020, raising $50,000 to support further work on
 the risks of corruption in public procurement. These funding successes have generated multiple
 academic research outputs and impacts, some of which feature in this UoA’s output profile and
 impact case studies.

 Staff have also generated a further £180,000 through provision of consultancies and
 professional services to a number of organisations. Members of the CSC have been particularly
 active in this regard, for example, delivering professional development courses to the anti-
 corruption agencies of South Korea and Saudi Arabia, and establishing a new LLM in
 cooperation with the Qatari government. In addition, staff have provided tailored services to
 parts of the UK government and politics sector, such as the Department for International
 Development (David-Barrett), the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (Taggart, Szczerbiak and
 Hellmann), the Cabinet Office (David-Barrett), and the Green Party of England & Wales (Webb).

 The School of Law, Politics, and Sociology provides financial support to its research centres,
 including those hosted by the Department: the CSC and SEI. Up to £5,000 per year is available
 for each Centre to support its activities, including conferences, workshops, website
 development, and preparation for external funding bids. Staff have also been actively involved in
 research centres hosted by other Schools, such as the SCMR (Hampshire), the Sussex Asia
 Centre (Diwakar, Hellmann), the Centre for Photography and Visual Culture (Hellmann), and the
 Sussex Energy Group (McGowan). Individual members of the School have been able to apply to
 the School’s research development, impact and research methods funds, which have supported,

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inter alia, pilot studies, practitioner workshops, and both in-house and external methods training
 courses.

 Several staff have successfully applied to School or University research development funds,
 including projects on European governments’ responses to Brexit (Collard, Oppermann,
 Szczerbiak, Taggart), social media and election campaigning (Webb), and public opinion after
 Brexit (Hampshire). A multi-disciplinary team from LPS including Hampshire and Robinson was
 awarded £14,000 to investigate responses to Brexit using Mass Observation Archive material.

 Our success in increasing our research income and diversifying our income sources has been
 significantly enabled by the University’s Research and Enterprise Services. Specifically, when
 drafting research grant proposals, staff have profited from training sessions, advice on designing
 pathways to impact, regular information on upcoming grant deadlines, and professional
 feedback. In addition, Research and Enterprise Services have provided vital support in the
 management of grants, in particular regarding budgetary and legal questions.

 Since 2014, the School has been housed in a bespoke modern building (the Freeman Building)
 that houses 150 academics, scores of PhD students, visiting researchers, a large administrative
 office, a computer cluster room, seven teaching rooms, and two common rooms. Researchers
 have access to the Library’s online and offline resources and The Keep, which houses the UK’s
 unique Mass Observation Archive (MOA) and was opened in November 2013 following a £19m
 investment. Alongside the MOA, which has been an especially valuable resource for the
 Department’s historians (chiefly Robinson and Moss), this archival centre brings together the
 collections of the University of Sussex, East Sussex Record Office, and Brighton and Hove City
 Council.

 Our researchers are supported by the University’s Information Technology Services, and the
 University provides indispensable data management services, including the Figshare repository
 and a dedicated data management librarian. Research projects that produced large amounts of
 quantitative data - such as Webb’s projects on party membership and political party
 organisations, Hellmann’s project on corruption in developmental aid, and David-Barrett’s project
 on corruption in public procurement – have benefitted greatly from these services.

 Research is supported in a number of other ways by the research infrastructure at School and
 departmental levels. The School has a Director of Research & Knowledge Exchange (currently
 Hampshire, formerly Webb), who is responsible for overall research policy, chairs the LPS
 Research Committee, and sits on the University’s Research Committee. The Research Director
 is assisted by two administrative officers. The Department has a research convenor (currently
 Webb) who leads on REF preparation and conducts annual Personal Research Planning with
 members of the Department. This supports the Head of Department’s role in managing annual
 appraisals. The study leave scheme, research away days, and term-time research seminar
 series (in which faculty members, PhD researchers, postdoctoral fellows, and invited visitors
 present their research) are also part of the infrastructure.

 The School of Law, Politics & Sociology employs two impact officers who work closely with the
 Departmental Impact Coordinator (David-Barrett) to support the communication, outreach and
 impact aspects of our research. They offer particular support in developing impact plans in grant
 proposals, running knowledge exchange and impact training events, and gathering evidence of
 impact.

 The Department’s nurturing PhD student environment is also bolstered by University support.
 Most importantly, both the Doctoral School and the South-East Network for Social Sciences
 (SENSS) – of which Sussex is a member – offer extensive research development training for
 PhD students. The Department’s research centres support PhD research by providing a tight-
 knit group of peers working on similar topics. Moreover, a number of PhD students received
 University support to fund their studies, including the Chancellor's International Research
 Scholarship, the Sussex China Scholarship, the Commonwealth Scholarship, and the LPS Fee-

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Waiver Scholarships. All PhD students may apply for funds to support field trips and/or
 conference participation. They are all required to make a research outline presentation to the
 Department during the first year of their registration, and to undergo annual progress reviews,
 conducted by two members of the Department who are not their supervisors. The departmental
 research student convenor (Diwakar) organises much of this system of support, in conjunction
 with the School’s Director of Research Students (Szczerbiak) and PhD supervisors.

 The Department, working within the University’s research strategy and support services, has
 considerably developed its funding base and infrastructure during this REF period. As we head
 into the next period, this environment remains resilient and lively despite the current challenges
 from Covid-19. We intend to build on success to maximise our effective use of facilities such as
 The Keep and Mass Observation Archive, and to continue to diversify our funding sources while
 enhancing our training and mentoring processes for every individual in the Department, thereby
 facilitating a move from smaller to larger grant portfolios, through learning effectively from both
 successes and failures.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Department can justifiably claim to have shaped research agendas and generated landmark
 findings in each of its three thematic areas. It has done so by effectively communicating the
 findings and insights of its researchers, in both broad and targeted ways, building substantial
 relationships with high-level academic audiences and policy actors, and engaging with the
 interested public and specific organisations. Collaboration within and outwith our field is a
 particular strength and ensures the ongoing vitality of Area Studies at Sussex and the discipline
 at large.

 New insights for practitioners
 The CSC has consistently challenged practitioners on how they conceptualise corruption and
 has advanced understanding about why many anti-corruption initiatives fail. As well as
 publishing findings via highly respected academic outlets, it has developed theoretically rigorous
 and empirically nuanced policy alternatives that practitioners have embraced (see David-
 Barrett’s case study).

 Webb’s collaborations on party organisation and membership have also established new
 landmarks: The Political Party Database Project which he co-directs is the most ambitious
 comparative study of party organisations in a generation, and has generated a volume with
 Oxford University Press, multiple articles by team members in peer-reviewed journals, and a
 dataset which has been downloaded more than 12,500 times to date (with a new round of the
 data to be made publicly available in 2021). Similarly, his party membership project has
 produced multiple articles and book chapters, eight original survey datasets deposited at the UK
 Data Archive, a large number of media contributions (see impact case study), and a book of
 which Robert Halfon MP says in a recent review for Conservativehome.com: ‘If I were a chief
 executive or chair of a major political party in Britain, I would have this book, Footsoldiers:
 Political Party Membership in the 21st Century by Tim Bale, Paul Webb & Monica Poletti, in pride
 of place on my desk – and I would also send a copy to every local constituency party association
 chair in the country.’

 The work of the migration and citizenship cluster, while smaller in scale than the two clusters
 above, has generated rigorous research on immigration policy, which sheds new light on
 policymaking processes and on cross-national variation in policy regimes. This research has
 made a significant contribution to academic understandings, as indicated by publication in
 leading academic journals, and to policy debates through dissemination to practitioners in the
 EU and UK. Hampshire also contributes to the interdisciplinary field of ethnic and migration
 studies through his role as Deputy Editor of the world-leading Journal of Ethnic and Migration
 Studies.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Consultancy and pro bono work
 Through the SEI, CSC and SCMR, our researchers have further contributed to impact on policy
 through consultancy projects and pro bono advice. In 2018, Webb was contracted by the Green
 Party of England & Wales to undertake research on issue saliency and political strategy, which
 led to a report he co-authored for the party and presented to the party conference in Bristol. In
 2015, David-Barrett was commissioned by the Cabinet Office to provide discussion papers on
 two areas: the impact of anti-bribery laws; and measuring corruption risks in public procurement.
 In 2016, she was team leader on a project to write the business case for DfID’s International
 Anti-Corruption programme. She has also provided pro bono input into various government
 initiatives, such as the Business Integrity Initiative to design and draft advice for SMEs on
 managing corruption risks (2018), Home Office research into fraud and corruption in local
 government (2019), and a Home Office-commissioned position paper on corruption and fraud in
 the UK (2019). David-Barrett also served on an expert reference panel for an Independent
 Review of the Australian public service on public integrity (2019), took part in a World Health
 Organization consultation on corruption, transparency and accountability in healthcare (2019),
 and supported the Council of Europe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities in developing
 a resolution and recommendations on transparency in public procurement (2015-16). Hampshire
 has delivered training on migration policy at the European External Action Service in Brussels;
 spoken at the European Parliament on labour migration; acted as an expert adviser to the
 International Centre for Migration Policy Development; and been invited to speak at the Turkish
 Directorate General of Migration Management. Power has provided expert oral testimony to the
 All-Party Parliamentary Group on Electoral Campaigning Transparency, and has submitted
 written evidence to the ongoing Committee on Standards in Public Life (CSPL) review into
 electoral regulation. Following this submission, he was invited to partake in the committee’s
 'expert roundtable' and was commissioned to write two papers for the CSPL review. PhD
 candidate Rebecca Dobson authored a blog on ‘The Standards Landscape’ for CSPL in 2020.

 Engagement and communication
 Area Studies faculty at Sussex have been heavily involved in various forms of community
 engagement and media communications, which have been driven by a mixture of strategic
 targeting, reflecting the unit’s areas of major strength, and by individual faculty members and
 researchers through their own public profiles and external relationships. These have made Area
 Studies researchers at Sussex significant public voices in debates about major national and
 international policy challenges, from Brexit to global corruption. We are also deeply involved in
 the political culture of Brighton and Hove and the wider region (for example, through engaging
 with local MPs such as Caroline Lucas).

 Our engagement has included has regular contributions to national, local and overseas outlets,
 and takes in radio, television and the press. Some highlights include: Hough’s commentary on
 BBC television and radio on allegations of corruption at FIFA; Taggart and Webb’s regular
 contributions on BBC national and local radio, especially on topics connected with their research
 specialisms on populism and party or electoral politics; Webb’s frequent contributions to the
 national press emanating from his research on political memberships (see case study);
 Robinson’s contribution to BBC2’s Newsnight material on Brexit; the CSC’s dedicated blog,
 which provides an outlet for wider dissemination of its research as well as hosting posts from
 other academics and practitioners that contribute to wider debates; and Collard’s website that
 provides information for Britons abroad on their voting rights and planned changes to the law in
 this area, as well as providing a platform for debate. The site is a valuable source of information
 and advice to expatriate citizens wanting to exercise the right to vote in UK elections.

 As one department in the wider School of Law, Politics and Sociology, we are collaborative by
 nature, and regularly engage in research collaborations with colleagues from other disciplines
 within our School and beyond it – for example, on corruption in the London property market, on
 the governance of public procurement, on British identity after Brexit, and on social media and
 political communication. Many of these collaborations extend to institutions and organisations
 beyond the University of Sussex, and are national and international in nature. They are too
 numerous to itemise here, but include (though are not limited to) projects with colleagues at:

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   UK universities including Oxford, Cambridge, King’s College London, Queen Mary
        University London, Warwick, Essex, Nottingham
    •   European institutions including the University of Heidelberg (Germany), the Heinrich
        Heine University of Düsseldorf (Germany), Chemnitz University of Technology
        (Germany), the International Centre for Migration Policy Development (Austria), the
        University of Amsterdam (Netherlands), Uppsala University (Sweden), Sodertorn
        University (Sweden), University of Oslo (Norway), the University of Florence (Italy), the
        Institut National d’études Démographiques (France), the Forum Internazionale ed
        Europeo di Ricerche sull’Immigrazione (Italy), the Central European University (Hungary)
    •   Institutions around the world including the University of Michigan (USA), the University of
        Houston (USA), Haverford College (USA), McGill University (Canada), the University of
        Calgary (Canada), Carleton University (Canada), Diego Portales University (Chile),
        Pontifical Catholic University (Chile), University of New South Wales (Australia), the
        University of Sydney, Australian National University, Renmin University (China), and
        Nihon University (Japan).

 Between 2014 and 2020, members of the Department were senior members of the editorial
 teams of journals that embody the Department’s areas of international reputation: Party Politics
 (Webb & Szczerbiak), Government & Opposition (Taggart), The Journal of Ethnic and Migration
 Studies (Hampshire), and German Politics (Hough, Oppermann). In addition, staff have been
 members of the editorial boards of journals including the Journal of Common Market Studies;
 Twentieth Century British History; East European Politics; European Politics & Society; Renewal;
 SN Social Sciences; British Journal of Politics & International Relations; Acta Politologica; and
 Italian Journal of Electoral Studies. Thus, each research cluster in the Department has provided
 members of key peer-reviewed journal operations.

 Staff in the unit have also actively contributed to the work of prestigious professional
 associations. For example, Hellmann convened the PSA’s Specialist Group on Corruption and
 Political Misconduct (2015-2018) and was succeeded by Power, who currently holds the
 position; Hough served as Chair of the International Association for the Study of German Politics
 (2014-2018); Bratu is a member of the Steering Committee of ECPR’s Standing Group on
 Corruption; and Robinson has held a number of co-convenor posts, including the Modern British
 History seminar at the Institute for Historical Research (2012-17); the PSA’s Specialist Group on
 Politics & History (2016); and the Politics, Policy and Citizenship strand of the Social History
 Society (ongoing).

 We recognise the importance of serving the discipline we represent, and so members of the
 Department regularly review grant applications for leading funding bodies, such as the Economic
 and Social Research Council, the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, the European Research
 Council, and the Belgian Science Policy Office (BELSPO). In addition, Webb served on the
 ESRC commissioning panels for the British Election Study 2015 and the Governing After Brexit
 programme (2018); was a Member of the American Political Science Association’s Eldersveld
 Award jury for distinguished contribution to the field of party and interest group research (2016);
 presented evidence to the US State Department’s Analytical Briefing on political leadership in
 Europe (2018); chaired the Appointment Committee of a Serra Hunter Lectureship in Political
 Science at the Autonomous University of Barcelona (2020); and served as an expert reviewer for
 the Swedish Research Council’s own Research Evaluation Exercise in 2020. Robinson is an
 elected member of the Royal Historical Society’s Council and General Purposes Committee and
 an external reviewer for the ETH Zurich Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (2014). Taggart was
 an expert evaluator for the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 call on Addressing populism
 and boosting civic and democratic engagement (2018), and has reviewed for NORFACE and the
 ESRC’s Future Leaders scheme. He is Chair of the board of directors for the journal
 Government & Opposition, and has worked with various think tanks, including the Centre for
 New American Security; UK in Changing Europe; Friedrich Ebert Schtiftung; Italian Institute for
 Political Studies; and Open Europe. Collard served as a trustee of the Franco-British Council,
 and De Luca is Secretary of the Italian Society for Electoral Studies.

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As we head from the 2013-2020 REF period into an era of renewed global uncertainty and major
 European and UK policy change, Area Studies at Sussex will build on its research influence, its
 collaborative relationships and its public reputation to continue to produce timely and rigorous
 interventions and contributions in the critical political and policy issues.




                                                                                          Page 13
