Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Cardiff Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA17 – Business and Management Studies
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Summary
 Cardiff Met did not submit to this Unit of Assessment (UoA) in 2014, although two Tourism
 researchers based in the Cardiff School of Management (CSM) were returned as part of the
 Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism submission (87% 3*/4*). Returning 31 staff
 to REF 2021 therefore reflects significant progress by investing in and developing a strong and
 sustainable research environment. Performance improvements this cycle include Research and
 Innovation (R&I) income of £8.9m, which includes a 283% increase in HESA-defined research
 income over the previous assessment period. R&I grant sources include RCUK, EU and
 Innovate UK. We also generated 242 research outputs this period and 141 research degree
 completions from School-registered students compared to 14 in the previous cycle.

 Context
 Of the staff returned here, 90% are either from the CSM or were CSM employees until 2018
 when they were transferred to the newly formed Cardiff School of Technologies (CST). To reflect
 this, the term ‘School’ will henceforth be used to describe the Business & Management Studies
 environment unless an issue is specific to the current structure.

 CSM relocated to a £13m purpose-built facility on the Llandaff Campus in 2010. Our key areas
 of expertise at that point were: economics and finance; tourism, hospitality and events; human
 resource management and strategy; computing and informatics; and – more recently -
 operations management and logistics. The development of the CST, based on computing and
 informatics experts from CSM, was accompanied by an initial investment of £5m and 17
 appointments since 2018, including two at Professorial level. A further £3.4m is earmarked for
 CST’s development over the next two years.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 Since 2014, our R&I strategy has focused on five key areas:

    i.   Providing staff with time and space to research by allocating more than 7,000 staff days
         to research activity within the period via the ‘Time for Research’ scheme;

    ii. The development of impact through targeted industry partnerships and investment in
        centres such as the Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre (CLEC) and the Value
        Flow Centre (VFC), which make a significant contribution to regional regeneration and
        economic growth;

    iii. Strategic external appointments and internal staff investment leading to four new
         Professors and four new Readers, with 13 staff completing doctorates and 14 enrolled
         on doctoral degrees;

    iv. Fostering critical mass and peer support, with investment of £255K to underpin three
        research centres and five research clusters;

    v. Developing an open access research culture with a 475% increase in research output
       downloads since REF2014.

 Time for research
 Our ‘Time for Research’ scheme allows staff with an interest in developing a research profile 152
 hours per year free from formal teaching and administration and on top of a contractual 171 per
 annum for research & scholarly activity. Those with more developed profiles receive up to 304
 extra hours – the equivalent of a day a week and an investment of ~£145K in 2019/20 alone. As

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a result, we have established a core of highly committed research active staff in an enabling
 environment of supported research themes. Investment in staff research time has increased
 research grant capture, for example from Erasmus+ (Next Tourism Generation Alliance, €4m,
 CMU £560K) and European Social Fund (20Twenty Leading Business Growth Programme,
 £4.6m; Circular Economy Innovation Communities, £1.6m, CMU £865K).

 Impact
 Developing impactful research has been a key focus, particularly for the three CSM Research
 Centres. Our strategy has met with significant success, with our research assisting the launch of
 at least 25 new businesses, safe-guarding or creating over 2,000 jobs, underpinning £187m in
 growth and savings across 1,219 businesses and influencing Welsh Government policy
 towards health and activity programmes affecting 45% of the Welsh population. We also secured
 13 knowledge exchange projects generating £1.13m in external income, including Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships (KTP), SMART Partnerships1 and Knowledge Economy Skills Doctoral
 Scholarship 2 (KESS2) projects.2

 We achieved these impacts by harnessing strong collaborative, networks and partnerships,
 including with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
 Welsh Government, Oxfam Cymru, Construction Industry Training Board, National Cyber
 Security Centre, Make UK, Federturismo Confindustria (the Italian Tourism Trade
 Association), The Innovation Caucus, and UK Industrial Strategy. The School is also a
 member of the European Foundation for Management Development (EFMD), a non-profit
 organisation dedicated to management development and a globally recognised accreditation
 body for business schools and their corporate programmes. Notably we were awarded
 prestigious Small Business Charter status by the Chartered Association of Business
 Schools for our role in supporting small business, local economies and student
 entrepreneurship.

 Strategic recruitment and advancement
 We recruited two Professors in the period (Thomas and Prakash) while two further Professors
 (Crick and Platts) were internally promoted and Kyaw, Murphy, Khan and Hewage were
 promoted to Reader. We invested ~£804K to increase research capacity by supporting 27 staff
 to undertake doctorates through supervision, a fee waiver and 271 hours workload allocation per
 annum.

 Research structures
 We have implemented research structures to build critical mass and research culture. CSM has
 three institutionally recognised Research Centres:

     1. The Creative Leadership and Enterprise Centre (CLEC). Led by Morgan, CLEC
        undertakes research around entrepreneurship, management skills, innovation, and
        economic development. It is also the delivery vehicle for the 20Twenty Leading Business
        Growth Programme, a European-funded research and delivery programme involving
        small-to-medium sized enterprise (SME) management skills development and the related
        Construction Futures Wales (CFW) Programme. CLEC has assisted over 900
        organisations to realise growth of £155m and created or safeguarded over 2,000 jobs.
        Members of CLEC regularly provide policy evidence to the likes of Welsh Government
        and the UK Industrial Strategy.

     2. The Value Flow Centre (VFC). Led by Francis, the VFC focuses on applied research
        around Contemporary Operations Management Paradigms (COMPS) and Supply Chain
        and Procurement systems development. These have saved over £30m in 319
        companies across the UK including [text removed for publication]. VFC has also

1 Collaborative R&D projects with Welsh businesses, up to 12 months
2 ESF-funded Welsh Government scheme linking Welsh companies with universities to undertake

collaborative research projects via a PhD or MRes

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        influenced curriculum development, providing the theoretical underpinning for our MSc
        Production Engineering Management and MSc International Supply Chain and Logistics
        Management.

    3. The Welsh Centre for Tourism Research (WCTR). Led by Matthews and Haven-Tang,
       WCTR focuses on policy-informing research related to tourism, hospitality and events.
       The Centre has strong links with the Welsh Government’s Major Events Unit and has
       developed an event impact evaluation methodology that was applied to the 2018 Volvo
       Ocean Race and the 2017 UEFA Champions League Finals. WCTR is also involved in
       the Next Tourism Generation Alliance (Wales), part of a €4m EU project addressing
       digital, social and sustainability skill needs in tourism and related sectors.

 Complementing CSM’s centres are five CST research clusters:

    1. AI, Robotics & Data Science Cluster (AIRDSC). Led by Chew and Khan, the AIRDSC
       investigates issues around artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data and robotics.
       It is home to the EUREKA Robotics Lab, one of only 14 specialist centres in the UK
       focused on robotics research, and the only centre specialising in social and service
       robotics. The cluster has won two Smart Partnerships knowledge exchange projects in
       the period with a combined value of £111K.

    2. Cybersecurity, Information Networks Centre (CINC). Led by Hewage and
       Mallikarachchi, CINC undertakes research on cybersecurity and privacy, secure
       information networks, data communication processing and user behaviour analysis.
       Recent successes include a £73K Smart Partnership knowledge exchange grant to
       improve methods for human-pose estimation in life sciences applications.

    3. Centre for Industry 4 and Blockchain Research (CI4BCR). Led by Khan, CI4BCR is
       at the forefront of blockchain research, Industry 4.0 and other distributed technologies,
       crypto-governance and crypto-economy space. It has captured three knowledge
       exchange grants within the period with a combined value of £423K.

    4. Creative Computing Research Centre (CCRC). Led by Carroll and Thorne, CCRC
       researches human computing interaction (HCI), creative design, visualisation,
       augmented reality (AR) and games. Members collaborate broadly, including with Cardiff
       University’s Brain Research Imaging Centre (CUBRIC). They recently won a £217K
       Smart Expertise knowledge exchange grant to develop a framework to transform data
       into value for Welsh business.

    5. Bio-Engineering Research Group (BRG). Led by Jayal, BRG focuses on applying
       engineering principles and technology in medicine, sports and healthcare. Recent
       projects include biomedical signal analysis and a bioinformatics pipeline to generate a
       denovo assembly for a bacterial genome.

 Research centres and clusters are complemented by more fluid research groups responding to
 emerging research interests such as Murphy’s Public and Third Sector (PATS) Group which
 coalesces interdisciplinary activity involving staff from our Schools of Art & Design and
 Education and Social Policy around all aspects of area-based social, economic and
 environmental regeneration.

 Developing an open access research culture
 Building an open access culture has been a critical facet of our drive to build an excellent
 research environment. Staff are supported to publish in open access journals wherever
 appropriate and receive training in intellectual property and licensing, GDPR and research
 ethics. They are also encouraged to produce data management plans consistent with those
 required by UKRI in relation to the management and sharing of data (see Institutional ES). All
 research outputs are deposited in the University’s DSpace repository immediately after

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 acceptance using a bespoke and easy to use ‘drop off’ facility. This allows our work to be
 available to, and accessed by, a wider audience (260,561 downloads in this REF period,
 compared to 45,289 in the last). Our researchers also utilise the more recent Figshare platform
 (see Institutional ES), which hosts, for example, material from the EU-funded Next Tourism
 Generation Alliance (NTG), proceedings of the ICCAS 2019 and Advances in Management and
 Innovation (AMI) research conferences, and material from CSM’s working paper journal.
 Figshare enables this material to be interactive, searchable and shareable inside the institution,
 within cross-institutional teams or by the public at large, making collaboration and dissemination
 easier.

 Future Strategy
 The newly launched Cardiff School of Technologies is already showing strong growth in both
 research active staff and student numbers. They plan a stand-alone submission to the Computer
 Science and Informatics UoA in REF2028, a submission that will build on the research
 foundations established within CSM and provide a catalyst for ongoing collaboration across the
 separate Schools. This section will therefore focus on CSM’s plans for the next REF cycle.

 Having established a sufficiently strong research environment to make a sizeable REF return for
 the current cycle, our focus going forward will be to consolidate progress by focusing effort and
 resources on four areas:


 Supporting and developing our researchers
 Supporting researcher development will continue to be integral to our strategy. As well as
 continued support for the Time for Research scheme, we will supplement the University’s Early
 Career Researcher (ECR) Forum and Action Learning Sets by providing guidance and
 mentorship to ECRs. For example, we will continue sessions at the annual AMI conference
 which have previously included topics such as ‘Becoming an excellent academic journal article
 reviewer’, ‘The challenges of publishing quality research in the Business Management discipline’
 and ‘How to get your work published in an ABS ranked journal’. We also plan mentored writing
 groups, pairing Professors and Readers with ECRs, with a target of producing at least 40 joint
 publications in the upcoming REF cycle.

 Enhancing research output quality
 To continue our high-quality research growth, we have identified staff with the potential to
 significantly improve their output quality. Together with the University’s R&I support unit we will
 systematically mentor staff to design and execute research at the highest quality levels and
 target a significant uplift in grant capture during the next REF cycle. There will also be important
 high-quality outputs to accrue from two recent European-funded collaborative projects
 (combined value £1.4m) which extend beyond the REF2021 period - Circular Economy
 Collaborative Innovation Communities (CEIC) (Clifton, Rees, Brooksbank, Murphy and
 Beverly) and Next Tourism Generation Alliance (NTG) (Carlisle). We will also build on applied
 research grant capture strengths fostered during this REF cycle to leverage increased funding
 from ‘cherished sources’ such as the European Commission, ESRC and EPSRC. Lastly, the
 critical mass of research and research leaders developed during the current cycle also creates
 further opportunities for new PGR students and postdoctoral Research Assistants, particularly as
 staff currently on doctoral programmes graduate and join the supervisory pool. This will increase
 our research degree supervision capacity significantly and greater capacity to increase the
 volume of quality outputs. Collectively, these initiatives will allow us to contribute strongly to the
 ambitions of the University’s Strategic Plan to continue the growth in research volume and
 quality that was integral to our being listed in the Times Higher Education (THE)’s World
 University rankings in 2019 and 2020 and the THE Young University rankings in 2020.

 Supporting research with impact potential
 We will build on our established strengths in knowledge transfer to increase grant capture in
 partnership with industry by 25% using the increased capacity gained from the 14 staff who will
 complete doctorates in the period. In addition to continuing existing impact development through

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 our research centres, we will support staff to develop research with impact potential, for example
 by supporting them to apply to the University’s new Impact Builder development fund which
 seed funds for potentially impactful research. Research with impact potential includes
 McLoughlin's development of a recognised tourism indicator system for sustainable destination
 management and Carroll’s exploration of an applied multidisciplinary aesthetic programming
 approach to engage young girls in computing.

 Developing interdisciplinarity
 We will continue to build research quality by developing novel interdisciplinary programmes of
 research. A key conduit will be Cardiff Met’s three new Global Academies (GAs), a major
 component of the institution’s forward-facing research strategy. GAs are collaborative,
 interdisciplinary endeavours bringing together strengths across research, innovation and
 teaching to address global challenges around Health and Human Performance, Human Centred
 Design, and Food Science, Safety & Security. We have had early successful engagement with
 the latter; a successful collaborative funding bid between the WCTR, CST, and the Food
 Industry Centre in the Cardiff School of Sport & Health Sciences. A fourth GA - Resilient People
 and Places - will provide the platform to build upon existing interdisciplinary research involving
 Haven-Tang, Baldwin and Gill (CSAD) and Clifton and Loudon (CSAD).

 2. People

 Summary
 The School’s research environment is vibrant, diverse and inclusive. Half of CSM’s Directorate
 are women, 45% of submitted staff are BAME and 52% are female. The School has made a
 significant strategic investment in research within a challenging HE climate, investing an average
 of £164K per annum in staff research time, creating eight Professors and Readers and
 supporting 27 staff to undertake doctorates. A £5m investment in CST included dedicated PGR
 research labs, and this REF cycle saw 141 research degree completions from School registered
 students. Currently, 59% of our staff hold doctorates, 13 of them qualifying with School support
 in the period. A further 14 staff are currently enrolled on doctoral study programmes – again with
 significant School support.

 Staffing and Development Strategy
 Central to our strategy to support our staff is a formalised research mentoring programme,
 headed by the Associate Dean for Research (ADR), which complements the University’s ECR
 Forum. The programme provides targeted support for early career researchers, tailored for
 individual circumstances and career stage. Staff are encouraged to discuss their plans for
 research publications and grant applications and to highlight any issues affecting their ability to
 undertake research.

 The School has made significant investments to ensure staff have ring-fenced dedicated
 research time. Our ‘Time for Research’ scheme’s (TfR) overarching rationale is to promote the
 School and University strategic aim to increase research engagement per FTE member of
 academic staff. It provided 7,000 dedicated R&I hours during academic year 2019/20 alone,
 representing an investment in staff R&I time of approximately £1.15m since 2014. TfR has been
 instrumental in enhancing the School research culture, providing the basis for this REF return.
 Our submission includes 24 staff who have benefitted from TfR. In 2015/16 TfR was extended
 to include user-focused activities specifically centred on research impact. Staff apply for TfR on
 an annual basis, outlining their research plans and specifying outputs. Progress against mutually
 agreed targets is monitored as part of the performance review process, with outcomes forming
 the basis for the following year’s workload allocation of R&I hours.

 We also support staff in other ways. For example, the School and University met the £24K costs
 of supporting six of our staff who successfully applied to the award-winning Welsh Crucible - a
 competitive Wales-wide development programme for future research leaders which in 2019 saw
 120 applications for 30 places. In 2015 we launched the ‘Advances in Management Working
 Paper Series Journal’ (ISSN: 2050-4179) to allow ECR and PGR students to test ideas in a

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 peer-reviewed outlet before pursuing formal publication routes. In 2017 we launched the annual
 ‘Advances in Management and Innovation’ (AMI) research conference, which is sponsored by
 Seren Group and MakeUK and engages the early career and PGR student community. Its foci
 are building a research culture via the opportunity to present work in a supportive environment
 and providing an outward-facing showcase for our research. Since 2017, 318 delegates have
 attended, and 96 papers have been presented. The 2019 event saw paper presentations
 increase by 50% and delegate numbers rise by 67%. It included papers delivered by members
 of our collaborative partner network from India, Greece and the Middle East, and enjoyed
 increased participation by academics from other British Universities. AMI also attracts keynote
 speakers from academe and industry such as Prof Paul Jones of Swansea University (Editor-in-
 Chief, International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research). Both the journal and
 AMI Conference proceedings are published in hard copy and online through Figshare which has
 proved very successful. For example, AMI 2020 - which took place online - attracted 78
 delegates and significant subsequent engagement via Figshare (5,315 views and 769
 downloads as of 31/7/20). Together the journal and AMI conference complement TfR in
 realising both the School research strategic objective to ‘support and develop staff capability and
 capacity towards research’ and the University’s strategy of achieving ‘growth in the volume,
 quality, value and impact of research and innovation’.

 Recruitment and Promotion
 Our commitment to internal development and promotion is evidenced by the promotion to senior
 research positions of Crick (SL to Professor of Computer Science & Public Policy); Kyaw (SL to
 Reader in Applied International Economics and Development); Murphy (SL to Reader in Local
 Economic Development); Khan (SL to Reader in Data Science); and Hewage (SL to Reader in
 Data Security). Moreover, Mason-Jones was promoted to Graduate Studies Coordinator and
 Aminu to the role of Ethics Coordinator. This REF period also saw 35 staff qualify as research
 degree Supervisors, and 8 as Directors of Studies. We further enhanced our research culture by
 recruiting four R&I leaders in the REF period, including Rees, who joined as Associate Dean
 (Innovation) in 2014, Thomas, CSM Associate Dean (Research) and Professor of Supply Chain
 Management (2015), Prakash, CST Associate Dean (Research) and Professor of Creative
 Technologies (2018), and Platts, Professor of Autonomous Systems and Dean of CST (2018).
 We also appointed or renewed 9 Visiting and Honorary Professors in the period, while the
 delivery of invited seminars and masterclasses by a range of external academics and
 practitioners has also served to inspire our research community.

 PGR students
 As of July 2020, we had 44 (FT = 14; PT = 30) PGR students enrolled on doctoral programmes.
 School-based doctoral completions have increased fourfold to 61 since the previous REF
 period, while a successful franchise agreement with London School of Commerce (LSC)
 resulted in an additional 80 Cardiff Met PhD completions for CSM registered students, resulting
 in a total 141 completions. To accommodate our expanding research degree provision CSM
 refurbished and equipped a second PGR student research room, with the £5m initial CST
 estates investment providing fully equipped, dedicated PGR research labs.

  Academic Year           DBAs awarded             PhDs awarded            Total Research
                                                   (LSC in brackets)       Degrees awarded
  2013/14                            3                     4 (1)                  7 (8)
  2014/15                            0                     3 (3)                  3 (6)
  2015/16                            0                    9 (12)                 9 (21)
  2016/17                            1                    11 (8)                 12 (20)
  2017/18                            3                    9 (24)                 12 (36)
  2018/19                            1                   10 (19)                 11 (30)
  2019/20                            1                    6 (13)                 7 (20)
  TOTAL                              9                   52 (80)                61 (141)

 Our vibrant doctoral community is diverse, and includes nationals of Russia, Nigeria, China, Iran,
 Egypt, Oman, Qatar, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. A strong professional doctorate (DBA) cohort is

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 linked to a range of international partners sponsoring doctoral students’ studies. Our students
 have benefitted from a number of competitively won awards, including full bursaries from the
 Savoy Education Trust, ESF-funded Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (7), and
 Cardiff Met’s Research Innovation Awards (2). Our PGRs have also obtained research
 mobility awards from Santander Universities, and research support funding from Enterprise
 Educators UK, and the Institute of Small Business and Entrepreneurship. Collectively these
 have enriched the research environment and the quality of PGR training experience.

 We provide a range of research degree programmes that facilitate progression to doctoral-level
 study, including a Masters of Research (MRes). A Doctor of Management (DMan) programme,
 launched in 2017/18, enables us to recruit highly motivated and talented students from applied
 backgrounds with the potential to develop into excellent doctoral candidates. It had 10 students
 enrolled as of July 2020 and the first cohort is expected to complete in 2022/23. The DMan
 includes a formal programme of research training and practice before students embark on
 independent research, targeting a 100% on-time-completion rate. CLEC’s 20Twenty Leadership
 Programmes provide a good avenue for progression onto the DMan, with a recent exemplar
 being Liz Andrews, CEO of City Hospice and former Chief Executive of Cancer Research Wales.

 A robust application and interview process safeguard the recruitment of students able to
 complete their research degree programme on-time and with potential to generate publishable
 quality outputs. Our current acceptance rate is ~15%, with demand particularly outstripping
 supply in Finance, Economics, Marketing and Tourism & Hospitality, which is why increased
 supervision capacity is a priority for the next REF cycle. Capacity issues notwithstanding, our
 alignment of student research interests to staff expertise is evidenced by the results of the 2020
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES) which found 100% of CSM students
 agreed that their supervisors had the skills and subject knowledge to support their research.

 Structured provision and support ensure doctoral candidates are fully equipped for their studies.
 Following enrolment, all PGR students complete an induction programme and attend a centrally
 organised Research Skills week. This programme is supplemented by ongoing training offerings
 to support research skills and professional development and includes evening sessions to cater
 for part-time students. In addition, all PGR students undertake a 60-credit Level 7 module
 leading to a Postgraduate Certificate in Applied Social Research Methods (PGCASR) during
 their first year of study. This provides them with a sound framework for developing their research
 skills, and 100% of students have said they would recommend PGCASR to others. Our PGRs
 can also join undergraduate and Masters modules in order to enhance their subject-specific
 knowledge, and are encouraged to attend Professorial, professional body and visiting lecturer
 events. To safeguard the quality of supervision, researchers who embark on research degree
 supervision for the first time complete an induction programme before being eligible to join
 supervisory teams. Staff new to PhD supervision join supervisory teams with at least one other
 experienced supervisor to maximise mentorship opportunities.

 A series of other administrative structures provide support for our doctoral students. For
 example, students are expected to submit their formal Research Degree Proposal (RDP) to the
 School Research Degree Committee (RDC) within one year of registration, with developmental
 feedback provided if a resubmission is required. All research projects must receive approval
 from the School’s Research Ethics Committee, and ethics applications for data collection can
 only be considered once the RDP has been approved and ratified by University RDC. Students
 without research-focused masters qualifications are enrolled as MPhil/PhD students, and
 transfer to PhD status following the submission of an extended literature review and detailed
 plan for developing the work to PhD level. They present and defend this work at a Transfer
 Interview (TI) which takes the form of a ‘mini-viva’ by the supervisory team and an independent
 internal assessor. While students in possession of a relevant Masters degree can enrol directly
 on a PhD they are nevertheless encouraged to go through the MPhil/PhD transfer process for its
 developmental value. Annual Monitoring Reports (AMRs) provide a conduit for student progress
 to be tracked, which includes skills training and development needs. Lastly, completing students
 are given a preparatory mock viva before the formal viva voce.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A range of School-specific initiatives ensure research degree students are well-prepared for the
 world of research. For example, they are all active members of the R&I groups and all CSM
 PGRs commit to publishing in the Working Paper Journal or presenting to the PGCASR/DMan
 seminar groups. This ensures they receive developmental feedback to help them produce work
 of the highest possible quality prior to external presentation or publication. All our research
 degree students must also present at the annual AMI conference within the first year of their
 studies and are supported to attend external conferences (total funding during the period
 ~£150K). Students may also submit skills development requests to the ADR before a fieldwork
 phase, and other skills development sessions are routinely offered centrally by for example,
 Organisational Development, Information and Library Services and Research & Innovation
 Services.

 Equality and diversity
 As a values-driven university, diversity is extremely important to us. The University has
 committed to signing the Advance HE Race Equality Charter by 2024 and aims to achieve an
 Institutional Silver Athena SWAN award early in the next cycle. As part of the drive to achieve
 the Race Equality Charter, Cardiff Met has established a Race Equality Charter stakeholders
 working group, chaired by CSM’s Yafele. We are significantly better than the sector average in
 this area, with 31% of our REF eligible and 45% of our REF submitted staff being BAME. Five of
 CST’s Professors and Readers are also BAME. Women comprise 52% of our REF 2021
 submission, in proportion with the eligible pool and well above the REF2014 average of 34% for
 Business and Management submissions3. Two of the four designated ‘research leader’ posts in
 CSM are also occupied by women. Identifying potential research leaders at an early stage and
 encouraging them to progress has been integral to the School addressing gender inequality. As
 part of this process, we have supported 9 female researchers to attend the Women to Professor
 series of workshops and Action Learning Sets (Bolton, Carlisle, Carroll, Haven-Tang, Kyaw,
 Mason-Jones, Massoud, Oeppen-Hill, Rees). Launched in 2018 by the PVC R&I, Institutional
 Athena SWAN SAT Chair and University Director of Research, these workshops make routes for
 promotion explicit, use peer-to-peer support, mentoring and an Action Learning Set model to
 help attendees reach their goals. One member of the group (Kyaw) was promoted to Reader in
 2019 and three others have applications in development. All staff with REF-related responsibility
 and all research leaders have undergone compulsory unconscious bias training. CSM and CST
 both have Athena SWAN Departmental Bronze awards in preparation for submission in the next
 REF cycle, and the University achieved a second Institutional Athena SWAN Bronze award in
 2020. The rights of our LGBTQ+ community are also important to us. The Deputy Chair of
 Cardiff Met’s LGBTQ+ staff network is from CSM and 2019-20 evidenced the commitment we
 have shown in this area with Cardiff Met’s entry to the Stonewall Top 100 employers for the first
 time.

 Consistent with Cardiff Met policies on inclusivity, all essential meetings take place within core
 working hours (10am-4pm), with key committee and board dates communicated well in advance
 to ensure that attendance can be planned. Family-friendly policies, such as flexible working and
 parental leave are accessible to all staff, and line managers receive guidance as appropriate, for
 example on implementing arrangements to support parental leave (8 researchers in the REF
 period) or planned sickness leave. Phased returns to work are employed following extended
 periods of leave, and many staff take advantage of flexible working policies to accommodate
 caring responsibilities and remote working options.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Summary
 Our R&I activities are primarily undertaken within three centres and five clusters and much of
 the work is interdisciplinary. Supported by an internal budget of ~£255K, researchers in these
 centres and clusters secured £8.9m of research and innovation income during this REF cycle,

3 HEFCE analysis https://dera.ioe.ac.uk/23924/1/HEFCE2015_17.pdf


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enabling us to achieve our strategic priorities around research, engagement and knowledge
 transfer, including through 29 knowledge exchange projects. Investment of £5m in new
 facilities for CST includes a series of labs and suites for research and is in addition to £510K
 invested in research facilities by CSM.

 Income
 We have secured £1.4m of research income during the assessment period, an increase of over
 280% from the previous REF period. This income and the associated research have been
 instrumental in leveraging a further £7.5m of applied research and innovation funding from a
 diverse range of sources including charities, RCUK, EU, Innovate UK, and Welsh
 Government. Collectively, the yearly average of ~£1.3m combined R&I income has been
 integral to the School achieving strategic priorities around engagement and knowledge transfer,
 with concomitant impact on local, regional, national and international economies. For example,
 the 20Twenty Leadership and Leading Business Growth Programmes led by Morgan and
 funded by the European Social Fund (ESF) have generated significant R&I funding. This
 research and delivery programme aimed at improving the growth prospects of Welsh businesses
 has a total value of £8m, including match funding and a £4.6m EU grant (2014 and 2020). A
 related research project, Construction Futures Wales (£965k), also led by Morgan (2014-18)
 was jointly funded by Welsh Government and the Construction Industry Training Board
 (CITB). Building on economic development policy expertise, the Hodge Foundation
 commissioned wide-ranging research on ‘The Future of the Welsh Economy’ led by Morgan with
 Kyaw and Clifton (£400K in two tranches, 2016-2020).

 Other notable applied research funding included 4 Knowledge Transfer Partnerships and 2
 SMART Partnerships (£950K in total) with a range of businesses: Yard Associates x 2
 (Thorne, Hewage, Calderon, Crick); Coup Media (Crick); Satori Lab (Khan, Calderon);
 Business Butler (Khan, Thorne); and Window Cleaning Warehouse (Khan, Hewage). We have
 also secured 7 ESF-funded Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS2) (£448K in
 total) with both public and private sector partners: Sport Wales (Bolton); Simply Do Ideas
 (Clifton); Yard Associates x 2 (Thorne, Carroll); Aytel (Jayal); Coin Cover (Khan); and
 Companies House (Khan).

 Considerable funding was also secured from the Welsh European Funding Office (WEFO) for
 the £1.6m Circular Economy Collaborative Innovation Communities (CEIC) project for third and
 public sector organisations in the Cardiff and Swansea Bay City Region (Clifton, Murphy, Rees,
 Brooksbank, Beverly) - in partnership with Swansea University (2020, CMU £865K). Other
 research grants include the EU-funded Next Tourism Generation Alliance (NTG), the first pan-
 European partnership for improving collaborative relationships between education and the
 tourism industry. This €4m project was led by Federturismo Confindustria (the Italian Tourism
 Trade Association) with £560K allocated to Cardiff Met for work packages led by Carlisle.
 Contract research for the economic impact of major events has also been undertaken by WCTR
 (Haven-Tang, Jaimangal-Jones, Minor) in conjunction with Clifton and Rowe. Events included
 the 2017 UEFA Champions League Finals commissioned by the Football Association of
 Wales and the Welsh Government’s Major Events Unit (£25K) and a 2018 study
 commissioned by Cardiff County Council (£25K) to evaluate the impact of the Volvo Ocean
 Race stop-over in Cardiff. WCTR has also made effective use of QR funding through two
 research bursaries for doctoral students (2018-2021) in tourism, SMEs and economic
 development, with a focus on rural areas in Wales. Francis and Thomas collaborated with staff
 from the International Centre for Design and Research to secure funding from the UK
 Commission for Employment and Skills (£75K) for the Innovative Supply Chains Project
 (InSCaPe). This helped four firms to develop supply chain capabilities to introduce new products
 to market. Finally, Haven-Tang and Thomas were funded by Welsh Government (£25K) to
 work with MakeUK for the Productivity Challenge, assisting 41 Welsh food supply
 chain companies. Research work led to the development of a new MSc in International Supply
 Chain and Logistics Management, an MSc in Production Engineering Management, and a new
 Doctor of Management award.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Infrastructure
 Our R&I activities are predominantly undertaken within centres and clusters structured around a
 particular area of research or practice. Our researchers have autonomy in setting their research
 agendas within our strategic framework and infrastructure. We work closely with the central
 Research & Innovation Services unit (RIS), Finance department and People Services to support
 the advancement of the University’s research agenda. Much of our research is interdisciplinary
 and includes staff from other universities and Cardiff Met Schools including Art & Design, PDR
 and Sport and Health Sciences. For example, Haven-Tang and Pritchard were funded by a
 Cardiff Met Research Innovation Award to work with CSAD on research investigating the well-
 being aspects of various tourism experiences. The work leveraged CSAD’s Perceptual
 Experience Laboratory (PEL) - a £147K mixed reality laboratory that simulates real world
 environments through immersive sound, smell, temperature and vision, allowing a range of
 tourism experiences to be synthesised and evaluated in lab conditions.

 Our annual dedicated research support budget averages ~£42K per annum. The majority of this
 supports staff and PGR students to attend leading national and international conferences such
 as Institute of Small Business and Entrepreneurship, Critical Tourism Studies, European
 Regional Science Association and IEEE International Conference on Robotics and
 Automation. The remainder is typically split between external supervision costs, staff training,
 equipment costs and the annual ‘Advances in Management and Innovation’ conference and
 ‘Advances in Management Working Paper Series Journal’ which help ECRs and students
 showcase their research and foster new collaborations and opportunities for funding. Two
 competitively won Santander Universities grants with a combined value of ~£25K facilitated
 international research outward mobility for Sedgley (tourism studies fieldwork & data collection)
 and a PhD student, Fuzi for a research visit to MIT which was instrumental in her successful
 research degree completion in 2017 and subsequent business start-up (https://anitafuzi.com).

 In CSM, innovation activities fall under the remit of a dedicated Associate Dean for Innovation
 (ADI), while in the still growing School of Technologies the ADR manages both roles. Associate
 Deans are members of both the School Management & Planning Teams (SMPT) and R&I sub-
 committees, with the ADR chairing the latter. ADRs are members of the School and University
 Ethics Committees as well as the University R&I and Research Degrees Committees. In addition
 to setting the strategic direction of School, ADRs are responsible for encouraging and enabling
 research, for example by developing support for emerging researchers or coordinating peer
 review processes for Professors and Readers. The role also typically includes identifying
 opportunities for emerging researchers to collaborate on funding bids with more experienced
 colleagues, running training workshops and providing feedback on applications and conference
 papers. The ADR is also responsible for approving School research funding applications and for
 the School’s performance against Institutional Measures of Success such as research degree
 completion rates, income targets and quality and quantity of research outputs. In CSM, a 1.0FTE
 Research Administrator supports research degrees, research ethics, the management of
 research projects and budget supervision, a role reflected at 0.5FTE in CST. CSM’s Associate
 Dean (Innovation) has an additional two administrators allowing a combined R&I support team to
 bring together operational structures to increase opportunities for research knowledge transfer
 and collaboration with external partners. The success of this system is evidenced by the capture
 of 6 KTPs and SMART Partnerships, 7 KESS2 Scholarships and 16 HEFCW Strategic Insight
 Partnerships in the current REF cycle with a combined value of £1.2m. These support structures
 have improved the employability of research graduates by drawing on collaborative partnerships
 with industry.

 Our R&I sub-committees report to the University R&I Committee, a sub-committee of Academic
 Board which is ultimately responsible for overseeing R&I policy, strategy, facilities, operations
 and performance. Similarly, our Research Degree Sub-Committees deal with all aspects of PGR
 student progression and support, and report to the University’s Research Degree Committee
 (RDC) – a sub-committee of the University Research & Innovation Committee. Our Research
 Ethics Committees report to the University Ethics Committee and work in conjunction with their
 respective School RDCs to maintain and monitor standards, procedures and ethics governance

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to safeguard research quality and integrity. This includes ensuring that research involving human
 participants conforms to the highest ethical standards and the general principles laid down in the
 Cardiff Metropolitan University Ethics Framework. Within CSM there are devolved ethics
 procedures for undergraduate and Masters’ programmes that have a significant research
 element. To support these procedures CSM has 0.4FTE Research Degree and 0.2FTE
 Research Ethics Coordinator role-holders who chair the respective committees and report
 directly to the ADR. In the much smaller CST the ADR covers these roles for now.

 Facilities
 The development and launch of CST in 2018 involved an estates and facilities investment of
 £5m on the Llandaff campus, which included a range of research labs (data science,
 cybersecurity, robotics and creative computing) and PGR accommodation. A further £510K was
 invested in facilities with research applications, including:

    •   A £100K Computer and Video Games Development Suite that directly supports applied
        research and knowledge transfer activities;

    •   CSM’s Hospitality Suite, a multi-functional and reconfigurable event space fully
        refurbished during the assessment period at a cost of £100K and used for conferences,
        research seminars, business breakfasts and other research, engagement and knowledge
        transfer events;

    •   £10K in dedicated resources for doctoral research students, including new workstations,
        PCs and laptops;

    •   An annual subscription representing an investment approaching £300K during the
        assessment period in a Bloomberg Trading Suite which gives access to a wide range of
        financial databases, providing live and real-time market data for research purposes.

 These investments in physical facilities are further enhanced by key institutional support systems
 such as PhD Manager and dedicated School Library and Information Services contacts dealing
 with resource content queries, interlibrary loans and research database management such as
 the FAME company and financial information database from Bureau Van Dijk. Cardiff Met's
 research repository, DSpace provides access to all the University’s research and other scholarly
 output, while the Figshare platform allows the secure sharing of a wide range of data formats.
 Together with MS Teams, Figshare proved vital in successfully moving the 2020 AMI conference
 online during the pandemic. Our research has also benefited from access to other Universities’
 facilities, for example Cardiff University’s Brain Research Imaging Centre (CUBRIC), a £44
 million, purpose-built centre housing four magnetic resonance imaging laboratories.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Summary
 Our research has informed the policy and practice of national, regional and sector stakeholders
 such as Welsh Government, MakeUK, UK Industrial Strategy, OECD, Oxfam Cymru,
 National Cyber Security Centre, Sport Wales, Admiral Insurance, National Museum of
 Wales, Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ), National Cyber Security
 Centre and Sony Technology. We have engaged with over 100 research partners and
 collaborators with beneficiaries across business, academia, government and the third sector,
 and reached audiences beyond academia of over 5 million individuals globally. Our research
 has directly impacted over 1,200 businesses and third sector organisations, safe-guarding or
 creating over 2,000 jobs and founding 25 new businesses. It has delivered economic growth of
 £187m.

 Contributions to the economy and society
 We have significant strength in near-market and applied research in the areas of enterprise and
 innovation (CLEC), events impact (WCTR), public policy and supply chain development (VFC),

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and data science and robotics (AIRDSC). Our researchers engage externally with a full range of
 stakeholders and research users within the economy, including large corporations such as:
 Natwest Bank and Admiral Insurance; small businesses including through the Federation of
 Small Business (FSB); Welsh Government and national governmental departments such as
 UK Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy; the National Museum of
 Wales; trade unions and representative bodies such as the CBI and Chambers of Commerce;
 third sector organizations including Housing Associations, Charities and Credit Unions; and
 transnational agencies such as NATO and the OECD. In 2017 the School was awarded Small
 Business Charter status by the Chartered Association of Business Schools in recognition of
 activities which ‘play an effective role in supporting small business, and local economies’ across
 three pillars; i) small business support for growth, ii) involvement with a wider stakeholder
 engagement in the growth agenda, and iii) support for student start-ups.

 We also have official regional and national partnerships with over 30 key stakeholders and
 organisations. They include BT, Admiral Insurance, Capital Law, Visit Wales, Gambit
 Corporate Finance, Wilmott Dixon Construction, and John Lewis. Partner projects include a
 bespoke 20/20 leadership programme for Admiral and work with Capital Law to inform
 productivity research. These bilateral partnerships provide us with access to business leaders
 and policymakers as research users, fostering organisational and economic impact through
 research-informed advice, strategic direction and workforce upskilling.

 Many of these interactions are driven by our research centres. For example, the work of CLEC,
 which underpins one of our impact case studies in this submission, has benefitted a wide range
 of social enterprises such as housing associations and charities. Likewise, the VFC’s work
 with [text removed for publication] and Welsh food supply chain companies to deliver process
 design improvements worth ~£3m also underpins an ICS. The WCTR provides a vehicle for
 engagement with Visit Wales and the Welsh Government Major Events Unit (MEU), feeding
 into its national and international events strategy. CST research clusters also collaborate widely.
 For example, the EUREKA Robotics Centre staff work with Cardiff and the Vale University
 Health Board on interactive healthcare robotics, and the Centre for Industry 4 and Blockchain
 Research cluster’s staff work with Barclay's Eagle Labs and Companies House to develop
 blockchain based data security applications. Meanwhile, the Cybersecurity, Information
 Networks Centre works closely with the Welsh Government Department for Economy &
 Transport.

 Engagement with key research users and beneficiaries
 Partner organisations are active contributors to our research profile. For example, NatWest
 Bank actively promoted CLEC’s 20Twenty Programme and its impact to their client base.
 Meanwhile, having benefitted from these research-informed management development
 programmes, multiple staff from Admiral Insurance, CreditSafe, and GE Aviation have
 commissioned bespoke sessions, disseminating best practice within their companies.

 A significant example of engagement with key industry and policy stakeholders was provided by
 CLEC’s Productivity Summit in March 2020, where the Hodge Foundation funded research by
 Morgan, Kyaw, Clifton, Davies, Holtham was presented. This industry-focused event attracted
 over 100 attendees with keynote contributions from Make UK, Quay Pharma, and Proton PLC.
 ‘Effective Communication’ estimated the media reach of the event to be 67,000 individuals for
 print media and 375,000 for broadcast media, as well as over 4.5m online page views. In May
 2020 CLEC also hosted a Hodge Foundation policy seminar in preparation for the 2021 Welsh
 Assembly Elections manifesto on Executive Agencies (economic policy delivery bodies) for the
 Plaid Cymru senior leadership and policy team.

 WCTR research informs the practice of the Association for Tourism in Higher Education
 (ATHE), the Association for Events Management Education (AEME) and the Council of
 Hospitality Management Education (CHME). They have also facilitated two large scale multi-
 partner collaborative international Erasmus+ projects since 2014: Co-operating for Leadership
 in Tourism (2015-17); and the Next Tourism Generation Skills Alliance (NTG, 2018-2022) - the

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 first pan-European partnership for improving collaborative relationships between higher
 education and the tourism industry.

 Bolton’s work partnering Sport Wales applied a Theory of Change approach as a systematic
 method for conducting research on Welsh Government sport and physical activity flagship
 programmes affecting 45% of the Welsh population. The work has contributed to the delivery
 of the 2015 Well-being of Future Generations (Wales) Act4 and forms the basis of a further
 impact case study returned with this submission.

 Other examples of work with external bodies include research for Oxfam Cymru examining how
 in-work poverty and achieving ‘decent work’ for women in Wales might be addressed. This was
 commissioned by the Institute for Welsh Affairs policy think-tank and Chwarae Teg (a charity
 working in Wales to support the economic development of women) to make policy
 recommendations. The £1.6m Circular Economy Innovation Communities (CEIC) project
 (Beverly, Brooksbank, Clifton, Murphy, Rees) will deliver improved collaborative public service
 provision to over 2 million Cardiff Capital and Swansea Bay City Regions residents. A
 partnership with the Learned Society of Wales and the Hodge Foundation’s £400K ‘Future of
 the Welsh Economy’ research project, led to two international symposia: Portmeirion (2015) and
 Newport (2018). It brought leading academics together with Welsh policy makers to enable
 resolution on ‘the Institutions Needed for Economic Development’. Meanwhile, Clifton and Rees
 were organising committee members for a joint venture with Cardiff University, Swansea
 University and University of Wales Trinity Saint David to host the prestigious 43rd Institute of
 Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE) conference (postponed to 2021). ISBE’s remit
 is to provide a forum for knowledge exchange between researchers and practitioners. Cardiff
 Met will host its ‘industry day’.

 Reaching audiences beyond academia
 During this REF cycle our staff have contributed pieces to key media broadcasters and
 broadcast outlets including: the BBC (Minor, Morgan, Kyaw); ITV (Morgan, Parry); The Times
 (Clifton); The Western Mail (Clifton, Morgan); and Premium Times (Nigeria), The Voice of
 America (Aminu). Other engagement with wider audiences includes articles in ‘The
 Conversation’, which publishes short, research-informed articles for a mass audience. During
 the assessment period staff have published 13 articles: Clifton x 3; James x 3; Rowe & Parry x
 2; Ren; Haven-Tang; Davies; Fallon; Hewage x 2; Carroll & Thorne. These articles cover a
 diverse range of subjects including: sexism in the aviation industry; the role of culture in place
 branding; the royal family and tourism attraction; tax policy and the Panama Papers; fingerprints
 and biometric security; and the future of the Welsh steel industry. Together they have attracted
 over 250,000 unique readers to date, the majority of them from outside the UK (i.e., USA, India,
 Australia).

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 Our staff regularly review grants for RCUK and other key funding bodies nationally and
 internationally. These include: EPSRC; AHRC; ESRC; Irish Research Council; Horizon 2020
 (Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellowships); British Academy; Polish National Science Centre and
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Denmark. Clifton also contributes to the Innovation Caucus (funded
 and co-developed by Innovate UK and the ESRC to champion the role of social science in
 innovation and enhance its impact).

 We have also played a key role in shaping UK and international policy through consultations,
 providing evidence to select committees and serving as members of governmental advisory or
 steering bodies. Some key examples in relation to the economy, society and well-being include:

    •   Clifton’s invitation to provide evidence in person to the Welsh Government’s Petitions
        Committee in relation to the valuation of urban green infrastructure and the UK
        Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund via the Innovation Caucus. He also provided
        research and briefing services in relation to Brexit for the Welsh Government


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Framework Agreement and undertook research to support the Federation of Small
        Business (FSB) Wales’ Manifesto for the 2016 Welsh Assembly Elections.
    •   Morgan provided evidence to the UK Industrial Strategy consultation as well as to the
        National Infrastructure Commission for Wales. He also contributed a combination of
        verbal and written submissions to the Welsh Government Economy, Infrastructure
        and Skills Committee on the Economic Strategy for Wales.
    •   Evans was invited to join The Senedd’s4 cross-party group on poverty and contributed
        to the UK Government Equalities Office Women and Gender Equality Research
        Programme.
    •   Holtham was a key contributor to ‘The Future of Regional Development and Public
        Investment in Wales’ (OECD) and authored Paying for Social Care, an independent
        report commissioned by the Welsh Government.

 Staff held advisory, steering body and other board positions in the following bodies during the
 REF period:

    •   British Gymnastics, Non-Executive Director (Bolton)
    •   Cardiff Central Enterprise Zone, Steering Board, Welsh Government (Clifton)
    •   Cardiff Capital Region City Deal Economic Growth Partnership, Board Member; CBI
        Wales, Council Member; World Leisure Academy, Senior Fellow (Invited); and Economic
        and Social Research Council (ESRC) Peer Review College, Member (Aitchison)
    •   Regulatory Policy Committee, Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy;
        Welsh Government Valleys Task Force; Financial & Professional Services Sector Panel;
        and Welsh Government Learning Skills and Innovation Partnership (Morgan)
    •   Visit Wales Digital Tourism Business Framework Project Steering Group (Haven-Tang)
    •   Enterprise Educators UK, research development fund Advisory Board (Clifton, Murphy)
    •   Venture Wales, Board Member (Brooksbank)
    •   Penderyn Board Member (Holtham).

 Staff have also engaged with key research users and audiences via editor roles and board
 membership of leading academic journals across a range of subject areas. For example, Kyaw
 is Managing Editor of the ‘International Journal of Management, Economics and Social
 Sciences’, while Verma is Associate Editor of the ‘Journal of Work-Applied Management’ and
 Aitchison was Associate Editor of Annals of Tourism Research until 2016. Lastly, Robinson is a
 Section Editor for the Journal of Global Sport Management and Associate Editor of Frontiers in
 Sports and Active Living.

 Board membership includes: ‘Growth and Change: A Journal of Urban and Regional Policy’;
 ‘International Journal of Innovation and Regional Development’ (Clifton); ‘Leisure Studies’
 (Haven-Tang); ‘Managing Sport and Leisure’ (Bolton); ‘International Journal of Procurement
 Management’ (Francis, Mason-Jones); ‘Journal of Travel, Tourism and Recreation’
 (McLoughlin); ‘Managing Sport and Leisure’, European Sport Management Quarterly and Sport
 Management Review, and ‘MDPI Future Internet Journal’ (Robinson) and ‘Frontiers in Big Data’
 (Hewage). In addition, our researchers have guest edited thematic issues for the following
 journals: ‘City Culture & Society’; ‘European Planning Studies’ (Clifton); ‘International Journal of
 Event and Festival Management’ (Jaimangal-Jones); ‘Journal of Work Applied Management’
 (Verma); and ‘Frontiers in Big Data’ (Hewage).

 Our staff have served as reviewers for over 50 international academic journals spanning:
 economics and finance (‘Energy Economics’, ‘Economic Modelling’, ‘Small Business
 Economics’); economic development and policy (‘Environment & Planning’ A and C,
 ‘Economic Geography’, ‘Regional Studies’); tourism and hospitality (‘Tourism Management’,
 ‘Annals of Tourism Research’, ‘Leisure Management’); human resource management
 (‘Personnel Review’); operations management (‘Production Planning and Control’); and data
 science (‘IEEE Access Bioinformatics’).
4 Welsh Government


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our researchers have also been invited to serve as examiners for 39 research degrees at 26
 universities in the period, including Aston University, Curtin University, Perth, University of the
 Sunshine Coast (Australia), Newcastle University and University of Sheffield.

 Wider research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 We have extensive international collaborative networks, including with: Institut Arbeit und
 Technik (Gelsenkirchen, Germany); Melbourne University; National University of Ireland
 Galway; Atilim University (Ankara, Turkey); La Trobe University (Bundoora, Australia); and
 Norwegian University of Science and Technology. We have hosted 14 visiting researchers
 from international institutions in the REF period, leading to ongoing collaborative research and
 high-quality jointly authored outputs. They include Juan Gabriel Tirado Ballesteros (University
 of Alicante); Anita Fuzi (Széchenyi István University, Hungary); Jani Kozina (University of
 Ljubljana, Slovenia); Rajitha Udawalpola (University of Ruhuna, Sri Lanka) and Alessia Usai
 (University of Cagliari, Italy). Our researchers have also reached out to research users and
 wider audiences through coordination of a variety of academic and practitioner conferences,
 including:

    •   Association of Events Management Education Conference (2017), organisers (Davies
        and Jaimangal-Jones)
    •   Institute of Small Business and Entrepreneurship (ISBE) Conference (2020) organising
        committee (Clifton and Rees postponed to 2021 due to Covid19)
    •   International Conference on Culinary Arts and Sciences (ICCAS), co-organiser (2019);
        Association for Tourism in Higher Education (ATHE) Annual Conferences (2016-19), as
        both lead and co-organiser (Haven-Tang)
    •   International Symposium on Logistics (ISL), International Advisory Committee (2015-
        present, Francis).

 Staff have also delivered keynote presentations at a range of events, including:

    •   UKSim-AMSS 20th International Conference on Modelling & Simulation (2018,
        Cambridge, Platts)
    •   Association for Tourism in Higher Education Conference (2016, Cardiff, Minor)
    •   Edutainment 2019 and IEEE International Conference on Virtual Reality and
        Visualization, Belt and Road International Symposium on Emerging Information
        Technology (2019, Cali, Colombia, Prakash)
    •   Internal Business Law Consortium’s Conference Brexit session, (2016, Cardiff, Clifton)

 Finally, our staff hold international visiting positions at: University of Kyoto, (Patra); Liaoning
 University of International Business and Economics (Ren); Pontificia University Javeriana,
 Colombia; and Xidian University, Xi'an, China (Prakash). They have also delivered invited
 research seminars at many UK and international institutions including: Harvard Medical School,
 Office for National Statistics (Khan); Institute of Technology Sligo, Ireland (McLoughlin);
 University of Ljubljana (Minor); Institute of Social and Economic Research, Osaka University
 (Patra); Beijing International Studies University (Ren); Cardiff University (Aminu, Patra,
 Clifton); and Manonmaniam Sundaranar University, India (Prakash).




                                                                                               Page 15
