Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution: University of Brighton
Unit of Assessment: C23 Education
1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

1.1. Unit context and structure
This submission represents an expansion in volume and an increase in research excellence since
REF2014. Seventeen staff (13.5 FTE) are submitted, compared with eight (7.3 FTE) in 2014.
Submitted staff comprise: four Professors, one Reader, six Principal Lecturers, five Senior
Lecturers and one Research Fellow. Thirteen are employed on full-time and four on part-time
contracts, while 16 of the 17 staff have permanent contracts.

Our staff deliver research excellence and significant, far-reaching impact in a number of distinct
areas, relating to the specialisms of our three Research and Enterprise Groups (REGs). The
REGs, together with their current co-leads are:
   •    Narrative and Biographical Methodologies in Education (Clough, Turvey);
   •    Teaching, Learning and Professional Lives (Allen, Marks);
   •    Voice and Participation in Childhood and Education (Hemming, Page).

The REGs are based in the University’s School of Education (SoE), an (Ofsted) ‘Outstanding’
provider of teacher education. A distinctive feature of the REGs is their combination of a strong
theoretical and methodological focus, notably in the Narrative REG, with a significant focus on
practice and policy in the Teaching & Learning and Voice & Participation REGs, exemplified in our
two impact case studies [ICS_Mentoring and ICS_ChildRights]. The REGs provide a vibrant space
within which staff collaborate in planning, conducting and sharing research and Knowledge
Exchange (KE) activity. Another distinctive characteristic of our research, across the REGs, is a
commitment to criticality, the importance of rights and voice, and progressive educational change.
We act on this commitment through our involvement in over 50 partnerships and collaborations
nationally and internationally, including in seven countries in Africa.

In its feedback on the unit’s submission to REF2014, the sub-panel judged that ‘some elements of
the environment were conducive to producing research of internationally excellent quality in terms
of its vitality and sustainability’, whilst a ‘significant proportion’ of outputs were world-leading. Since
REF2014, we have systematically deployed QR income and additional SoE investment to create a
more vibrant and sustainable research environment, creating an upward trajectory of internationally
excellent and world-leading research. For example, our narrative research, a recognised area of
strength in 2014, continues to shape the field through both:
   •    Sustained innovations in narrative and biographical methodologies – eg Goodson et al.’s
        (2016) Routledge International Handbook on Narrative and Life History; and
    •   The deployment of such methodologies to provide significant insights into professional
        identity, equity and social justice – eg Moriarty’s (2014) monograph Analytical
        Autoethnodrama: Autobiographed and Researched Experiences with Academic Writing.

1.2. Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact
Following the 2014 strategic appointment of Hobson as Head of Education Research, the
strategic goals identified in our 2014 submission were refined, extended, and aligned with a new
University of Brighton (UoB) Research and Enterprise Strategic Plan. The resultant four strategic
aims for research and impact are outlined below, with evidence of their achievement.

Strategic Aim 1: Increase the quality and volume of research outputs to strengthen research
excellence. One indicator of the increased quality and volume of our research is that twice as
many staff now publish in leading international peer reviewed journals including the British
Educational Research Journal, Educational Studies in Mathematics, Oxford Review of Education,
and Research Papers in Education. A second indicator is that over half of our researchers have
won prizes for their research (eg Goodson’s British Educational Research Association [BERA]

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
John Nisbet Fellowship Award for outstanding contribution to educational research, 2018 – see
Section 4.2) and/or published invited chapters in international research handbooks. The handbook
chapters, shaping their respective fields, include:
   •   Clough’s contribution to early childhood education and inclusion (eg The Routledge
       International Handbook of Philosophies and Theories of Early Childhood Education and
       Care, 2016);
   •   Goodson’s work on refraction and educational and social reform initiatives (eg The
       Routledge International Handbook of European Social Transformations, 2018);
   •   Hayler’s contribution to the field of autoethnography, duoethnography and self-study (eg
       The Second International Handbook of Self-Study of Teaching and Teacher Education
       [Springer], 2020);
   •   Hemming’s research on religious citizenship in schools (eg The Palgrave Handbook of
       Citizenship and Education, 2018);
   •   Hobson’s work on ‘judgementoring’ and ONSIDE Mentoring (eg The Wiley International
       Handbook of Mentoring, 2020);
   •   Page’s contribution to early childhood education (eg The Routledge International Handbook
       of Philosophies and Theories of Early Childhood Education and Care, 2016);
   •   Stephens’ work in narrative, life history and international education (eg The Routledge
       Handbook of African Development, 2018);
   •   Turvey’s research into educational technologies (eg The Wiley Handbook of Learning
       Technology, 2015).

A third indicator of quality and significance is that UoB education research is well cited by other
researchers in its field (eg Allen 2018: 83 citations to date [Google Scholar]; Hobson 2016: 61;
Page 2018: 38).

Strategic Aim 2: Grow critical mass in established and emerging areas of excellence, and
develop the next generation of education researchers. Critical mass in our areas of excellence
has expanded through two key initiatives: first, the strategic appointment of new professors and
established mid-career researchers. Hence:
   •   New Professor Clough’s seminal work on narrative and fiction further strengthens
       established excellence around Narrative and Biographical Methodologies;
   •   The work of new mid-career staff Page (SL) and Hemming (Reader), on professional love,
       and youth and religion, has broadened and deepened expertise in our second established
       area of excellence (Voice & Participation);
   •   New Professors Allen and Hobson have strengthened what in 2014 was an emerging area
       of excellence around Teaching, Learning and Professional Lives, while Allen’s status as a
       quantitative researcher enhances the unit’s methodological expertise.

Secondly, we have supported the development of staff at early stages of their research careers,
notably Barnes, Moncrieffe and Price, who completed doctorates during the assessment period.
The development of such researchers is a particular area of strength, with some staff nurtured,
during the last decade or so, from UoB research students to leading national and international
authorities in their fields. Amongst these, Hayler completed his UoB EdD in 2009; his monograph
Autoethnography, Self-narrative and Teacher Education (2011) is regarded as a key text in the
field, and his (Hayler and Williams 2020) duoethnography Being a Teacher Educator in
Challenging Times provides another significant contribution. Turvey completed a Brighton PhD in
2011, has since published in leading journals (eg Journal of Education for Teaching; Teaching and
Teacher Education), and his standing is reflected in the award of a 2019 American Educational
Research Association (AERA) Presidential Session for his collaborative ‘Innovation in Teacher
Education’ research.

Strategic Aim 3: Increase the impact of our research on education policy and practice
nationally and internationally. Since 2014, our research has had an increased and significant
impact on policy and practice in the UK and other systems. For example:

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Hobson and Stephens’ mentoring research has shaped national teacher mentoring
       frameworks and the establishment/improvement of mentor training and mentoring
       programmes nationally and internationally, enhancing participants’ professional
       development, well-being and retention [ICS_Mentoring];
   •   Supported by a UoB Research Impact Development award (REF5a), Robinson’s UNICEF-
       funded research into the Rights Respecting Schools Award (RRSA) directly influenced
       rights-based education in the UK, Finland and Norway, and Japan’s national Schools
       Safety Promotion Programme [ICS_ChildRights];
   •   Wisker’s research on postgraduate supervision, also supported by a Research Impact
       Development award, has been adopted in supervisor development programmes in several
       UK, South African and New Zealand universities, contributing to the professionalisation of
       supervisor roles, and enhanced supervisory practice and quality of supervisees’ research
       (see 4.3).

Strategic Aim 4: Maximise the volume and diversity of research and KE income to build a
sustainable environment and further support research excellence and impact. From 2014-20,
14 of our researchers were PIs, securing 41 research awards (total spend £742k) from a wide
range of agencies including the AHRC, Department for Education (DfE), ESRC, EU, Education
Endowment Foundation, and Gatsby Charitable Foundation. We also secured £253k in KE income
which generated new research and research impact. As well as supporting sustainability, our
funded research and KE projects have contributed demonstrably to the development of:
   •   A vibrant research environment, with PIs and Co-Is presenting and discussing funded
       research-in-progress with colleagues and postgraduate research (PGR) students at REG
       meetings and our annual Education Research & Enterprise Conference;
   •   Significant research outputs – eg Wisker’s collaborative ESRC award produced the
       outstanding article on South African HE students’ ‘encounters with coloniality’ (Timmis et
       al., 2019);
   •   New research impact of significance and reach (see 4.3 and Impact Case Studies).

1.3. Promoting interdisciplinary research, Open Access, and research integrity
We have achieved our aims and enhanced the environment by enabling interdisciplinary research
(IDR) and creating a strong commitment to research ethics and integrity. Key vehicles for
supporting IDR are UoB Centres of Research and Enterprise Excellence (REF5a), in which
education researchers work with those from various disciplines in areas of common interest. For
example, collaboration between colleagues in our Narrative REG and the UoB Centre for Memory,
Narrative and Histories led to Hayler and Moriarty producing their important 2017 text Self-
narrative and pedagogy: Stories of experience within teaching and learning. Other researchers
conducting IDR include:
   •   Stephens, whose projects in Kenya and Tanzania, and publications (eg International
       Education and Development: Culture, Context and Narrative, 2018), combine Education
       and Development Studies;
   •   Hemming, Co-I on a Leverhulme-funded mindfulness study incorporating the disciplines of
       Sociology, Psychology and Human Geography;
   •   Moncrieffe, PI on an AHRC-funded ‘Examining Civic National Values’ collaboration with
       Arts and Humanities, Peace and Conflict Studies researchers.

Our research outputs also reach beyond the Education discipline. For example, Hobson’s
mentoring research is published in international handbooks (eg The SAGE Handbook of
Mentoring, 2017) which are not specific to the field of education but address a wide range of
disciplines. Hemming’s outputs, in journals including the British Journal of Sociology of Education,
Journal of Youth Studies, and International Journal of Children’s Spirituality, are widely cited
across disciplines including Childhood and Youth Studies, Human Geography, Sociology and
Religious Studies.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff are supported at unit and institutional levels to ensure outputs, including pre-publication
versions of journal articles, are available via the UoB repository, PURE. Ninety per cent of articles
and conference papers (with an ISSN) published in this Unit of Assessment (UoA) were Open
Access compliant. Our researchers exceed REF Open Access policy requirements by making
versions of their work available via academic networking sites: all 17 researchers returned have
Google Scholar and/or Research Gate profiles.

The unit is committed to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, in line with the University’s
Code of Practice. Within the unit, research ethics and integrity are overseen by (and a standing
agenda item on) the SoE Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC). The unit’s Research Ethics
and Integrity lead is given a workload allocation for the role and sits on both SREC and the
University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee. These structures, plus institution-level
initiatives (eg regular Governance, Ethics and Integrity workshops in the Researcher Development
Programme), ensure all staff comply with the University’s Two-tier ethics approval process, and
that research is conducted in accordance with appropriate ethical frameworks, obligations and
standards, including GDPR. All Education PGR students have to complete a compulsory ethics
and integrity training course, without which they cannot progress through their first Annual
Progress Review. Ethics proposals are reviewed using the online ethics management system,
BREAM (Brighton Research Ethics Application Manager), introduced in 2018 to help ensure
transparency, consistency and rigour in ethical review.

1.4. Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
The SoE Strategic Plan for Research and Impact (2021-26) encompasses four key Strategic Goals
to further enhance research excellence, impact and sustainability:
   •   Continue to grow critical mass of research active staff and PGR students in our three areas
       of excellence;
   •   Further increase the number of education researchers publishing in leading international
       journals, and with international partners and co-authors;
   •   Increase external research income, with larger applications, more bids for UKRI funding,
       and more collaborative bids with international partners;
   •   Maximise the local, national and international impact and global influence of our research
       through consolidating and extending our partnerships.

These goals align with the University’s Research and Enterprise Strategic Priorities (2020-26),
which commit, inter alia, to increasing external research and KE income, further investment in
research mentorship, and increasing the volume and diversity of PGR students by, for example,
doubling the number of studentships. Amongst the key means of achieving our goals, we will
further grow critical mass and IDR by proactively nurturing education research in other Schools
within the University. We will also nurture existing and develop new national and international
strategic collaborations with both academic and non-academic partners. And we will establish a
new programme of Visiting Research Fellowships, attracting world-leading researchers to further
enhance the vibrancy of our environment and extend our national and international research
networks.

Our strategic goals will be taken forward through the SREC and leadership of our REGs.
Adaptations to the unit’s means of achieving its future strategic goals will continue to be made, at
least annually, to ensure they remain viable and continue to support research excellence and
impact. In 2020, for example, planned expenditure that could not be realised due to COVID-19 was
diverted to a new Doctoral Resources Fund, to mitigate the effects of the pandemic on PGR
students’ progress.

2. People

2.1. Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
Staffing Strategy: The increased volume and quality of this submission, compared with 2014, is
associated with the realisation of a staffing strategy emphasising:
                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The appointment of researchers and research leaders in established and emerging areas of
       excellence;
   •   Support for the professional development of staff to facilitate excellence and impact;
   •   The retention and career progression of research active staff.

This strategy led to the appointment of five staff returned in this submission (Allen, Clough,
Hemming, Hobson, Page), alongside 12 who were in post prior to the assessment period, nine of
whom were not returned in 2014. Of those nine, three (Barnes, Price, Moncrieffe) completed
doctorates since 2014, and six (Canning, Edmond, Jones, Marks, Moriarty, Rudd) have been
mentored and supported to achieve research career progression.

The unit has ensured sustainability of the research environment, leadership succession planning,
and gender balance in leadership roles through: the appointment of new Professors (Hobson,
Allen, Clough) and mid-career researchers (Hemming, Page); and the provision of leadership
opportunities. Each of our REGs has two co-leads, one of whom is a Professor or Reader, to
create opportunities for collaboration, peer mentorship and leadership development. Three of six
current REG leads are women, and female colleagues hold other research leadership roles
including PGR Coordinator (Page, succeeding Robinson), ECR representative (Barnes), and
Research Ethics and Integrity lead (Marks).

Staff development: In addition to leadership opportunities, researchers have profited from
significant unit-level support consistent with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers and the UoB Concordat Implementation Plan, including the following initiatives.
   •   Additional Research Time and Doctoral Study Time, providing workload support for staff
       who are research active or following doctorates – beneficiaries include Barnes, Edmond,
       Hayler, Marks, Moncrieffe, Page, Price, Rudd, Treacy and Turvey.
   •   Biannual Education Research, Enterprise and Scholarship Weeks, providing sustained,
       uninterrupted time for all SoE colleagues to work independently or interactively on
       research/KE projects, outputs or funding proposals.
   •   Writing and Bid-Writing Retreats, attended by colleagues including Barnes, Hobson,
       Robinson and Turvey, to support the development of research outputs and bids for
       external funding.
   •   Education Research Mentoring (forerunner to UoB-wide scheme, informed by Hobson’s
       research), with trained mentors supporting staff to enhance the quality of research outputs
       and funding bids (eg Stephens mentored Moncrieffe, winning AHRC funding).
   •   Research and Enterprise Group activities, providing opportunities for discussion and
       collaboration: for example, via the Narrative REG, Goodson, Stephens, Hayler and
       Turvey planned, shared and critiqued contributions to The Routledge International
       Handbook on Narrative and Life History (2017).
   •   A Research Seminar Programme and annual Education Research & Enterprise
       Conference, providing opportunities for staff to present and critique work, and engage with
       prominent external researchers (eg Biesta, Sammons, Sikes).
   •   A Research Conference Support Fund, enabling colleagues to present, network and
       explore potential external collaborations at national and international research conferences.

An ongoing commitment to these initiatives is reflected in the SoE Strategic Plan for Research and
Impact (2021-26).

Colleagues early in their research careers enjoy additional support from an SoE ECR
representative and UoB ECR network led by a University ECR Ambassador, and can apply for
annual competitive ECR Small Grants of up to £5,000 to undertake pilot research and/or fast track
publications from doctorates. For example, Barnes’ grant supported the development of her paper
Perseverance in mathematical reasoning, which won the 2019 Janet Duffin Award (see 4.2).

We have enabled impact through mechanisms to promote engagement with non-academic
partners. For example, new Enterprise/KE lead (Price) and Research Impact lead (Stephens)
roles foster opportunities for KE funding and research impact with regional, national and
                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
international non-academic partners (see 4.1). Researchers including Robinson and Wisker have
also been supported by the University’s Research Impact Development Fund, enabling them to
generate notable impacts from their research into rights-based education and postgraduate
supervision, respectively (see 4.3).

Unit level support for staff development is complemented by other institution-level initiatives (see
REF5a), including the:
   •   Rising Stars scheme, supporting Moncrieffe to achieve AHRC ‘Changing the Story’
       research funding;
   •   Research Sabbatical scheme, leading to outputs included in this submission by Hayler,
       Marks and Price;
   •   Researcher Development Programme, including 35 annual workshops supporting
       researchers in planning and developing their research careers;
   •   Research Development Officers and KE Managers, who support external research and KE
       funding bids;
   •   Research Impact Manager, who supports researchers in building impact mechanisms into
       proposals;
   •   Community University Partnership Programme (CUPP), building and sustaining
       relationships between the University and community partners.

Career Progression: School and pan-university support has enhanced colleagues’ research and
overall career progression. This includes mid-career researchers (eg Hayler and Turvey,
evidenced in 1.2), and colleagues early in their research careers, notably Barnes, Moncrieffe and
Price, who since 2014 have all completed doctorates, published in international peer reviewed
journals and won external research funding. The success of the unit’s staffing and staff
development strategy is also reflected in: the increased volume and quality of outputs, with more
than double the number of staff returned compared with 2014; and staff promotions (eg Canning,
Marks, Robinson).

2.2. Research students
Strategic Context: A key means of delivering our strategic aims of developing the next generation
of UoB education researchers and enhancing the sustainability of education research has been
supporting staff to undertake postgraduate study. Hence, SoE colleagues have been provided with
fee waivers and ring-fenced study time. In parallel, the vitality of the environment has been
enhanced through attracting and integrating additional UK and international doctoral students.

Recruitment and completions: We have adopted recruitment strategies to encourage part-time
study and diversify our student body. Most supervisors worked in practice/policy roles in education
prior to or during their own doctoral studies; this is identified in their online biographies to
encourage applications from mature learners seeking to combine study with work in education. Our
advertisements for studentships also encourage applications from women and those from diverse
backgrounds. Our research partnerships in Africa have supported the growth of a capacity-building
joint Professional Doctorate (EdD) programme at the Mauritius Institute of Education (MIE), with its
first conferrals in 2019.

We have achieved our PGR goals by securing 24.33 doctoral completions (see Table 1), plus four
EdD conferrals from our MIE partnership (not included in REF4 data). Recruitment to our UK PGR
cohort was supported by six UoB-funded studentships, two students were supported by
International Scholarships and several by their employing universities (eg Southampton, Malta).
The PGR community is diverse, currently comprising 10 PhD and 18 Stage 2 EdD students (27 PT,
1 FT), of whom 16 are female and 12 male, and 5 are based in Mauritius.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                Table 1: Doctoral awards in education 2014-2020

                  Conferral        Number of PhDs                Number of
                    Year                                        Professional
                                                                 Doctorates
                  2013-14                  0                          0
                  2014-15                1.00                        2.5
                  2015-16                3.50                         2
                  2016-17                1.00                         2
                  2017-18                0.83                         4
                  2018-19                3.50                         2
                  2019-20                0.50                        1.5
                  Total                  10.33                       14
                  Grand                               24.33*
                  total
                *Excludes 4 MIE EdD conferrals.

The PGR environment: To provide a stimulating environment for research students (PGRs), we
run a range of inclusive integration initiatives. Our PGR Coordinator and Brighton Doctoral College
(BDC) have responsibility for monitoring PGR progress (via Annual Progression Reviews) and
providing student support. Supervision is by a minimum two specialist supervisors with expertise in
relevant areas, at least one of whom is based in the SoE. Specialist expertise is sometimes
provided by another School or external individual; Mauritian students have one supervisor at MIE.
PGRs participate in activities of our three REGs and contribute to the Education Research &
Enterprise Conference and PGR Conference, which provide valuable opportunities to discuss their
work and network with experienced and leading researchers. A SoE partnership team for MIE
PGRs runs workshops, seminars and support during two-week visits to Mauritius three times per
year (barring CV-19 restrictions).

Training and support for PGRs and supervisors: The BDC runs a PGR Development
Programme designed to meet students’ needs, identified via annual training needs analyses.
PGRs have been supported by BDC Conference Support Funding to present at conferences in
(eg) the Czech Republic, Hong Kong, and Vancouver. The PGR representative is a member of
SREC, contributing to a standing PGR agenda item and wider discussions including those relating
to REGs, to which all PGRs belong.

PGR supervisors undergo BDC supervisory training, refreshed every three years, and participate in
annual ‘Rules and Regulations’ webinars. In 2013-14, 16 SoE staff were on the BDC supervision
register, increasing to 22 by 2019-20.

Student Satisfaction and Outcomes: The 2017-18 PRES survey results for SoE show high
satisfaction with supervision (88.9% compared with sector average 85.6%) and research skills
(94.4%, sector average 85.9%). PGRs realise career progression and impact from their studies at
UoB. Manning, completing a PhD on mentoring in FE, was subsequently appointed National Head
of Practitioner Research and Development at the Education and Training Foundation, introducing a
new national mentor development programme in 2020. Gungapersad is a Labour MP in the
Mauritian assembly and party spokesperson on Education. SoE staff completing UoB doctorates
have become leading researchers in their fields (see 1.2).

2.3. Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Inclusivity is among the UoB’s core values and underpins all activities. UoB is one of 17 institutions
to hold a Bronze Race Equality Charter, is a Stonewall Top-100 employer, and will submit for an
Athena SWAN institutional Silver Award in April 2021. The University’s commitment to equality and
capacity building is demonstrated in its Concordat Implementation Plan 2020-22, and validated by
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
retention of its HR Excellence in Research Award (May 2020). Academic staff undertake
mandatory Equality and Diversity Essentials, Unconscious Bias and Dignity at Work training. Line
managers must complete Managing Diversity training, and those on appointment panels receive
training on Interviewing and Recruitment. SoE colleagues are involved in numerous EDI initiatives,
including the Widening Participation Outreach programme, and initiated/lead some UoB-wide
activities including Menopause Café and decolonising the curriculum (Moncrieffe).

A core value of the SoE is its commitment to education as a right for all learners, underpinned by a
belief in social justice. Our 2020 application for Athena SWAN charter mark status reflects this
commitment. Both the SoE Senior Management team and the SREC are evenly-balanced in terms
of gender, and women are as successful as men in gaining promotion. Over half of the staff in this
submission who were promoted in the census period are female.

Our staff development policies (REF5a) ensure that career progression is not disadvantaged by
issues of ill-health, disability, or religious, caring or family commitments, overseen by a School
Equality and Diversity Committee, which carries out Equality Impact Assessments. The SREC
adopts gender-sensitive procedures in identifying speakers for our annual Education Research &
Enterprise Conference and Research Seminar programme, demonstrated in keynote lectures and
seminars by prominent female academics (eg Sammons, Sikes, and Thomson).

Our Voice & Participation research includes a specific inclusion and diversity focus. Moncrieffe is
a strong proponent of EDI within the university and more widely. He is Fellow of The Chartered
College of Teaching, in recognition of his work on Decolonising the Curriculum, and Co-Convenor
of BERA’s Race, Ethnicity and Education Special Interest Group. He presented research evidence
on Black history and cultural diversity in the curriculum to the Women and Equalities Select
Committee of the House of Commons (2020). Clough is an internationally recognised authority on
inclusion in education, his research influencing inclusion practices worldwide.

Consistent with our REF Code of Practice, EDI were central to the preparation of this submission.
The Output Review Panel and UoA Leadership team reflect relevant expertise and gender
balance, and members undertook unconscious bias training and calibration exercises to ensure
judgements were fairly and consistently applied. A slightly higher percentage of female than male
staff are returned with two or more outputs. To ensure a balanced submission with a diverse range
of outputs, no more than three outputs were selected for any one researcher.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research funding and income generation
During the assessment period, 14 different PIs were awarded 41 separate research grants totalling
£742k in spend. Several of these were from organisations from which the unit had secured funding
between 2008 and 2013, including the DfE (Robinson), ESRC (Wisker), and EU (Edmond,
Goodson). In addition, we achieved our strategic research aim of diversifying the range of funding
bodies for our research by making successful applications to bodies from which the unit had not
previously secured funding. These included the Aga Khan Foundation (Stephens), AHRC
(Moncrieffe), British Society for Research into Learning Mathematics (BSRLM) (Marks),
Drinkaware (Robinson), Education Endowment Foundation (Hobson, Marks), and Gatsby
Charitable Foundation (Hobson). These figures exclude additional research funding, secured just
ahead of the 2020 census date, from the Leverhulme Foundation (Hemming), Education and
Training Foundation (ETF) (Hobson), and Nuffield Foundation (Marks, Barnes, Allen), which
demonstrate sustained growth.

In addition, and in line with our strategic aims, the unit secured £253k of KE funding, which also
generated new research and/or research impact, from a range of external bodies including
Brighton & Hove City Council (BHCC), ETF, and the National College for Teaching and Leadership
(NCTL). This includes six grants, totalling £203k, for research and development (R&D) projects
supporting the establishment of – and research into – ONSIDE mentoring programmes for
teachers and head teachers in a range of regional, national and international contexts.
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our research funding reflects:
   •   The scale of the unit’s research operation, in a SoE whose primary mission is the delivery
       of high quality initial and continuing professional development of teachers, which our
       research nourishes; and
   •   Our expertise in ‘close-to-practice’ research, and distinctive contributions in areas such as
       narrative and biographical methodologies, and neo-liberal education, which seldom attract
       significant research funding.

Furthermore, our research and KE funding have enabled the unit to achieve its objectives of
delivering rigorous, original and influential research outputs, and significant and far-reaching
impact (see 4.3 and Impact Case Studies). To illustrate the point and our effective use of funding:
   •   Marks and Barnes’ (2018-19) BSRLM funding led to their innovative comparative synthesis
       of mathematics education research, finding that topic modelling provides a powerful
       methodological approach to research review (Marks et al., 2020, Research in Mathematics
       Education).
   •   Wisker’s collaborative (2016-19) ESRC-funded research into students’ experiences of
       transitions from rural contexts into higher education in South Africa informed the important
       (Timmis et al., 2019) publication in Critical Studies in Teaching and Learning, highlighting a
       lack of recognition of such students, and their potential to re-shape higher education.
   •   Hobson’s (2014-2015 and 2015-16) Gatsby-funded research informed the development of
       outputs introducing the ONSIDE mentoring framework (International Journal of Mentoring
       and Coaching in Education), and the ‘mentoring substructures and superstructures’
       (Journal of Education for Teaching), which are enhancing mentor development and
       mentoring provision nationally and internationally [ICS_Mentoring].
   •   KE funding from Osaka University facilitated Robinson’s contribution to the development of
       Japan’s national Schools Safety Promotion Programme [ICS_ChildRights].

It is important to our wider mission that our close-to-practice research also significantly informs and
enhances teaching and professional education programmes within the SoE. For example, Marks’
research on ability-grouping is widely used with PGCE, BA QTS and MA Education students, and
Page’s research on professional love is a core element of the School’s Early Years Education with
Early Years Teacher Status and Early Childhood Education and Care programmes. Turvey and
Hayler’s research into and support for student teachers’ use of blogging (published in Teaching
and Teacher Education) simultaneously and iteratively enhanced prospective teachers’
professional learning and researchers’ knowledge-production, exemplifying the mutually beneficial
relationship between research and teacher education in our SoE.

We pride ourselves, too, on our research-informed support for education provision in our region,
where the SoE is a key stakeholder. For example, through research and KE funding our
researchers have supported: BHCC school admissions policy (Robinson, Turvey); the
establishment of head teacher peer mentoring across East and West Sussex (Hobson); and a
capacity-building lesson study initiative for developing mathematics teachers’ CPD in schools
across the region (Barnes).

3.2. Strategies for generating research funding
Amongst the various mechanisms established to support applications for external research and KE
funding (see 2.1), two initiatives are pivotal to our recent, current and future successes. The first is
our strategy of extending existing and developing new collaborations with academic and non-
academic partners. This strategy resulted in successful collaborations (see 4.1), leading to external
research funding, with:
   •   Regional non-academic partners – eg BHCC;
   •   Other UK universities – eg Bristol, UCL;
   •   Overseas universities – eg Kenyatta, Kenya; Johannesburg, South Africa;

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Other international organisations – eg Centre International D’Etudes Pédagogiques.

In keeping with our future strategic aims, the establishment or strengthening of such partnerships
provides a firm foundation for collaborations on future bids and projects. Enhanced partnerships
will grow from our good working relationships with funders and our timely delivery of excellent
research and KE projects, which resulted in repeat funding, between 2014-20, from organisations
including BHCC, ETF and Gatsby.

The activities of our REGs, and the Teaching & Learning and Voice & Participation REGs in
particular, provide a second key mechanism for supporting funding bids. These provide the core
groupings in which many of our research grant applications are envisioned, developed, supported
and peer reviewed. It was through the Teaching & Learning REG, for example, that Marks,
Barnes and Treacy worked on their successful bid to review the BSRLM 2003-18 Conferences
Proceedings. Similarly, Hobson collaborated with Stephens through this REG to create an R&D
model for supporting organisations to establish sustainable ONSIDE Mentoring schemes, leading
to several funded projects.

The REGs also enable unique linkages to be established and sustained across research projects.
For example, the Teaching & Learning REG activities nurtured the SEMESA project, which
established and researched the mentoring programme for Kenyan teachers, led by Stephens
(2015-17). This project was informed by Hobson’s 2014-15 Mentoring and Coaching Teachers in
Further Education and 2015-16 Mentoring across Professions studies, both Gatsby-funded, and
acted as a prototype for subsequent ONSIDE Mentoring R&D projects. Such cross-fertilisation is
also illustrated in the Voice & Participation REG, where Wisker’s (2016-19) collaborative ESRC-
funded research into transitions from rurality to Higher Education in South Africa, drawing on
decolonial perspectives, stimulated discussions informing Moncrieffe’s (2019) AHRC research
exploring interpretations of civic national values of people in post-conflict settings.

Whilst the achievement of the unit’s research awards has been facilitated by different elements of
our supportive research environment, it is important to recognise, too, that those projects have
contributed reflexively to the establishment of:
   •   A vibrant research environment – with PIs and Co-Is presenting and discussing research-
       in-progress with (and motivating) colleagues and PGRs at REG meetings and our annual
       Education Research & Enterprise Conference; and
   •   A sustainable research environment, demonstrated in the appointment of new Professors,
       researchers and future research leaders (eg Allen, Clough, Hemming, Page), and
       expanding expertise and critical mass in our three REGs.

3.3. Research infrastructure and facilities
Education research at UoB is governed by the SoE SREC, a sub-committee of the University
Research and Enterprise Committee. SREC is responsible for managing research integrity,
research staff development, career progression, and the strategic deployment of QR funds, with
over half of UoB QR transparently streamed directly to Schools (REF5a). QR-funded activities that
SREC supports are described in Section 2 and include the Education Research Mentoring
scheme, competitive ECR Small Grant scheme, annual Education Research & Enterprise
Conference, Writing and Bid-writing Retreats, and Research, Enterprise and Scholarship Weeks.
SREC is also responsible for delivering the UoB Implementation Plan for the Concordat for
Researcher Development, and for reporting annual progress against University agreed Key
Performance Indicators.

Chaired by Deputy Head of School (Research & Enterprise), membership of SREC also includes
the REG co-leads, Research Mentoring lead, Enterprise/KE and Research Impact leads, Research
Ethics and Integrity lead, PGR Coordinator, PGR and ECR representatives, and UoB Concordat
Implementation Group representative. The operation and membership of SREC provides overall
coherence and ensures effective interconnectedness between the various constituent elements of
the unit’s and institution’s research and enterprise infrastructure.
                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The key components of the unit’s research infrastructure are the three REGs, which operate as
communities of practice around shared research activity, with membership including PGRs, early-
and mid-career researchers, and leading international researchers in their fields. The REGs
support research activity in a variety of ways, including the provision of theory workshops, impact
workshops, and writing for publication, and provide a safe space within which PGRs, ECRs and
other colleagues can present and receive feedback on their work, including draft papers and ideas
for research proposals. The REGs host the Education Research Seminars, at which UoB
researchers interact with and are inspired by leading national and international researchers. They
also provide a vital link between the teacher education and training and research and KE functions
of the SoE, and a space where staff involved in these complementary activities share ideas and
expertise to enrich the respective fields further.

An expert and experienced Education Research Co-ordinator, located in the SoE, provides
dedicated support for all aspects of research activity. As outlined in Section 2, the unit-level
research infrastructure is complemented by a range of support structures, facilities and initiatives at
institution level. This includes dedicated Research Development Officers and KE Managers, who
support the development and submission of proposals for external research and KE funding, and
Post-Award Managers. The latter provide training for PIs in the effective management of research
projects, ensure that research integrity, ethics and appropriate data management plans are in
place, and provide tailored guidance on depositing open-source datasets on the Brighton Open
Research repository and with UKRI data centres.

Since 2014, the university-wide research infrastructure has been improved in a number of ways
that have supported and benefitted research in this UoA. Improvements include the establishment
of the interdisciplinary Centres of Research and Enterprise Excellence, which provide additional
resources and intellectual support for the growth of IDR, and the establishment of a University Peer
Review Panel to improve the quality of applications for external funding.

The SoE is located in the purpose-built Checkland Building on the Falmer campus, comprising a
specialist library, computer rooms, art and design studios, and learning and social spaces in which
researchers, PGRs and other colleagues interact. Staff are provided with various forms of
hardware and software to support research activity, including video and audio recording
equipment, SPSS, NVIVO and EndNote, supported by the School’s Technical Manager and team.
Education researchers also benefit from access to and use of two specialist laboratories
established in our neighbouring School of Applied Social Sciences on the Falmer Campus, namely
the Creative Methods Lab, which includes specialist equipment such as eye-tracking technology,
and the Qualitative Research Laboratory (QLab), which includes three discrete spaces to support
qualitative research – formal and informal meeting rooms, and a dedicated transcription space.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy, and society

4.1. Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships
Since 2014, our researchers have collaborated extensively across international and national
arenas to establish or maintain approximately 50 research partnerships. The excellence and
commitment of our researchers has delivered influential capacity-building initiatives in Africa,
including Ethiopia, Kenya, Mauritius, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania and The Gambia.

Research partnerships exist at institutional and individual researcher level. At institutional level, a
strong partnership has been established with the MIE, where a thriving post-graduate programme
and critical mass of MA and doctoral researchers has generated a significant body of national
research of value to Mauritius. At individual level, funded research projects have involved research
collaborations with:
   •   UK and overseas HEIs (eg Bristol, King’s, Leeds, Loughborough, UCL, Kenyatta, Fort
       Hare, Johannesburg, Tribhuvan);
   •   Other national and international organisations (eg Drinkaware, European Mentoring &
       Coaching Council, Centre International D’Etudes Pédagogiques);
                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   National and international policy-makers and research users (eg Action Aid Nepal, Aga
       Khan Foundation Canada, Child Hope UK, International Planned Parenthood Federation).

Our commitment to children and young people’s rights, voice and participation, and to progressive
educational change, are reflected in our researchers’ involvement in international networks,
including:
   •   Robinson’s work with UNICEF and research partners in Norway and Sweden to promote
       children’s rights in schools;
   •   Moncrieffe’s involvement in AHRC Changing the Story initiatives supporting human rights
       education and youth-centred approaches to civic society building in international post-
       conflict settings in Kenya, Rwanda and Nepal;
   •   Stephens’ expert contributions to the International Advisory Board of the AHRC GCRF
       Mobile Arts for Peace Network;
   •   Goodson and Rudd’s establishment of an international Resisting Neo-Liberal Education
       Network; and
   •   Turvey’s collaboration with King’s College London and Columbia University New York in
       the Centre for Innovation in Teacher Education (CITED) network.

Amongst multiple national research partnerships: Clough is undertaking pioneering research on
family literacy in prisons with Nutbrown (Sheffield); Hemming’s important mindfulness research is
conducted in collaboration with the Universities of Cardiff and Kent; and Marks’ significant work on
mathematics education has been undertaken with Hodgen (UCL) and Foster (Loughborough).

The vitality of our own and other HEIs’ research environments has been further enhanced through
Visiting Professorships and Fellowships. Visiting colleagues hosted at UoB include: Asplund,
Karlstad University, Sweden (hosted by Goodson); Martinez, Universidad Autonoma de
Barcelona, Spain (Canning); and Erasmus-funded Káplár-Kodácsy, Eötvös Loránd University,
Hungary (Hobson). Meanwhile, Goodson has been International Research Professor at the
University of Tallinn, Estonia; Wisker Visiting Professor at Free State, Johannesburg and
Stellenbosch Universities, South Africa; Allen Honorary Research Fellow at Oxford University; and
Stephens Senior Research Fellow at Rhodes University, South Africa.

4.2. Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society
Our researchers hold influential scholarly roles within the field of education research, including
editorships of six important journals. Since 2014, we have contributed to the discipline through 45
keynotes at national and international conferences, and 14 contributions to learned associations
and societies. Thirteen colleagues provided policy or external advice, six acted as peer reviewers
for significant national or international bodies, and several won academic awards, prizes or
fellowships.

Amongst prizes and awards for our researchers’ contributions to the discipline, Goodson’s
longstanding and outstanding contribution has been recognised by: his entry into the 2000
Outstanding Intellectuals of the 21st Century (2017); the BERA John Nisbet Fellowship Award for
outstanding contribution to educational research (2018), and his induction as a Fellow of the
Academy of Social Sciences (2019). Goodson and Stephens were included in Who’s Who in the
World (2018), Stephens became a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts (2020), and Moncrieffe a
Fellow of the Chartered College of Teaching (2020). Marks (2015) and Barnes (2019) were
independent recipients of The Janet Duffin Award for the Most Outstanding Contribution to
Research in Mathematics Education, while Clough was a Children & Young People Now Family
Support Award finalist (2017) for his Family Literacy in Prisons (FLiP) project.

Amongst contributions to learned associations and societies, Marks has served as BSRLM
Treasurer and Publications Officer, while Moncrieffe is a co-opted member of the BERA Executive
Council and member of its Engagement and Membership Committee. Wisker has served on the
Staff and Educational Development Association (SEDA) Executive Committee and chaired its
Scholarship and Research Committee, and serves on the Governing Council of the Society for
                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research into Higher Education (SRHE). Goodson served on the International Advisory
Committee of the Martin Luther Universität Halle-Wittenberg; and Hobson has been appointed to
REF2021 Sub-Panel 23.

UoB education researchers have also contributed significantly to the development of the discipline
through editorship of the following journals:
   •   Innovations in Education and Teaching International (Wisker);
   •   The British Educational Research Journal (Hemming);
   •   The International Journal of Education in Africa (Stephens);
   •   The International Journal of Mentoring and Coaching in Education (Hobson);
   •   The Journal of Early Childhood Research (Clough);
   •   The Journal of Education Policy (Goodson – Founding Editor).

In addition, our researchers have guest edited special issues of international journals including The
International Journal of Early Years Education (Page, 2017), and The Journal of Education for
Teaching (Turvey, 2019). They have also contributed to the discipline through journal editorial
board membership including: FORUM: for promoting 3-19 comprehensive education (Marks);
Journal of Applied Research in Higher Education (Robinson); Technology, Pedagogy and
Education (Turvey); and Journal of Beliefs and Values: Studies in Religion and Education
(Hemming).

Amongst our researchers’ contributions to peer review, Stephens has served as a member of the
ESRC Peer Review College, while Clough, Hemming and Hobson have also reviewed for ESRC.
Our researchers have peer reviewed applications for other funding bodies including: The Spencer
Foundation (Goodson), The Carnegie Trust (Hobson); The Chief Scientist Office, Ministry of
Education, Israel (Hobson); and the Norwegian Research Council (Stephens).

Our researchers have contributed keynotes at significant international events, including:
   •   Clough: ‘Hope in prison? Young fathers and Family literacy, 3 stories’. European Society
       for Research on the Education of Adults, Canterbury, 2016;
   •   Hayler: ‘Always a story: Narratives of collaboration through blogging in teacher education’.
       3rd Congress of Cyprus Education Research Association, Kyrenia, Cyprus, 2018;
   •   Hobson: ‘Bringing mentoring ONSIDE: enhancing early career professionals’ learning,
       development and wellbeing’. First International Conference on Educational Leadership,
       Effective Administration and Ethical Values, University of Macedonia, Thessaloniki, Greece,
       2017;
   •   Page: ‘Practitioners’ Perspectives on Attachment and Professional Love in the Nursery’.
       The Inaugural Infant Toddler Practice, Pedagogy & Research Conference, Macquarie
       University, Sydney, Australia, 2015;
   •   Robinson: ‘The UNCRC at 25 years: Some reflections on educational research in
       Children’s Rights’. Orebro University, Sweden, 2015;
   •   Turvey: ‘Advancing research methodologies of learning with digital technologies.’ British
       University Dubai, 2017;
   •   Wisker: ‘The purpose and impact of postgraduate knowledge.’ Quality in Postgraduate
       Research Conference, Adelaide, Australia, 2018.
   •   Marks gave an invited address to the Learning Without Limits Symposium at the Brian Simon
       Memorial Day (UCL Institute of Education, March 2015), and it is noteworthy that colleagues at
       relatively early stages of their research careers have given invited keynote addresses:
   •   Barnes: ‘Autonomy and leading learning: the key role of research and research skills
       illustrated through an action research approach’, Annual Post-Graduate Education
       Research Conference, Mauritius Institute of Education, 2019;
   •   Moncrieffe: ‘Cross-cultural educational partnerships and transactions between the UK and
       Netherlands: What is the profit in this multicultural investment?’ Wittenborg University,
       Netherlands, 2019.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UoB researchers have also convened, contributed papers and acted as invited discussants at
national and international research conferences. For example: Hobson convened the Keynote
Symposium ‘Mentoring for Teacher Development: (What) are we learning?’ at the BERA Annual
Conference (University of Leeds, 2016); Turvey gave an Invited Presidential Research Seminar on
Innovations in Teacher Education at the AERA Annual Meeting (Toronto, 2019); Robinson was
invited discussant for the Doctoral supervision of multi-disciplinary practice-based doctorates
conference (Trinity College, Dublin, 2016).

Our researchers’ contributions to external policy advice include: the Scientific Advisory Group for
Emergencies (SAGE), DfE, No. 10 Policy Unit, and Ofqual Examinations Regulator (Allen); DfE
and ETF (Hobson); Japanese Ministry of Education (Robinson); British Council, Peru
(Stephens); and BHCC (Turvey). Goodson has continued to provide expert advice as a CORE
Societal challenges panel expert (Identity, Diversity and Interaction, Education and Learning) at
The Fonds National de la Recherche, Luxembourg; and Stephens has also advised the British
Council on the restructuring of Higher Education in South America.

4.3. Research impact
Through the collaborations and partnerships outlined above, our research has achieved significant
impact internationally, nationally, and regionally. For example, Robinson’s research into UNICEF
UK’s Rights Respecting Schools and rights-based education directly influenced the British
government’s Equality and Human Rights Commission to recognise rights-based education,
shaped the development of Rights Respecting Schools programmes in Finland and Norway, and
informed the introduction of a national Schools Safety Promotion Programme by Japan’s Ministry
of Education [ICS_ChildRights]. UoB mentoring research has positively impacted the development
of: national mentoring standards and frameworks (eg England’s National Standards for School-
Based Initial Teacher Training); and numerous mentoring and mentor development programmes
nationally and internationally, enhancing professional development, wellbeing, effectiveness, and
retention [ICS_Mentoring].

UoB research not featured in our two impact case studies has also brought about impact of
significance and/or reach. Such work, supported at unit level through (eg) REGs and research
mentors, and at institution level through initiatives such as the Research Impact Development
Fund, includes:
   •   Wisker’s research on doctoral journeys, doctoral supervision and academic writing, which
       has made a substantial contribution to the field and enhanced the development of
       supervisors and supervision practice in New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, Sweden and
       Ireland, as well as the UK;
   •   Marks’ (2018, 2020) EEF-funded evidence reviews, with partners at UCL and
       Loughborough, which have informed the practice of teachers and school leadership teams
       relating to the teaching of mathematics from Early Years through to the end of Key Stage 3;
   •   Moncrieffe’s AHRC-funded study on young people’s interpretations of civic national values
       in post-conflict settings, working with primary schools and developing schemes of work in
       four languages (English, Swahili, Nepali and Spanish), which has benefitted and enhanced
       the life chances of over 400 children in Kenya and Nepal.

In addition, we should not underestimate the impact of research undertaken by UoB staff (including
Marks, Page, Turvey and Hayler) in informing, enhancing and nourishing teaching activity and
professional education in our own institution (see 3.1) as well as others.

It is evident from some of the examples above, notably those relating to Moncrieffe’s and
Wisker’s research, that UoB research has had positive and significant impacts on education policy
and practice in different regions of Sub-Saharan Africa. This extends earlier research impact by
Stephens and Robinson, showcased in a REF2014 impact case study. In the current period,
Stephens has continued to support important developments in the region through, for example: his
work with the Ministry of Education and Sport, The Gambia, on the training of teachers in
Participatory Action Research, and the establishment of a National Research Council; and his
                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
editorship of The International Journal of Education in Africa. In addition, Stephens’ leadership of
the SEMESA mentoring project in Kenya, not only enhanced the professional development,
efficacy and motivation of participating teachers but also informed the development of a new
national Teacher Education Curriculum Framework, central to which is teacher mentoring, to
support continuous teacher professional development. Finally, UoB researchers including
Edmond, Price and Robinson have had a significant impact on research capacity-building and
school improvement in Mauritius, through their contribution to the joint Professional Doctorate
(EdD) programme, doctoral supervision and collaborative research associated with our
longstanding partnership with the Mauritius Institute of Education.

Summary

This statement demonstrates how a range of School and University-level initiatives, pivotal to
which are our research mentoring scheme and Research and Enterprise Groups, has created a
vibrant research environment which has supported the development of an increased volume and
quality of research outputs and significant and far-reaching impact. Simultaneously, through
strategic appointments and support for the career progression of early and mid-career researchers,
the unit has strengthened sustainability and critical mass in its three areas of expertise – Narrative
and Biographical Methodologies in Education; Teaching, Learning and Professional Lives; and
Voice and Participation in Childhood and Education. Through the implementation of the SoE
Strategic Plan for Research and Impact (2021-26), we will further increase the production of
internationally excellent and world-leading research that has demonstrable purchase on the
development of education policy and practice in local, regional, national and international contexts.




                                                                                             Page 15
