Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Winchester

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The University of Winchester Business School (UoWBS) was established in 2008 under the
 leadership of Professor Neil Marriott. It was one of the first UK Business Schools to adopt the
 United Nations Principles for Responsible Management (PRME) and subsequently first achieved
 the award of PRME Champion School status in 2016 (and again in 2018 and 2020). This has
 provided a context for developing research for a UoA 17 submission that has a responsible
 management theme across a range of business disciplines in addition to more established
 business management subjects. The University has taken strategic action to develop its
 research in this area, culminating in this first submission to REF for UoA 17, aligned to the
 institutional University Strategic Plan 2015-20 (see REF5a 1.1. and 2.1).

 UoWBS is located in the Faculty of Business, Law and Digital Technologies and is one of
 five faculties of the University. Staff contributing to UoA 17 work primarily within four
 departments: Responsible Management and Leadership; Marketing, Event and Project
 Management; Accounting, Finance, Mathematics and Economics; and, Digital Futures. These
 departments were set up following a restructure of the School and, between them, are active in
 internal and external networks, professional bodies, conferences, publishing, liaising with
 employers and other esteem type activities where individual staff make contributions according
 to their expertise.

 In addition to the academic departments, staff are brought together in collaborative research
 activities through two research centres: the Hoare Centre for Responsible Management and
 Centre of Enterprise, Design & Innovation. Since 2014, there has been considerable
 investment in the work of individuals and the research centres from external and internal sources
 to produce the 35 research outputs and 2 impact cases in our submission. There has also been
 university support for staff undertaking doctorates. Heads of Department are able to take a 6-
 month sabbatical, normally after a four-year term, to re-focus on their research.

 1.1. Research and Impact Strategy

 Across this REF period, the UoA implemented a successful strategy to create a cohesive unit
 focused on developing the quality of research with more experienced and successful individuals
 sharing their expertise with those wishing to develop their research careers. Whilst individuals
 are free to pursue their own interests, there are now focus points for sharing and development
 around the production of higher quality outputs and impacts. These are the Hoare Centre for
 Responsible Management, the Centre of Enterprise, Design & Innovation and the
 Marketing, Event and Project Management Research Group. Some staff are active in more
 than one centre and the academic departments also provide a natural home for collaboration. At
 a Faculty level, a research seminar programme is provided throughout the academic year with
 opportunities to discuss staff research, collaborate with and learn from external speakers and
 engage with doctoral students’ research.

 Staff development reviews (IRDS) are the responsibility of the departments and hence the
 research plans and aspirations of staff are a key feature of staff development plans (see REF5a,
 3.4). The number of staff entered in REF 2021 is 16 (14.06FTE). Support for staff to develop
 their research is inclusive; there is funding and workload allocation time for all types of research,
 knowledge exchange and scholarly activity related to teaching depending on individual career
 paths and career stage. The departments linked to the research centres/group and associated
 staff are shown below. Capturing the range of expertise, experience and potential in
 UoWBS, the Faculty developed its RKE 2016-2020 Strategy focused on three key areas: [1]
 Excellence (i.e. quality research), [2] Engagement and Exchange (i.e. nurturing processes
 and systems, sustainable external relationships, and non-academic community engagement),

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and [3] Impact (i.e. research impact) and these are highlighted throughout sections of this
 statement. These link to the three key elements of the University RKE Strategy 2015-2020 on
 research (see REF5a, 1.1 and 2.1).

 The unit takes an inclusive approach to supporting staff who wish to follow the research career
 path (see REF5a, 1.2). In so doing, we reference colleagues who are on Teaching and
 Scholarship role profiles who engage with the UoA but are not REF-eligible; their names are not
 emboldened, to distinguish them from colleagues being entered.

 1.2. Department of Responsible Management and Leadership (Blakeley, Cripps, Gladkikh
 (left 2019), Hewlett, Murray (retired 2019), Palmer, Parkes, Pilato, Richardson, Smith,
 Sunley)

 The research focus in this department links to the Hoare Centre for Responsible Management
 (headed by Smith), though not exclusively. There is a well-established connection with the UN
 Principles of Responsible Management initiative with Professor Murray and Professor Parkes
 having both chaired the UK Chapter. Hence, much research has been geared towards the
 themes of responsible management education, responsible leadership and business ethics and
 subsequent impacts on business schools and business organisations. One of the impact case
 studies (ICS) submitted relates directly to responsible management education (Parkes), namely
 Promoting Responsible Management and Sustainability Through Higher Education.
 Closely linked to the responsible management theme, is research involving the planning and
 management of the environment for wellbeing and health (Hewlett) – this is our other ICS,
 Safeguarding and Enhancing Tranquillity in Areas of Outstanding Natural Beauty.

 In 2012, the Hoare Centre for Responsible Management was developed and established by
 Blakeley and is now led by Smith (since 2018). The Centre, which is housed in this department,
 aims to bring together the private, public and civil society sectors in order to develop a
 community of practice dedicated to the creation of a more equitable and sustainable economy
 and society. Diverse research and impact within this Centre includes: (and also see Section 4):

     •   Blakeley who has organized and led a number of talks (2015-2018) whereby high-profile
         industry specialists have been invited in to discuss their experiences [2]. She has also
         published papers on spiritual leadership (Journal of Business Ethics) and responsible
         leadership (Human Resource Development International) [1].
     •   Cripps who has co-organised with an undergraduate student a sustainability workshop
         (2019) around the topic of zero-waste. This student has now launched a zero-waste shop
         in Portsmouth with a view to making even greater impacts on the zero-waste/ recycling/
         circular economy agenda. [2][3]
     •   Gladkikh's book (2017) on The International Business Environment and National
         Identity. [1]
     •   Hewlett has written several British Academy reports (x2 in 2015, x2 in 2017) and
         publications on the topic of space and tranquility. (Direct ICS link) [1][2][3]
     •   Murray’s research on the circular economy (2015) published within the Journal of
         Business Ethics as well as publishing on the topic of PRME (2014) in Management
         Learning. [1]
     •   Parkes’ extensive work and related publications relating to the PRME, e.g. several within
         the International Journal of Management Education (including one with Murray). Also co-
         authored a book (2020) titled The Sage Handbook of Responsible Management Learning
         and Education. Parkes is also a Special Advisor for PRME. (Direct ICS link) [1][2][3]
     •   Parkes and Murray organised two events at the University of Winchester in 2018, an
         ESRC seminar in conjunction with PRME and BAM titled ‘Sustainable and Responsible
         Business: early career PhD researcher development workshop’, and ‘Educating for
         Responsible Business and Management in the context of the Sustainable Development
         Goals’. [2][3]
     •   Pilato’s research and publications relating to AgriFood as well as environmental and
         sustainability issues (e.g. Sustainability). [1]

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     •   Séraphin’s research, books and publications on Responsible Tourism (e.g. a chapter on
         PRME and overtourism in Overtourism: Causes, implications and solutions, articles in the
         Journal of Tourism Recreation, Worldwide Hospitality and Tourism Themes, and the
         International Journal of Management Education). Also co-edited a book titled Green
         events and green tourism: an international guide to good practice. [1]
     •   Smith’s research and publications within organizational ambidexterity (a theory
         pertaining to paradox), responsible management and leadership, and resilience in
         organisations and business activities (e.g. Human Resource Management, International
         Journal of Human Resource Management, Thunderbird International Business Review)
         [1]. He also gained external funding to travel to India with students as a cultural
         exchange trip whereby there was a great emphasis on Sustainable Development Goals
         (SDGs) and comparing them in action between the UK and India [2][3].
     •   Smith and Séraphin’s externally funded project (2019/20) focusing on overtourism in
         Hampshire addressing paradoxical tensions in creating and maintaining Sustainable
         Cities and Communities (SDG 11). [1][3]
     •   Smith and Séraphin’s British Academy of Management (BAM) Sustainable and
         Responsible Business SIG event (2019) titled ‘Overtourism: Finding Sustainable
         Development Solutions and Tackling Paradox’ which blended both academic and
         industry speakers to bring theory and practice together. [2][3]

 The Centre has published regular newsletters reporting on the research and impact activities of
 its members. There are also a number of keynotes, invited speaker opportunities and other
 aspects related to this Centre, highlighted in Section 4 as a part of the collaboration and
 contributions dialogue.

 1.3. The Centre of Enterprise, Design & Innovation has a knowledge exchange focus with
 Richardson and Wilson, D. from Digital Futures. The emphasis within this Centre resides in
 impacts around income and collaborations [2][3]. Thus, this Centre is highlighted in more detail
 within Section 3 and 4.

 Furthermore, Cripps, who joined in September 2019, has published around the topic of
 Generation Z and Hospitality Careers [1]. Expanding on his Centre interests, Smith is co-Track
 chair for the BAM Special Interest Group for Sustainable and Responsible Business (since 2018)
 [2]. He also has a deeper? set of research interests that expand to leadership, HRM and
 international business more generally. Sunley (and Harding) has published on creativity in
 education within the International Journal of Management Education [1].

 1.4 Department of Marketing, Event and Project Management (Beneke, Green, Harding,
 Hutton, Lee, Lynch, Lystor, Marriott, H., Mhana (UoA 24), Séraphin, Sinha).

 The research interests and agenda in this department naturally have some links to the Hoare
 Centre of Responsible Management. However, the research active staff in this area have their
 own developing research group that shares the work and expertise of more experienced
 members and external contributors in developing the department’s research culture. Beneke is
 researching and publishing on the effects of branding and labelling on consumer behavior in
 many different industry and international contexts [1]. Hutton’s marketing research includes a
 focus on the experiences of a range of vulnerable consumers including those in poverty, children
 and ex-offenders [1]. Marriott, H. (ECR) is already establishing herself as a published author for
 her work on mobile applications and mobile commerce in retail and their implications for
 consumers. She is now developing her research interests into Artificial Intelligence [1]. Séraphin
 (see above also with his contributions to the Hoare Centre of Responsible Management) is a
 prolific researcher (and prolifically cited also) in the field of tourism management, tourism
 marketing and sustainable tourism including a focus on overtourism, destination management,
 organizational ambidexterity (theory pertaining to paradox), children in tourism, and post-
 colonial, post-conflict and post-disaster destinations (emerging destinations) [1]. Sinha's
 research work and practical impacts are around her Lean Management Community of Practice
 and the leading of the Centre for Climate Change Education and Communication [1][3]. She

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is a leader for driving forward a Carbon Literacy Training Programme, whereby more than 20
 staff from the University and external guests have already completed this course [3].

 1.5 Department of Accounting, Finance, Mathematics and Economics (Bonathan, Bruno,
 Chu, Grover, Gunton, Jennings, Osgerby, Marriott, N., Ivanov, Sheeran, Tan, Teoh)

 This department, as its name suggests, has the widest range of research interests and some
 staff are cross referenced to other units of assessment. The department was established
 originally as Accounting and Finance and there is a group of staff who cluster around the area of
 Accounting Education; most notably Marriott, N., whose outputs are presented in our
 submission [1]. The majority of Accounting staff are in teaching roles, but they also have
 interests in accounting education (e.g. Bonathan, Jennings, Osgerby) [1]. In addition, Teoh and
 Tan focus on technologically enhanced teaching and learning practice, including conference
 presentations and guest lectures [1].

 As the department has diversified its portfolio of work, other research areas are being
 established. Amongst the economists, Sheeran secured external funding for a project report
 (SSRHC and ESRC) “Understanding the future of Canada-UK trade relationships” (Sheeran with
 Philip Walsh, Visiting Fellow from Ryerson University, Canada) [2]. There are also staff
 publishing research in Pure Mathematics (Bruno) and Environmental Policy Making and
 Sustainability (Gunton) [1]. Chris Grover, who passed away in 2016, was an inspirational
 colleague for many and published numerous articles, in the Journal of European Real Estate
 and numerous in the Journal of Property Investment and Finance [1]. Ivanov is currently
 conducting research around the topics of institutional economics, post-Keynesian economics
 and economic/business history [1].

 1.6 Department of Digital Futures (Ancient, Burke (cross-referred to UoA 34), De, Lu,
 Sanders, Wilson, D.)

 This is the most recently established department in the Faculty to support delivery of UG and PG
 teaching programmes blending Computer Science, Cyber Security, Data Analytics, and Artificial
 Intelligence with Digital Media Design, Computer Aided Design, Augmented Reality and Virtual
 Reality. Some staff feature in UoA 17’s outputs with cross reference to, or entered in, UoAs 11
 and 34. As can be seen in later sections on funding and networks, the RKE activities of this
 group have an impact on the research environment in relation to interdisciplinary collaboration
 within the Faculty and University. Burke undertakes interdisciplinary research within the
 application of new digital technology to economic, environmental and social systems. She is
 pursuing work within emerging digital trends and knowledge [1]. De has published leading edge
 research using original applications to improve the accuracy of quantitative data sets e.g.
 machine learning to monitor air quality and mobile sensing to estimate missing data [1]. Lu's
 research is focused on business analytics and management science, whereby structured
 approaches, analytical frameworks and process models are proposed for business intelligence
 and data-driven decision making [1]. This includes publishing 4 peer-reviewed articles in
 collaboration with 8 postgraduate students (not doctoral students). Applicability of her research
 has been demonstrated through modelling real-world problems using visual techniques for
 insight generation in, for example, customer analytics and health informatics [3].

 1.7 Overall improvements in quality, quantity of outputs and staff research capability
 In the period 2014-2020, a wide range of outputs have been produced. For the 16 staff being
 submitted to UoA 17, over 250 research outputs have been published (refereed books, chapters
 and articles in journals) and over 120 conference papers have been presented, representing a
 strong first REF entry.

 In 2015, the first cohort of professional doctorate students enrolled on the Doctorate of Business
 Administration (DBA) with subsequent cohorts in the following years (programme led by
 Blakeley 2015-2018 and then Smith 2018-2020). This has given more staff the opportunity to
 engage with doctoral level teaching and supervision in addition to PhD supervision. It has also

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided an alternative route for academic staff wishing to study for a doctorate themselves.
 During the census period, staff have supervised 6 doctoral students to completion, in some
 cases working across UoAs, supporting interdisciplinary work. In addition, there are 24 PhD/
 DBA students currently being supervised. There are also 13 additional DBA students currently
 working towards their Progression Vivas, having completed the taught elements and are on track
 to complete in the next REF period). Further information on research students is provided in
 section 2.2. [2]

 As detailed in the next section, staff have been promoted and appointed to Professor and
 Reader since 2014 (e.g. Hewlett). In addition, staff in roles designated to include research have
 been recognized with generous research time allocation (400-500 hours per year depending on
 the role) and opportunities to bid for internal funding support. Staff without specified research
 responsibility are encouraged through staff development support to develop the quality of their
 research through, for example, journal article publication, conference paper presentation or
 undertaking a doctorate. [2]

 There has also been success in obtaining external research income and other sources of
 income as detailed in section 3.1.

 Overall, the research strategy for UoA 17 has delivered in establishing a well-balanced profile of
 experienced, mid-career and early career researchers who are contributing according to their
 career stage in publishing outputs, external impacts, winning external funding and contributing
 towards doctoral supervision. The infrastructure within the University and the Faculty will ensure
 that this momentum is maintained.

 1.8 Future plans for UoA 17
 As the narrative has highlighted, the UoWBS is a growing area and is building momentum over
 time and practice. Our aim is to further expand on pockets of specialism and become world
 leaders in a number of subject areas. Our work around PRME and its related Centre has already
 established a firm base within REF2021.

 The Unit has a strategic approach to increasing funding through the next cycle, which has
 already generated successes. For example, De successfully gained funding of £5,403 (as part of
 a larger grant of £62,388) from ESRC in early August 2020 for a project on capturing structured
 content from questionnaires. This project will start in February 2021 and finish in July 2021.
 Smith has been awarded £6,000 from UKIERI in November 2020 to run a virtual cultural event
 between UoWBS and Amity University (India) students in January and February 2021.

 In addition, Sinha has submitted a bid to Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust for £68,000 which is
 focused on developing circular economy labs, and Smith has submitted a bid of £993 for PRME
 Seed Funding for a project exploring the impact of PRME beyond education (outcomes
 pending).
 One of our majorgrowth areas for next REF is specifically around the newer Department of
 Digital Futures. The digital focus will cross-fertilise with existing UoWBS practice and its related
 Centre, and enable our reputation to grow in this area as well. Thus, as an extended example,
 the Centre of Enterprise, Design & Innovation is aiming to create a greater academic focus in
 the future, i.e. become more impactful in terms of research as well as its current track record of
 high quality knowledge exchange. Following investment in equipment, they will now grow the
 centre and particularly focus on interacting with businesses. Thus, they will continue
 engagement work with local businesses and third sector organisations, as well as expand the
 Centre of Enterprise, Design & Innovation Lab facilities (especially 3D printing/digital design)
 and local networks to increase levels of business engagement and information sharing. They will
 move further into the EdTech sector of VR/AR, both piloting this for teaching (students) and
 training (external engagement). They aspire to build their doctoral community (and have 3 PhD
 students registered for September 2021 already). They will expand the portfolio of business
 diagnostic tools and increase the usage with local businesses via student KE projects, as well as
 develop the Creative Digital incubation support services available, via the Centre, to help

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students and staff develop their entrepreneurial ventures. This will make for exciting
 opportunities across the UoWBS to develop research related to these existing KE strengths.


 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development [2]
 To develop, support and sustain the development of the research environment a number of
 appointments and promotions to Professor and Reader have been made over time: Professor of
 Management (Parkes and Burke), Professor of Responsible Management (Murray retired
 2019), Professor of Accounting Education (Marriott), Professor of Knowledge Exchange
 (Hewlett), Reader in Cyber Security (Sanders). There is an annual round of invitations to staff to
 apply for promotion from Senior Lecturer (Teaching with Enhanced Responsibility for Research
 or Teaching and Research) to Reader, Senior Fellow or Professor. The University is committed
 to the principles of equality and equal opportunity. Of the 5 professors in the Faculty, 3 are
 female and 2 are male. Amongst the 16 staff in UoA 17 with outputs returned to REF2021,
 62.5% are female. There are various supporting activities as well through training (e.g. courses
 geared towards women in senior roles) and flexible working opportunities.

 The unit’s recruitment strategy is to appoint, where possible, staff who have a doctorate. This
 has been successful and the majority of staff appointed through external recruitment have
 doctorates. Within the UoWBS, 33 staff possess doctorates (60%) with 6 staff currently studying
 for one. All staff who have potential to undertake research and wish to develop their career
 prospects through this route are encouraged to undertake doctorates and are given workload
 time to support this. During this REF period, 4 staff have successfully completed doctorates;
 Lynch, Summers (left), Easterling and Bohnacker-Bruce. There are also studentship bursaries
 available across the university and currently there are 3 students (starting in 2017, 2018) within
 UoWBS undertaking a PhD on this basis. Staff undertaking a doctorate are allocated time in the
 staff workload model to support their studies (8* staff were actively supervised within UoWBS in
 July 2020 – x4 PhD and x4 DBA. *Includes staff from outside of UoWBS). For example, Tan
 started her PhD in April 2020 focusing on stock market investment risk and return using a big
 data approach. This is a critical area of development, to enhance the Department of
 Accounting, Finance, Mathematics and Economics and to increase their research capacity.
 This strategy on supporting doctorates has and will continue to strengthen the research culture
 in the UoA.

 In addition to doctoral support, Bonathan (MSc A&F), Burke (MA), Jennings (MSc A&F) and
 Smith (MEd) have gained staff waivers on fees support through master’s studies. For Bonathan
 and Jennings in particular, who have alternative qualifications (i.e. not a doctorate) for teaching
 in accounting and finance, such support enables a journey into areas such as research methods
 leading to a project that will hopefully develop into further aspects of research (and potentially a
 doctorate). In general, the support helps to enrich and diversify teaching and research practice.

 The strategy for recruiting new staff is to ensure that research active staff who leave are
 replaced by staff with TERR or T&R profiles and that staff recruited to T&S roles possess a
 doctorate with potential to become research active as they gain experience. For example, staff
 who met the criteria for TERR or T&R profiles recruited in 2019/20 are Gunton and De whilst
 Cripps, Chu and Ivanov are active scholars who already possess doctorates who joined on T&S
 roles but have good potential to develop as researchers.

 To aid career development, all academic staff have an annual staff development review meeting
 (now as part of the Individual Development Review Scheme) with their Head of Department
 where they can discuss how they can undertake activities that will support the development of
 their research according to their career stage and current role e.g. conference attendance and
 paper presentation. Staff can also apply for RKE funds allocated to each faculty to support the
 completion of projects through employment of research assistance, additional buy out of time on
 their workload, conference fees and expenses (see REF51, 4.1). Over £160,000 has been

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provided over this REF period to this UoA. For example: Hutton received funding to present at
 the Transformative Consumer Research Conference, Florida State University, USA and was
 given match funding to develop an empirical study on ex-offenders; Smith and Blakeley
 received funding to host external speakers The Hoare Centre for Responsible Management’s
 seminar series; Pilato received teaching buyout to support a project on overtourism; and UoA
 funds supported Hewlett’s work towards her Impact Case Study.

 2.2. Postgraduate research students [1]
 There has been increased investment in doctoral programmes within the Faculty since 2014.
 Within UoWBS, there are currently 24 students (and 14 additional DBA students currently within
 the pre-thesis stage/taught phase as of July 2020) undertaking PhDs and Professional
 Doctorates. In 2015, we welcomed our first cohort of DBA students (and we have now had 4
 intakes with 4 students successfully progressing to the thesis stage. Six students have
 successfully completed their PhDs as of July 2020, some of which have been supervised across
 UoAs (total of 3.99 for Business). An international student also completed her PhD in 2019/20. In
 addition, Palmer had supervised to completion 2 PhDs by publication (2018, 2019) and 1 Prof
 Doc by Contribution to Practice (2018). There are university bursaries awarded on a competitive
 basis and 3 were awarded to UoWBS students (2017, 2018).

 C17 Business and Management Studies
  Academic year      No. of PhDs                  No. of Professional
                     awarded                      doctorates
                                                  awarded
  2013-14                 0.33                    0.00
  2014-15                 0.33                    0.00
  2015-16                 0.00                    0.00
  2016-17                 1.00                    0.00
  2017-18                 1.33                    0.00
  2018-19                 1.00                    0.00
  2019-20                 0.00                    0.00

 Doctoral students are invited to attend the Faculty staff seminar programme and also contribute
 as speakers by presenting their research as it develops. All research students attend a full
 induction programme that runs twice a year for April and October enrolments. Throughout the
 year there are seminars on all aspects of doctoral study for students to attend if they wish. All
 PhD students are required to undertake the University’s Post Graduate Certificate in Research
 Skills (PGCRS). The PGCRS programme is a compulsory part of MPhil/PhD study at level 7. It
 prepares students for work as researchers and for an academic career through engagement with
 a range of research paradigms, theoretical standpoints and techniques that will often reflect their
 personal research projects. There are three modules, Introduction to Research Skills, Research
 Knowledge Exchange and Research for Professional, and/or Personal Development (see REF
 5a, 3.3).

 At a Faculty level many students choose to attend the highly successful Doctoral Roundtable
 events led and initiated by Hutton. The Doctoral Roundtable is an innovation established in
 September 2015 to build students’ resilience, create a distinct intellectual community and
 enhance research imagination. The Roundtable acts as an enabler of progress for doctoral
 students. Impact evidence obtained from:

     i)     Student evaluations (72% response rate)
     ii)    Faculty/institutional stakeholders, illustrate how this innovation has fostered
            excellence in research learning, achieving cross-institutional impact.

 To build and maintain students’ resilience over time, the formation of a peer-network/community
 is essential to minimise procrastination and experiences of isolation. The Roundtable acts as a
 multi-disciplinary, inter-faculty scholastic research community of doctoral students who meet

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 each month to learn from each other’s work and experiences of doing research. By critically
 engaging with others (written) work and ideas, students also turn the critical gaze on their own
 progress, conceptions and research approaches to (re)assess their development throughout
 their doctoral journey. Now in its fifth year, the doctoral roundtable has a consistently growing
 membership that currently stands at 18 of the doctoral Faculty cohort of UoWBS students. Since
 their establishment, they have had cross-institutional influence and impact. The doctoral
 Roundtable innovation has influenced colleagues in the Humanities and Social Science and
 Health and Wellbeing faculties to adopt this approach. Both faculties have now established their
 own Roundtables.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Infrastructure
 Although this is the first REF submission for UoA 17, the infrastructure for research in the
 university is well established and has supported this inaugural submission. The Senate
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee has overall responsibility for overseeing the
 University’s research strategy and is chaired by the Director of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange. The Departments are represented at the Faculty Research and Knowledge
 Exchange (FRKE) Committee chaired by Professor Burke, Faculty Head of RKE. The Post-
 Graduate Research Student Lead, UoA Leads and two Knowledge Exchange Leads are
 members of the committee. The Research Centres and the UoA group report to the committee.
 The committee receives guidance on the university’s strategies for managing research and
 within these guidelines approves the allocation of internal research funds based on the
 recommendation of the UoA group. [2]8

 The UoA is able, through the devolution of internal funding, to work towards achieving increases
 in quality [1], environment [2] and impact [3] (see REF5a, 2.1 and 2.1). (as outlined in section
 1.1). There are two routes through which staff on eligible role profiles (see section 2.1) can apply
 for funding support. Each year the UoA is allocated a sum of money to award strategically to
 support these aims. There is a fast track route to obtain funding for research activities to a
 maximum of £750 which can be signed off by the Faculty’s Head of RKE. For larger sums staff
 can apply to the Internal Grants Committee to cover a wide range of research activities
 including, but not limited to: research leave, research assistance, generating or supporting
 impact, workshops, overseas conference attendance, use of consultants and Research Centre
 activities, such as the seminar series (speakers highlighted in Section 4). The UoA Working
 Group is able to propose how best to allocate funds in consultation with the Faculty Head of
 RKE before submission to the Internal Grants Committee. [2]

 All staff are encouraged to record their research outputs for Open Access using the University’s
 Research Information System, Pure. This is irrespective of whether they are REF–eligible and
 makes their work available to the international research community and other stakeholders. Staff
 in the UoA attend training sessions provided by the Open Access Officer to help them use the
 system and be kept up to date on open access developments in relation to REF. All new staff
 receive similar briefings in their induction programme and the Open Access Officer has
 presented to the Faculty on OA matters. [2]

 The UoWBS’ total external income from research grants and a research donation for the REF
 period was £235,438 – a sound amount for a first-time UoA entry from a small HEI. Of this,
 Hewlett brought in significant amounts of £97,517 (ESRC) and a further research donation of
 £62,500 for tranquility and significant spaces projects. In this cycle, Ancient has brought a first
 installment of £13,000 from a £50,000 grant from her former HEI, the University of Portsmouth,
 exploring satellite remote sensing capabilities to develop resilience against climate change.

 Smaller amounts have been secured by a range of colleagues, of which £47,419 has come from
 the UK Government / Local Authorities. Smith, Séraphin, Stokes and Palmer secured income
 from the British Academy of Management for work on overtourism. There have also been


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successes in international research funding, for example Hutton, who won funding from the US-
 based Association for Consumer Research to explore community responses to hunger. [2][3]

 In addition to research grants, colleagues have also secured £13,050 in consultancy over the
 REF cycle in areas of leadership, business consultancy for Winchester City Council and for
 digital work with a TV production company. [2][3]

 In addition to the internal RKE funding mentioned above, there are numerous other opportunities
 for staff to attain internal funding to enhance and develop research projects. Such incentives
 include: Senate Awards, Strategic Priorities Funding, KE funding and HEIF funding for KE work
 related to research, Student Fellows Scheme, Teaching Fellows, Winchester Research
 Apprenticeship Programme (WRAP), and Learning and Teaching Awards. These are university-
 wide opportunities to bid for in a constructive and developmental process with a view to
 expanding success with external funding applications. Staff from UoWBS are widely engaged in
 these initiatives and benefiting from the support leading onto bigger and more expansive
 projects. [2]

 3.2. Future plans
 We have invested £50 million in a state-of-the-art new building, the largest in the university, next
 to the main Business School building. The aim is to advance multiple aspects of the Faculty, but
 also to introduce new research possibilities going forward. For example, the Department of
 Digital Technologies is an evolving department blending areas like Computer Science, Cyber
 Security, Data Analytics, Artificial Intelligence, Digital Media Design and Development, Computer
 Aided Design, 3D Printing, Augmented Reality and Virtual Reality The facilities will include
 specialist labs for Cyber Security and Digital Forensics, Software Engineering and Enterprise
 Networking, as well as Digital Innovation, VR/AR and 3D Motion Capture.

 In addition, we have a number of new staff contributing going forward who have been recruited
 to add further depth to the research base.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 This section provides detailed and specific evidence from the strategic focus outlined in section
 1, namely [1] Excellence, [2] Engagement and Exchange, and [3] Impact. Building on earlier
 sections, this demonstrates how the UoA in UoWBS is extensively collaborating and
 contributing.

 4.1 Collaborations and contributions to organisations/economy/society [1][2][3]

 Hoare Centre for Responsible Management (headed by Smith): Guest speakers invited from
 industry (organised by Blakeley) include John Timpson CBE (Timpson’s), Jonathon Porritt CBE
 (veteran environmental campaigner), Paul Drechsler CBE (President of the CBI), Carolyn
 Fairbairn (Director General of the CBI) and Amanda Mackenzie (Chief Executive of Business in
 the Community); BAM event combining industry and academic speakers (Smith and Séraphin);
 Blakeley was an invited speaker to IBM for a talk titled ‘Leading with Love’; Smith and Palmer
 co-organised a symposium event with the University of the West of England's Bristol Leadership
 and Change Centre (BLCC) titled ‘Responsible and Inclusive Leadership: Paradoxes and
 Possibilities’ combining academics and industry professionals.

 The ICS led by Parkes focuses on close alignment of the PRME Principles within the University
 of Winchester’s mission and values to impact upon informing its teaching, research and
 partnerships policies and strategies. The pioneering change and impact iare far reaching beyond
 the University as well. In addition, an ESRC funded research project hosted by Winchester and
 led by Hewlett, and directly linked to another ICS, focuses on tranquility and open spaces.
 These spaces are important to health and management practices of public sector agencies
 wellbeing and Hewlett's project has generated interest from a number of national bodies.
 Hewlett is developing a methodological framework that identifies the benefits of green spaces to


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 human health and wellbeing and enhances the management of green spaces in relation to
 climate change.

 Centre of Enterprise, Design & Innovation (headed by Richardson and Wilson)

 The Centre has a strong KE focus and delivered 17 Virtual Reality workshops in 19/20 to staff
 and students assessing usability, practicality and levels of engagement. Engagement with 15+
 local SME’s to ascertain their Intellectual property position via a diagnostic assessment.
 Engagement with 20+ Low carbon innovators (SME’s) via an ERDF grant application process.
 Engagement with 25+ SME’s in student projects (Innovation Labs – iLabs) to develop new
 products and services and well as assessing business strategies. Informing local council of
 strategy growth options via research and consultancy project. IPO – grant investment and
 shared PR / assets. incuHive – collaboration with a local start-up incubator. Emphasis and Low
 Carbon Solent – ERDF collaboration with University of Portsmouth and wider stakeholder group.
 This also includes relationship with local innovative SME’s for assessment and grant funding.
 Other collaborations specifically include: Minivation; Binky Goes to London; Brides of
 Winchester; BPS; Backstage Tales; History Heroes; Wildflower Turf; Recycled Assets Store;
 Splendid Fred Records; Seward; The Bug Shack; BluPoint; The Hampshire Picture Co.;
 Careerville; The incuHive Space; and The Earth Museum.

 In addition to Centre activities, there is other involvement around the UoWBS. De collaborates
 and publishes with organisations in London, Liverpool and SMEs in Serbia and Finland, namely
 VTT, who is one of Europe’s leading research institutions. Hewlett has published with the Dorset
 Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty Partnership and works extensively with various stakeholders
 in and around Dorset, Devon and also in Spain, e.g. Dorset Council, Stepping Into Nature
 (Dorset), National Association of AONBs, Public Health Dorset and the National Grid. Hutton
 works extensively in the community/society, including Access to Good Food Network,
 Winchester Food Partnership, The Footprints Project, Offploy, Revolving Doors, The Trussell
 Trust, Independent Food Aid Network, FirstBite Community Food Project CIC, Richmond Food
 Bank and Action Hampshire. Ivanov collaborates with GLS Bank. Lystor ran a marketing
 research challenge with Nielson for students in 2014/15 and 2015/16 (and 5 students went to
 Athens for the European Finals in 2016). Sanders collaborates with National Cross-Sector
 Safety and Security Communications, Centre for the Protection of National Infrastructure (CPNI),
 and Decenture Ltd. Séraphin collaborates with a large number of tourism and event business
 including Rees Leisure, Winchester Bid, Winchester Cathedral, Buying Time, JDRF, Winchester
 Royal, Holiday Inn Winchester, Hampshire Business Show, The Guildhall Winchester, Venue
 Finding, Naomie House and a lot of other businesses – too many to fully list. Séraphin has also
 been cited in WTO, the European Parliament Policy Report on Research for TRAN Committee
 and interviewed by Airbnb Magazine regarding his expertise around overtourism – he is a
 leading and prolific researcher in this topic area. Sinha has delivered Carbon Literacy Training to
 academics and others in the community (20+ have completed the extensive course so far).
 Sinha also collaborates with DSTL, Carnival, HCC, Winchester City Council, Wessex Green
 Hub, Sustainability Community of Practice and Improvement Community of Practice, as well as
 being a member of the Hampshire County Council Expert Panel on Climate Change, a member
 of the Harmony in Education committee and being involved with the Sustainable Business Club
 in Winchester.

 4.2 Contributing to the wider academic community/research base [1][2]: Within UoWBS,
 there is an extensive range of peer-reviewing that is conducted within an extensive number of
 international/leading journals. We also have two well-involved Visiting Fellows in Rayman-
 Bacchus and Walsh. Rayman-Bacchus researches and contributes around the subject of
 corporate responsibility and sustainable development, as well as being a doctoral supervisor for
 UoWBS. Walsh researches and contributes around the subject of the circular economy and has
 been involved in an externally funded project with Sheeran (see sections 1.5 and 3.1 for more
 detail).



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The following refers to more advanced contributions/positions within the academic
 community/research base. Sometimes years of service are highlighted to show either a depth of
 experience or the continuing growth within UoWBS, i.e. they are more recent. Ancient: Program
 Board member for DUXU Conference at HCI International every year since 2013. Burke:
 Research Associate at University of Cambridge; Editorial Board for International Journal of the
 Digital Human; Editorial Board for Journal of Documentation (since 2002). De: Associate Editor
 of International Journal of Distributed Sensor Networks (since April 2019). Gunton: Honorary
 Senior Research Associate, UCL; Member of Research Collective for Kirby-Laing Centre for
 Public Theology in Cambridge. Hutton: Editorial Board Member of the Journal of Marketing
 Management (since 2020); Editor of Special Issue in Journal of Consumer Affairs titled Gender
 and Consumer Wellbeing; Editorial Review Board Member for Consumption, Markets and
 Culture (elected 2018). Marriott, N.: Editor-in-Chief for the International Journal of Management
 Education. Parkes: Associate Editor for the International Journal of Management Education;
 Editor for 2 PRME Special Issues within the International Journal of Management Education;
 Editorial Board Member for PRME Book Series for Routledge (Greenleaf); Editorial Board
 Member of Society and Business Review. Séraphin: Editorial Board Member of International
 Journal of Tourism Cities; Advisory Board Member of Cambridge Scholar Publishing; Editorial
 Board Member of The Journal of Tourism Futures; Member of the UK Research and Innovation
 Future Leaders Fellowships programme; Book Series Co-Editor for Tourism Security-Safety and
 Post Conflict Destinations, Emerald. Smith: Associate Editor for the International Journal of
 Organisational Analysis from 2013-2018; Editorial Board for the International Journal of
 Organisational Analysis (since 2018).

 4.3 Collaborations with other universities [1][2]
 There is an extensive range of networks and relationships within the published work of the
 UoWBS. Bruno: Co-authors with academics from the University of Portsmouth, Ireland, Canada
 and the USA. Cripps: Co-authors with academics from Coventry University and Plymouth
 University. De: Co-authors with academics from the University of Cardiff and the University of
 Leicester, as well as academics from Australia, China, Germany and New Zealand. Gunton:
 Co-authors with academics from University of Leeds, University of York, University of
 Aberdeen, University of Newcastle, University of Nottingham, University of Exeter, University of
 Surrey, Salford University, Open University, Liverpool John Moores University and University of
 Reading, as well as with international academics from Germany, France, Italy, Finland, Hungary,
 Australia, South Africa, Sweden, Greece and Bulgaria. Hewlett: Formally works in projects with
 the Universidad de Sevilla and Keene University, Maine New Hampshire. Hutton: Works in
 numerous research project teams and co-authors with academics from American University
 (USA), Colorado State University (USA), Concordia University (Canada), Pace University (USA),
 University of Helsinki (Finland), University of Manchester, Montclair State University (USA),
 Indiana University (USA), University of Wisconsin (USA), Vanderbilt University (USA), University
 of Southern Alabama (USA), Durham University, Lancaster University, University of Minho
 (Portugal), and Bentley University (USA). Ivanov: Collaborating with the Higher School of
 Economics, Moscow, Russia and is also working on developing papers with academics from
 Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, and Fudan University, Shanghai, both
 in China. Marriott, H.: Co-authors with academics from University of Strathclyde and Swansea
 university. Séraphin: Extensive multiple collaborations – these include co-authorship with
 academics based all around the world in unique destinations, namely (and not limited to) New
 Zealand, Argentina, the Middle East, Mauritius, Malaysia, Russia, Greece, Haiti, the Comoro
 Islands, and Bulgaria. Sinha: Co-authors with academics from Jagellolian University (Poland),
 Bournemouth University, Napier University, University of Portsmouth, and Solent University.
 Smith: Co-authorship with academics includes De Montfort University, University of Central
 Lancashire, University of Chester, Westminster University, University of Birmingham, Liverpool
 John Moores University, University of Southampton, University of Reading, Nottingham Trent
 University and Newcastle University, as well as authors from Cyprus, France and the
 Netherlands.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.4 Professional bodies/learned societies [2]

 Bonathan: Fellow Chartered Accountant. Burke: Member of All Party Parliamentary Group on
 Data Analytics. De: Member of IEEE Internet of Things Technical Sub-Committee. Gunton:
 Member of British Ecological Society. Hewlett (significant ICS links): Invited Member to the
 Global Taskforce on Protected Areas and COVID-19 - nature based solutions, Trustee of the
 National Association of AONBs - Landscapes for Life, and Fellow of the Royal Geographical
 Society. Hutton: Member of: PRME Working Group on Poverty as a Challenge to Management
 Education, Association of Consumer Research, Academy of Marketing and European Academy
 of Marketing. Jennings: Fellow Chartered Accountant. Lu: Member of INFORMS (Institute for
 Operations Research and the Management Sciences). Osgerby: Chartered Institute of
 Management Accounting. Parkes (significant ICS links): Special Advisor for PRME - UN backed
 Principles for Responsible Management Education, Former Chair of the PRME Chapter UK &
 Ireland, former Researcher in Residence at the PRME Secretariat, Board Member of the
 Prince’s Trust Business in the Community (BITC), Fellow of CIPD, Fellow of Royal Society of
 Arts, Visiting Chair at Dominican University, Chicago, USA, Chair for UK Steering Committee,
 Sulitest – Sustainable Literacy Test. Sanders: Member of Council of Professors and Heads of
 Computing, International Federation for Information Processing Working Group Technical
 Committee 11.12 (IFIP Sec TC-11), and Academic Resilience and Security Community. Smith:
 co-Track Chair (since 2018) for the BAM SIG for Sustainable and Responsible Business.

 4.5 Keynotes/plenaries/other external contributions [2][3]

 Bruno: Yearly co-organiser for the Galway Topology Colloquium, UK/Ireland. Bruno: Invited
 Speaker (2015): Quantales and Free Locales, The Fields Institute, Canada. Bruno: Invited
 Speaker (2016): Well-quasi-ordering of trees and dendrites, University of Bath, UK. Bruno:
 Invited Speaker (2018, 2019): Well-quasi-ordering and the topological minor relation, Oxford
 University and University of Birmingham, UK. Bruno: Invited Speaker (2019): The Topological
 Minor Relation, University of Portsmouth, UK. Burke: Keynote (2018): Impact of Business Data
 Science for the Public Good. Technological Developments for the 21st Century. University of
 Buckingham (in association with Woman in Data Science WiDS, University of Stanford, USA),
 UK. Burke: Keynote (2018): The Ever-Expanding Boundaries of Knowledge. International
 conference on sustainable energy and environment sensing. University of Cambridge, UK.
 Burke: Plenary (2018): An Introduction to the (Religious) Ethics of Artificial Intelligence. Science
 or Religion? A Symposium, Portsmouth RC Diocese, Discovery Centre, Winchester, UK. Burke:
 Inaugural Professorial Lecture (2017): The ever-expanding boundaries of knowledge: defining
 the research business for the 21st century. University of Winchester, UK. Burke: Workshop in
 conference at Upsala University (Sweden) at conference of Sustainable Digital Communities
 titled ‘Digital Transformation: A multi-aspectual perspective’; workshop in European Women in
 Technology Conference (Netherlands) titled ‘Reflections on the ethics of artificial intelligence’.
 De: External PhD supervisor for a student in Xi’an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, China focusing
 on big data analytics in smart cities. Hewlett: Keynote (2016): Investigating tranquillity and
 making use of results in planning, Devon County Council and Network Forum, Totnes, UK.
 Hewlett: Keynote (2016): The value of tranquillity to health and wellbeing, Landscapes for Life
 National Annual Conference, Newport, UK. Hutton: Keynote Panellist: at Academy of Marketing
 (2020) titled ‘Engaging Communities and Practitioners for Societal Impact’. Hutton: Invited
 Speaker: Winchester Food Partnership Launch (2019) in Hattingley Valley, Alresford, UK titled
 ‘Hunger, Food Wellbeing and Innovating for Local Food Access’. Hutton: Invited Speaker:
 University of Manchester (2017) for a Consumer Research with Societal Impact Workshop. Lee:
 Invited Speaker (2018, 2019): Talks at Sookmyung Women’s University, South Korea. Lee:
 Invited Speaker (2018): The Role of South Korea in the High-Tech Industry at Tech London
 Advocates Korea Launching Event in London, UK. Parkes: Keynote (2020): PRME UK & Ireland
 Annual Conference. Parkes: Keynote (2020): Sustainable Development Goals 1 - No Poverty,
 PRME UK & Ireland, Salford University, UK. Parkes: Opening Plenary (2019): Responsible
 Management Education Research Conference (RMER) Conference Jonkoping, Sweden.
 Parkes: Poverty Track Chair (2018): 5th Responsible Management Education Research
 (RMER) Conference. Parkes: Plenary Session (2017): 10th Anniversary PRME Global Forum,

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New York, USA. Parkes: Conference Organiser (2019): Responsible Management Education
 Research Conference. Jönköping University, Sweden. Parkes: Conference Organiser: PRME
 UK & Ireland Annual Conference, Leeds University, UK. Parkes: In 2017, presented with a
 PRME Pioneer Award. Sanders: Invited Speaker: Biometric Authentication: No Silver Bullet,
 Stevens Institute of Technology, New Jersey, USA. Séraphin and Cripps: Prepared and
 delivered workshops for the Université Savoie Mont Blanc (2020) around children and
 sustainable tourism and discourse analysis within longitudinal studies. Smith and Séraphin:
 Organised British Academy of Management (BAM) Sustainable and Responsible Business SIG
 event (2019) titled ‘Overtourism: Finding Sustainable Development Solutions and Tackling
 Paradox’. Smith: co-organised a BAM Sustainable and Responsible Business SIG workshop
 titled ‘Wellbeing in Business Research and Methodologies in Practice PhD Workshop’, virtual
 event (2020) and delivered plenary titled ‘Doctoral methodologies: Strategies for adapting to
 COVID-19’. Smith: Invited Speaker (2019): The responsible management and leadership
 paradox: An interactive workshop. BLCC Research Symposium: 'Responsible and Inclusive
 Leadership: Paradoxes and Possibilities', University of West of England, UK. Smith: Invited
 Speaker (2020): Grounded Theory and Action Research. De Montfort University, UK. Teoh:
 Invited Workshop (2018): Engaging students with innovative learning technologies. Tunku Abdul
 Rahman University College (TARUC), Malaysia. Teoh and Tan (2019): Invited Workshop: Data-
 Driven Teaching: Using Learning Analytics to Inform Teaching Practice. Tunku Abdul Rahman
 University College (TARUC), Malaysia.




                                                                                       Page 13
