Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 2

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and Structure
 King's College London (King’s) is a multi-faculty university that Unit of Assessment (UOA2)
 draws upon to provide a critical link between health researchers in the Faculty of Life Sciences
 and Medicine (FoLSM), other Faculties across King’s, and colleagues in our Academic Health
 Science Centre, King’s Health Partners (KHP).

 UOA2 comprises 38.85 FTE researchers, who generated £55M of research income since
 REF2014, including £37.9M from National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) and other UK
 research funders, averaging £1.41M/FTE, with 85 PhD studentships awarded.


                          UOA2 Total Research Income 2014-2020
      £10,000,000.00


       £9,000,000.00


       £8,000,000.00


       £7,000,000.00


       £6,000,000.00


       £5,000,000.00
                       13/14      14/15     15/16     16/17      17/18     18/19     19/20

 Figure 1: Research Income

 UOA2’s mission is to improve the health and wellbeing, care and outcomes for individuals
 and populations locally and globally through transformative research, education, knowledge
 exchange and innovation. We embed research in some of the UK’s most deprived communities,
 as well as in global networks in low- and middle- income countries (LMICs). The focus is on air
 quality, long term conditions, electronic health record research, clinical trials and other forms of
 evaluation.

 UOA2 researchers are predominantly located in the School of Population Health &
 Environmental Sciences (SPHES) in FoLSM. Created in 2017, it enhances the importance of
 population health, with two Departments Population Health Sciences and Analytical,
 Environmental and Forensic Sciences (mostly returned in REF2014 UOA2). UOA2 includes
 researchers from King’s Policy Institute (Faculty of Social Science and Public Policy) and
 the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience (IOPPN) facilitating implementation
 science and impact agendas, and with whom there are active collaborations and PhD supervision.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2: Components and networks of King’s UOA2.

 UOA2 has selected 91 of 1,582 eligible papers. 119 (8%) in top 1%, 268 (17%) top 5%, and 415
 (26%), top 10% of subject-weighted citation scores (Source: SciVal Dec 2020). Top-tier journals
 with multiple publications include: Lancet journals (95), BMJ (23), PLOS Medicine (12), New
 England Journal of Medicine (4), Nature Journals (4), NIHR journals (18); Specialist journals:
 Stroke (16), Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (35), Trials (31), Age and Ageing (14),
 Health Expectations (11), Social Science and Medicine (8).

 1.2 UOA2’s response to COVID-19:
     • Prioritising and pump-priming research locally and nationally (with NIHR Clinical
       Research Network (CRN)) for vaccine trials, acute and long-term care (Wolfe, R&D
       Director)
     • Clinical Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) analyses of COVID-19 and antihypertensive
       medication and antimicrobial stewardship (Gulliford)
     • Sentinel Stroke National Audit Programme (SSNAP) analyses of quality of care (Douiri)
     • Developing COVID-19 ‘data lake and warehouse’ combining comprehensive up-to-date
       clinical dataset, analytical capabilities and clinical experts evaluating clinical progression,
       prognosis, outcomes (Ashworth, Douiri, Curcin) (6 papers)
     • Advising WHO and Japanese Government (Shibuya)
     • Ireland Health Research COVID-19 funding Board (Wolfe)
     • Tracking public attitudes, beliefs, and behaviour around vaccination (Wolfe/Policy
       Institute/IPSOS-MORI - King's Together funding).
     • The NHSE/I London Evaluation Cell evaluating service innovations (e.g., remote/virtual
       service delivery) (Sevdalis).

 1.3 Research Culture

 1.3.1 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 UOA2 departments have strong EDI plans with engaged, proactive diversity committees and
 leads (Section 2) supported by Faculty-run initiatives, resulting in a truly inclusive culture with
 transparent processes for appointments, promotions, mentorship and PhD supervision. Public
 and patient involvement is central to this agenda, developing, conducting and communicating
 research locally in multi-ethnic south London and in diverse global research partnerships.

 1.3.2 Open Research and Research Integrity
 King’s is a member of the UK Reproducibility Network. King’s Libraries support Open Access
 including managing, curating, and disseminating publications and research data (King’s Open
 Research Group Initiative). This includes support with data management plans and options for

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 storage, preservation, and dissemination of data. King’s is a signatory to the San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment. We are compliant with the Concordat on Open Research
 Data and the Concordat to Support Research Integrity at institution level. King’s has introduced a
 formal, enhanced structure with FoLSM having appointed a Vice-Dean as Research Integrity (RI)
 Champion, and RI advisors in each of the Schools (McKevitt, Gulliford) providing support and
 advice on best practice and encouraging early reporting of research misconduct. The RI role is
 part of a wider leadership role within each School/Department, as Research and Impact Lead.
 Both the NIHR Research Design Service (RDS) London (hosted in SPHES), the School
 Research and Impact lead and UOA2 researchers act as reviewers of proposals before
 submission and as interviewers on ‘mock’ panels for early career research fellowship awards.

 King’s has joint NHS/King’s Research and Development offices on each campus that provide
 advice on Health Research Authority applications, a monthly ‘one stop shop’ for researchers on
 infrastructures to support developing and executing their research as well as training on ethics
 and governance.

 1.4 Progress against REF2014 strategy for research
 UOA2 has built on the REF2014 strategy of improving public and environmental health, and the
 organisation and delivery of health and social care, through translational research, harnessing
 the additional skills in global health, implementation science and policy since 2014.

 1.4.1 Air Quality
 King’s Environmental Research Group (ERG) (Kelly) aims to understand the impact of
 atmospheric pollution on health and evaluate interventions. King’s London Air Quality Network
 (LQAN) (2008-), is Europe’s largest and most sophisticated regional monitoring network, that
 enables analysis of sources of atmospheric pollution and estimation of health implications of
 individual pollutants and investigation of impacts of air quality improvement policies such as the
 London Low Emission Zone (LEZ).

 In 2018, NIHR funded the ERG to investigate the impact of London’s Ultra-LEZ (ULEZ) on
 children’s respiratory health (Mudway) and were successful with multi-university UKRI Strategic
 Priorities Funded programmes to enhance atmospheric measurement infrastructure (Green),
 policy modelling to include sensitive health groups (Barratt), and assessing toxicological impacts
 of air pollution on human development (Mudway). In 2009 the Medical Research Council (MRC)
 Centre for Environment and Health was formed with Imperial College London as the ‘go to’
 Centre for research and policy on environment and health issues, as evidenced by the
 exceptional third renewal phase in 2019. King’s successfully renewed the Health Protection
 Research Unit (HPRU) in Environmental Exposures and Health (Kelly) and co-leadership of
 the HPRU in Chemical Radiation Threats and Hazards (Phillips).

 1.4.2 Stroke and Long-Term Conditions
 The stroke programme (McKevitt, Wolfe) generated £6M research income since REF2014.
 King’s has conducted epidemiological and health services research using the South London
 Stroke Register (SLSR), and the national stroke audit (SSNAP), with its embedded research
 programme, hosted at King’s.

 King’s has uniquely estimated stroke risk trends over 20 years, outcomes up to 15 years after
 stroke and contributed to the Global Burden of Disease estimates using SLSR and SSNAP
 data. The Burden of Stroke in Europe report, in collaboration with the Stroke Alliance for
 Europe, identified inequalities in stroke risk and shortcomings in prevention and acute care, and
 highlighting the lack of longer-term care. King’s has collaborated with UCL, evaluating large scale
 transformations of stroke care, demonstrating achievable, sustainable and cost-effective
 improvements in evidence-based care with improved outcomes in London and Manchester.
 SSNAP funded research demonstrated a complex relationship between admission times/days
 and access to evidence-based care not explained by lack of resource at night or weekends
 (Lancet, PLOS Medicine). Using SSNAP data with Health Foundation funding, we are deploying
 machine learning methods to refine quality improvement analytical methodologies in stroke care.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This research forms the basis of an Impact Case Study. McKevitt is the social science lead on
 Newcastle, Cambridge, Leeds and Nottingham NIHR programme grants, conducting nested
 qualitative evaluations in post-stroke care.

 UOA2 stroke rehabilitation research provides expertise in evaluation of fidelity, efficacy, and
 effectiveness of rehabilitation interventions (e.g., vulnerable groups post stroke; severe stroke;
 visual problems; residential care and upper limb movement limitation). An NIHR Global Health
 Research Group has been funded to estimate stroke risk and develop a care pathway for
 improving care quality after stroke in Sierra Leone (Sackley). Funded work in other long-term
 conditions includes: Parkinson's disease; fractured neck of femur (Sheehan, Sackley);
 rheumatoid arthritis and peripheral arterial disease (Bearne).

 White has addressed service delivery and appropriate prescribing for chronic obstructive
 pulmonary disease (COPD) and has international and national collaborative projects on C-
 reactive protein point of care test in COPD. Health economic research has informed guidance for
 cardio-thoracic, respiratory and oncology societies to recommend talc pleurodesis for patients with
 mesothelioma following a trial that showed no worse survival, fewer complications and a shorter
 hospital stay (Fox-Rushby).

 UOA2 research (Gulliford) identified the effectiveness of implementing antenatal and newborn
 screening for sickle cell disease and led the implementation of the national NHS screening
 programme in the UK and internationally (Impact Case Study).

 1.4.3 Statistics, Digital Infrastructure and Electronic Health Records Research (EHR)
 The Medical Statistics Group undertakes research in outcomes modelling, trial designs,
 precision medicine, meta-analysis, and clinical decision support. The group contributed to over
 107 trials (Phase 1-3) (3 New England Journal of Medicine) with research grant income of £2.4M
 to UOA2 (£100M to partners) from MRC, Wellcome, NIHR and industry (14 studies). They have
 led on the design and analyses of 58 phase 1 and 2 trials (dose escalation and first in human)
 and biomarkers (e.g., liver failure prognostic models) (Ayis, Douiri, Reid, Wang, Bunce,
 Peacock). Of note are the impactful analyses of peanut allergy trials, the results of which have
 transformed management (Lack (UOA1), Ayis, Peacock).

 Health informatics research has developed Learning Health System solutions for linking and
 analysing large datasets from EHRs and developing their application to trials. Areas of focus
 include EHR-driven trials, phenomics, machine learning based decision support systems,
 research reproducibility and using social media data as a digital signal. Curcin leads the KCL
 Trial and Phenomics themes of the NIHR/MRC Health Data Research (HDR) UK network
 London and directs the Centre for Doctoral Training in Data-Driven Health.

 EHR Research (Gulliford) has shown obesity is a key driver of multiple long-term conditions and
 provided new evidence on trends in children’s obesity; estimates of the low probability of an obese
 person transitioning to normal weight; evidence for the impact of widespread antidepressant
 utilisation on obesity and new evidence that bariatric surgery is associated with reduced incidence
 of new-onset diabetes. CPRD data has been used for health economic modelling with novel
 results for costs and outcomes of increasing access to bariatric surgery and costs of health care
 utilisation in older adults (Gulliford). Fox-Rushby has developed a new economic model
 showing brief interventions in primary care are a cost-effective way of increasing physical activity
 that was used to support the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) public
 health guidance.

 Gulliford developed the use of CPRD EHRs to conduct randomised cluster trials, with >600,000
 participants randomised, and implemented individually randomised pragmatic trials of enhanced
 invitation methods for the NHS Health Check Programme and antimicrobial stewardship
 interventions that identified bacterial infections as safety outcomes of reduced antibiotic
 prescribing. With Cardiff and Oxford, White has developed low-cost antimicrobial stewardship
 interventions deliverable into GPs EHRs.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4.4 Implementation Sciences
 UOA2 has played a key part in the South London Collaboration for Leadership in Applied
 Health Research and Care (CLAHRC) (2014-19), and Applied Research Collaboration (ARC)
 (2019-). Sevdalis has developed the Centre for Implementation Science, hosting over 40
 scientists and staff, integral to themes in the ARC. The Centre also focuses on global health
 research, implementation methods and measures development, and improvement science
 applications to advance and evaluate innovative service improvement across South London.
 Evaluations include smartphone use by surgical patients, impact of a UK-wide improvement skills
 training programme for urology trainees, and safety incidents in primary care and community-
 based mental health services.

 1.4.5 Policy Institute
 The Policy Institute works to combine the rigour of academia with the agility of a consultancy and
 connectedness of a think tank. The Institute ran a responsive research facility for the Chief Medical
 Officer, Dame Sally Davies, addressing crosscutting public health and social policy topics
 including anti-microbial resistance, obesity, pollution and genomics (Grant). Policy Labs,
 pioneered by King’s (Pollitt, Grant) bring stakeholders together to address how research findings
 can be put into policy and practice and these have addressed reducing costs associated with rising
 levels of Type 2 diabetes, developing interventions to tackle long-term mental health outcomes of
 bullying and outlining ways to progress key areas of the Mental Health Act.

 Since 2014 King’s has provided evidence to understand and assess the impact of research, that
 played a key role in UK research policy and helped the UK government uphold its 2.4% R&D
 target. It influenced the effectiveness and efficiency of biomedical and health science policy in
 Scotland and informed REF2021 guidance and contributed to an improved understanding of
 research processes nationally and internationally (Grant).

 1.4.6 Global Health
 UOA2 works through King’s Global Health Partnerships (KGHP) to strengthen health systems
 and improve care quality in LMICs: Democratic Republic of Congo; Sierra Leone; Somaliland, and
 Zambia. Research is focussed in 3 areas: NIHR Stroke in Sierra Leone (1.5.2); NIHR ASSET
 Centre - Health systems strengthening in Sub-Saharan Africa, and ‘ASPIRES’ - optimising
 antibiotic use along surgical pathways (Leather, Sevdalis). Global surgery research has
 demonstrated improved surgical safety with checklists, the assessment of trauma systems,
 interventions to improve neonatal surgical outcomes, global surgical metrics and national surgical
 policy (Leather). Leather co-chaired the Lancet Commission on Global Surgery reporting on
 surgery in LMICs and plans to strengthen surgical and anaesthesia provision to 2030. Both
 implementation sciences and KGHP benefit from being integral to King’s Global Health Institute
 (KGHI), a cross-university interdisciplinary centre for research education and training.

 1.4.7 Toxicology and Forensic Sciences
 Toxicology and forensic sciences undertake research relevant to public health, particularly in its
 biomarkers of drink- and drug-drivers programme (Wolff). Rising road-traffic collisions attributed
 to driving under the influence of drugs led to a new liability offence introduced into legislation in
 2015, underpinned by the research. In the first 316 days an estimated total of 8,599 convictions
 took place removing dangerous drivers from roads. Data from 40 police forces showed 8,336
 drivers tested positive for cannabis and 3,064 for cocaine between March 2015 and January 2018
 (Impact Case Study). Syndercombe-Court leads the London branch of the Metagenomics
 and Metadesign projects sampling the Subways (London Underground) and Urban Biomes
 (MetaSUB). The group identified the DNA profiles of the residents of Grenfell Tower and work from
 within our accredited laboratories has contributed to another REF2021 case Impact Case Study,
 Anti-Doping (Sochi Anti-Doping corruption investigation) (UOA24).

 Genetic & Environmental Toxicology explores the impact of exposure to chemicals on humans
 and wider environment. Toxicogenomics (Sturzenbaum) utilizes macro-invertebrate models to
 study the impact of exposure to xenobiotics encompassing the elucidation and characterization of
 response cascades, from molecular genetic to life cycle end-points. Environmental

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Carcinogenesis (Phillips) use 3D organoid tissue cultures to investigate what carcinogens do to
 cells and what cells do to carcinogens. The investigation of mutational signatures of environmental
 carcinogens and chemotherapeutic agents revealed patterns of mutations characteristic of both
 endogenous cellular processes and exogenous factors such as environmental carcinogens (e.g.,
 tobacco smoke).

 1.5 Impact
 The impact of King’s research is a core value of UOA2, and the concepts of impact have been
 pioneered by the Policy Institute’s (Grant) research on REF2014 impact and the development
 of Policy labs as well as influencing the NIHR’s values framework and Impact strategy (Wolfe,
 Chair NIHR Impact Board). The Policy Institute has developed training on research impact and
 policy communications for King’s students and staff, and external bodies e.g., the Royal
 Society. This draws on policy research and analysis of the REF2014 case studies which
 contributed to the design of REF2021 (Grant, Pollitt).

 UOA2 researchers are active in promoting the implementation of research leading to patient and
 population benefits and impact is now built into our staff development and promotion process.
 We support and encourage researchers to develop impact by conducting needs-led research,
 involving stakeholders in the design and conduct of relevant research, as well as promoting the
 dissemination and implementation of high-quality research through engagement in health policy,
 quality improvement and service innovation. We encourage staff to build relationships across
 sectors to accelerate impact opportunities, and to take up roles outside the university including
 secondments to stakeholder groups (Section 4).

 The exemplars of our impact are illustrated in our Impact Case Studies in Air Quality, Stroke,
 Sickle Cell Screening, and Drug Driving.

 1.5.1 Public and Patient Involvement (PPI) and Community Engagement: PPI is central to the
 research in UOA2 for influencing policy, service delivery and developing pathways to impact. In
 addition to facilitating the practice of PPI within King’s and UOA2 research, we also research PPI
 approaches, thinking critically about how best to engage diverse publics and incorporate these
 individuals in the design, delivery and dissemination of research (McKevitt), what counts as
 meaningful PPI, and contributing to the research underpinning NIHR INVOLVE’s adoption of co-
 production. The NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (BRC), with UOA2 researchers’ support,
 facilitates the involvement of patients and carers in research at GSTT NHS Foundation Trust,
 supporting multiple condition-specific PPI groups (e.g., stroke, COPD, cardiovascular) with a
 Research Advisory Group for oversight. The Centre for Implementation Science works closely with
 BAME communities and service user groups and engages NHS Trusts and the Health Innovation
 Network to promote scalable innovative services across South London. The NIHR RDS has
 developed through UOA2 researchers innovative PPI engagement, guidance, and advice.

 1.6 Future Research Strategy
 The future of UOA2 research programmes is rooted in King’s ‘Vision 2029’ and we envisage an
 open, engaging and dynamic environment with an ambition to substantially increase academic
 capacity, focus on strengths and building upon our collaborations across King’s, nationally and
 globally.

 1.6.1 Recruitment and Leadership
 The departure of the Air Quality group to Imperial College to form a university MRC centre, and
 recruitment to other vacant posts, provides us with opportunity to re-focus. King's has Population
 Health as a priority, and we are working with the Senior Management Team to shape a strategy
 that underpins our research ambitions. We will recruit future leaders in public health, data
 science, health informatics, social sciences and primary care and develop junior Faculty and
 early career researchers (ECRs) into senior roles. Within these domains we will focus on posts
 addressing urban population health inequalities, multiple long term conditions, facilitating
 experimental medicine through links with the NIHR BRC and implementation and impact through
 the NIHR ARC and the Policy Institute, and research programme stakeholder engagement. We

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 will support our rising research stars and extend our UKRI Future Leaders and nationally
 competitive postdoctoral awards through our new programmes and infrastructures.

 1.6.2 Infrastructures
 In 2019 King’s invested in a cross-university Institute of Population Health (IPH) (Shibuya) that
 we will draw on in the next period as it develops. IPH aims to complement the work of SPHES by
 establishing and promoting a cross-disciplinary, data-driven platform for population health
 research that aligns with our research (see 1.4.3). An exciting collaboration with the Artificial
 Intelligence Centre for Value Based Healthcare (DHSC funded £16M) will strengthen our work
 in the NIHR BRC and address questions in large NHS data sets with linked research data (e.g.,
 Omics), harnessing university high performance computing and NHS procurement of a £2BN
 EHR system locally.

 We will integrate further with King’s Global Health Institute (KGHI) to strengthen our expanding
 research programme and partnership working in LMICs as well as linking the IPH and KGHI to
 strengthen population, systems and patient focussed research. We will collaborate with an
 IOPPN initiative with PLUS Alliance (Arizona State University and UNSW Sydney) to establish a
 Centre for Public Mental Health that has synergies with our research programmes.

 We propose integrating our research and education programmes with the FoLSM School of Life
 Course Sciences (women and children’s health, nutritional sciences, diabetes, twins and genetic
 epidemiology), establishing a critical mass of researchers dedicated to research across
 populations and the life course.

 1.6.3 Research Programmes
 Stroke and other long-term conditions: We will advance the development of stroke services in
 Sierra Leone and the SLSR programme will broaden to include the new ICD-11 classification of
 stroke, inclusion of vascular morbidities and patient portals. SSNAP data will be used to analyse
 the ongoing effects of COVID-19 on care and outcomes and estimate trends in the quality of care
 and identifying inequalities. We will undertake further trials in falls, joint diseases, peripheral
 arterial diseases and a national trial of pulmonary rehabilitation with lay health workers.

 Statistics, Digital Infrastructure and EHR: The statistics group will: focus on developing
 methods for experimental medicine trials with the BRC, increasing the portfolio; develop
 prediction modelling using AI and advanced statistical methods (long term conditions and
 polygenic risk scores); collaborating with national Quality Improvement programmes (e.g., stroke,
 falls) to refine estimates of outcome using AI/statistical approaches. Health informatics will lead
 on developing a Trusted Research Environment (TRE) with an underpinning programme in
 provenance, phenomics, electronic trials and decision support. We will expand our primary care
 EHR infrastructure to 2 Boroughs with linkage to the TRE and expand our EHR trials programme
 in COPD, stroke and antimicrobial stewardship.

 Implementation Sciences and Impact: Developing the implementation methodologies through
 the NIHR ARC themes and global partnerships, along with integration with other UOA2
 programmes, will strengthen all research and enable impact to be developed with Policy Institute
 engagement and use of policy labs and their extensive range of stakeholders.

 1.6.4 Postgraduate Research
 We will secure EPSRC funding for the Centre for Doctoral Training in Data-Driven Health,
 continue the London Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership (ESRC) and
 increase the number of externally funded PhD and postdoctoral fellowships enabled by our
 increased Faculty capacity and refreshed research focus.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 UOA2 comprises 43 (38.85 FTE) academic staff returned to REF2021, and approximately 200
 other research, scientific and administrative staff. King’s promotes the Principles of the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers and the European Commission's HR
 Excellence in Research Award which King’s has held since 2012, recently renewing it for 2020-
 22 with the Centre for Research Staff Development (CfRD) overseeing the work.



                                UOA2 Research staff by gender
         12


         10


          8


          6


          4


          2


          0
                   Prof          Reader              SL                  L           Fellow

                                                 M        F

 Figure 3: UOA2 staff submitted to REF2021




          Figure 4: UOA2 staff by domicile                    Figure 5: UOA2 staff by ethnicity

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 UOA2’s staffing strategy is based on developing an interdisciplinary, diverse and collaborative
 team who focus on delivering UOA2’s current and emerging research priorities. Staff operate
 within a high-performance culture built on supporting success within King’s ambition. An
 Academic Performance Framework (APF) supports staff by articulating levels of attainment at
 each academic grade within research, education, academic citizenship, and knowledge
 dissemination and impact. The APF informs and is central to recruitment, probation, promotion
 and appraisal.




                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Academic Recruitment, Probation and Promotion
 Recruitment: We ensure recruitment is fair, under-represented groups are encouraged to apply,
 and appointment panels are diverse. We aim to recruit and retain “rising stars” rather than senior
 figures. Since REF2014 29 new members of academic staff have been recruited in UOA2. A
 significant proportion (45%) have been at Lecturer level to drive our talent pipeline.


                     UOA2 faculty recruitment since 2014 by gender
                               and level of appointment
             9
             8
             7
             6
             5
             4
             3
             2
             1
             0
                      Prof             Reader             SL                L

                                                M   F

 Figure 6: UOA2 recruitment since 2014

 Probation: New academics complete a three-year probation. During 2020, FoLSM undertook a
 review of academic probation to ensure the best possible support for probationers and to secure
 diversity throughout the process. In UOA2 we provide support with assistance in writing probation
 reports and conducting mock interviews.

 Mentoring: Academic staff are provided with a mentor on appointment. King’s has developed
 programmes available to staff, including ones dedicated to staff with protected characteristics
 “More than Mentoring” (prioritises women), BAME, LGBTQ+ and those with disabilities. A
 mentoring platform for ECR staff is provided by the CfRD and provides career progression
 support, and help in establishing independence, gaining confidence, developing skills, and
 enhancing networks. CfRD has an online mentoring platform to help researchers identify the right
 mentor, from within King’s or beyond academia. UOA2 researchers are also involved in national
 schemes e.g., Academy of Medical Sciences.

 Performance Review: Academic and research staff complete an annual appraisal, that affords
 an opportunity to celebrate success and agree objectives for the coming year and what needs to
 be in place for success. Personal circumstances which might impact performance are considered.
 For clinical academics, a dual appraisal process with NHS and university assessors, operates.

 Promotion: King’s recognises colleagues who have demonstrated the highest quality research,
 innovation and where appropriate clinical excellence and eminence against transparent criteria.
 UOA2 has been very successful in supporting academic promotions since 2014 (Figure 7). UOA2
 works closely with staff on developing applications and provides peer review and workshops on
 writing successful applications.

 Succession planning: Academic leadership roles within Schools/Departments last 3 years,
 renewable for a further term. Each of these roles is advertised, with shortlisting and interview,
 providing people with leadership opportunities. Succession planning for individual academic
 appointees is discussed at performance review and through discussions with the Faculty
 Executive, all Schools having input to the decision making.



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 7: UOA2 promotions since 2014

 2.1.2 Staff Development and Research Culture
 Support for academic and research staff: All grant submissions are constructively peer-
 reviewed (Section 1.3.2). We encourage staff at all career stages, to develop their knowledge and
 skills, and gain breadth and depth of experience. In addition, the King’s Research & Strategy
 Development Team provide researchers with access to a Research Development Manager who
 provides advice and support throughout a grant application – from identifying opportunities
 through to facilitating internal peer review. The Team provide dedicated support to large funding
 bids and programme grants, seek opportunities to strengthen relationships with funding bodies
 and facilitate collaboration across King’s. Support has helped secure our NIHR Global Health
 Centre and groups, Centre for Doctoral Training and UKRI/MRC career development and
 infrastructure bids (Air Quality).

 UOA2 collaborates with the London Deanery and Health Education England to deliver
 postgraduate medical training and currently hosts NIHR Academic Clinical Lecturers in primary
 care (3) and public health (1), with support from the NIHR Integrated Academic Training (IAT)
 programme and King’s Education Academy. We also host NIHR In-practice Fellows (6 since
 2014) in primary care. We currently host 2 MRC Postdoctoral Fellowships (Marshall,
 Schofield).

 UOA2 has researched the expanding UK clinical research delivery workforce through
 formalisation of the role of Clinical Research Practitioner, showing these individuals support
 research delivery, addressing recruitment gaps caused by the shortage of research nurses, and
 identifying the need for further training, oversight, and career development (McKevitt).

 Leadership and management development: The Organisation Development Team has
 developed leadership programmes to develop a community of leaders to lead teams effectively
 and deliver King’s Vision 2029. The programmes build leadership capacity, increase networking
 opportunities and develop a coaching culture. The Leading Researchers Programme (LRP),
 aimed at Readers and Professors, supports skills such as generating and developing big ideas;
 taking risks and cross-disciplinary collaboration; and gaining insights into funder requirements.
 Emerging Leaders Programme (ELP) is aimed at mid-level staff developing their leadership.
 UOA2 has seen colleagues progress through the LRP (Curcin, Douiri, Fox-Rushby, Redmond)
 and ELP (White, Pollitt). Curcin has subsequently taken on leadership roles in HDRUK, Centre
 for Doctoral Training, and NIHR BRC Data analytics cluster. Douiri now heads the statistics group
 and Fox-Rushby collaborated on NIHR Global Health bids and leads the UOA2 ECR initiatives.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 King’s support women leaders utilising national programmes, Aurora – Developing women leaders
 in higher education (Ayis) and as Role Model (Ayis) and BAME colleagues through the StellarHE
 development programme (Sorinola). As well as development schemes open to research staff
 e.g., Faculty Research Conference Fund and the NIHR BRC, UOA2 has a Fund open to all staff
 and students, since 2014 >£70K has been utilised.

 2.1.3 Support for early career researchers
 The CfRD and Centre for Doctoral Studies (CDS) provide training and development for post-
 doctoral research staff, postgraduate research students and supervisors. Through the NIHR RDS
 and the NIHR BRC UOA2 provide additional training for academics and researchers.

 A UOA2 Early Career Researchers and Teachers Network (ECRTN) was established in 2018
 with senior input (Curcin, Fox-Rushby, Peacock) to support ECRs from pre-PhD to Lecturer in
 developing careers, research programmes and social opportunities as well as representing
 ECRTs through School, Faculty and College governance. There is now an active committee of 18
 running the network of over 125. Events held include: improving your career prospects online; CV
 Clinic/Writing Tips; Research Fellowship Forum; Tips for Preparing Fellowship Applications;
 Enhancing prospects of success in academia; and Integrating Teaching Opportunities with
 Research. A 2019 proposal writing workshop provided an overview of successful grant writing
 techniques from UOA2 grant holders with NIHR CRN and RDS.

 UOA2 has an active weekly seminar programme led by ECRs, drawing upon expertise from within
 UOA2 and beyond to share research. Throughout COVID-19 these seminars continued virtually
 and are well attended.

 UKRI Future Leaders: UOA2 has been successful two years running. A programme of research
 has been established, exploring experiences of homelessness, linked to welfare reform, legal
 support services, efficacy of peer support interventions (Guise, Social Science). Sheehan
 (Health Services Research, Rehabilitation) is analysing national fragility fracture audit data
 linked to EHRs to inform quality improvement initiatives after hip fracture.

 2.2 Research students
 2.2.1 Funding: Research students are funded from Research Council awards (MRC, BBSRC,
 EPSRC, ESRC, NERC); UK charities (Wellcome Trust, Dunhill Medical Trust, The Healthcare
 Improvement Studies Institute etc); European Union; NIHR Fellowships, grants and BRC;
 overseas funding agencies (Governments of Saudi Arabia, Indonesia; the Crown Prince
 International Scholarship Programme of Bahrain; Chinese Scholarship Council); industry (Glaxo
 Smith Kline); the ESRC London Interdisciplinary Social Science Doctoral Training Programme’s
 (DTP), including CASE awards with local partners (Transport for London, London Ambulance
 Service); the London NERC DTP, including CASE awards with industry (Bosch, Dyson, and
 Emissions Analytics); and joint awards with other Faculties further fostering interdisciplinary
 collaboration.

 2.2.2 Selection: Potential candidates either select projects submitted by academics to diverse
 training schemes or our associated Doctoral Training Centres (DTCs); direct approach, or open
 advertisement of potential areas of interest. Applicants are subsequently selected through
 interview by a minimum of two independent academics, on the basis of their academic potential.

 2.2.3 PhD Infrastructures: UOA2 provides leadership (Schofield) for the Health Practices,
 Innovation & Implementation theme of London Interdisciplinary Social Sciences Doctoral
 Training Partnership (ESRC), that provides studentships, training, and support for doctoral
 research around 13 cross-cutting pathways in domains of health, regulation and public services,
 social change, and security.

 Curcin leads DRIVE-Health, a new (2020-) pilot CDT funded by King’s (£1.3M) to leverage
 industrial funding for health data science PhD research. The centre will recruit 10-12 students
 annually for three years. DRIVE-Health will equip students with skills to develop and deliver new

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 models of data-driven healthcare and biomedical research with real world impact. The CDT is
 supported by an international network of partners across industry, government and the public and
 third sectors, including the NHS, digital health innovators and SMEs providing studentships and
 hosting students.

 2.2.4 Personal, Professional and Career Development
 Students have access to the CDS’s innovative resources including face-to-face workshops, online
 courses, and seminars, including communication & impact, IT essentials, data management, and
 writing and publishing. Students meet with careers consultants and/or Royal Literary Fund writing
 fellows. Specialised training is offered via DTCs and DTPs. Students within UOA2 also access
 opportunities from the Heath Sciences DTCs (2014-) to enhance research, professional and
 personal development skills. Research students’ progress and well-being is overseen by a School
 Postgraduate Research Lead (Curcin) and Department PGR Coordinators (Ballard and
 O’Connell).

 In 2017 the CDS funded a UOA2 PhD student to investigate the PhD supervisory experience
 within UOA2. For supervisors, findings highlighted: managing student expectations; access to
 useful information about university processes; and access to appropriate continuing professional
 development for supervisors. For students, findings included: improving the usefulness of Thesis
 Progression Committees (TPC) for students; avenues for pastoral support and communication
 with supervisors. Postgraduate Research Experience Survey scores indicated 86% satisfaction
 overall in 2019 (identical to 2017).

 Supervision: Each student is assigned two supervisors one of whom has previously supervised
 a student to completion. Joint supervision involving staff with different disciplinary bases is
 promoted. UOA2 has supported ECRs by creating third supervisor role to provide the necessary
 experience to act as future first supervisors. A TPC chaired by an independent academic and
 populated with project experts is responsible for monitoring progress, organising MPhil/PhD
 upgrade transfers and providing independent advice and pastoral support. This level of monitoring
 and support underpins our high completion rate.

 PhD supervisors are required to undertake supervisor training through the CDS to ensure high-
 quality supervision. There is a Supervisory Excellence Award for each Faculty and an overall
 winner for the university. In 2019, Sturzenbaum was the overall winner in FoLSM and winning
 the university award.

 Submission and completion data for PGR students: For full-time students UOA2’s overall
 submission rate is 97.8% (94.4% within 4 years) with a completion rate of 96.4% (95.2%
 completion within 5.5 years). Submission rates for part-time students are overall 92% (88% within
 7 active years) and completion of 92% (84% completion within 8.5 years).

 PhD student’s integration into the wider research environment: Students within UOA2
 participate in journal clubs, a PhD & Pizza Seminar series and an annual symposium organised
 by the ECRTN. The Annual Symposium is a vibrant programme where all students present a
 poster or an oral presentation. These events have continued virtually throughout the COVID-19
 period. PhD students also present their work regularly at Departmental seminars. Students are
 encouraged to submit abstracts to conferences for which financial support is provided both at
 Faculty, School/Department and CDS level.

 Several students actively engage in public engagement and outreach activities providing
 opportunities for professional development, e.g., public speaking. Our research students have
 been recognised for their efforts e.g., presented research to HRH Princess Anne on behalf of the
 Royal Commission, following a presentation at the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851
 Alumni event; and another student won the 2019 UK Big Data Zone for “I’m a Scientist, Get me
 out of here!”.



                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)
 We are passionate about the role and importance of leadership in visibly championing our
 commitment to EDI principles and ensuring they feed into all decision-making and operations,
 including the development of the UOA2 return; developing the diversity of skills and talent within
 our community; ensuring all present and prospective members of staff and students are treated
 solely on the basis of merit, ability and potential without any discrimination; providing and
 promoting a positive working, learning, and social environment free from prejudice, discrimination,
 harassment, bullying or victimisation.

 These principles are followed from recruitment to appointment to positions of responsibility.
 Recruitment and other panels are chosen to reflect diversity in experience. Diversity Matters and
 unconscious bias training is provided for all line managers. King’s is a member of the Stonewall
 Diversity Champion Scheme (2015-) and participates in the annual Workplace Equality Index
 exercise. The university holds a Bronze Race Equality Charter Mark (re-awarded 2020) and
 made a Silver Athena SWAN institutional submission (2020). FoLSM and IOPPN hold Athena
 SWAN Silver awards.

 In FoLSM a Vice-Dean for Development, Diversity & Inclusion was created in 2018 and sits on
 the Faculty Executive Board and ensures that EDI principles and priorities inform strategic
 planning and outcomes through the framework of the Faculty Executive Board EDI Pledge. Across
 UOA2 there are networks for discussion and improvement of EDI. UOA2 constituent units have
 an academic lead for EDI to champion and coordinate efforts. EDI Core Team members sit on
 FoLSM and IOPPN committees, the UOA2 REF Working Group, King’s Equality and Diversity
 Advisory Panel, promotion and senior interview panels, and pay recognition panels. EDI is a
 standing item at all meetings.

 The 2017 King’s Staff Survey showed 96% of FoLSM staff were aware of our commitment to
 EDI; 91% agreed we were committed to an inclusive environment; and 92% agreed we acted
 fairly, regardless of protected characteristics. A Faculty Staff survey (2018) showed 95% of
 staff are aware of Athena SWAN. Staff surveys show an increased proportion of staff taking up
 informal flexible working (73%); 83% of new starters agreed their induction was welcoming; and
 77% agreed that development was discussed effectively in appraisals. UOA2 is now actively
 considering the post-COVID ways of working to ensure that new approaches to working flexibly
 are embraced and staff are supported, including with the resources, to thrive in an agile
 environment.

 2.3.1 Training: EDI training is key to our approach for an inclusive environment, including
 mandatory training for leaders and recruiters. Training includes implicit and unconscious bias,
 imposter syndrome and Diversity Matters and cultural competency - sessions centred around
 King’s EDI strategies. Since 2014 the proportion of staff who are aware and attend EDI training
 has increased annually; by 2018 86% of staff were aware of our Diversity Matters training.
 Advancing Race Equality is a key goal, in 2020 regular sessions have been developed and
 delivered through Faculties focused on race equality terminology, microaggressions, white
 privilege and inclusive language. Bespoke race equality training was delivered to the Faculty
 Executive Boards. The Race Equality Network organises events including Black History Month.
 UOA2 hosted a seminar titled “Research into the black and minority ethnic groups (BAME):
 helpful, harmful or habitual?” to engage our researchers actively in addressing these challenges.

 We also offer mentoring and peer support through the Research Staff Online Mentoring Platform
 and reverse mentoring for BAME staff. The career progression and retention of female
 scientists and researchers and the adoption of Athena SWAN principles from the point of
 recruitment, ensuring interview panels have appropriate gender diversity. There is a significant
 emphasis on a family-friendly work environment. Visible female role models are important in
 inspiring and guiding early career female researchers. UOA2 undertook research on gender equity
 programmes within medicine, finding the Athena SWAN Charter often unintentionally reproduces
 and reinforces gender inequity in its implementation (McKevitt). In 2020 work to support our
 approach to race equality began with our social science researchers working with the African-

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Caribbean Medical Students Society looking at decolonisation within the curriculum and ensuring
 diversity within medical teaching e.g., dermatology (Guise, Wyatt).

 2.3.2 Culture and Bullying: Our researchers follow guidance set out in King’s code of practice
 and are pro-active in recognising and reacting to workplace intimidation. As part of the PhD review
 process, the TPC explores the student-supervisor relationship in the absence of the supervisor to
 ensure vigilance against potential bullying and harassment. UOA2 students receive a handbook
 explaining the level of commitment a student can reasonably expect from supervisors. As part of
 our zero tolerance towards bullying and harassment, a Confidential Advisors Service in FoLSM
 is open to any member of staff experiencing bullying and harassment (Schofield represents
 UOA2 as an advisor). Additionally, FoLSM are in process of implementing a Cultural Change
 Initiative, which has used qualitative evidence collected from across FoLSM to inform a coaching
 and training programme for Leadership, to improve their confidence and capability in role
 modelling best practice and inclusion.

 2.3.3 Support for parents and carers: We have identified barriers to uptake of paternity and
 shared parental leave and improved access to information. During parental leave, staff may avail
 of 10 ‘Keeping in Touch’ Days for work-related activities without impacting pay. Staff can apply for
 £10,000 from the King’s Parent and Carers Fund, to attend career-development events outside
 working hours.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 King’s has access to an impressive breadth of local, regional and national high-quality research
 infrastructures essential to ensuring our research remains at the cutting edge and is rapidly and
 effectively translated into impact for society. UOA2 plays a significant role contributing to
 collaborative research with underpinning public health, primary care and health services research
 infrastructures within the university, and across London, to build capacity, leverage new funding
 and enhance collaboration.

 3.1 Research Income
 UOA2 attracted more than £54M in research income during the assessment period. The average
 annual research income of UOA2 increased from £6.24M in 2013/14 to £9.28M in 2019/20.
 NIHR funding significantly strengthened the methodological basis for applied research within
 King’s, across King’s Health Partners (GSTT NIHR BRC (£77.5M since 2014, £7.5M to UOA2
 which has leveraged £352M of research income since 2014), and the NIHR HPRU and MRC
 Centre for Environment and Health (£4.9M to UOA2 2014-2020). This enabled us to increase
 methodological support for translational and applied research at King’s and the wider research
 community.




 Figure 8: UOA2 research funding sources since 2014


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Major infrastructures
 The major collaborative infrastructure research awards for the period include:
     • NIHR HPRU in Air Quality (£4.4M 2014-2020)
     • MRC Centre for Environment and Health (£5.9M 2014-2019)
     • NIHR BRC Data analytics cluster (£7.5M)
     • NIHR ARC Public Health and Implementation Science themes (£4.9M 2019-2024); and
        its predecessor NIHR CLAHRC South London (£4M 2014-2020)
     • NIHR RDS London (£11.9M, 2013-2023)
     • NIHR CRNCC Speciality Hub (£3.4M, 2015-2022).

 3.2.1 Providing the highest quality infrastructure and facilities to support research: The
 Department of Population Health Sciences has been relocated to a bespoke refurbished building
 since REF2014 at a cost of £3.6M that provides open-plan and agile working space enhancing
 cross-disciplinary collaborations and includes seminar and event spaces and a floor of
 conference/meeting rooms with video-conferencing capabilities.

 3.2.2 Academic Health Sciences Centres (AHSC) accredited: King’s is the academic partner
 in KHP, with local NHS Trusts, one of eight by the Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC)
 in England aiming to facilitate rapid transfer of new knowledge towards clinical practice, service
 delivery and health policy. King’s UOA2 has made a defining contribution in developing the KHP
 Urban Population Health pillar within the AHSC strategy and is the academic lead for the
 Medicine and Integrated Care Clinical Academic Group, provides Implementation Science
 support to partner Trusts through King’s Implementation Science initiatives and delivers
 seminars and lectures to King’s FY1/2 and Integrated Academic Trainees. Our pan AHSC
 functions strengthens clinical, service and local stakeholder (Integrated Care system including
 Boroughs and Clinical Commissioning Groups) engagement in our research.

 3.2.3 The NIHR Clinical Research Network Co-ordinating Centre Specialty Hub (CRNCC):
 supports patients, the public and health and care organisations across England to participate in
 funded research. King’s is an ‘Alliance’ member of five universities supporting the CRNCC (2015-
 2023). Wolfe chairs the Alliance group and is on the national CRNCC Board. There are two Cluster
 Leads with visiting professorial appointments (Evans, Smye). The King’s Hub provides clinical
 leadership for eight Specialties including Health Services and Delivery Research; Mental Health;
 Primary Care; and Public Health. More recently the CRNCC has harnessed and exploited areas
 of emerging technology and innovation in areas of Genomics, Imaging and Translational Medicine
 enriched by current KCL infrastructure and partnerships (NIHR BRCs, King’s Genomic Centre,
 CLAHRC/ARC), developing horizon scanning reports for NIHR and UKRI to allow specialties to
 adopt emerging methods and topics into the network’s portfolio of research.

 3.2.4 NIHR RDS London: UOA2 hosts NIHR RDS London (Director, Wolfe) (2008-2023), a
 successful partnership between King’s, Imperial, University College and Queen Mary’s performing
 a unique role at the interface between research commissioners and researchers across
 London. Our advisers work iteratively with research teams to develop proposals addressing
 complex health and social care challenges. From 2014-19, RDS London supported 2,772 teams,
 55% submitted an outline/full application with 876 full submissions and a 48% success rate
 (£127M). Lovell (Co-Director) made significant contributions to national strategy and activity
 through leadership of the national RDS Strategy Group (2017-18) and membership of the NIHR
 Strategy Board (2017-18), synergising our support with other RDSs and NIHR infrastructures.

 3.2.5 NIHR accredited Clinical Trials Unit (CTU): King’s hosts the CTU at the IOPPN and
 statisticians in UOA2 form a hub for early phase trials within the NIHR BRC and later phase trials
 across KHP Trusts and others nationally. King’s Statistics Group lead on consultancy and
 training within the BRC (over 200 sessions to 2000 participants since 2014).

 3.2.6 South London ARC: UOA2 are partners in leading themes in public health (Littlejohns),
 stroke and multimorbidity (Wolfe), implementation science (Sevdalis), multiple morbidity
 (Ashworth), as well as providing leadership through Deputy Directorships (Littlejohns,

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sevdalis). The work of the ARC is underpinned by applied informatics using technology and big
 data systems to analyse population health, health economics and statistics (Curcin, Carter,
 Douiri, Fox-Rushby, Pennington). The implementation science masterclass (Sevdalis) for
 health and care professionals and applied scientists is in its sixth year, followed by the launch of
 the UK Implementation Science Research Conference, in its third year (2020). In 2018,
 improvement science specialists with NHS staff and service user groups developed a suite of
 open-access resources to support service improvement, patient engagement and evidenced
 intervention implementation, downloaded more than 8,500 in 2019. The Implementation Science
 Centre capacity development programme resulted in over 15 Improvement Science and NIHR
 Knowledge Mobilisation Fellows being hosted since REF2014, the majority of whom are now in
 Faculty roles within UK academia.

 3.2.7 NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (GSTT and King’s): encompasses a wide field of
 experimental medicine, with funded programmes in cardiology, infection and immunity,
 cutaneous medicine, transplantation, stem cell medicine, genetics and oral health. UOA2 leads
 the BRC Data Analytics Cluster (Wolfe and co-Lead (Curcin)) with funded posts in statistics/data
 managers, health informatics, social sciences, epidemiology, and health economics. The social
 science team (McKevitt) have developed the PPI component to R&D at Guy’s and St Thomas’.

 3.2.8 Data Analytics & Big Data: UOA2 make extensive use of linked data sets, nationally,
 locally, and internationally. For example, the teams regularly work with CPRD, and Lambeth
 DataNet (1.3M anonymised primary care records) (LDN), with linked Office of National Statistics
 and Hospital Episodes Data (Figure 9). LDN is linked with other research databases including
 maternity/neonatal records (BadgerNet), IOPPN’s Case Register Interactive Research database
 of mental health records, and the South London Stroke Register.




 Figure 9: Patient summary of the use of LDN

 During the COVID-19 pandemic UOA2 researchers (Wolfe, Douiri, Curcin) established a GSTT
 EHR ‘data lake’ of clinical data for COVID-19 analytics hosted in an anonymised format at King’s
 through its High-Performance Cluster, Rosalind, enabling linkage with research and routine
 data sets. This is the first step in developing a Trusted Research Environment with our AHSC
 partners. We have collaborations with the Artificial Intelligence Centre for Value Based
 Healthcare (DHSC funded £16M) in FoLSM in BRC training and research.



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2.9 Air Pollution Infrastructure and Network
 Infrastructure awards to support air pollution research include: MRC Centre for Environment and
 Health; APEx: An Air Pollution Exposure model to integrate protection of vulnerable groups into
 the UK Clean Air Programme; NIHR HPRUs in Health Impact of Environmental Hazards and
 Environmental Exposures and Health. Key research areas supported by the infrastructures
 include:
       • Aerosol Science (Green) infrastructures based around the London Atmospheric
          Observatories or ‘Supersites’ and Mobile Atmospheric Research Platform
       • Environment Toxicology (Kelly, Mudway, Phillips)
       • Exposure Science (Barratt)
       • Measurement and Modelling (Beevers, Fuller) maintenance of the London Air Quality
          Network (LAQN), which evolved into the largest urban air quality network in Europe
       • Microplastics (Kelly, Wright).

 3.2.10 Forensic & Analytical Science
 UOA2 brings together three laboratories accredited to UKAS Quality Standard (ISO/IEC 17025)
 for anti-doping (Drug Control Centre), forensic genetics (DNA@King’s) and finger mark detection
 (with City-of-London Police) that provide a unique accredited laboratory footprint, combining world-
 leading research alongside essential core techniques applicable for use in criminal justice. There
 are five other laboratories conducting research in crime scene investigation, detection of illicit
 drugs, waste-water analysis, biomarkers of addiction, genetic, environmental, and forensic
 toxicology.

 3.3 Operational Infrastructure
 King’s offers excellent infrastructure and support services for research including library and
 information technology provision with physical libraries on all campuses and web access to a large
 collection of electronic journals, books and e-resources on and off campus. The library collections
 include over 1.2M books and e-books, more than 60K electronic journals, over 780 databases and
 other online resources. Researchers in UOA2 are supported by a dedicated administrative team,
 King’s Research and Researchers Directorate and Human Resources Directorate.

 3.4 Infrastructure and Facilities used in Impact
 Our infrastructures, facilities and expertise create a vibrant culture to derive impact. Our London
 team connect researchers with policy makers, and our Service Strategy includes celebrating
 routes to impact including collaborations with arts organisations (e.g., McKevitt). The King’s
 Policy Institute helped develop impact strategies for many researchers including their impact of
 impact work based on REF2014 (Section 1.5). Funding from the ESRC supported the Policy
 Institute’s Impact Acceleration Account which provides a route through which UOA2 researchers
 can access policy expertise in funded projects.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration is essential to solving priorities in population and environmental health and we
 engage through our established UK, EU and increasingly global networks with researchers, policy
 makers, commissioners, planners of health services, and providers of care. Central to
 collaborations are views of the public, patients and their families.

 Previous Sections described our wide range of collaborative infrastructures and leadership in
 experimental medicine (NIHR BRC), applied research (NIHR ARC) with support infrastructures
 (NIHR RDS, NIHR CRNCC, NIHR CTU). In addition, our unique infrastructures in air quality and
 environmental health (MRC Centre; NIHR HPRU), and King’s Global Health Partnerships
 (KGHP) provide national and global platforms for our research collaborations. Individual
 researchers also have collaborations with local, national and global colleagues and research
 programmes that are highlighted in Section 1 and here.




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 Academic Collaborations within King’s and Nationally

 4.1.1 Local Collaborations
     • UOA2 has 28 honorary clinical research staff in KHP and Lambeth and Southwark
        Boroughs (public health) (Professors, Readers, Senior Lecturers). NHS-employed clinical
        researchers of the Clinical Academic Group in Medicine and Integrated Care at KHP
        facilitate clinical and experimental medicine collaborations with UOA2 researchers acting
        as co-applicants on bids, PhD and IAT supervisors and contribute to data analyses and
        authorship of papers (respiratory diseases/COVID-19; Occupational Health; Stroke
        Medicine; trials in most clinical directorates). Links with wider London public health and
        primary care have been with Dame Clare Gerada, a local GP who is a visiting Professor
        and collaborator in a Policy Institute ‘Future of London’ publication endorsed by the Mayor.
        Kevin Fenton, now London Region Director of public health is collaborating on the multiple
        long term conditions programme and is a visiting Professor.
     • Through King’s Together funding scheme (via Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic
        Support Fund £1M per year to drive new multidisciplinary collaborations, allocated as
        £20K-100K awards) we developed collaborative programmes with academics from
        different Faculties, for example patient and citizen engagement (Social Science and Public
        Policy and SPHES), addressing societal resilience (Policy Institute and SPHES). Tracking
        public attitudes, beliefs, and behaviour around vaccination (Policy Institute).
     • King’s Together also pump primed the development of the Social Science & Urban Public
        Health Institute. Its themes include mobility, mental health (Green, Schofield), multiple
        morbidities, air pollution (Garnett) and urban exclusion (Guise). It collaborates with NIHR
        ARC South London to engage with local publics on priorities for public health, to inform
        work with local stakeholders such as Groundswell, a south London homelessness charity
        delivering services across the UK.
     • KCL Science Gallery connecting art, science, health to drive innovation with McKevitt
        being involved in developing the models of PPI for the Gallery.
     • DRIVE-Health CDT collaborating with IOPPN, Natural Mathematical and Engineering
        Science and Dentistry to collaborate with industry partners (£1.3M funding 10-12 students
        per year) (Curcin).
     • Artificial Intelligence Centre for Value Based Healthcare in FoLSM in BRC training and
        research and Developing COVID-19 ‘data lake and warehouse’.

 4.1.2 National Collaborations
     • NIHR BRC analytical support for the NIHR Health Informatics Collaborative in renal
        transplantation led through GSTT.
     • NIHR Statistics Group leadership (Peacock, Bunce); Membership (Ayis, Douiri) of the
        national network of interested researchers, developing specialist interest groups for NIHR
        research.
     • NIHR Centre for Engagement & Development: Bearne is a Senior Research Fellow in
        Knowledge Mobilisation and Implementation with a focus on translation of research into
        policy and practice
     • NIHR ARC multiple morbidity and stroke networks (Douiri, Wolfe) that relate to UOA2
        research interests.
     • NIHR ARC CrIISTL (Cross-ARC Improvement/Implementation Science Theme Lead
        Network) (Sevdalis)
     • NIHR ARC MHIN (Mental Health Implementation Network) (Littlejohns, Sevdalis)
     • NIHR RDS with all university and hospital sites across 3 local CRNs in London and RDS
        Centres nationally (Lovell, Reid)
     • NIHR CRNCC Board membership and lead for the academic ‘Alliance’ and Clinical
        Speciality Leads (Wolfe), advising the Network on strategy, emerging technologies and
        oversight of CRN finances and activity.
     • HDRUK-London and national leadership role (Curcin) and collaborations on Public Health,
        trials, phenomics with links to specialist groups such as HDRUK/BHF Cardiovascular data
        programme with NHS.

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   NIHR HPRU with Imperial College and Public Health England; with local Clinical
        Commissioning Groups, Local Authorities and Public Health Directorates (Kelly).
    •   MRC-NIHR Phenome Centre leadership (Kelly) delivering access to metabolic
        phenotyping.
    •   DNA and Analytical Science working with industry partners alongside work for national
        and local government and bodies (United Kingdom Anti-Doping, the Ministry of Defence,
        Wales Social Services) to deliver forensic and analytical science services and casework
        (Ballard, Syndercombe Court, Wolff).

 4.1.3 National Quality Improvement (QI) Collaborations
     • The National Stroke Audit (SSNAP) (Douiri, James, Wolfe) engages UOA2 stroke
        group with all hospitals in the country delivering stroke care, along with the NHSE Stroke
        national clinical directors (Rudd) and the Stroke Association through the NHS-E Stroke
        Long Term Plan Board.
     • The National Falls and Fragility Fracture Audit Programme run through the RCP
        enables collaboration with clinicians and hospitals nationally (Sheehan, Chair Scientific
        and publications committee; Whitney, Chair National Audit Inpatient Falls).
     • Education in Quality Improvement Programme funded by The Urology Foundation and
        with the British Association of Urological Surgeons enables urology trainees nationally to
        develop QI skills and apply them to their training projects (Sevdalis).
     • Centre for Implementation Science runs the UK’s annual UK Implementation Science
        Research Conference (since 2018) and an annual Implementation Science Masterclass
        (since 2015), which is the largest such course globally – with delegates from over 20
        countries attending the latest course (Sevdalis).
     • Royal Statistical Society Quality Improvement special interest group (Douiri)
        Membership (Ayis, Ashworth) that relates to UOA interests in Stroke.

 4.2 International Academic Collaborations
     • The King’s Centre for Global Health and Health Partnerships includes global health
         education, global surgery research and KGHP. KGHP brings together academic, health
         and international development communities to strengthen health systems and improve
         care quality in Somaliland, Sierra Leone, Democratic Republic of Congo, and Zambia
         (Leather, Parmar).
     • Leather Co-chaired the Lancet Commission on Global Surgery.
     • EU Horizon 2020 collaborations include a stroke programme, PRESTIGE-AF, evaluating
         anticoagulation after stroke (Wang, Wolfe)
     • PLUS Alliance (Green; Kelly) with Arizona State University and UNSW Sydney on
         educational course development and social science research.
     • Commonwealth Scholarship Academic Advisors (Ayis; Sturzenbaum).
     • Global Burden of Disease collaborations (Shibuya, Wolfe, Kelly)

 4.3 Working with Governments
     • Government reports on Investigation of Sources and Pathways of Microplastic Pollution
       into the Marine Environment (Wright); Co-Authorship of report on Forensic Genealogy
       2020 (Syndercombe Court).
     • World Health Organisation advisor (Shibuya, Wolff); air quality guidelines (Kelly); and
       on vaccination acceptance (Sevdalis)
     • King’s Policy Institute advisory role for ministers, lobby groups and arm’s length bodies.
     • All Party Parliamentary Groups on Stroke (Rudd, Wolfe), Sickle Cell Disease (Gulliford)
       and Longevity Report (Ashworth)
     • Drug Control: Anti-doping analysis for Rugby and Cricket World Cups, World Swimming
       Championships (Moscow), 2016 Olympics (Rio de Janeiro), 2018 Winter Olympics
       (PyeongChang), 2018 Asian Games (Doha). Analytical support and expertise for DNA
       analysis of UK Grenfell Tower victims (Syndercombe Court; Ballard) and the
       investigation into evidence tampering in the Sochi 2014 XXII Olympic Winter Games
       (Syndercombe Court)

                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The Secretary of State for Transport Medical Advisory Panel on Alcohol, Drugs and
        Substance Misuse & Driving, Panel member; Chair Department for Transport Expert Panel
        on Drug-Driving; and Expert Advisory Group on Science of the Monitoring Group of the
        Anti-Doping Convention for the Council of Europe (Wolff); Home Office Biometrics and
        Forensic Ethics Group (Syndercombe Court)
    •   Guidelines Development: UOA2 researchers contribute to specialty/service guideline
        groups nationally for professional groups, NICE and government in: Air quality (Kelly);
        stroke (Rudd, James, Wolfe); primary care (White), drug-misuse and dependencies
        (Wolff) and forensics (Syndercombe Court).

 4.4 Collaboration with Industry
     • We established industrial collaborations in fields of air quality sensors (Drayson
        Technologies CleanSpace Tag, Bosch Climo) and pollutant filtration (Airlabs), including
        technical advice and field testing throughout development phases. Since 2017 we
        developed a partnership with Dyson Ltd, collaborating on development of wearable air
        quality sensors, staff training, literature reviews, technical reports, and ad-hoc specialist
        advice (Barratt). Kelly sits on the Dyson Personal Care Advisory Board.
     • DRIVE-Health CDT has industrial collaborations (NVidia, AIMES, UCB, Imosphere,
        Takeda), providing studentships and hosting students (Curcin).

 4.5 Leadership/membership of research funding programmes and bodies:
     • International scientific panel Chairs/members include Committee on Carcinogenicity
        (Phillips, Chair); Irish Health Research Board: Chair Review Committee to award All
        Ireland Trials Methodology Research Network (Gulliford); Chair, international review
        committee for the All Ireland Clinical Oncology Research Group (Gulliford); Applied
        Research-Health Research Board Ireland Chair (Wolfe); Expert, EU Horizon 2020
        Innovation Procurement: Pre-Commercial Procurement and Public Procurement of
        Innovative solutions (Sackley); Member, Norwegian Medical Research Council, HSR
        Funding Board (Sackley); Funding Agency (FRIMEDBIO), Norway (Sturzenbaum);
        Research Foundation Flanders (FWO), Belgium (Sturzenbaum); Serbian Ministry of
        Science review panel (Curcin); European DNA Profiling Group (Syndercombe Court).
     • Examples of national panel Chair/membership: include Committee on Medical Effects
        of Air Pollutants (Kelly, Chair); NIHR RfPB (Armstrong, National Chair, Wolfe, London
        Chair), HSRUK Board (Wolfe, Chair; McKevitt, Member), and members of: RfPB London,
        UKRI Future Leader Fellowships Panel, NIHR Health Services and Delivery Research
        Dunhill Medical Trust, Prostate Cancer UK, The Stroke Association, British Thoracic
        Society, Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, UK, MRC, Methodology Research
        Panel, NIHR Trainees Career Fellowships Panel.
     • Editorial roles in scientific journals and textbooks; we encourage staff to contribute to
        peer-review and editorial duties and 38 staff have roles with journals. Co-Editor, Oxford
        Textbook of Global Public Health, 6th edition, 2015 (Gulliford); Founding Chief Editor,
        BMJ Simulation & Technology Enhanced Learning (Sevdalis); Associate Editor, Journals
        of the Royal Statistical Society (Ayis, Douiri)
     • Scientific bodies. UOA2 researchers are actively involved in their own societies, with 22
        having Chair or membership of Councils/boards/working groups.

 4.6 Prizes and Honours
      • Times Higher Education award 2019 for contributions to the UN Sustainable
          Development Goals; 2014 Society for Research in Rehabilitation, Distinguished Scholar
          (Sackley); 2019 Fellow, Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (Sackley); 2017 “Foreign
          Talent” Award at Chongqing Institute of Green and Intelligent Technology (CIGIT),
          (Sturzenbaum).
      • Wolff (MBE), Wolfe (OBE). Visiting professors: Gerada DBE, Doyle CB, Maryon-Davis
          MBE.
      • NIHR Senior Investigators (Peacock, Sackley, Wolfe).



                                                                                             Page 20
