Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Abertay University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Abertay is a focussed and compact University that in recent years has grown its reputation,
 including being named the top modern university in Scotland (Guardian Good University Guide
 2019; Times/Sunday Times Good University Guide 2017). Abertay University is the Times/Sunday
 Times University of the Year for Teaching Quality in 2021. We produce high-quality research and
 knowledge exchange (RKE) aligned with international, national and local priorities, which delivers
 real impact for society (REF5a). The Law Unit has contributed significantly to these achievements.

 UoA18 (7 FTE; of whom 2 FTE were previously submitted to our REF2014 submission) is
 contained within the Division of Law, which is part of the School of Business, Law and Social
 Sciences. During the REF2021 period, the UoA has transitioned from focussing predominately on
 law at Scottish and EU level towards a broader research portfolio which includes engagement with
 a wider range of jurisdictions, including non-European and Overseas Development Aid countries
 (examples are included in Section 4). This allows the UoA to engage with a far broader range of
 stakeholders and end-users. It further allows for a greater depth of analysis by allowing cross-
 jurisdictional comparisons; which the UoA could not have achieved at the start of the REF2021
 period. The UoA has also appointed several staff at a relatively early stage in their career so during
 this assessment period, we have focussed on staff development and laying strong foundations to
 purposefully build progress in terms of research quality, research income and impact.

 UoA18 comprises two interacting research groups which evolved from our REF2014 themes
 (Policing & Security Law, and Employment Law & Employment Rights) in response to external
 developments, opportunities and challenges.

 (i) Transnational/ International Criminal law (O’Neill, and a new member of staff, Mitchell).
 Our REF2014 theme of Policing and Security was based on the Unit hosting a collaborative
 research network titled Policing and European Studies. This theme built on the EU’s legal
 provisions on Police and Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters. As the UK’s legal relationship
 with EU institutions evolves, and specifically now that the UK will be a signatory to international
 agreements in its own right rather than as an EU member, this theme evolved into the
 Transnational/ International Criminal law group. Focus is on transnational law enforcement
 generally, and trafficking in human beings in particular. This refocus has been made possible by
 new staff bringing their expertise in international criminal law to the Unit and the development of
 new research interests among existing staff.

 Research in the REF2021 Transnational/International Criminal law group has resulted in
 individually authored publications, with collective external engagement in pursuit of knowledge
 exchange and consultancy (O’Neill). A number of high-quality research outputs has been
 produced, for example, ‘Constructivism, constitutionalism and the EU's area of freedom security
 and justice post-Lisbon’ (O’Neill).

 (ii) Law and Society (Cunningham, Grant, Kouletakis, McKay/Nienaber, Mitchell, and Weldon-
 Johns)
 UoA18’s Law and Society theme developed out of the REF2014 Employment law and
 Employment Rights theme, as a result of new expertise being brought into the Unit. Focus is on
 intellectual property (IP) law and its impact on access rights for people with disabilities, medical
 law, bioethics and reproductive rights, which has led to nascent synergies in the area of ethical
 reproductive rights and employment law research.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 Our overall Unit strategy is to deliver research with impact, combining academic excellence with
 stakeholder collaboration. The Unit operates within the context of Abertay’s RKE Strategy (2014-
 19 & 2020-25), R-LINCS: Research-Led Innovation Nodes for Contemporary Society. R-LINCS
 integrates our research into a single Abertay-wide initiative designed to capitalise on our compact,
 focussed and collaborative nature. R-LINCS bridges conventional boundaries among research
 disciplines to devise innovative cross- and inter-disciplinary approaches that deliver research with
 impact. Essential for a small University, our strategy guides and supports our Unit’s research
 activity directly and brings together School and Divisional planning, staff management, research
 studentships, and central funding in five-year plans.

 R-LINCS (2014-19) was organised into 4 cross-cutting contemporary themes (creative industries,
 environment, security, society), and was centrally led and managed. It provided:
    (i) A single, pan-University research leadership to drive our discipline strengths and
          interdisciplinary research agenda and foster external collaborations, including with external
          organisations (Sections 1, 3 and 4);
    (ii) A cross-University Graduate School, which delivers a coherent, Abertay-wide integrated
          training programme for staff and Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS) (Section 2);
    (iii) Intra- and inter-theme support for RKE including funded and co-funded doctoral
          studentships and Pump Priming awards (Section 2, 3);
    (iv) Facilitation of public engagement (Section 4).

 We have refreshed our strategy (R-LINCS2, 2020-25) to use our expertise to target specific
 Challenge Spaces presented by modern society, through research leadership in our Pools of
 Excellence, i.e., distinct ways of working that cross-cut Challenge Space areas and discipline
 strengths encapsulated in our academic Divisions (REF5a). Of particular note for UoA18 is one of
 four research Challenge Spaces, Security, Equality & Social Justice, where the Unit will play a
 leading role going forwards. RKE governance is managed by Abertay’s Research and Knowledge
 Exchange Committee. The R-LINCS strategy is overseen by Abertay’s Research Executive and
 implemented by research leaders.

 UoA18’s high standards of research ethics and integrity align with that of the institution. Abertay
 fully engages with (and is a signatory to CSCDR and KEC):
      - the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (CSRI)
      - the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (CSCDR)
      - the Knowledge Exchange Concordat (KEC)
      - the Concordat on Open Research Data (CORD)
      - the Concordat for Engaging the Public with Research (CEPR), which we use to guide
         development of supportive RKE policies, practices and structures (Section 2).

 We are compliant with our CSRI commitments: all staff and students and visiting researchers are
 required to adhere to the highest standards of integrity in the conduct of their research as set out
 in the Abertay Research Code of Conduct (ARCoC) and engage in mandatory research integrity
 training (including Research Ethics and GDPR for Researchers).

 The University’s research ethics management system requires approval to be obtained for all
 proposed research before it may be carried out. Members of the Unit are centrally involved in
 research ethics reviews on behalf of the University (Kouletakis, Weldon-Johns, and going forward,
 Mitchell). The research ethics system, therefore, is fully embedded in our research and teaching
 structures. Law submissions are viewed initially by a member from UoA18 before final review by
 the University Research Ethics Committee. The University’s GDPR Risk Assessment and Data
 Management (and Open Data management) Processes are linked to the University’s Research
 Ethics Strategy and processes.

 The University has taken important strides to develop an open research environment. Published
 outputs are open-access compliant and we are working towards open access compliance with our
 research data by December 2021. Our Open Access and Research Data Management Policies,

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researcher development training and individual support is provided by our dedicated Research
 Support Manager, increasing staff engagement with open research, pre-registration, and open-
 access data repositories. We are committed to the responsible use of metrics in research
 evaluation and are a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA). Our policy and practice on research metrics for research assessment is included within
 our ARCoC and informs our Recruitment and Promotions policies and procedures and our REF
 Code of Practice.

 Our strategy as a small Unit, has focused on specific research areas and on researcher
 development, collaboration, and stakeholder engagement. Since REF2014, our overall Unit goal
 has been to deliver research with impact, combining academic excellence with stakeholder
 collaboration. Our strategic objective during the REF2021 period has been to re-focus our
 research and develop active research groups, that produce internationally recognised research
 which prioritises collaboration and external impact (Sections 1, 3, 4).

 We have achieved this during the REF2021 period by:
   (i)    consolidating our research experience and interests to form two sustainable research
          groups Transnational/ International Criminal Law and Law and Society. Some staff
          are active in more than one group and have overlapping interests;
   (ii)   appointing and developing new research-active staff with a broader but complementary
          range of research interests;
   (iii)  supporting staff who are at relatively early stage in their careers, to develop a portfolio
          of outputs which provide a basis for larger funding applications and collaborations in
          the future;
   (iv)   engaging with a range of regional, national and transnational stakeholders to achieve
          impact, through changes to policy, practice and laws.

 Our strategy for impact as a relatively small Unit has involved focusing our research on real-world
 challenges, engaging with third-sector users of the law and with participants in law reform. We
 have focussed on a relatively narrow range of impact pathways, principally contributing to
 legislative reform, at a sub-national, national and international level, including responding to
 consultations directly connected to issues addressed in our research outputs. In particular, we
 have focussed on engagement with Scottish and UK government consultations on legislative
 and policy proposals, together with ongoing engagement with the Police Service of Scotland.

 Engagement with third-sector users of law has addressed the needs of end-users of research.
 This is exemplified in Kouletakis’s Impact Case Study titled ‘Enhancing the optimal application of
 the Marrakesh Treaty and increasing access to literary works for the disabled community through
 transnational comparisons’, which focusses on the Treaty’s incorporation into national legislation.
 The Impact Case Study relates to UoA18’s approach to enabling impact from its research through
 engagement with third-sectors users of law. The same can be said of O’Neill’s Impact Case Study
 titled ‘Changing the law on human trafficking in Scotland’ that underpinned contributions to the
 Scottish Parliament Justice Committee during the drafting of the Human Trafficking and
 Exploitation (Scotland) Act 2015. O’Neill contributed to ensuring a clear crime definition, ensuring
 that there were no transnational or inter-jurisdictional gaps in definition, and addressing the issue
 of child victims, so informing the effective drafting of legislation.

 1.3 Future plans
 The University’s RKE Strategy for 2020 to 2025 (R-LINCS2), aims to enable “focused collaborative
 research and inter-disciplinary innovation for impact”.

 The Unit’s strategy is framed around the Security, Equality and Social Justice Challenge Space
 to which both the Transnational/International Criminal law and the Law and Society groups
 will actively contribute. In addition, McKay/Nienaber, Weldon-Johns and Kouletakis have ongoing
 research interests that contribute to the Health and Care Across the Life Span Challenge Space
 (section 4)


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaborative research will continue to be encouraged, both within and beyond the university, in
 order to develop larger and more impactful research clusters and research grant applications of
 scale. These research clusters will be formed both within the law discipline, as well as across
 disciplines, to support empirical research and to build on achievements to date.

 Our objectives for the next five years are as follows:
    1. Continue to produce high-quality research outputs.
    2. Achieve impact beyond academia which yields economic, social and cultural benefits by
        developing partnerships with a wider set of societal actors.
    3. Nurture productive research collaborations nationally and internationally, to improve
        income generation success and to enhance reputation.

 The delivery of these objectives will require continued investment in staff and facilities, R-LINCS/
 Future Scholar studentships, and networking to stimulate new collaborations and grant
 applications. For R-LINCS2, Abertay has committed to fully funded R-LINCS2 PhD studentships,
 funded PhD studentships for newly appointed academic staff (dependent on R-LINCS2 objectives
 alignment), Pump Priming and Open Access funds. Key areas of focus for development are
 research group leadership, mentoring Early Career Researchers (ECR) and developing
 established staff. Central to leadership and mentoring will be strengthening the role of Work-in-
 progress seminars, where UoA18 staff present fledgling research ideas to their colleagues in the
 Unit who provide peer support, as well as engaging with colleagues as part of the R-LINCS2
 Security, Equality and Social Justice Challenge Space. This will be key to maintaining and
 developing our research focus, enhancing best practice in research (e.g., Open Research,
 research design), consolidating existing, and stimulating new, stakeholder links, and exploring
 funding opportunities. Academic management to support the development of our research is a
 University-wide development agenda (Section 2) and will be effected via e.g. block teaching and
 sabbaticals.

 We will achieve our first objective and continue to build on the work during the REF2021 period
 by continuing to support the development of individual staff as appropriate to their experience.
 This will involve researcher development support provided by the Graduate School, Development
 Discussions, sabbatical leave, research leadership and mentoring.

 We will achieve our second objective by leveraging the track-record and networks that were built
 during the current assessment period and by extending the range of organisations that we
 collaborate with, so increasing our research’s impact upon society. Staff will engage with the
 Scottish Law Commission, and law commissions in other jurisdictions, such as South Africa and
 Louisiana. In addition, further research impact pathways will be developed, to include engagement
 with identified end-users of cross- and inter-disciplinary (law-led or law-supported) research
 output. For example, Kouletakis will build on a research project with academics based in Nigeria
 on reforming Nigeria IP law; McKay/Nienaber will continue work on reforming research law in
 South Africa.

 UoA18 staff will work within larger RKE groups in order to develop more cross- and inter-
 disciplinary impacts. For example, Mitchell is the principal investigator on a Society of Legal
 Scholars funded project 'Mainstreaming Women's Rights' (2020-2021) that is exploring how
 human rights law is taught in law schools and looks specifically at whether content on reproductive
 rights is included. Preliminary data from this project were presented at various academic
 conferences and at the Abortion Rights Scotland AGM. She also used some of this data in
 responding to the Scottish and UK government consultations on the continuation of tele-medical
 abortion.

 To achieve our third objective staff will seek out external and R-LINCS opportunities for national
 and international research collaboration. We will support staff to work with international partners,
 e.g., through targeted investment in time and travel. These collaborations will be underpinned by
 higher quality outputs (objective 1). We will increase income generation through one-to-one grant


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 application support from the Graduate School (including our grant application peer-review
 processes) and the availability of an exemplar applications repository.

 We have clear, sustainable plans to continue developing the vitality of our research environment.
 We will continue to build on our existing strengths, providing a sustainable base of expertise.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our University Strategic Plans affirm Abertay’s commitment to develop and sustain an inclusive
 and supportive culture, one that recognises and values colleagues and students with different
 backgrounds, experiences and attitudes to feel able to achieve their full potential by contributing
 fresh ideas and perspectives that have a positive impact on the world.

 This UoA18 of 7 FTE is an increase from the 4FTE submitted to REF2014 and involves 5 FTE not
 previously submitted to REF2014. Their REF2021 return reflects investment in our academic staff
 and research leadership, culminating in a new and recent professorial appointment in 2020. Our
 staffing strategy since REF2014 has been to ensure that those recruited to academic posts in
 UoA18 have a developing research track record. The research base of UoA18 was broadened
 with strategic appointments of early- and mid-career researchers (Cunningham, Mitchell and
 Kouletakis) and at professorial level (McKay/Nienaber), so that the Unit now comprises a good
 balance of experience, with one professor, one senior lecturer and five lecturers. Two UoA18 staff
 hold professional legal qualifications. Research in UoA18, therefore, now enjoys a broader base
 than it did in REF2014. These appointments are enabling an increased research focus within the
 Unit, and a growing ability to attract, develop and retain high quality researchers. Our focus has
 been on the development of early-career and mid-career researchers now in post.

 New staff benefit from a comprehensive Induction Programme covering Postgraduate Research
 Degrees and regulations, Abertay’s RKE Strategy, ARCoC, CSRI, CORD and CSCDR. The
 University’s commitment to investing in staff is evidenced by a Gold award from NHS Scotland
 Healthy Working Lives since 2016.

 2.2 Staff development
 Consistent with the CSCDR, line managers are committed to staff well-being and all UoA18 staff
 have twice-yearly Developmental Discussions with their line manager to appraise both short-term
 research objectives and long-term plans, discuss training and development needs, and review any
 well-being or workload issues. These discussions are also used to develop a workload plan,
 including research time for staff with a Significant Responsibility for Research, which takes
 account of experience, teaching loads and individual circumstances.

 Training and development needs are met through the Graduate School and the Head of Division,
 who organise specific training in legal research for both staff and PGRS. The Graduate School
 has three Researcher Development Staff who, together with senior Abertay staff, provide >100
 development opportunities annually. Training includes advanced statistics, GDPR for research,
 impact, enterprise, PGRS supervision, public engagement, paper and grant writing. Where
 necessary, staff development needs were met by external organisations, (e.g., Fast Track Impact;
 national Aurora leadership programme).

 A key element in the development of staff, especially those at a relatively early stage of their
 career, are opportunities to attend conferences and events run by stakeholders to allow these staff
 to build up experience of presenting their research findings and network with potential future
 collaborators. For example, Kouletakis published an article and gave a presentation at the Scottish
 Law and Innovation (SCOTLIN) (en)lightening talks series on decolonising copyright law.
 Divisional budgets include funding for national and international travel, which supports
 development objectives agreed through the University’s Development Discussions. In addition,
 UoA18 staff are funded to attend third sector/ policy sector events, with a view to developing
 impact, to encourage collaboration, and the contribution of the research base to the economy and

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 society. In particular, staff have been focussed on proposed changes to legal frameworks and
 their operation in practice. For example, Kouletakis has worked with the Global Expert Network
 on Copyright User Rights, South Africa’s Freedom of Expression Institute, and the American
 University in Washington’s Programme on Information Justice and Intellectual Property in the
 submission of commentary on and legislative changes to South Africa's copyright system
 pertaining to visually impaired persons.

 Research seminars operate not only at a School-wide (cross- and inter-disciplinary) basis, but also
 within UoA18. Law research seminars broaden and deepen the understanding of legal research
 frameworks and to embed legal theoretical analysis in ongoing research, within our PGRS and
 staff. The research seminar programme included presentations on legal research methods,
 research strategy, and presentations by external speakers. Staff actively engaged with this
 process, with current research presentations leading to targeted external conferences, and
 subsequent publications.

 ECRs and mid-career researchers are supported to engage in peer review of academic journal
 articles, and to develop their external research networks through presentation at research
 conferences and organising research conference streams and workshops. We have also
 supported their engagement in government consultations, Law Commission consultations on law
 reform, and engagement with relevant third sector organisations in order to develop impact from
 their current research outputs.

 ECRs and other new appointees are given additional support in the form of a reduced teaching
 load in their first year to establish their research. There is a 2-year probation period to ensure
 regular objective setting and discussion with line managers. Depending on experience and
 qualifications, ECRs may also be required to complete Abertay’s Postgraduate Certificate in
 Academic Practice (PGCAP). This qualification has a research focus as well as developing
 teaching skills, including modules such as ‘Developing Academic Practice’ and ‘The Effective
 Research Academic’, covering the supervision of postgraduate students, the research funding
 landscape, project management, developing a research niche, and internal research procedures
 (e.g., ethics, data management). For established staff, additional research time can be provided
 through a formal Sabbatical scheme (Section 2.4).

 Within UoA18, all new staff are offered mentoring by a more experienced colleague. This is
 particularly important for ECRs and staff new to Abertay. In addition, and given our small size, we
 joined a Cross-Institutional Academic Mentoring Scheme called TRAM (from 2016) with 6
 Universities including St Andrews, Dundee and Trinity College Dublin. Originally aimed at ECRs
 it has since been extended to senior academics/researchers.

 2.3 Training and supervision of postgraduate research students
 We value our PGRS for their contribution to the vitality of our research community: they work
 alongside experts to pose new questions and find creative solutions to problems facing society.
 PGRS numbers in the Unit have held steady over the REF2021 period (Table 1). There has been
 an increase in joint supervision with counselling and psychology academics of cross- and inter-
 disciplinary postgraduate research, reflecting a clustering of research interests in the University.
 No professional doctorate students are currently registered in UoA18, and no such qualifications
 have been awarded – the University does not currently offer this award.

 PGRS are based in Abertay’s Graduate School, allowing access to training and a large peer group
 from other disciplines. The Graduate School serves to promote integration, collaboration, informal
 support groups, mentoring, networking and a multi-disciplinary research and working ethos within
 the University community. PGRS have several formal (e.g., representation on the University
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee) and informal routes (e.g., the Postgraduate
 Research Student Survey, and the Graduate School Forum and Rep system) for providing
 feedback, which allows monitoring of Abertay responses against national benchmarks and
 addresses any issues should they arise.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1. UOA 18 PGRS during the REF2021 period
   PhD/MPhil/LLM by Research                            First Registered   Awarded
   PhD 1 A possible model for regulating capital        October 2011       March 2017
   market crimes: A Comparative Study of Business
   Law in Britain and Saudi Arabia
   PhD 2 Trafficking in Human Beings for Forced         October 2012       Summer 2016
   Labour in Domestic and International Law: A
   Comparative Legal Study of The Kingdom of Saudi
   Arabia and The United Kingdom.
   PhD 3 The Regulation of Prostitution within the EU   January 2015       Ongoing (awarded
   – A comparative study of the prostitution laws in                       post    this REF
   Germany, Sweden and the UK in light of the efforts                      period)
   of the Stockholm Programme and the
   developments thereafter to combat organised
   crime and human trafficking.

 As well as providing physical resources (allocated desk in an open-plan office, social area, IT
 equipment), the Graduate School provides:
 − Progress panels: Students complete an annual progress report and presentation to a Review
    Panel to assure student progress, supervision quality and provide an opportunity to address
    any issues.
 − Personal development planning: Students track meetings, achievements, goals and training
    needs into a Vitae Researcher Development Framework system, which must be submitted for
    approval one month before the PhD thesis. This ensures that students are systematically
    focused on progress, and are able to articulate research, experience and wider achievements
    attained throughout their PG training.
 − Annual Graduate School conference: All PGRS are required to present their research to
    peers, supervisors and academic staff from across Abertay, helping students develop
    presentation skills and confidence in a professional context.
 − Training: Weekly skills-based seminars are held to meet training needs, including research
    methods, statistics, qualitative analysis, public engagement and outreach training, academic
    writing, funding applications and business development.
 − Access to Researcher Development Staff: providing tailored statistical support, and
    academic advice e.g., funding applications.
 − Funding opportunities: students can apply to a dedicated fund for conference attendance
    and researcher training support.

 The University makes effective use of regional and national development and networking
 opportunities. We encourage our PGRS to work and exchange ideas with people and
 organisations in the wider research environment. Examples include courses provided by other
 Universities, VITAE and Advance HE.

 PGRS in Law are fully integrated in the Unit’s research activities, working closely with academic
 staff and engaging with the wider legal (and inter-disciplinary) academic community, for example
 through presenting their work at national and international conferences.

 Abertay Futures Scholarships have enabled tuition fees to be waived for PGRS engaged in UoA18
 research priority areas. Support is also available through the University’s R-LINCS studentship
 and co-funded studentship scheme. By bringing together discipline-specific research under the
 remit of themed, competitive internal funding schemes, the Graduate School has supported the
 growth of the postgraduate student base, the cross-fertilisation of ideas and expertise, enhanced
 the supervisory contribution and research output of staff, with an increased focus on the high-
 quality publication of PGRS research.

 To further support PGRS, new staff and those inexperienced in postgraduate supervision are
 required to complete an online Epigeum course on Supervising Doctoral Studies and our in-

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 house training before being mentored (if inexperienced) through a first PGRS supervision. Those
 new to Research Degrees examination must engage with our Novice Internal Examiners
 Process which involves in-house training and observation of viva voce.

 More UoA18 staff (2 FTE for REF2014; 4 FTE for REF2021) are now engaged in supervising
 PGRS and PhDs. LLM by Research as well as MPhil research degrees are awarded, both of which
 are also safe stepping-stones to the PhD. The Unit will consider opportunities which arise for fully
 funded MRes/ MPhil/ PhD studentships under the R-LINCS2 scheme in order to assist in
 developing cross- and inter-disciplinary research.

 Recruitment of students is centrally managed, and our procedures adhere to the UK Quality Code
 for Higher Education requiring that selection is undertaken by at least three suitably trained staff
 and is compliant with our Equality & Diversity Policy. The University’s Admissions Policy states
 that, subject to availability, admission is open to all those that have the ability to benefit from the
 opportunity to study for a given degree. Abertay will only admit students to programmes of
 research degree study that are properly resourced and supported.

 The Unit’s research environment extends to undergraduate students, whose research capacity is
 being developed by encouraging their application for a Carnegie Trust for the Universities of
 Scotland Vacation Scholarship, in order to develop their research projects over the summer
 holidays.

 2.4 Equality diversity and Inclusion
 To maintain consistency, inclusion and fairness all REF2021 Units have followed a centralised
 approach to Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI). Abertay’s ethos embeds inclusion, diversity
 and equality in all our policies, operations and strategic thinking. We recognise and value
 colleagues and students with different backgrounds, experiences and attitudes who bring fresh
 ideas and perspectives to the University. Since REF2014, the University has been awarded the
 Athena SWAN Bronze award (2015, 2018). Led by the Graduate School, the self-assessment
 team helped drive development of fair and equitable policies and practices to support researchers,
 staff and students across Abertay. In 2016, we became – and remain at time of writing – the first
 and only University in Scotland to hold the Race Equality Charter Mark bronze.

 Our Academic Recruitment and Promotion Policies are applied to ensure a fair, equitable,
 transparent and consistent process for appointing and reviewing the grade of academic staff. We
 have not presented EDI data here due to the small numbers involved which would make
 individuals easily identifiable. As a signatory of DORA, when considering appointments and
 promotions, we evaluate research on its own merit rather than on the journal Impact Factor.

 Consistent with CSCDR, all staff have undergone mandatory Diversity in the Workplace and
 Unconscious Bias training, and Recruitment and Selection training is required for all involved in
 recruitment and promotion decisions. Our EDI Action Plan requires an Equality Impact
 Assessment (EIA) for policy, statements and procedures and makes accessible relevant software
 systems and supporting information. UoA18 staff are represented on University and School
 committees, thereby ensuring EDI is promoted. UoA18 staff are representatives on the School
 Staff Engagement Advisory Team which has ensured that staff with caring or health
 responsibilities are supported during COVID restrictions.

 Our Sabbatical Policy encourages staff to apply for sabbatical leave for research (6-12 months).
 The policy provides for particular consideration of leave following maternity/adoption/shared
 parental leave to help re-establish an employee’s career and allows for sabbatical leave to be
 explored as positive action to promote career development for under-represented groups. During
 REF2021 we have supported 2 law sabbaticals (Law and Society - Weldon-Johns;
 Transnational/International Criminal law - O’Neill) which reflects the strategic investments
 given to law research at Abertay. These led to a visiting fellowship to the Institute of Advanced
 Legal Studies in London (2017-18) and initial work on proposals for large research projects which
 are now being taken forward.

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The University’s suite of Work Life Balance Policies (Flexible Working, Maternity Leave,
 Parental Leave, Shared Paternal Leave, Adoption Leave, Carer’s Leave) are designed to
 support staff to balance work and home-life and deal with personal responsibilities. Well
 established policies are in place which both comply with current legislation and aim to establish a
 “best practice” culture. Abertay supports all periods of maternity leave regardless of provision by
 external research funders.

 Support is also given for training in gender awareness (including leadership), and opportunity for
 gender-equal work flexibility. The University is engaged with the Aurora leadership programme,
 which two current law staff (Mitchell, Weldon-Johns) have successfully completed. This
 programme has produced dividends, with Weldon-Johns now leading on several research projects
 (Section 4). There is also support for flexible working, adoption, carer’s, maternity and paternity
 leave. Staff who have taken maternity leave are given reduced teaching loads upon return to work
 to support resumption of research activities. Flexible (home) working is fully supported, with a new
 Digital Strategy launched in 2019 empowering staff to deliver in a way that works best for them.

 2.5 REF 2021
 To facilitate the development of fair and equitable processes, the REF2021 Steering Group and
 particularly the REF2021 Code of Practice (CoP) Working Group have diverse membership.
 Membership of the latter group included a UoA18 academic. EIAs have been carried out by an
 independent panel during CoP development. Unit composition adhered to the CoP and the REF
 Unit Champion group for selecting outputs comprised 3 staff (2 female). Promoting research
 opportunity across all staff has been a focus of UoA18 during REF2021: the submission is 86%
 female; 94% of outputs are attributed to female staff.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research funding strategy
 UoA18 is a small unit, comprising 7 FTE academics engaged in research and impact alongside
 teaching (Scottish Law Society accredited LLB degree together with teaching modules across the
 University). As described previously, during the REF2021 period our resources have focussed on
 developing staff who are at a relatively early stage in their career and supporting them as they
 develop a portfolio of research outputs. Given this focus, we have not been able to pursue major
 grants during the REF2021 period. Those grants we have secured are either aligned with areas
 where we are prioritising development of impact or have been used to support staff development.
 Although this approach has generated only very modest income during the REF2021 period, we
 believe that our focus on staff development and developing networks of collaborators was
 appropriate for the Units staffing complement and experience at the time, and it will allow us to bid
 for more substantial funding going forward.

 Income received during the REF2021 period has predominately been received from EU or EU
 funded projects (Figure 1). This work aligns strongly with the Transnational/ International Criminal
 law theme (Section 1.1).

 We have also used external funding to support staff development. For example, the Society of
 Legal Scholars grant helped support a sabbatical for O’Neill. We will continue to use small grants
 to support staff development. For example, since the end of the REF 2021 period a further grant
 from the SLS has been used to support collaborative research with Leeds Beckett University on
 reproductive rights in legal education, which will provide preliminary research findings that will form
 the basis of larger future bids.




                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 1. External funding received, and spent over the REF 2021 period




 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Abertay provides support for research at an institutional level through the Graduate School, in our
 approach to research governance and leadership and in the Research Enterprise and
 Innovation Services. The latter offers advice and support on research related matters, including
 IP, contract management, costing, reviewing and approving applications for external funding,
 processing and managing grants awarded. Graduate School resources (e.g., Researcher
 Development staff, training seminars, peer-review college) are available to all staff and are called
 upon regularly to improve the quality of grant submissions. R-LINCS provides leadership including
 in Academic Enterprise (two academics with excellent track record in KE) and in 2019, Abertay
 initiated Bell Street Ventures, an enterprise hub situated on campus to develop enterprise and
 entrepreneurship skills and is supported by a charitable donation and Santander Universities
 Network. In the current REF period staff have been increasingly involved in international
 consultancy opportunities, informing international policies, and developing impact arising from
 their research (Section 4). University-wide points of contact provide excellent pooled expertise
 to support staff research. Through the R-LINCS scheme, staff can access pump-priming funding
 for small projects that, if successful, would merit subsequent submission to competitive funding.
 We also support open access publication costs.

 The University offers an efficient IT infrastructure for research and data management and
 collaboration, including PURE, a digital repository for publications and a dedicated group within
 the internal Social Network research community. The Unit benefits from a dedicated law librarian
 and law library, with law collections held together, with associated study spaces, within Abertay’s
 Bernard King Library. The law library provides access to standard law research resources and
 databases. The Unit additionally benefits from formally agreed access to Dundee University law
 library and the SCONUL arrangements. Dedicated library staff provide further support for
 academic research by managing open access for publications and data. The University provides
 specialist IT and communications support to staff and research students.

 3.3 Future plans
 During the REF2021 period we have focussed on building and developing a team which
 encompasses research and engagement with a broad range of jurisdictions. Now this team is in
 place, and we have developed strong networks for collaboration (Section 4.2), the UoA will focus
 to secure more diverse sources of funding. We will target UKRI income, UK charities and funders
 such as the National Institute for Health Research. Furthermore, and in line with the University R-
 LINCS2 RKE Strategy we will develop productive focussed collaboration with external partners
 (Section 4.2) and our colleagues in UoA 6, 21 and 32, all of which have secured major funding
 during the REF 2021 period. A prime example of an emerging area of work within the UoA which
                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forms the basis of collaborative work with other Abertay UoAs is Weldon-Johns’s research on the
 games industry (Section 4.2.1).

 Our plans are underpinned by Abertay’s strategic commitment: over the next 5 years the University
 will support the development of newly appointed academic staff by allocating a PhD research
 studentship to each of them, subject to the approval of a research plan that is aligned with the R-
 LINCS objectives. We will also invest in support for fully funded R-LINCS2 PhD studentships,
 Abertay Futures Scholarships, Pump Priming awards, and Open Access Publication awards.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Contribution to the research base
 Our contributions are reflected in sustained scholarly outputs over the period. Since 2014 the Unit
 has produced 66 scholarly outputs, comprising 42 journal articles, four single-authored books, an
 edited book, and 12 book chapters, as well as a number of other outputs such as comments on
 draft bills and reports. UoA18 has increasingly focussed on joint papers with Abertay or external
 co-authors (Weldon-Johns, Kouletakis, McKay/Nienaber) which form the foundation for larger
 collaborative projects.

 UoA18 academics have been invited as guest lecturers to a number of UK Universities; sector
 events; internationally funded workshops and international conferences. Staff are frequently
 asked to peer review academic publications, also for research proposals at an international level,
 such as EU Marie Sklodowoska-Curie applications, and the Narodowe Centrum Nauki - NCN;
 (National Science Centre) in Poland http://www.ncn.gov.pl.

 In addition to the peer review of academic articles, research leadership is provided through
 McKay/Nienaber’s editorship of the African Human Rights Law Journal and being Deputy Editor
 of the Journal of Contemporary Roman Dutch Law. Weldon-Johns provides academic leadership
 through editorial work as member of the Juridical Review advisory board, and co-director of the
 Scottish Universities Law Institute, (SULI), which involves reviewing SULI book proposals.
 Weldon-Johns acted as Convenor (2019-2021) and Deputy Convenor (2017/18) of the Labour
 Law Section of Society of Legal Scholars annual conference, 2017-18, and panel chair at 2018
 Conference, Queen Mary University, London, and Conference section convenor and panel chair
 at the 2019 conference, University of Central Lancashire, Preston. In addition, Weldon-Johns was
 SULI conference organiser, for the SULI Showcase conference – Reflections on Scots Law, 31st
 August 2019, Discovery Point, Dundee, in conjunction with colleagues from Strathclyde and
 Dundee Universities. Along with two colleagues from other universities, Mitchell has launched the
 Gender, Justice, and International Law Research Network. This grew from a 2018 workshop on
 new voices on women and international law.

 Both the Transnational/ International Criminal law and the Law and Society groups at Abertay
 have been actively involved with the activities of the Glasgow University based Scottish
 Universities Legal Research on Europe group (SULNE) in the context of the impact of Brexit
 (Kouletakis, Weldon-Johns, Mitchell and O’Neill). This engaged with the Scottish government and
 parliament and the wider community, on Brexit-related activities. This included involvement in
 publications on the impact of Brexit in Scotland and giving evidence to the Scottish Government
 on the impact of Brexit on staff specialist areas of interest.

 4.1.1 Transnational/ International Criminal law
 The work of the Transnational/ International Criminal law group resulted in an international
 conference, a journal special edition and an edited collection, as well as a number of highly
 regarded journal articles. Three Abertay PhD students were associated with this research network.
 Staff contributed in writing to, and attended, the Scottish Government’s EU Justice & Security
 Summit, 24th November 2016. Staff also contributed to an international workshop held by Durham
 University, involving law enforcement staff from a number of EU jurisdictions, which led to a
 briefing paper forwarded to the UK Home Office on the impact of Brexit on the UK interaction with
 the EU on Police and Judicial Co-operation in Criminal matters.

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.1.2 Law and Society
 The work of the REF2021 Law and Society theme, previously the REF2014 Employment law and
 Employment Rights theme, continued in a number of areas, with Weldon-Johns, and new
 members of staff, McKay/Nienaber and Kouletakis increasingly taking a leadership role in various
 research networks. For example, Kouletakis is a founding member of SULNE and Weldon-Johns
 a co-director of the FAWN network as well as co-director of the Scottish Universities Law Institute
 (other examples of these researchers’ leadership roles are included in Section 4.2.2)

 McKay/Nienaber’s research focuses on how society deals with disease, specifically communicable
 viral diseases. Governments’ response to COVID will be the impetus for a number of future
 projects. She further addresses legal and ethical issues related to the development through clinical
 research of medical treatment, including vaccines, as well as their deployment. Weldon-Johns
 examines employment equality law, work-family rights and the boundaries between work and
 private life in the UK and EU. This research is included in her monograph, Assisted Reproduction,
 Discrimination and the Law. Kouletakis analyses IP law as a species of public law, serving public
 purposes. She examines the nexus between IP law, health and disability. Mitchell’s research
 interests straddle critical approaches to human rights law, women’s rights, and reproductive rights.

 4.2 Academic and non-academic collaboration
 Abertay’s legal research end-user engagement focusses on work with legislatures and key
 stakeholders through specialist and targeted information dissemination methods. To this end we
 have frequently provided, short, targeted, briefing notes which were appreciated by end-users,
 such as politicians, political lobby groups, police officers and prosecutors. Targeted briefing notes
 were facilitated by developing good working relationships with the end-user of the unit’s research.

 4.2.1 Transnational/International Criminal law
 The UoA contributed to the Abertay based Policing and European Studies research network. This
 network included Scottish police and prosecutors, as well as policy makers from different EU
 member states. O’Neill provided legal and cross- and inter-disciplinary academic leadership
 through this network which continued to operate until the Brexit vote in 2016. A conference, journal
 special edition and edited collection were produced during the REF2021 period with two Abertay
 law PhD students being associated with the network during this time-period.

 Building on engagement with the Scottish police during the REF2014 period, O’Neill developed
 further relations with other UK and Irish police services, through engagement at seminars in the
 context of Brexit, inter alia in conjunction with the University of Durham and at the Scottish
 Parliament, or through informal and off-the-record interviews. There has been increased
 engagement with the policy community in this REF cycle, at a Scottish, UK and EU level. This
 included O’Neill giving evidence to Scottish government consultations, in the context of human
 trafficking (submitted Impact Case Study) and, latterly, in the context of criminal law, policing and
 security in light of Brexit. O’Neill contributed, both in writing and in person, to the Scottish
 Government’s EU Justice & Security Summit, 24th November 2016. O’Neill also contributed to an
 international workshop held by Durham University, involving law enforcement officers from several
 EU jurisdictions, which led to a briefing paper forwarded to the UK Home Office on the impact of
 Brexit on transnational Police and Judicial Co-operation provisions.

 O’Neill acted as a consultant to European Parliament commissioned report (RAND Europe’s
 consultancy contract with the European Parliament “The Cost of Non-Europe in the Fight against
 Terrorism”, May 2017 to January 2018). O’Neill was also involved in the Scottish Government and
 UK Independent Anti-Trafficking Commissioner’s workshops on combatting human trafficking,
 held between 2016 and 2017, involving, inter alia, active engagement with the drafting of the
 Scottish Government Human Trafficking Strategy.

 Mitchell is currently involved in a further research network, Gendering International Law Research,
 which is due to run until 2022, with colleagues in the Republic of Ireland and the Open University.
 This network engages in knowledge exchange and consultancy work related to the network’s

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 expertise in gender and international law. Research dissemination activity is planned with
 interested stakeholders such as Alliance for Choice, British Pregnancy Advisory Service, Family
 Planning Association Northern Ireland and Engender.

 Through participation in the research consortia and events described above, the Unit has
 developed solid and sustainable working relationships with researchers and a diverse range of
 research end-users and third-sector organisations, which we believe will lead to future
 collaborative funding bids (Section 3).

 4.2.2 Law and Society
 McKay/Nienaber brings her research leadership to the Law and Society theme through her
 involvement with:
     • South African researchers and research ethics networks on the redrafting of South Africa’s
        standard MTA (materials transfer agreement);
     • working as an Associate of the Centre for Ethics and Philosophy of Health Sciences at the
        Faculty of Health Sciences at the University of Pretoria, South Africa;
     • being a Deputy Chair of the Medical Research Ethics Committee of the Faculty of Health
        Sciences at the University of Pretoria; and
     • being an Associate of the Centre for Human Rights, a human rights NGO doing research
        and promoting activism in human rights across Africa.

 Weldon-Johns has recently:
    • become a member of the Scottish Parliament Register of COVID-19 experts; and
    • had been appointed a Framework Member of the Scottish Parliament Framework Award
       for Provision of Research Services in Relation to Covid-19 (10 June 2020 to 31 May 2023)
       relating to employment law and work-family rights.

 ECR and mid-career research that exemplify our academic and non-academic collaboration
 includes:
     • Cunningham’s engagement with the Stair Society (Scots Private Law History Group) which
        engages with Scottish legal profession and judiciary;
     • Kouletakis’s engagement with the Global Expert Network on Copyright User Rights and
        the Freedom of Expression Institute of South Africa; and
     • Mitchell is the principal investigator on a Society of Legal Scholars funded project
        'Mainstreaming Women's Rights' (2020-2021) that is exploring how human rights law is
        taught in law schools and looks specifically at whether content on reproductive rights is
        included. Preliminary data from this project was presented at various academic
        conferences and at the Abortion Rights Scotland AGM. She also used some of this data in
        responding to the Scottish and UK government consultations on the continuation of tele-
        medical abortion.

 Knowledge exchange in the form of engagement with end-users of research includes:
    • Mitchell using data from an earlier research study to respond to the Scottish and UK
       government consultations on the continuation of tele-medical abortion;
    • Weldon-Johns work on employment which includes:
          - acting as the guest facilitator of the CAT Tayside Social Policy Conference
              “Employment on the Edge”, 31st August 2018;
          - facilitating two workshops on “Better Ways of Working?”;
          - a research project “Cross-Discipline Survey of Dundee-Based Computer Games
              Companies”. Weldon-Johns additionally engaged with third sector bodies in this
              area of research, to include the Fathers Network Scotland International Women’s
              Day event on the 8th March 2019, where contact was made with policy makers
              (MSPs) and the relevant third sector, which is likely to lead to inform practice in this
              area. The Creative Industries are one of the fastest growing industry sectors in the
              UK with Dundee being a hub for computer games companies which are a key
              sector of the creative industries. Weldon-Johns’s work aligns strongly with other

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
               Abertay work to support games companies, including the multimillion-pound
               AHRC-sponsored project InGAME;
    •   Kouletakis’ work on Intellectual Property including:
           - Submitting a comment tabled before the South African Department of Trade and
               Industry’s public hearings originally scheduled for 27 – 29 June 2018. Kouletakis
               was invited to make this submission by the Global Expert Network on Copyright
               User Rights and the Freedom of Expression Institute of South Africa;
           - working with Electronic Information for Libraries Africa, Asia Pacific, Europe and
               Latin America; Bookshare.org (a shared online library of scanned books for people
               with visual impairments); the South African National Council for the Blind; and the
               Treatment Action Campaign (South Africa); and
           - Being the invited speaker at the L&A Legal Consultants (in partnership with
               Babcock University, Nigeria) IPR webinar series, a Nigerian-based event which
               was attended by a candidate for the World Intellectual Property Organization’s
               position of Director-General and Nigerian policymakers.

 Engagement activities during REF2014 were continued and further developed for the REF2021
 period, being expanded to include engagement with South African legislative reform (Kouletakis,
 McKay/Nienaber).




                                                                                          Page 14
