Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Norwich University of the Arts (UKRPN 10004775)

 Unit of Assessment: 32

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since 2014 Norwich University of the Arts (NUA) has expanded and consolidated its research
 base in both the number of individuals engaged in productive research and the range of
 practices. The University returned 18% of eligible staff to REF 2014 and has returned 28% of
 eligible (Category A staff) to REF 2021, with 17.4% of these being early career researchers.
 While high quality research has been sustained in History of Art and Design, Film, and Exhibition
 Curation, the period since 2014 has notably seen NUA’s practitioners in Design, Digital Media
 and Fine Art presenting their research on national and international platforms. Supporting and
 developing staff at each stage of their research careers has been central to our mission.

 The University’s Research Strategy was approved in 2015 and is monitored through Research
 Committee reporting to University Senate. The strategy identifies three Research Themes, each
 with a Research Group, that reflect cross-course and cross-faculty communities of practice:

 Created and Contested Territories (CaCTus): questioning the interpretation and
 representation of contested material practices; focusing on the cultural and political networks in
 which art, design and media are produced, valued and consumed (14 members, including
 Gavril, Bousfield, Brewerton, Hanna, Maffei, Pointon, Rowe, Wilsher).
 https://createdcontestedterritories.net

 Human Interfaces (HI): exploring the slipperiness of human interfaces and how these shift
 across cultures, time and art/design forms. (19 members, including Sawdon Smith, Barber,
 Benington, Bryon, Dunleavy Gledhill, E.Horton, Krishnamma) https://humaninterfacesuk.com

 Pattern and Chaos (P&C): dedicated to the practice and theory of pattern, chaos and the
 spaces in between (17 members, including S.Horton, Bicknell, Farley, Fijalkowski, Goodrum,
 Longworth-West, Pointon, Simpson) https://www.nuapatternandchaos.com

 Each group is led by a theme champion (Gavril, Sawdon Smith, S.Horton) and reports to
 Research Committee. All academic staff and research students are encouraged to join one of
 these groups, including staff not on the NUA Research Pathway; some participate in more than
 one group. Each group comprises staff at different stages of research development and is
 focused on collaborative and interdisciplinary research, where this is appropriate. The groups
 meet three times a term for discussion, presentations and to plan projects and events.

 The aims of the groups are:
    a) to encourage the development of partnerships and projects within the University,
        including cross-disciplinary and Faculty collaborations, in areas of research that the
        University has identified as strategically important.
 and
   b) to publicly and cogently articulate for a range of audiences the purpose, outcomes and
        support that constitute research at NUA; these audiences include academic and
        postgraduate research students but importantly, creative industry partners, external
        agencies and potential funders.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples of how these aims have been achieved since 2014 include:

 Territory: The Exhibition in a box, an interdisciplinary project of prints (edition of ten) developed
 by members of the CaCTus Research Group, with work by Bennington, Bousfield, Gavril, Maffei,
 Rowe and a research student, Vousden. The work has been exhibited in Midlothian, Scotland
 (Lust and the Apple, March - May 2019); Berlin (CLB Berlin, April –May 2019), London (Royal
 United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies- RUSI Library, January 2020); Addis
 Ababa, Ethiopia (University of Addis Ababa, February 2020), with associated symposia in
 Norwich (April 2019), Berlin (April 2019) and a conference presentation in Nottingham
 (November 2019). The exhibition continues to tour beyond the REF 2021 period.
 https://createdcontestedterritories.net/wright-gallery-texas/

 Territory followed a series of CaCTus print portfolio projects led by Carl Rowe, including Ballot, a
 collaboration between staff, alumni and students from Norwich University of the Arts (including
 Barber, Benington, Bousfield, Fijalkowski, Hillier, Rowe), and Crawford College of Art & Design,
 Cork, Ireland with invited partners Print to the People in Norwich, Cork Printmakers and Limerick
 School of Art & Design. Ballot was exhibited at the FIRST EDITION print symposium (Cork,
 Ireland, June 2017), subsequently at Nunns Yard gallery in Norwich, alongside printmaking
 events and exhibitions at the Castle Museum and Art Gallery, Norwich (October 2017), at
 Belltable Arts Hub, Limerick (May-June 2018) and in Santander, Spain (IMPACT 10 printmaking
 conference, September 2018). The project was also presented in a conference paper in Casoria,
 Italy (Powell at CAM Survival Festival September 2017).
 https://nua.repository.guildhe.ac.uk/id/eprint/15988/

 The Pattern and Chaos Research Group (Carlisle, Fijalkowski, S.Horton), organised the
 interdisciplinary Beyond Pattern and Chaos Symposium, at NUA on 5 September 2018 with a
 programme of external speakers and a ‘marketplace’ exhibition of featured researchers,
 including NUA staff, a research fellow and a research degree student (Longworth-West,
 Lowndes, Ismail-Epps). https://www.nuapatternandchaos.com/pattern-chaos-symposium-2018/

 The single-issue volume of Drawing Research Theory and Practice journal ‘Drawing Pattern and
 Chaos’, 2019, edited by Dr Sarah Horton, developed directly from the P&C Research Group and
 included contributions from three members of the group. https://doi.org/10.1386/drtp.4.1.3_2

 The Human Interfaces Research Group was instrumental in the theme of the 2017 conference of
 the Association for Photography in Higher Education (APHE), hosted by NUA in July 2017.
 Sawdon Smith delivered a paper at the conference and a publication of the work of NUA staff
 and research students, We are: Human Interfaces, was distributed at the conference (Barber,
 Benington, Dunleavy, Quinn, Sawdon Smith). https://aphe.ac.uk/photography/aphe-summer-
 conference-2017-review/ From 2018 to 2020 the HI Research group undertook editorship of the
 quarterly arts magazine Uncertain States which publishes work by a diverse range of artists and
 reaches a wide audience. The cover for its tenth anniversary edition is the work of NUA
 typography researcher Hiller. Uncertain States (@uncertainstates)

 As well as continuing strengths in art, design and media history (Fijalkowski, Gavril, Goodrum, E.
 Horton, Maffei, Pointon) and fine art, film and design practice and curation (Barber, Bousfield,
 Benington, Bicknell, Farley, Gledhill, Hanna, S.Horton, Krishnamma, Longworth-West, Sawdon
 Smith, Simpson, Wilsher), as well as interdisciplinary research in performance theory and
 practice (Bryon), two key themes of NUA research in this REF period have been Arts, Health
 and Wellbeing; Landscape and the Environment.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 The University has a longstanding engagement with arts research to support health and
 wellbeing, including working with the Norfolk and Norwich Hospital Arts project from 2003, and it
 has become a dimension of NUA’s fine art programme, responding to staff research (Rowe and
 Sawdon Smith). In 2014 a research and knowledge exchange project with Norfolk Care homes
 developed the ‘engagement quilt’ for visitors to use with dementia sufferers as a focus for
 conversation and interaction (Rodgers, Bicknell). An ongoing partnership between NUA, Hospital
 Rooms and Norfolk and Suffolk NHS Foundation Trust has developed two projects in mental
 health units since 2018 to transform the environment of the units for staff and patients:
 Woodlands in Ipswich (Rowe) and Northside House in Norwich (Rowe, Simpson). A number of
 other research projects focus on wellbeing, including ongoing research on a typeface for the
 adult dyslexic reader, Sylexiad (Hillier), a project researching the effectiveness of Autonomous
 Sensory Meridian Response (ASMR) videos (Dunleavy), a Covid-19 ‘lockdown’ project with
 healthcare staff to creatively express their experience of the pandemic A Centenary of Caring,
 in partnership with Norfolk and Waveney Health and Care Partnership and University of East
 Anglia’s School of Health Sciences (Rowe). Other research has concentrated on raising public
 awareness of health issues, including a project, Print to promote Health and Wellbeing, in
 partnership with the University of Addis Ababa to develop sustainable and community-based
 print using agri-waste by-products to communicate sexual health campaigns in rural Ethiopia
 (Benington, Rowe). Sawdon Smith’s research highlights the complex and conflicted experience
 of a patient understanding and accepting ill health and disease, particularly countering HIV/AIDs
 stigma, in exhibitions, presentations of his work and in a wide range of publications.

 Research related to Landscape and the Environment has been principally focused on our
 partnership with the Broads Authority. Mapping the Broads was a research and community
 engagement project within the Broads Landscape Partnership Scheme’s Water, Mills and
 Marshes. Research developed by staff in the NUA Illustration team (Brewerton, Bousfield and
 Nencini), resulted in bodies of work that responded to the experience of the landscape of the
 Norfolk Broads, disseminated in an exhibition in the EAST GalleryNUA and presented in the NUA
 online research symposium New Perspectives on the Rural: Landscape, Community and
 Creativity, with papers by Brewerton, Bousfield and Nencini. Mapping the Broads included a
 number of student engagement projects including Sophie Cane’s Create Together project
 (supervised by Brewerton) that won the RSA Student Design Award in 2019
 https://www.sophiecaneillustration.com/#/rsa-student-design-awards-winner/.There is also a
 wellbeing dimension to Brewerton’s and Bousfield’s work with community groups within the
 project, to increase engagement with the natural environment and decrease ‘nature deficit’.
 Another research and knowledge exchange project within Water, Mills and Marshes considered
 how to enhance engagement with the Norfolk Broads through digital media (Gledhill), resulting in
 a prototype web app for use walking the Angles Way.

 Research focus for the next period
 The NUA Research Strategy 2021-24 is focused on the themes of the University’s Strategic
 Plan: Transforming Lives; Sustainable Futures; Inclusive Community.

 NUA Research Themes will be linked to the following global challenges:
 Health and Wellbeing; Sustainable development; Culture, Community & Inclusion

 The strategy aims
    1. To enhance the environment and impact of NUA Research
    2. To develop the research capacity and capability of staff

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    3. To develop the capacity of the Doctoral programme and enhance support for
       postgraduate research students
    4. To establish effective external engagement and productive National and International
       Collaborative Partnerships

 In this period NUA will:
     • Establish two NUA Institutes for research, knowledge exchange and student
          engagement: Sustainability, Health and Wellbeing; Creative Digital and Technology
          Futures
     • Develop clear career pathways for research, knowledge exchange and teaching &
          student engagement (Early Career Academic/Researcher status; Fellowships; Reader
          status; Associate Professor; Professor) and increase the diversity of NUA staff engaged
          in research at all levels of career development
     • Establish a Doctoral College of research degree supervisors and increase the diversity of
          the University’s PGR supervisor pool and research student community
     • Enhance the University’s infrastructure to support Research and Knowledge Exchange
     • Implement an Impact Strategy to ensure and effectively record the impact of NUA
          research
     • Collaborate across disciplines to create new knowledge and attract external funding for
          research
     • Support and build upon the New Anglia Economic and Industrial Strategies, particularly
          in relation to sustainability, communication and digital futures
     • Empower local and regional communities through creative engagement, co-creation and
          participatory research

 Research Impact
 NUA has encouraged collaborative research projects with external partners as a key approach
 to ensuring research impact, including how partners can help to identify and record the impact of
 our research, wherever appropriate. The focus has been on the impact of creative arts research
 on health and wellbeing (Brewerton, Rowe, etc.), on public engagement, expanding awareness
 and understanding to engender community cohesion and inclusivity (Benington, Brewerton,
 Bousfield, Sawdon Smith), and on creativity, culture and society (Fijalkowski, Hanna,
 Krishnamma, Pointon, Rowe, Wilsher). The submitted NUA impact case studies identify working
 with Health Care Trusts, The Broads Authority, Schools, Charities, and arts organisations to plan
 and deliver projects to ensure the value of the research to individual lives and to influence policy,
 particularly related to mental health and to environmental issues.

 The potential for, and pathway to, impact has been a criterion for a research project receiving
 funding from the University. Staff have been supported and encouraged to plan impact as a key
 aspect at the start of a project using impact tools, such as the NUA Pathways to Impact
 introduction and the Research Impact Planning template. Individual support from the Director of
 Research, the Senior Research Professor, and the Senior Research Manager has focused on
 identifying potential beneficiaries, types of impact appropriate to the research, recording impact,
 as well as how to communicate the research and its findings to stakeholders and the public.
 Research students have been introduced to pathways to impact as part of the PGR training
 programme. In 2019/20 NUA appointed a Research Fellow to support the development and
 impact of practice-based research at the University. This fellow (Simpson) contributed to staff




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and research student training and to the development of the impact dimension of the Research
 Strategy 2021-2024.

 NUA is committed to building its resources to enhance the impact of its research as an objective
 of the NUA Research Strategy 2021-24. The draft Impact Strategy includes identifying Impact
 champions, enhanced training and support for staff and research students, and an expanded
 online impact toolkit. From 2020/21 NUA has partnered with Vertigo Ventures to use its Impact
 Tracker, resources and support for an initial period of three years to enhance impact and
 improve recording of research impact.

 Open Research environment
 NUA’s Open Access policy was introduced in 2015-16 to ensure compliance with funder OA
 requirements and those for REF 2021 submission. It identified the processes and support for
 NUA staff to meet OA conditions and raised staff and research student awareness of the models
 of open access. Staff are supported by the repository (NUA Research Online), the research
 office and by regular updates and training on the emerging OA agenda. This was first presented
 and discussed as part of the Research and Knowledge Exchange (R&KE) day in November
 2015. Subsequently, there have been five presentations and training sessions on open access
 at NUA R&KE days. The policy also identifies that staff can apply for funding from the
 University’s Research Support Fund where Gold OA is a requirement of grant conditions and not
 provided by the grant or if publication of a research output carries particular copyright costs.

 NUA Research Online is part of GuildHE Research Repositories, a shared service for research
 outputs of institutions who are members of the GuildHE Research consortium. In 2019 NUA
 prompted a project to re-design the repository to be more effective in presenting practice-based
 research outputs and to be more engaging for users and depositors, resulting in a relaunch of
 NUA Research Online in November 2019. The repository Submissions Policy and Procedure
 was reviewed and updated in October 2019.

 NUA’s support for open access and management of the repository is shared between the library
 and the research office, with NUA’s Head of Library and Learning Support being the senior
 manager responsible for NUA Research Online, reporting to Research Committee, liaising with
 the Director of Research and the Research Administrator. The NUA Head of Library and
 Learning Support co-led a workshop at an ARLIS UK & Ireland event ‘Arts research in open
 access repositories: sharing practice about practice’ (30 August 2019).
 https://ualresearchonline.arts.ac.uk/id/eprint/13779/2/Arts%20research%20in%20Open%20Acce
 ss%20repositories%20event%20-%20notes%20from%20day%20August%202019.pdf

 In 2019 the University appointed an additional Research and Repository Administrator to support
 open access and the repository, managed by the Senior Research Manager with a reporting line
 to the Head of Library and Learning Resources. The administrator has worked with staff
 individually to deposit research outputs in the repository and presented on open access issues
 to staff and research student groups. NUA doctoral theses are submitted with a digital copy and
 are available through the British Library EThOS e-theses service, on UAL Research Online and
 on NUA Research Online. NUA researcher Rob Hiller has made the typeface for the adult
 dyslexic reader, that resulted from his research and doctorate, available as open access to
 download online. https://www.sylexiad.com/fonts/purchase/sylexiad-sans




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for a culture of Research Integrity
 The University’s Research Committee oversees the integrity of staff and student research and
 reports to Senate, with an annual report to University Council on actions and activities that have
 been undertaken to support and strengthen understanding and application of research integrity
 issues. This report also analyses whether Norwich University of the Arts’ codes, procedures and
 practices for research integrity continue to be appropriate to the needs of the University and
 meet the standards required by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2019).

 The University’s Codes, procedures and practices for research integrity are:
 •    Research Governance and Standards Policy
 •    Procedure to Investigate Allegations of Misconduct in Research
 •    Code of Practice on Research Ethics

 These documents are regularly reviewed and updated to respond to national policy
 developments and standards. The Research Governance and Standards Policy was reviewed
 and updated by Research Committee in October 2019. Research Committee reviewed the
 University’s Procedure to Investigate Allegations of Misconduct in Research at its meeting in
 January 2020. Research Committee reviewed the University’s adherence to the Concordat to
 support Research Integrity in May 2019 and the Autumn 2019 update to the Concordat at its
 meeting in January 2020 using NUA’s Concordat Implementation Framework. Research Ethics
 guidance was updated in March 2020 to respond to the legal and ethical considerations required
 during the Covid-19 pandemic. This included a review of necessary modifications to existing
 approved research projects and guidance for all new ethics applications. In October 2020
 Research Committee decided that all research ethics applications would only be granted
 approval for the current academic year and would need formal review each year until the
 conditions related to the pandemic no longer apply. This guidance was informed by University of
 the Arts London (our research degrees programme partner) guidance for research students and
 by the UKRIO ‘Recommended checklist for Research Communities during the Covid-19
 pandemic’ (October 2020). There have been no allegations of research misconduct against NUA
 staff or research students in the REF 2021 period.

 Discussion of standards of research integrity and issues related to particular projects, as well as
 training, takes place at Research and Knowledge Exchange days, in Research Group Meetings,
 in Research Pathway group meetings and as part of the research student training programme.
 Research Integrity is a key element of the development programme for staff awarded NUA Early
 Career Researcher status. The Senior Research Manager delivers an annual seminar and
 provides individual support on Research Ethics and Integrity to staff on NUA’s ‘Learning and
 Teaching in Higher Education’ programme (PG Cert). NUA staff receive individual support on
 research ethics applications and in relation to external contracts from the Director of Research
 and Senior Research Manager. Staff and research student training is augmented using online
 resources and tools on the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) website. Legal support is
 provided to NUA research by externally contracted experts and firms as necessary and when
 appropriate.

 Research Integrity and Ethics briefings and training for staff and research students have
 featured in one NUA Research and Knowledge Exchange day each academic year since 2015-
 16, including workshops by external speakers: Dr Andrew Rawnsley (Teesside University,
 Associate Editor of Research integrity and Peer Review journal) in June 2016, Matthew Guest,
 Senior Policy Advisor (Research & Innovation), GuildHE, in December 2016 and Dr Geoff Hill,


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Birmingham City University in November 2018. Other presentations were delivered by NUA staff:
 Director of Research and Academic Registrar (November 2017) and the Senior Research
 Manager (November 2019).

 Research degree students are trained in research ethics and integrity standards as part
 of NUA’s Postgraduate Research training, University of the Arts London’s RNUAL
 programme (our PhD awarding partner), and through access to University of East
 Anglia’s online PGR training, available through our membership of GuildHE Research
 shared services. Research student ethics applications are supported by their Director of
 Studies and applications deemed to be minimal ethical risk are approved by NUA
 Research Degrees Committee, with delegated authority of UAL’s Research Ethics Sub-
 Committee. PGR ethics applications assessed as more than minimal risk by NUA
 Research Degrees Committee are forwarded to UAL’s Research Ethics Sub-Committee
 with recommendations for review.

    2. People

 The NUA Research Pathway is for staff who are independent researchers and have a significant
 responsibility for research (SRR), according to specific contractual and research experience
 criteria, identified in the NUA REF Code of Practice, including qualifying as an early career
 researcher. From September 2019 Research Pathway group meetings have been held twice a
 term.

 The University’s adherence to the principles and sub-principles of the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers was regularly reviewed by Research Committee in the
 period using NUA’s Concordat Implementation Framework. This has informed staff induction,
 support and training. During the period NUA has enhanced the support and potential for
 research career development, including appointments with Professor, Associate Professor,
 Research Fellow and Early Career Researchers status.

 The Professoriate, which meets four time a year, is a forum for academic debate and intellectual
 leadership to enhance the research, teaching and learning, and enterprise cultures of the
 University. In November 2014 the University appointed the first Director of Research with
 Professorial title to lead NUA research. The number of Professors in Research and Teaching
 appointed and awarded increased from three in the last REF period to nine by the REF 2021
 census date, five of whom are on the Research Pathway. In 2017 the University introduced
 Associate Professor status and appointed six of these by July 2020, also not all research
 awards, of whom two are on the Research Pathway. NUA has appointed three Research
 Fellows in the period. Two of these are non-stipendiary posts (Mitchell and Lowndes), although
 both are active members of the Pattern and Chaos Research Group and are research degree
 supervisors (paid as HPLs). In 2020 NUA appointed a Postdoctoral Research Fellow to support
 the development and impact of practice-based research, who is on the Research Pathway. The
 University has supported an application from the fellow for a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.

 In 2020 the University introduced a NUA Early Career Researcher status, awarded on
 application for two years. Five staff have been designated as NUA ECRs to date. NUA ECRs
 receive staff development on research structures, research ethics and integrity, research
 funding, developing the research dimension of their career, research degree supervision,
 research into teaching. They are also mentored by an experienced researcher (Fijalkowski,
 Goodrum, Pointon). As part of the Academic Pathways, from 2020/21 NUA has introduced an

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Emerging Researcher status for staff not on the Research Pathway but who wish to develop this
 dimension of their career to plan for significant responsibility for research. All new category A
 eligible staff receive an induction to research at NUA with the Director of Research or Senior
 Research Manager to introduce them to NUA research structures (Research Committees,
 Research Groups, Research Office, Research Events, Research on the NUA Intranet), the
 Academic Pathways, Research funding support and includes discussion of their research
 experience and aspirations.

 Staff research is supported by three funding streams to enable individual research and research
 dissemination, collaborative research projects and partnership development. Funding from these
 schemes is available to all academic staff, not only those on the Research Pathway.

 The Research Sabbatical leave scheme (formerly the Research Fellowship scheme) is to
 support and facilitate academic staff in the production and delivery of internationally excellent
 research, with priority given to early and mid-career researchers. The scheme funds the
 replacement of teaching duties for up to twelve weeks. Applications are assessed by Research
 Committee according to three principal criteria: Excellence, Originality and Rigour; Value for
 Money; Outputs, Dissemination and Impact. In the period ten staff have received this support
 (Benington, Bloom, Cant, Farley, Fijalkowski, Gavril, S.Horton, Maffei, Nencini, Robinson),
 including one to complete an output towards submitting a practice-based PhD thesis,
 representing an investment of over £80,000 QR funding. Two staff who received this support
 subsequently became NUA Research Group Champions and lead activity in the Created and
 Contested Territories and Pattern and Chaos groups (Gavril and S.Horton).

 The Research Support Funding scheme is for individual staff to apply for costs up to £500
 related to travel and subsistence for research and conference attendance, conference fees,
 photography and copyright clearance for articles and books, costs relating to Open Access
 publishing and, exceptionally, for materials. Over the period, the University has committed
 £35,000 QR funding to this scheme.

 The Collaborative Research Funding scheme supports research initiatives linked to the
 University Research Themes, involving academic staff and research students from across the
 University. Criteria for funding in this scheme includes involvement of research students, Early
 Career Researchers and practitioners new to academic research in project applications. The
 scheme is designed to support initial stages of research projects but these must be outward
 looking and engage with external partners. The funding has been particularly valuable in
 supporting projects generated within and across NUA Research Groups. The University has
 committed £165,000 of QR funding over the period within this scheme.

 Research students
 NUA research students are an important element and make a valuable contribution to the vitality
 of the University’s research environment. They are thoroughly integrated into the research
 community through active engagement in NUA Research Groups and with the research events
 programme. Research students have contributed to research group projects, such as the HI
 ‘Multiplicity/Individual’ (Quinn, Morohashi), the P&C conference ‘Beyond Pattern and Chaos’
 (Horton), and CaCTus’ Ballot project (Vousden). They have regularly presented their work in the
 NUA research seminar programme and at NUA Research and Knowledge Exchange Days.
 Research students have curated exhibitions, including in the EAST GalleryNUA and are a group
 presence within the University by exhibiting their work and holding discussions with
 undergraduate and postgraduate taught students, for example the group exhibition Multiple

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lines of Communication (31 October – 12 November 2019). The Research Student group,
 convened by the Senior Research Manager, meets twice a term to present work in progress and
 discuss issues raised by students and in the national research agenda. All supervisors are
 invited to the meetings. The group has been particularly valuable during the Covid-19 pandemic
 for group support online and to discuss the challenges faced by researchers in this period.

 The research degrees programme is advertised online and is promoted to the NUA Masters
 programme, with current research students presenting their work within the postgraduate taught
 Research into Practice unit. The Director of Research or Senior Research Manager also present
 on PhD level study annually to the MA Enterprise day. Enquiries about the research degree
 programme are offered the option to speak to a research supervisor to inform and review initial
 proposals. Applications are reviewed by members of Research Degrees Committee (RDC) to
 decide whether to proceed to interview by panel. All offers of a place on the programme and
 offers of NUA bursaries are approved by Research Degrees Committee. In this period, there has
 been an increased interest in NUA’s research degree programme, with initial enquiries
 increasing by 40% over the previous REF period, applications increasing by 83%, offers
 increasing by 46% (from 14 to 19) and first enrolments increasing by 14% (from 12 to 14). 78.5%
 of students enrolling for the first time within the period have graduated from the NUA MA
 programme, often returning to study after a period of professional practice.

 Recruitment has been focused on a limited intake of high-quality candidates who can be fully
 supported to completion and are able to contribute to NUA’s research culture. The student group
 has remained between 10 and 14 each year in the period. All students have progressed through
 the Registration and Confirmation stages, although a number have taken time out from study
 and some have withdrawn from study dues to financial and/or personal reasons. The number of
 doctoral completions in this period increased by 225% (from 4 to 9), with all NUA students
 submitting theses for examination in the period successfully completing their doctorates.

 Research Degrees Committee has a research student representative and considers equality,
 diversity and inclusivity issues associated with the admission, training, monitoring and
 examination of research students. A research student questionnaire, based on AdvanceHE’s
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), is distributed every year, with compiled
 feedback received and acted upon by Research Degrees Committee. NUA has further
 developed the profile and progression routes of research students within the University by
 supporting staff undertaking research degrees, employing research students to teach on
 undergraduate programmes and appointing a NUA doctoral graduate as a Research Fellow.

 Profile of NUA research students: 2013-2020
      FT/PT          Gender           Age at first        Ethnic origin       Declared
                     Identity         enrolment                               disability
  At enrolment:
     FT 50%        Male: 57%/      24-29 Years: 28.6%     White British:        7.2%
     PT 50%       Female: 43%                               85.5%

    By year 2:                     30-39 years: 21.4%      Other Asian
     FT 25%                                                background:
     PT 75%                                                  14.5%

                                   40-49 years: 28.6%

                                   50-59 years: 21.4%



                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 NUA does not have PhD studentships to award through the UKRI Collaborative Doctoral
 Partnership scheme or as one of the Centres for Doctoral Training. The University has awarded
 six fees-only bursaries to research students since 2013-14. Students have also received support
 for their research from charitable trusts, such as the Yorkshire Foundation of Craftsmanship and
 the Queen Elizabeth Scholarship Trust. PGR students are able to pay their tuition fees in three
 instalments and those nearing completion are eligible to apply for writing up status for up to a
 maximum of 12 months, with a reduced fee of £800. Only one student has applied to the
 Government’s Doctoral Loan Scheme since its inception in 2018-19.

 Research students are supported by teams of experienced and expert supervisors. In the period
 15 NUA staff were on supervisory teams, with additional subject expertise provided by external
 supervisors from a number of UK universities, including Royal College of Art, The Slade School
 of Fine Art (UCL), Manchester University, Middlesex University, Sheffield Hallam University. All
 new supervisors are required to undertake supervisory training, including the Introduction to
 research degree supervision workshop and the SEDA-accredited Supervising Research
 Degrees programme delivered by University of the Arts London, NUA’s research degree
 validating partner. NUA has supported 12 staff to undertake this training in the period by paying
 the course fees, travel and subsistence costs and, in some instances, replacement teaching
 costs. NUA also held a workshop for staff aspiring to supervise research degree and one for
 current supervisors at the Research and Knowledge Exchange Day in November 2018.

 NUA research students’ training and skills development is supported by a portfolio of mandatory
 training and voluntary opportunities. NUA provides induction, research training for the
 registration, confirmation and examination stages, on Research Integrity and Ethics, Research
 data management and in presentation skills. Students complete and review training needs
 analyses and skills audits, linked to the UK Vitae Researcher Development Framework, as part
 of the Annual Monitoring process with their supervisors, monitored by Research Degrees
 Committee. All students undertake University of the Arts London’s extensive research degree
 training programme, RNUAL (https://www.arts.ac.uk/research/phd-and-mphil-degrees/research-
 training-and-support). This also enables NUA students to network with a community of over 250
 PGR students in art, design and media subjects who are studying at UAL and its research
 degree partner universities. NUA research students are able to undertake a programme of online
 training delivered by University of East Anglia as part of our membership of GuildHE Research
 shared services, and to take part in the Doctoral Summer Schools arranged for research
 students of Guild HE partners.

 The University’s Research Student Funding scheme supports research activity undertaken in
 pursuit of a student’s studies. This includes conference attendance, specialist training, exhibiting
 work, research outside Norwich and covers travel, accommodation and fees. Each student is
 allowed to claim for an average of £500 a year over the course of their studies. In addition to
 this, each student is supported to attend the three mandatory RNUAL Training sessions in the
 first year (up to £750 per student), to present to RNUAL as part of the Confirmation stage (up to
 £150) and to attend tutorials with external supervisors (up to £150 a year). As students did not
 travel for these events during the Covid-19 pandemic, the research-related expenses were
 expanded to include working materials and equipment to reflect the exceptional circumstances.

 This support has enabled research students to present and disseminate their work outside NUA
 in professional contexts and to the public, in conferences, exhibitions, publications, teaching,
 presentations and workshops. Examples include conference papers delivered to the Association

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Art Historians, April 2015 (Ismail-Epps & Simpson), the Royal Geographic Society’s annual
 conference August 2017 (Morohashi), the ‘Museum in Context and Partnership’ Conference,
 National Railway Museum York, April 2018 (Morohashi), the London Conference in Critical
 Thought, University of Westminster, June 2018 (Quinn), the Experimental and Expanded
 Animation Conference, UCA February 2019 (Saunders); work in group exhibitions, Divergent,
 Anteros Arts Foundation Norwich, October 2019 (Vousden); curated exhibitions, ‘Performing No
 Thingness: The Kinetic Poetry of Dom Sylvester Houédard, Ken Cox and Li Yuan-chia’, EAST
 GalleryNUA, Norwich Sept-Oct 2016 (Simpson), Museum of Human Kindness, Anteros Art
 Foundation, Norwich in November 2019 (Morohashi); articles in Visual Resources, volume 32,
 numbers 3-4, 2016 (Ismail-Epps) and the Journal of Illustration, issue 6.1 2019 (Goodwin); a
 book chapter in ‘Dom Sylvester Houédard’, Richard Saltoun Gallery & Ridinghouse 2017
 (Simpson); a book ‘Richard Seifert, Brutalist architect’, Lund Humphries 2020 (Bradbury);
 teaching presentations and workshops, including ‘Modernist Pioneers’, part of the V&A Learning
 Academy programme in 2019 (Bradbury), ‘Voices of the Home Front’, National Archives,
 London, October 2018 (Goodwin) Women, Work & Commerce’ V&A, London (February 2019,
 Goodwin), Edges and Frontiers workshop, GroundWork gallery, Kings Lynn, December
 2019 (Atkinson), Chiba Municipal Art Museum, Japan & MOA Museum, Japan, May 2018
 (Morohashi). Amy Goodwin was elected as the first female Trustee of the Fairground Heritage
 Trust in 2019 as a direct result of her PhD research.

    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 The University’s research income increased by a modest 8.1% (to £497,000) in a difficult funding
 environment and when there were a number of changes in NUA research leadership over the
 period. Funding continued to be received from a diverse range of sources including the Heritage
 Lottery Fund (New Geographies, Water, Mills and Marshes, Mapping the Broads), British
 Council (Sparks Armenia), EU government bodies (ConCEPT), Nippon Foundation (Japanese
 Chapbooks). Funding received from our collaboration with the Broads Landscape Partnership
 Scheme for the ‘Mapping the Broads’ project (Brewerton, Bousfield, Nencini) helped to ensure
 ongoing impact on public engagement with the natural environment. Additionally, NUA
 researchers received funding from a wide range of publicly funded and commercial
 organisations to support research projects, including Arts Council England (Gledhill, Talking
 Trees; Bicknell, FutureScan; Benington, Unstable Monuments), BBC (Krishnamma, The Way
 Out), ESRC (Bicknell, unfolding thinking); Norfolk County Council (Rowe & Benington, We Came
 Here to Conquer); Hospital Rooms (Rowe, Have Strength, Find Peace/ BE); The Barbican
 Centre (Farley, Rhythms).

 In the period the income derived from business and community engagement work increased by
 95% over the previous period (from £895,000 to £1,749,00), working with a wide range of
 partners, including Aviva (Schooley), Mirus Aircraft seating (Salter, Farley), Flexifoil games
 design (Beard), British Council (Sinola, Farley), Broads Authority (Gledhill), NANSA (Schooley),
 NORLSAR (Wells). This reflects the University’s investment in the Ideas FactoryNUA Incubation
 Centre for Creative Business from 2016, which has so far created 68 new businesses in areas
 ranging from Architecture to Games Design. Studio Goblin, an animation company of NUA
 graduates that is part of the Ideas Factory has developed ASMR videos that are central to the
 current research project Testing the effects of ASMR on wellbeing with NUA Research
 (Dunleavy) and University of Essex.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff are supported in the generation of external income by the Director of Research and the
 Director of Innovation and Engagement (appointed 2016). However, the somewhat interrupted
 leadership of NUA research by changes and absence of Directors of Research affected the
 number of research funding applications submitted within the period. From February 2019 NUA
 research has been led by the Pro Vice-Chancellor, Academic, the Senior Research Professor
 and the Senior Research Manager. The University subsequently appointed an additional
 research administrator to support open access (0.6 fte) and a Research Fellow to enhance the
 development of research impact (0.2fte). This team will be further strengthened by the Director
 of Research Development and appointments to support external funding applications and project
 management across Research and Knowledge Exchange from 2021/22.

 The University’s EAST Gallery was moved into a refurbished and remodelled space in 2016 with
 a public programme of exhibitions and events focused on international contemporary art and
 design. The refurbishment represented an investment of £830,000 in this resource. The gallery
 has a full-time experienced curator (Fisher, then Allerton) reporting to the Pro Vice-Chancellor,
 Academic, and a team of part-time assistants and technician.

 The gallery programme has included exhibitions and events directly related to NUA staff and
 student research (S. Horton, Disruptive Decoration; Hanna et al, Fierce Light; Simpson,
 Performing No Thingness; Brewerton, Bousfield & Nencini, Mapping the Broads). Exhibitions
 included shows on the work of Tess Jaray & Alison Wilding (Extra Terrestrial), Cornelia Parker,
 Orla Kiely, Paul Digby, Eduardo Paolozzi, Antony Caro, as well as the Jerwood Painting
 Fellowships (2017) and the Jerwood Drawing prize (2017). NUA led the presentation of the
 British Art Show 8 in Norwich in 2016. From November 2016 to January 2017, EAST GalleryNUA
 was the first gallery worldwide to exhibit Mutator VR, curated by Fisher, a Virtual Reality
 installation using original software modelled on the processes of evolution (Latham, Goldsmiths,
 University of London). The University held a symposium on the research and innovation themes
 related to the work, including contributions from the artist and his collaborators, as well as from
 NUA staff (Wells, Grandison). NUA was also a partner in the New Geographies project 2017-20,
 working with Cooking Sections on a commission for the project. The gallery also originated two
 exhibitions of the work of NUA alumnus Sir Alfred Munnings with fourteen drawings on public
 display for the first time (2018) and after conservation, including paintings from the Munnings
 Museum in Essex (2019). The drawings were from the NUA Collection, the exhibitions were part
 of an ongoing project to make the Collection and the University’s archives available to
 researchers and the public.

 The NUA Collection and archives contain 930 artworks and include materials relating to over
 700 contemporary artists, curators and dealers. The archives contain thousands of items related
 to the University’s established history of gallery exhibitions, EAST international projects and
 international animation and moving image festivals from 1980 to 2010. The Collection and
 archives project will ensure that detailed and searchable information on the NUA Collection and
 the archives will be available online as part of the University’s digital asset management from
 2021. https://collection.nua.ac.uk

 Through our membership of GuildHE Research the University has increased the use of its
 shared services in this REF period, including the NUA research repository, online PGR training
 and PGR Summer Schools, access to the Vitae RDF planner and, from 2020/21, the Vertigo
 Ventures Impact Tracker. The GuildHE Research Leads network is valuable for sharing
 information and advice, working together and accessing national research organisations who
 regularly present to the meetings. The NUA research repository has been operational since

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2012. However, in March 2016 we joined the GuildHE joint research repository, although
 retaining an individual NUA repository identity. In 2019, working with GuildHE Research, we
 prompted work to redesign the landing page and some functionality so that the repository is
 more attractive and operationally suited to art, design and media research. A full review of the
 research and research data repository provision for GuildHE members is planned for 2021/22.
 Since March 2016 (data from the repository is not available before this) 3,964 items have been
 downloaded from the repository, 54% of which are journal articles and 16% books/ book
 chapters. The most downloaded items are authored by Rowe, Fijalkowski, Maffei and Goodrum.


    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The University is located in the centre of a culturally vibrant and thriving city, and contributes
 significantly to its strategic, economic and creative development and that of the region. As a
 small specialist university, collaboration and partnership are central to the success of our
 research and knowledge exchange activities. In this period NUA has continued to develop
 collaboration with academic, creative and culture industry, and business partners through
 sustainable projects and individual academic research. We have further expanded our work with
 audiences and communities to ensure public engagement with NUA research through
 exhibitions, events and workshops, while maintaining a significant contribution to the research
 base and involvement with national and international organisations.

 From 2019 NUA established a Strategic Research Fund (SRF, £15,000 per annum QR) to
 support meetings and pilot projects with external organisations who are new research partners,
 as an investment in future collaboration. This is additional to the support available from the
 business and knowledge exchange team to develop and foster partnerships for enterprise and
 student engagement projects. The SRF scheme has funded a pilot with Collusion Cambridge
 (Art, Tech, Play), the Centenary of Caring project, initial planning for the Testing the effects of
 ASMR on well-being project with University of Essex and planning with Norfolk County Council
 Children’s and Young People’s Mental Health Services.

 The University’s EAST Gallery is an important contribution to the cultural life of Norwich and the
 region with a public programme of exhibitions and events organized with external partners, such
 as Karsten Schubert, London, Barford Sculptures Ltd, Hayward touring, Jerwood Arts, Arts
 Council England. The gallery hosted 26 exhibitions from November 2015 to 15 March 2020
 (when the gallery closed as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic), attracting over 40,000 visitors. In
 that period the gallery organised 76 events related to exhibitions, including private views, artists’
 public lectures and talks in the gallery, and workshops for schools.

 From June to September 2016 the British Art Show toured to East Anglia for the first time in its
 40-year history and was exhibited across two venues in Norwich: Norwich University of the Arts
 and the Norwich Castle Museum and Art Gallery. NUA’s Neil Powell was involved the selection
 of the Hayward Open Curatorial 2014-15 and was part of the team to facilitate the national
 organisation and delivery of the show with Hayward Touring. 37 artists exhibited over 100 works
 at NUA (EAST Gallery and St George Street building) and at Norwich Castle Museum. NUA and
 the Castle Museum hosted a summer of over 50 free events, including tours, workshops, talks,
 lectures, takeovers, as well as a float in the Lord Mayor’s procession. 9,494 people visited the
 exhibition at NUA and over 600 people attended NUA hosted events for the show. The
 evaluation of BAS8 for Hayward Touring by Annabel Jackson Associates (February 2017)


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 highlighted the Norwich part of the tour: ‘Overall, the evaluation suggests that Norwich is of a
 perfect size and structure to be impacted by a high-status show like the British Art Show.’

 The University has regularly contributed events, talks and presentations as part of the visual arts
 element of the annual Norfolk & Norwich Festival in the period, including Jeff Koons at Norwich
 Castle Museum, 2015 (S. Horton, Powell); Fierce Light, 2016 (Hanna), Richard Long at
 Houghton Hall, 2017 (a film of Long working and documenting the show, Wells; contribution to
 the educational programme, Rowe). In 2018 the University created and curates a permanent
 plinth outside its St George Street building to publicly exhibit major works of sculpture in central
 Norwich. The first work exhibited was Damian Hirst’s Hymn (March to July 2018), to coincide
 with a major installation of Hirst’s work in the State Rooms and in the Park at Houghton Hall,
 Norfolk. Anthony Caro’s Erl King was displayed on the plinth from May to July 2019, concurrent
 with Iron in the Soul, an exhibition of over 40 of Caro’s work, including 16 previously unseen
 drawings and prints, and one sculpture, curated by Powell in the EAST GalleryNUA. Staff
 contributed to the Norwich Science Festival in 2019 (Brewerton), First Light festival Lowestoft
 2019 (Carlisle), Glyndebourne 2019 (Wells and Martin) and British Council UX conference tour
 2019 (Gledhill).

 NUA was the university sponsor of the first LoveLight Norwich festival, a three-night event of
 light artworks, interactive installations, performances and live music across the city attended by
 15,000 people in February 2020, led by the Norwich Business Improvement District. The
 University hosted a number of events, with NUA staff leading one of the four streams of the
 symposium that launched the event – the Design Lab: What is Design Thinking and how can we
 use it to support placemaking and inclusivity in urban contexts? (Carlisle and Salter). NUA staff
 have also worked with businesses to transform their processes and work practices through
 research, for example, with the Data Analytics team at Aviva (2016, Schooley) and to transform
 communication between the factory staff and management at Baxter Healthcare (2016,
 Schooley). NUA sponsored the Norwich Games Festival from 2016 to 2019, with a number of
 staff actively involved in the festival (including Beard and Gledhill). In 2018 a NUA academic co-
 developed a version of the best-selling ‘Stardew Valley’ game for mobile phones, which has sold
 over 2.9 million copies to date (Holmwood). From 2016-2020 Professor Suri Krishnamma
 directed 53 episodes of two national TV series (Coronation Street & Emmerdale).

 In February 2020 NUA held an Art, Tech, Play event to engage artists with emerging
 technologies attended by 58 artists from across the county, followed by a pilot project to mentor
 and support artists to begin working with these technologies (transferred online from April to July
 2020, Gledhill). This was the start of an ongoing collaboration with Collusion (Cambridge) and
 the Norwich Arts Centre to develop a sustainable network of support for artists looking to expand
 their capacity to engage with digital technologies and accelerate practice-based innovation.

 We have continued to develop our support for communities and disadvantaged groups through
 art and film projects, workshops and co-production activities, for example, the Differences United
 project (United in Hammersmith & Fulham, Su); projects with schoolchildren, particularly working
 class boys (NEACO, Norfolk Higher aspirations); people with mental health conditions
 (Woodlands and Northside House, Rowe); with single Homeless people (Herring House Trust,
 Bousfield), and refugees and asylum seekers (English+ Norwich, Brewerton and Bousfield).

 NUA researchers are editorial board members for seven international journals (including
 Drawing: Research, Theory and Practice, S. Horton; Clothing Cultures, Goodrum; Journal for
 Interdisciplinary Voice Studies, Bryon; International Journal of Food Design, Maffei; International

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Society for the Study of Surrealism, Fijalkowski). Gavril was a general editor for Architectural
 Histories journal from 2014 - 2018, Carlisle is book and exhibitions reviews editor for Textile: the
 Journal of Cloth and Culture. S.Horton and Goodrum have guest edited special issues of three
 journals in the period. Staff have organised six academic conferences and symposia (including,
 the Embodied Cognition Acting and Performance Symposium 2015, Bryon; Portraiture and
 Materiality, Pointon; Beyond Pattern & Chaos 2018, Carlisle), and delivered six keynote
 conference papers (Bryon, Fijalkowski, Goodrum, Hanna, Pointon and Sawdon Smith) in
 Glasgow, Brighton, Portsmouth, University of Northern Colorado, Montreal and Shenzhen China.
 NUA scholars have delivered papers at sixteen academic conferences and given over forty
 public lectures, performances and presentations of their research in the period.

 Since 2014 NUA staff have examined sixteen PhDs as external examiners for Universities in
 Australia and the United Kingdom, for example, at the University of New South Wales, The
 Courtauld Institute, Universities of Edinburgh, Kent, Portsmouth, King’s College and Birkbeck
 College University of London. Staff serve on executive and advisory boards for a number of
 subject and professional associations, such as NAHEMI (Hannah, Chair 2016-19), National
 Portrait Gallery Research Advisory Board (Pointon), UKADIA-Chair, GuildHE, HESA (Last),
 CHEAD (Sawdon Smith), International Arts Thread education board (Chowles), European
 Architectural History Network (Gavril), and on AHRC and UKRI Peer Review colleges in the
 period (Carlisle, Fijalkowski, Gavril, Hannah, Maffei). NUA also supports a range of
 organisations with staff as trustees or executive board members, for example, The Britten
 Sinfonia, The Art Fund, East Anglia Art Trust, Norwich Theatre Royal, The Forum, Local
 Enterprise Partnership, The Garage (Norwich Centre for Performing Arts), Norfolk and Norwich
 University Hospital. A member of staff was on the Parliamentary Advisory group for the Creative
 Industries (Powell, 2014-17) and an expert witness to the UK House of Lords Select Committee
 on Digital Skills in 2014 (Saint Walker).




                                                                                             Page 15
