Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
19 – Politics and International Studies
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview

The University of Essex, Department of Government is a vibrant and diverse community of
scholars with a shared commitment to excellence in research. The Department champions
innovative research of the highest relevance for academics and policy makers, with maximum
influence on debates and discourse in society. In recognition of its pre-eminent position, the
Department is the home of the only Regius Professor of Political Science - during the current REF
period held by Professors Sanders and Gleditsch successively.

During the assessment period, and reflecting the University’s strategic vision for Department
growth, the Department has grown from 32 to 54 full time academic research staff enabling it to
further strengthen its position as a leading, globally focused, centre for the study of politics. We
continue to attract new staff from some of the leading universities of the world, including, most
recently, Duke, New York University, and Princeton to name but three. We have become a more
intellectually diverse and methodologically pluralistic Department, rightly recognised for its
continued commitment to theoretically driven and empirically rigorous research. Scholars have
answered questions of significance to the academy and society applying normative, theoretical,
quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods approaches. Across all subfields, the overriding norm
is that all our work is theoretically innovative and meets the highest standards of methodological
rigour, including regarding transparency and replicability of data analysis, to witness the work of
Kern and Gleditsch on improving the replicability of qualitative research by means of
preregistration. The Department maintains these high standards via vibrant and supportive
intellectual exchanges and a commitment to mentoring new colleagues. We are particularly proud
to have championed greater diversity, equality and inclusivity, including growing the number of
women academics and black and minority-ethnic academics. Today, black and minority-ethnic
academics account for just over 20 percent of our full-time academic (research) staff, compared
with just under 10 percent at the REF2014 submission.

Since the last REF2014, our research strategy has continued to prioritise research excellence,
while the Department also extended and diversified its research base. Reflecting the evolution of
the Department, both in terms of number of full-time academic staff as well as their expertise, our
research is now structured along five, rather than four, research divisions: international relations
and conflict; political behaviour; political economy; political institutions; and political theory
and discourse analysis. The introduction of a new political institutions section reflects the
strategic investments made in this research area (Dr Bakker, Professor Carroll, Dr van Coppenolle,
Dr Kern, Dr Lee, Professor Leifeld, Professor Martin, Dr Matsuo, Dr Shair-Rosenfield, and
Dr Winzen). We have further introduced three departmental methods working groups: mixed-
methods research; data science and quantitative political methodology; and evidence and
public policy. The methods working groups reflect methodological pluralism in the Department,
encourage collaboration across research divisions based on shared methodological interests, and
facilitate interdisciplinary research. They recognise and promote the representation of the full
spectrum of empirical approaches in our research and our commitment to world-leading training
and supervision for our PhD students. We pride ourselves on an exceptionally research-friendly
workload allocation model and generous sabbatical arrangements, providing colleagues with the
time and space to undertake research at the cutting edge of the discipline. During the current
period, this has included reducing the average module load to 2-1 (from 2-2), with a 1-1 load for all
newly appointed early career researchers (ECR) until permanency.

We view politics, political theory and international studies as one discipline, with opportunities for
collaboration across all research divisions. The Department benefits from a high level of intellectual
exchange spanning different substantive sub-fields and intellectual traditions. There is a shared

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
belief across the Department that good general theories of politics should explain outcomes across
different sub-fields and benefit from exposure to developments in and criticism from other
traditions. Our inclusive research culture is fostered via weekly departmental seminars and
evidenced by many instances of research collaboration. To facilitate interdisciplinary research and
societal impact, the Department houses four research centres: Centre for Ideology and Discourse
Analysis (cIDA); Michael Nicholson Centre for Conflict and Cooperation; Centre on the Politics of
Representation in Crisis; and the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence. Our research, especially our
impact work and engagement, is guided by a Department Advisory Board, comprising esteemed
individuals from Government, the private sector, civil society and scholarly organisations.

The Department also contributes actively to a number of University-wide structures including the
Institute for Analytics and Data Science (IADS); the Institute for Social and Economic Research
(ISER); and the Human Rights Centre (HRC). The Department further collaborates with the
Economics Department on the ESSEXLab (Lown, Duell), which is now one of the largest and best-
equipped labs in the UK for experimental social sciences.

Ongoing strategic objectives

Our ‘core goals from 2014 were

      to maintain excellence in research and publications;
      to continue generating external research income for innovative projects;
      to provide academic public goods; and
      to use our expertise to reach out to policymakers and users beyond the academy to ensure
       that our research has impact.

These strategic objectives will remain relevant from 2021 onward, where the Department aims to
grow and diversify its research base further. Reflecting its overall ambition to remain at the
forefront of the study of politics globally, the Department is keen to seize the opportunities for
innovation that emerge from being inclusive and open.

Achievements (2014 – 2020)

The Department has convincingly met and exceeded its strategic goal set at the 2014 REF. It has
maintained excellence in research and publications. Between 2014 and 2020, the 54 members of
staff published 21 books and more than 550 articles and chapters in edited volumes. Books were
published by leading academic publishers: Cambridge University Press (5); Oxford University
Press (9); Edinburgh University Press (2); University of Michigan Press; Columbia University
Press; as well as prominent commercial publishers. Across all research divisions, members
published in the major generalist journals in political science, such as the American Journal of
Political Science; American Political Science Review; British Journal of Political Science; European
Journal of Political Research; Journal of Politics; Political Analysis; and Political Studies. They
have also contributed to all leading sub-disciplinary journals in: political theory (Contemporary
Political Theory; Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy; Journal of Applied
Philosophy; Journal of Political Philosophy; Politics, Philosophy & Economics; Political Theory; and
Social Theory and Practice); international relations (Conflict Management and Peace Science;
International Interactions; International Organization; International Studies Quarterly; Journal of
Conflict Resolution; Journal of Peace Research; and World Politics), political behaviour (British
Journal of Politics and International Relations; Electoral Studies; Journal of Elections; Public
Opinion & Parties; and Public Opinion Quarterly); political institutions (Comparative Political
Studies; Journal of Common Market Studies; Journal of European Public Policy; Journal of Public
Administration; Legislative Studies Quarterly; Party Politics; and West European Politics), and
political economy (Economics and Politics; Journal of Theoretical Politics; Political Science
Research & Methods; Public Choice; Regulation and Governance; Review of International
Organizations; and World Development). They also regularly publish in interdisciplinary journals,
such as Climate Change; Environmental Politics; Global Environmental Politics; International
Journal of Qualitative Methods; Journal of Language and Politics; Politics and Gender; Nature

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Climate Change; Political Geography; Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences; and
Sociological Methods and Research. The importance of these publications is further reflected in
the many awards they have won. The depth and breadth of publications indicates global
excellence and compares to the very top US departments as shown in subject rankings in QS
World University Ranking (29 in 2020; compared with 51-100 in 2014) and the Shanghai Academic
Ranking of World Universities (31 in 2020).

The Department champions and has continued to provide important public goods to the
discipline. The Department continues to host the British Journal of Political Science (including Bou-
Habib, Johns, and Böhmelt as editors), the leading generalist political science journal in Europe.
Garriga and Gizelis are editors of International Interactions. Dorussen and Gizelis are associate
editors of the Journal of Peace Research. Gleditsch is the president-elect of the International
Studies Association (ISA). Members have contributed to the organisation of the annual
conferences of the leading professional organisations: Gizelis has been program chair for the ISA
(2018), while others have led sections for the American Political Science Association (APSA)
(Martin, Baerg and Garriga), European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR) (Bartle, Chiba,
Johns, Martin, and Sudulich), Midwest Political Science Association (MPSA) (van Coppenolle,
Dorussen), and Western Political Science Association (Shair-Rosenfield). Dorussen and Gleditsch
are board members and members of the program committee of the annual meeting of the Network
of European Peace Scientists (NEPS) since 2015; in 2020 (postponed to 2021), Gleditsch was the
conference chair.

The international recognition of scholars as leading in their respective fields is further evidenced by
regular invitations to give keynote addresses (e.g., Dorussen, Ezrow, Gizelis, Gleditsch, Glynos,
Leifeld, Martin, Howarth) to major conferences, e.g., Bartle contributed to the Truth, Trust &
Expertise roundtable held at Harvard University (2018) jointly organised by the British Academy
and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. Lloyd gave a public lecture on her Leverhulme
project, ‘Who counts? The political problem of the ‘human’’, as part of the University of Kent Public
Lecture Series at its Brussels School of International Studies (2015). For more than 50 years the
Essex Summer School in Social Science Data Analysis has offered world-class instruction in a
wide range of social scientific methods. Between 2015 and 2020, the Essex Summer School
recruited on average 570 doctoral students and (mostly early career) researchers annually and is
increasingly recruiting globally. The Essex Summer School also contributes to international
collaboration.

Across research divisions, members of the Department have continued to acquire substantial
external research income to fund innovative projects; over the current REF period, the total
amount of external research income spent equalled £3.1 million. Via an innovative Grant Capture
Strategy, the Department encourages and supports in particular junior members in applying for
external grants and has created the position of Grant Capture Officer (Reinhardt) to provide
dedicated discipline-specific support and mentoring, complimenting existing University-level
support. Substantially, our research addresses topics most pressing politically as well as
professionally. An example of societally relevant research is the demonstration that migration
provides a link between climate change and conflict (Böhmelt). Creating impactful research is a
strategic objective of the Department. The Director of Research and Director of Impact have
emphasised the relevance of impact, encouraged colleagues to enhance the impact of their work,
and ensured that impact is recognised in workload allocation as well as decisions on permanency
and promotions. As part of this sustained approach, members have used their expertise to reach
out to policymakers and users beyond the academy to ensure that our research has impact, as
detailed by research division below.

International Relations and Conflict: Research topics cover areas spanning from conflict, peace,
and security to international political economy. A distinctive feature is the emphasis on the
commonalities between all forms of politics, whether within or between states, and the
interrelations between international and domestic politics and institutions. Studies have addressed
nonviolent resistance (Gleditsch; supported by a £1 million ERC Starting Grant during the current
REF period), immigration (Böhmelt, Simon), terrorism (Böhmelt, Polo, Phillips), gender and conflict

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Gizelis, Dr Wood), peacekeeping and peacebuilding (Dorussen, Gizelis), ethnic conflict (Bormann,
Gleditsch), environmental conflict (Bakaki, Böhmelt). Their research has made key advances in our
understanding of conflict and cooperation; e.g., how domestic and international linkages between
terrorist groups condition their choice of (terrorist) tactics and even their survival (Polo; Phillips);
how conflict is less likely to recur through speedy and targeted deployment of peacekeepers
(Dorussen, Gizelis); how linguistic differences are more frequently associated with civil wars than
religious differences (Bormann); how migration provides a key link in the indirect relation between
climate change and conflict (Böhmelt); in exploring the extent to which we can predict conflicts to
turn violent (Gleditsch).

Impact: Gleditsch, Böhmelt, and Chiba lead a case study on the impact of their research on conflict
forecasting, informing policy-setting internationally by the CIA, NATO and the German Ministry of
Defence. Dorussen and Gizelis’ impact case study on local peacekeeping and advancing the role
of female UN police officers details their collaboration with the Swedish Folke Bernadotte
Academy, UNPOL and the Elsie Initiative. Research on EU–China and EU–Japan security
relations (Dorussen) has received notable media attention.

Political Behaviour: The Department hosts world leading academics and retains its national
reputation for cutting edge empirical research into the UK's party system and elections (Bartle,
Johns, and Whiteley). Public support for Brexit has been a focus area for research of Sanders and
Whiteley. From a comparative perspective, research has focused on party positions, electoral
strategies, political preferences and public opinion, and political behaviour (Bakker, Ezrow). We
have also published in the leading journals on mutual influences between parties and voters and
the conditions that shape these influences (Ezrow, Sudulich), partisan strategies in proportional
electoral systems (Ezrow), the gender gap in voter turnout (Kostelka), and the influence of public
opinion on the decision to intervene into the Syria conflict (Johns, Lown). Important new insights
have been to demonstrate that parties that are seen as more moderate are also considered more
competent (Johns); the electoral success of liberal parties in Western democracies furthermore
depends on their image of competence, integrity, and party unity (Zur).

Impact: Political parties regularly consult Bartle, Johns, Sanders, and Whiteley. Building on
research using survey experiments, in part via the ESSEXLab, Johns leads an impact case study
on the evaluation and reshaping of the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
communications and new messaging to identify whether and when the public can be convinced
that giving aid will pay off at home. Their expertise is also regularly sought by the media: e.g.,
Johns on elections in Scotland (BBC Scotland); Bartle and Whiteley regarding Brexit (BBC, ITV,
and Sky).

Political Economy: Using comparative and international perspectives, our research analyses how
politics determines public policies and distributive outcomes within and across societies. We
explore the institutional determinants of policy learning (Duell, Radean), the political role of central
banks (Baerg, Garriga), monetary and fiscal policies of the EU (Aaskoven, Hennessy), the role of
political and business lobbies in climate change negotiations (Genovese), the determinants of
foreign aid (Steinwand), and the relevance of political institutions for mortality during and after
natural disasters (Quiroz Flores, Reinhardt).

Impact: Quiroz Flores is seconded to Essex County Council as its Chief Scientific Advisor reflecting
the unique and extensive collaboration between the Department and Essex Country Council. Duell
and Lown consulted with the NHS health contractor, Provide Colchester, to help them evaluate the
impact of staff training programmes on workplace health and productivity. Reinhardt has worked
with Essex County Fire and Rescue Services, Essex County Council as well as West Suffolk
Council to develop impact evaluation techniques and apply rigorous performance analysis to their
own programme impact evaluations.

Political Institutions: Research focuses on how institutions shape the rules of the political game
and how different combinations of rules lead to a variety of political outcomes. This includes
developing an understanding of the myriad institutional designs in the advanced, industrialised

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
world (Bakker, Carroll, Martin, and Matsuo) and how they lead to different policy outputs (van
Coppenolle, Lee, Leifeld, and Winzen) as well as applying these lessons to the developing world to
help build institutions that lead to stable democratic governments (Kern, Shair-Rosenfield). Notable
contributions have been the extension of the Regional Authority Index, a dataset of subnational
governance and authority covering now 81 countries over 60 years (Shair-Rosenfield);
demonstrating that low transparency and weak institutions cause even apolitical funds to be
distributed on partisan lines with long-term implications for uneven development (Malik), while
corruption shapes the substantive issues that people protest about (Velasco Guachalla).

Impact: Gizelis and Kern lead the impact case study on transforming women’s livelihoods in
challenging environments, detailing Gizelis’ work on gender budgeting and Kern’s extensive
collaboration with the Ugandan Land Alliance in training women’s land rights advocates to
strengthen women’s land rights and empowering female-headed households. Our Anthony King
Chair in Comparative Politics, Martin leads an impact case study documenting collaboration with
the Irish Parliament in developing pre-legislative scrutiny procedures.

Political Theory and Discourse Analysis: Research has focused on social justice and how to
attain it via public policy, examining particularly the opportunities and constraints associated with
discursive strategies. Research interests cover a vast array of topics such as the ethics of
immigration policies and repatriation (Gerver); religious tolerance (Bou-Habib), the ethics of arms
trade (Christensen), justice and ‘big data’ (Axelsen), modes of eliciting democratic accountability
(Montanaro), the image of the ‘sustainable city’ (Howarth), the politics of naming the dead (Lloyd),
and responses to right-wing populism (Glynos). The varied contributions range from developing a
Lacanian post-Marxist approach to social and political analysis (Glynos and Howarth), introducing
the work of Judith Butler to political theory (Lloyd), deepening democratic theory (Montanaro) and
refining the tools of analytical political theory through their application to controversies around
immigration (Gerber), unregulated artificial intelligence (Axelsen), fair trade (Christensen) and
climate change (Bou-Habib).

Impact: Members of the political theory division engage regularly with government agencies, non-
governmental organisations (Montanaro and Gerver) as well as social activists: e.g., Howarth with
activists against aviation expansion, and Glynos’ collaboration with the Democracy in Schools
project.

Future strategic aims and goals

Going forward from 2021, our core goal is to maintain the Department of Government at the
University of Essex as a recognised international centre of excellence via strategically
emphasising:

      innovative field-shaping research, including projects that attract external funding;
      publications in highly visible forums, such as top-tier peer-reviewed journals and major
       university presses;
      strengthening further our doctoral programme to ensure we provide world-class training and
       supervision;
      contributions to academic public goods, including leadership of, and active participation in,
       professional organisations and journals; and
      using our expertise to reach out to policymakers and users beyond the academy to ensure
       that our research has real-world ‘impact’.

We will achieve these goals through the following mechanisms:

      a commitment to the prudent use of staff time, so that administrative and teaching
       workloads are contained, ensuring sufficient time for conducting and supervising research;
      strong support in framing and drafting proposals for external research funding;
      one term’s sabbatical study after six terms’ service;
      financial support for presenting papers at national and international conferences;

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      support and mentoring of junior staff's professional development delivered by senior
       members of the Department;
      actively redressing any gender and BME gaps in representation and recognition of research
       accomplishment;
      using our expertise in rigorous political analysis to generate ‘impact’ through contributions
       to policy debates and engagement with users, attracting research support from private
       enterprises, international organisations and government agencies;
      individually tailored professional development to ensure that academic research remains at
       the cutting edge of theoretical and methodological developments in their subfields,
       including judicious use of the Essex Summer School; and
      continually discussing ideas and findings with colleagues at weekly Department seminars,
       regular sub-disciplinary seminars and workshops, and frequent interdisciplinary seminars
       (organised by, e.g., the CTS, the HRC and ISER), and with colleagues in the other top-
       ranking research departments at Essex (especially Economics and Sociology).

Institutionally, priority developments for the Department include:

      in keeping with the Vice Chancellor’s vision for the Department and confirmed in the current
       University Strategic Plan, growth from 54 to ~70 full-time academic staff, allowing depth
       and width across existing research divisions as well as providing room for interdisciplinary
       and mixed-method research collaborations;
      ongoing commitment to diversity, equality, and inclusivity – valuing all staff equally;
      prioritising the effectiveness of the Grant Capture Officer to support external grant
       applications;
      promoting activities of the methods working groups, established in 2019, to support
       collaboration and methodological pluralism, e.g., mixed methods applying quantitative geo-
       referenced data as well research in the field, predictions and data science, and public policy
       evaluation methods;
      strengthening the visibility and role of the Advisory Board to embed impact and
       engagement in all our research activities;
      introduction of fully structured PhD programme with links to Essex Summer School, Eastern
       Arc (the Eastern Academic Research Consortium of the Universities of Essex, East Anglia
       and Kent), and SeNSS (the ESRC South East Network for Social Sciences DTP);
      developing new research centres while enhancing further the strategic importance of our
       four research centres: Centre for Ideology and Discourse Analysis (cIDA), Michael
       Nicholson Centre for Conflict and Cooperation, Centre on the Politics of Representation in
       Crisis, and the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence, and further embedding collaboration
       with University-wide institutes; in particular, Institute for Analytics and Data Science (IADS),
       Institute for Social Economic Research (ISER), Human Rights Centre (HRC), and
       ESSEXLab.

2. People

Our staffing strategy begins with, and relies heavily upon, attracting global research talent to join
the Department and making Essex a wonderful place to work. We recruit globally to select well-
trained and highly motivated colleagues whose career trajectory shows their potential to contribute
to the international research frontiers of the discipline. Our policies reward and sustain that
ambition. Mentoring of ECRs and encouraging personal development throughout as central
elements of continuous staff development is seen as key to fostering a lasting commitment to the
Department. The Department has a Research Mentoring Programme (RMP), overseen by the
Head of Department, which involves all academic staff. The RMP comprises structured one-on-one
mentoring from a senior staff member, supplemented by a mentoring circle for ECRs (who also
benefit from one-on-one mentoring). All staff at lecturer level are also members of the Junior Staff
Group, which provides peer-support and regular meetings with the Head of Department. The
Junior Staff Group nominates two members to the eight-member Departmental Executive
Committee.


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our researchers are rewarded further through a promotions system which places heavy value on
quality research outputs, grant capture, and service to research and the discipline.

The multiple awards bestowed on individuals and their research attests to the excellence of the
Department’s staff. In 2014, the Department was given the honour of hosting the only Regius
Professorship of Political Science. The position was initially held by Professor Sanders and since
2018 by Professor Gleditsch. In 2014, Gleditsch was recognised as a Highly Cited Researcher
(http://highlycited.com) ranked among the 1% most-cited academics in the Social Sciences.
Academics have won best book awards from the International Studies Association (Gleditsch
2015), the International Geneva Award of the Swiss Network of International Studies (Winzen
2018), the UACES Academic Association for Contemporary European Studies (Winzen 2018).
Montanaro was shortlisted for 2020 C.B. MacPherson Prize in Political Theory for her book Who
Elected Oxfam?. Lloyd was awarded the best article in the Review of International Studies Prize
(2018), and Dr Krauss the Gordon Smith and Vincent Wright Memorial Prize for best paper in West
European Politics (2019). Matsuo was awarded the Best Software Award from the Society for
Political Methodology (2020). Bakker is a member of the Chapel Hill Expert Survey team, which
was given honourable mention in the APSA Lijphart, Przeworski, Verba Data Set Award (2020).
Essex researchers were further recognised for best paper by the Midwest Political Science
Association (Ezrow 2016), the APSA Conflict Processes group (Polo 2019), the Marian Irish Award
for best paper on Women and Politics by the Southern Political Science Association (Kostelka
2019), the David Lake prize for best paper presented at the conference of the International Political
Economy Society (Baerg and Duell 2018), and the Dina Zinnes Award for best graduate student
paper by the International Studies Association (Bormann 2014). Gleditsch, Kirchner (emeritus),
Lloyd, Sanders (emeritus) and Whitely are Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences, while
Whiteley and Sanders are furthermore Fellows of the British Academy.

The Department is highly diverse. In line with our global recruitment strategy, in terms of national
origin, members come from Argentina, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
Greece, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, Romania,
South Korea, Taiwan, and the USA, in addition to the UK. PGR students are similarly diverse. Just
over 20% of the Department research staff self-identify as non-white. Since the REF2014, the
Department has actively sought to redress the gender imbalance in its membership: In the 2014
REF, the Department submitted three women (out of 31, 10%), this time we submit 19 women out
of 54 full-time staff (35%). The female staff of the Department includes two professors, three
readers, and six senior lectures. Ten female members received early permanency and six were
promoted since the REF2014.

Being a ‘young’ Department — 80% of staff is under 45 years of age compared to 60% in the
REF2014 — 10 members of staff had parental leave enabling them to combine caring for young
children with attaining permanency and promotions (in case of maternity leave of Genovese,
Bakaki, and Gerver). Alongside positive action in recruitment and promotion, other initiatives
include an annual Celebrating Women in Political Science workshop to coincide with International
Women's Day and sponsorship of coffee hours within the Department and at international
conferences. In recognition of its policies and achievements to encourage gender inclusivity, the
Department was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze status in 2020. The Department leadership is
committed to ensure the Department of Government is a place where all staff see themselves as
valued members, working together to study and research within a climate of community,
inclusiveness, and integrity. A current Department priority is to employ the Advance HE’s Race
Equality Charter (REC) framework to identify and reflect on barriers facing black and minority
ethnic researchers in the Department.

i.   Staffing strategy and staff development:

The Department has always been committed to a policy of self-renewal. During the REF evaluation
period, a strategic objective was to further expand and diversify the research base of the
Department. Both objectives have been met with the best possible appointments recruited globally.
Since 2014, of the 54 current staff members, 38 have been appointed as professor (2), reader (5),

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
senior lecturer (6), and lecturer/fellow (25). Our new appointees are of the highest quality in their
respective fields: in political behaviour (Kostelka, Lown, Sudulich, and Zur), in political economy
(Aaskoven, Baerg, Duell, Garriga, Genovese, Hennessy, Reinhard, and Steinwand), in political
institutions (Bakker, Carroll, Kern, Lee, Leifeld, Malik, Martin, Matsuo, Park, Shair-Rosenfield, van
Coppenolle, Velasco-Guachalla, and Winzen), in international relations and conflict (Bakaki,
Bormann, Khadka, Liu, Pant, Phillips, Polo, Simon, and Wood) and in political theory and discourse
analysis (Axelsen, D Christensen, Gerver, Lloyd, and Montanaro). Newly appointed lecturers are
all at early stages of their career, but already recognised in the field: Winzen was recognised with
the Young Scholars Award by the Swiss Political Science Association; Kostelka as Etudiant
Chercheur Etoil by the Fonds de Recherché du Quebec; van Coppenolle was given honourable
mention for the Mary Parker Follett prize for best article in politics and history, awarded by the
Politics and History APSA Section (2020), Kostelka was awarded the Mattei Dogan Prize for best
PhD dissertation in Comparative Politics by the Association Française de Science Politique (2017),
and Polo was runner up for the Cedric Smith Prize awarded by the Conflict Research Society
(2015). All new appointees have proven themselves as outstanding researchers with strong
publication records. These appointments will help to maintain our standing for years to come as a
leading political science department in Europe and beyond.

Mentoring and appraisal systems ensure continuing high performance. Pathway to Permanency
lecturers have reduced teaching loads (with teaching capped at 40 contact hours per year) and
senior mentors monitor their teaching and research and advise on career development, at the
same time as reporting on progress to Senior Staff meetings. Early careers staff have a Pathway to
Permanency agreement with their mentor and Head of Department. The Department provides a full
induction to all new members alongside the Professional Development supported at the University-
level. The Department Grant Capture Officer supports members in identifying opportunities for
external funding and draft applications are reviewed internally, with additional support from two
Research Development Managers in the Research and Enterprise Office (REO). Annual appraisals
of staff performance come in meetings with the Head of Department, and through special
assessments by Senior Staff and the Research Director, Head of Department, and Faculty
Executive Dean in connection with permanency, promotion and sabbaticals. A highly selective
recruitment process combined with strong personal mentoring and detailed assessment generally
allows for early permanency (in 7 cases) and/or promotions (in 7 cases).

All members of staff who have been in the Department for the full REF cycle have had at least one
full-year sabbatical. The University has recognised the contributions to research excellence made
by the Department of Government: in 2019, Genovese was awarded Outstanding Early Careers
Researcher and Dorussen Research Champion in the Social Sciences. The University has also
recognised the impact of research by Glynos and Reinhardt in 2018.

The Department fosters a collegiate atmosphere with a host of opportunities to discuss each
other’s ideas and research. There are weekly Departmental Seminars where members and invited
guests get to present their research. Regular specialist seminars organised by the Research
Divisions and Centres offer further opportunities for scholarly exchange. The Centre of Ideology
and Discourse Analysis hosts a biannual international conference. The annual Regius Professor
lecture offers an opportunity to bring world-leading scholars to the Essex campus, allowing
engagement with other parts of the campus and the local community (e.g., Professors King, Box-
Steffensmeier, and Lindberg in recent years). The research divisions meet informally at least twice
yearly, and the Department offers regular opportunities for informal conversations during drink
receptions, meals, or simply (pre-COVID) in the corridors. Discussions over shared interests
encourage co-authorship and are viewed as important elements of mentoring and quality control.
Books, chapters and journal articles are commonly co-authored and approximately 10% of the
output items submitted to the REF2021 are co-authored by members of the Essex Department of
Government. Collaboration also extends to generating impact as demonstrated by three (of the
five) UoA impact case studies submitted.

Members of the Government Department have many opportunities for continuing professional
development. They are entitled to receive free first-class methodological training at Essex Summer

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
School courses, but also regularly teach at the Summer School. They further regularly present their
work to peers at conferences and workshops providing them with feedback and stimuli for
professional renewal. The Department funds attendance at such events when members present a
paper up to £1800 per year (with an extra £1000 for new staff for the first two years). Current
members have presented more than 1000 papers to professional audiences over the last 7 years.

The professional atmosphere of the Department encourages world-leading research, which has
also allowed members of staff to advance their career by moving to other universities. Although
sorry to lose excellent colleagues, the Department appreciates the contribution it has made to the
discipline by former members of staff taking professorial positions at the Vrije Universiteit –
Amsterdam (Professor de Vries), University of Vienna (Professor Plümper), Hertie School – Berlin
(Professor Mikhalov), Strathclyde (Professor Scotto), University of Zürich (Professor Slapin,
Dr Leemann), University of Cardiff (Professor René Lindstädt), Nottingham University (Professor
Landman) and University of Geneva (Dr Dietrich).

Equality and Diversity. The University of Essex has a very clear policy supporting equality and
diversity in relation to both staff and students. Specific objectives are set each year and an annual
report is produced indicating achievements against objectives. The University facilitates flexible
working, has a team of harassment advisers, and trains all staff involved in making appointments in
equality and diversity issues. The Department enthusiastically participates in the University’s
Essential Training Programme with nearly all colleagues having completed modules in Equality
and Diversity Essentials and Unconscious Bias training. All members of staff involved in hiring and
promotion decisions have further completed Coaching for Management and Managing Diversity
training. The Department has its own Diversity Officer (Garriga) and holds Athena SWAN Bronze
status. The Athena SWAN process has helped the Department to strengthen its equality and
diversity policies and practices, which will be taken forward into the next REF period. Mentors and
those carrying out appraisals in the Government Department help to ensure that those whose
research is interrupted for maternity leave or any other reason are fully supported in their return to
research activity. The international background of most members of staff (with just over 20% of
staff members self-identifying as non-white) supports a highly inclusive and culturally diverse
research culture, The University and the Department are committed to the highest standards of
equality and inclusivity in their recruitment and promotion practices.

Maintaining research integrity. The University complies with the Concordat to Support Research
Integrity, and has developed the University Code of Good Research Practice, with overall oversight
provided by REO’s Research Governance and Planning Manager, who ensures compliance with
the code as well as other external legislation and funders’ requirements. The department has a
robust ethics review procedure managed by the Departmental Research Director and by the
central University Ethics Committee and its three Ethics Sub-Committees (ESC). Ethical approval
is secured for all research involving human participants, whether the researcher is an employee or
a research student. The Department provides supports for applicants with the University-led ethical
approval process.

Open research: In line with the University’s approach, we are fully committed to an open research
environment, with institutional resources available for open access to all published research funded
by UKRI. Over the period since 2014, members of the UoA have deposited 550 jouornal articles in
the University’s Institutional Repository (79% of which with green or gold open access). In
addition, research datasets have been deposited in the UK Data Archive.

Outreach and impact. The Department aims to produce research with a demonstrable impact on
and value for society. Members of staff are encouraged to engage with representatives of private,
public and non-profit sectors and to consider opportunities for co-producing and/or translating basic
research. Quiroz Flores is the Scientific Advisor for Essex Country Council. Reinhardt has
collaborated with the Essex Fire and Rescue Service as well as Essex County Council in the
Catalyst Project. The Head of Department, Director of Research and Director of Impact, in
collaboration with the Research Impact team in the REO, identify impact potential early on and
encourage staff to develop impact further. Members of staff are encouraged to make use of

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
opportunities offered via the University Impact Acceleration Account, which has supported projects
supporting urban planning in Southern Africa (Reinhardt), strengthening the role of women in UN
policing (Gizelis), and NGOs’ engagement with UN peacekeeping (Dorussen). Efforts to achieve
impact are recognised in Departmental workload models and staff have been given a reduced
teaching load while developing their impact cases.

ii. Research Students

The Department’s research students are truly central to its research culture. Supervision and
mentoring are shared responsibilities of all staff members, who pay attention to the research
students’ work and comment regularly both in formal and informal settings. Similarly, research
students are encouraged to comment on the work of all members of staff. Co-authorship with PhD
students is encouraged and regularly leads to outstanding publications. The outstanding quality of
research supervision in the Department has been recognised by the University which awarded
Supervisor of the Year to Gizelis (2018) and University Supervisor of the Year to Dorussen (2019).

The Department has a long-standing tradition of providing research training in methodologically
sophisticated and theoretically based analysis. We run a range of MA, MSc and MRes degrees
spanning the discipline, all stressing theoretical and methodological rigour. Since 2016, the
Department of Government (via the University of Essex) participates in SeNSS, which is an ESRC-
funded Doctoral Training Partnership consortium of 10 institutions. In the previous ESRC DTP
funding period, Essex was a single-institution DTP. SeNSS funds about 40 students annually
across the Social Sciences and the ten member institutions, and the Department of Government
has successfully bid for Doctoral funding nearly every year. From 2019, Gizelis has been the
Director of SeNSS. SeNSS has commissioned ARISE consultants (led by Reinhardt) to undertake
scoping research to create a new evidence base to underpin its widening participation strategy.
SeNSS was the first DTP to adopt this approach, making it of value to the wider UK HE sector. The
SeNSS Director (Gizelis) and the report lead author (Reinhardt) have shared SeNSS learning by
presenting the report to the Westminster Higher Education Forum in December 2019.

The Department typically has an intake of over 15 PhD students and over 100 MA students per
annum. Over the period reporting for REF2021, 161 PGR students were registered with the
Department – weighted for registration with multiple supervisors across different UoAs. All
members of staff are actively involved in PhD supervision as (co-)supervisor and/or supervisory
board member. Each PhD student has a named individual supervisor as well as a PhD board
normally including two additional individuals who assess progress at least twice yearly. Junior
members of staff are encouraged to gain supervision experience by becoming co-supervisors. The
Department encourages PhD candidates to submit their dissertations within four years, and over
this REF period out of the 97 PGR students who graduated approximately 74% completed within 4
years. Research students make extensive use of the Essex Summer School to acquire advanced
methodological skills. The quality of our PhD programme is recognised via prizes PGR students
have won for their research, e.g., Dr Katariina Mustasilta won best paper from the Peace Studies
Section at the ISA 2017, and was runner-up for best paper from the Political Demography and
Geography Section at the ISA 2018. Students completing their PhDs during the assessment period
went on to good positions at, e.g., the ETH-Zürich (Dr Böhmelt, Dr Bakaki), Rice University –
Houston (Dr Polo), Arizona State University (Dr Cordell), University of Warwick (Dr Nelson), Brunel
University (Dr Belgioioso), Waseda University – Tokyo (Dr Inata), Durham University (Dr Ari),
Trinity College Dublin (Dr Olar), University of Mannheim (Dr Gonzalez, Dr Lehrer), University of
Zürich (Dr Fenzl), Bocconi University - Milan (Dr Petrova), University of Exeter (Dr Stednitz), and
National Autonomous University of Mexico (Dr. Martinez). Böhmelt, Bakaki, and Polo are former
PhD students who since have re-joined the Department.

As well as the standard provision of desk space and computing facilities, research students are
also supported in giving conference papers through the Department’s research fund. A weekly two-
hour Professional Development Seminar provides first year PhD students with advice on preparing
papers for publication, presenting work at conferences, and the peer-review process, including how
to respond to referee criticisms. Building on our highly successful First-Generation Undergraduate

                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
programme (which includes a pipeline for encouraging and mentoring students interested in
applying for admission to PhD programmes), the Department launched a First-Generation
Emerging Scholar Initiative focused on overcoming barriers experienced by first generation
doctoral students in the academy. Both schemes reflect the Department’s desire to ensure the
political science profession is as inclusive and diverse as possible. The Department’s First-
Generation Initiative is now taken up across the University of Essex.

A weekly Colloquium enables students to present work-in-progress by way of induction into the
Department’s research culture. The International Relations and Conflict Analysis research division
has pioneered using weekly seminars as a forum where PhD students and members of the division
provide feedback on PhD papers and chapters in progress. This model is being adopted across all
five research divisions. Regular specialist workshops are run for graduate students across various
subfields. The Department hosts a fortnightly reading group for early career researchers with a
primary interest in comparative politics: POPE (public opinion, parties and elections) to discuss
work in progress. The Department has a longstanding tradition to run weekly seminars in ideology
and discourse analysis for the PGR/PGT community in political theory. The Centre for Ideology
and Discourse Analysis (cIDA) connects research, education and political practice by actively
involving our MA, PhD students and early career researchers in research projects, hosting
seminars, academic visits and working with other institutions. Within cIDA and with PhD students,
Glynos and Howarth organised two international conferences at Essex in 2017 and 2019. The
Graduate School's Proficio programme offers high-quality advanced skills training through short
courses commissioned and evaluated by the Graduate School and delivered by academics and
experts; all incoming PhD students are given the equivalent of £2,000 each to spend on advanced
training courses of their choice, in consultation with supervisors. A further £500 in Proficio support
is available for conference attendance.

The Department has been home to postdocs or fixed-term lecturers in this period who have gone
on to potentially continuing posts at, e.g., the University of Warwick (Professor Bove), the
University of Florence (Dr Costalli), both initially funded by the European Commission-funded ERC
grant awarded to Gleditsch, and the University of Vienna (Dr Partheymuller and Dr Krauss, funded
by the German Academic Exchange Service).

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The Departmental Research Committee provides the overarching organisational structure to
develop and formulate the Department’s research strategy, to identify and promote funding
opportunities, and to provide a formal link between the Department and the University Research
Enterprise Office (REO). The chairs of the five Research Divisions are ex-officio members of the
Research Committee and are tasked to communicate and discuss strategies, opportunities and
concerns with all staff. The membership of the Research Committee further reflects the diversity
and inclusivity of the Department. The Department has tasked one colleague to serve as Grant
Capture Officer to help identify, encourage, and aid applications for external income as well as to
identify and communicate any concerns or perceived barriers among staff. In addition to holding
one-on-one meetings with all staff each year, and developing a bespoke plan for each staff
member, the Grant Capture Officer organises special sessions focused on particular grant
opportunities.

The Director of Research and the Grant Capture Officer make presentations at each Department
Meeting. Feedback suggests that the role of Grant Capture Officer has increased both the
willingness of colleagues to apply for external grants and our success rate. Over the 2013-2020
period, the average research income spent annually equalled £452K, or 14.3K per FTE. This has
remained largely constant compared to the previous REF period, even though the Department
expanded rapidly during this REF period and accordingly has a relatively large share of ECRs
(31.5%).

Members of the Research Committee provide feedback on proposals and organise mock
interviews when researchers are asked to defend their applications in person. The Head of

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Department, Director of Research and Research Committee decide the allocation of research
incentives schemes. During the REF period, research incentive schemes totalled £136K, where
funding was distributed largely evenly across all research-active staff with additional support for
early-career and/or recently appointed colleagues. Colleagues were given large freedom to decide
on the spending of their research incentive support, where most use it to attend conferences and
workshops in order to communicate their research as widely as possible and improve the quality of
work in progress. The University has further rewarded successful external application via allocating
£181K of generated income to PI and Co-Is. Over the REF cycle, the Department benefitted from
£150K of investment into research infrastructure and strategic incentives allocated via the PVC
Research.

During the current REF cycle, we established a Department Advisory Board. A key role of the
Board is to ensure a flow of ideas between industry (which are taken to include political
organisations such as political parties), institutions (such as local and central government), civil
society (such as interest groups), and businesses (such as social media and polling companies)
and the Department, strengthening impact opportunities and collaboration for our staff and PhD
students.

Since 2013, the Department of Government hosts the only Regius Professorship in Political
Science. The Regius Professorship was originally held by Professor Sanders and since 2018 by
Professor Gleditsch. The Department hosts the Annual Regius Professorship Lecture with
presentations by leading scholars in politics and international studies; apart from the Regius
Professors Sanders and Gleditsch, lectures have been given by Professor Gary King (Director for
the Institute for Quantitative Social Science at Harvard University), Professor Jan Box-
Steffensmeier (Ohio State University, president APSA 2021) and Dr Professor Staffan Lindberg
(Gothenburg University, V-Dem), with support from Sage Publishing and the Department. These
are large events, well attended not just by academic colleagues but by members of the local
community. Weekly Departmental Seminars provide an opportunity for members of staff to present
research ideas and findings and bring in leading outside researchers and practitioners. The
seminars are open to all staff and students and have been going strong for 44 years now.

Between 2013 and 2020 the Department received over £3.1 million research income in external
grants from funding agencies including ESRC, EPSRC (GCRF), European Commission, British
Academy, British Council, Leverhulme, Welcome Trust, HEFCE (Catalyst program), Mind
Association, Aristotelian Society, Robert Bosch Stiftung, and Folke Bernadotte Academy. Members
of the Department have also collaborated on projects based at other host institutions funded by the
European Commission and by national research councils abroad (Norway, USA).

Examples of larger grants involving members of the Department are:

      ‘Business and Local Government Data Research Centre (BLG DRC)’ (Professor Fasli,
       Director of IADS, University of Essex, with Gleditsch, Johns, and Reinhardt as collaborators
       in the Government Department), ESRC, £1.2M
      ‘Connected Communities’ (Reinhardt), European Commission, £369.5K
      ‘EU – Japan Security Cooperation / EU – Asia Networks’ (Dorussen PI / Co-I), European
       Commission, Erasmus+, £110,000 (to Essex)
      ‘Scottish Election Studies 2014; 2016’ (Johns), ESRC, £712K (£95K to Essex)
      ‘Explaining Elite Polarization in European Parliaments’ (Carroll), British Academy, £113K
      ‘Trust is Good, Control is Better: Parliament and the Coalition Government’ (Martin), British
       Academy, £116K
      ‘The British Macro Polity: Ideology and Economics, 1945 – 2010’ (Bartle), British Academy,
       £94K

Bartle, Böhmelt, Carroll and Martin were each awarded British Academy Mid-Career Fellowships,
while Bou-Habib was awarded a Marie Curie Intra-European Fellowship and a Leverhulme
Research Award. During the REF period, members of the Department were awarded a total of 17
BA/Leverhulme Small Research Grants (e.g., Dorussen and Gizelis) among them many by ECRs

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Bakaki, Christensen, Genovese, Gerver, Hennessy, and Kostelka). The Department was the UK
host and partner for the British Academy Newton Fellowship awarded to Dr Maurico Rivera (CIDE
Mexico), with Gleditsch as his mentor on the ‘Explaining the Other Half: The Fall of Violent Crime
in Mexico in the 1990s-2000s’ project. In 2019, in support of the project of Andreas Holzinger,
Dorussen was among the first set of mentors appointed as part of the Charlemagne Prize
Fellowship. In 2018, the University of Essex successfully obtained three years of Global Challenge
Research Funding (£1.2M in total), of which £150,826 was allocated to staff in the Government
Department (Carroll, Dorussen, Genovese, Kern, Phillips, Shair-Rosenfield, and Reinhardt)
allowing them to develop collaborative projects with partners in Colombia, India, Mexico, Uganda
and South Africa.

The Department has encouraged diversification of income streams and, in particular, strengthening
the impact of its research. Support of £3M from the Office for Students (formerly the Higher
Education Funding Council of England) for the Catalyst Project has allowed Reinhardt and
colleagues to assist local authorities to evaluate the impact of public services on vulnerable people.
Working with organisations such as Essex County Fire and Rescue Service and Essex, Medway,
Kent, and Suffolk County Councils, Reinhardt’s team helped build capacity for evaluation that
contributes to evidence-based policy making and decision making. She has developed an
interactive software platform, the Spotlight Toolkit, that aids in evaluation design, and her work has
won impact awards in the fire-fighting industry. The Departmental Director of Impact liaises with
staff across the Department and the wider University community to support impact activities. From
the Impact Acceleration Account, administered by the University, £131,690 was allocated to staff in
the Government Department to develop and enhance impact of their research (Baerg, Dorussen,
Gleditsch, Glynos, Johns, Kern, Martin, Quiroz, and Reinhardt). A further £27k was awarded to the
Department via the PVC Research Strategic Fund and GCRF at Essex to promote impact.
Institutional links with local government have also been strengthened, and Quiroz-Flores has been
seconded as Scientific Advisor to Essex County Council.

Research in the Department benefits from the well-developed infrastructure at the University of
Essex. The REO provides unified and comprehensive support for pre- and post-award external
research grant activity, and for ‘third-stream’ research applications including knowledge-exchange
and commercialisation. The team of Research Development Managers and Knowledge Exchange
Managers in the REO provide expert advice on sources of funding; support with preparing
research proposals; support for faculties in providing opportunities for collaborative-research
brainstorming; training events, some of which are particularly directed towards ECRs; links to
external bodies and research funders. The REO's Research Governance and Planning Manager
also facilitates the development and implementation of research governance and ethics policies
and ensures that research is undertaken in compliance with legislation and funders’ requirements.
Over the REF cycle, the University provided £617K in research support.

The Department's Director of Research and Ethics Officer are responsible for ensuring ethical
practice in the design, conduct and reporting of research, in storing sensitive data and in giving full
credit to all authors. The University Ethics Committee, together with Ethics Officers, provides
training on good research practice and research integrity, and advises staff and students on
research governance and ethics review requirements. All research by Department-based staff and
students involving human participants or personalised information has to be reviewed by the Ethics
Officer, one of the three Ethics Sub-Committees (ESC) and/or the University Ethics Committee for
ethical approval in line with guidelines from the University and funding agencies. The Director of
Research, or the Department Ethics Officer as delegate, in a member of an ESC.

The Government Department also plays a central role in the dense network of research facilities at
the University; to highlight the following:

      Housed within the Government Department, the Essex Summer School in Social Science
       Data Analysis (with Carroll and Baerg as the Directors) provides world-leading social
       science methods training to up to 640 postgraduate research students and early-career
       researchers from over 200 institutions and 40 countries each year. Operating for 53 years,

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       the Summer School offers over 50 courses of specialised instruction from leading
       researchers invited from institutions throughout the world and seeks to foster the academic
       research careers of postgraduate students through intensive methods training, scholarly
       exchange, and professional networking experiences. The Summer School provides a forum
       for members of the Government Department, especially PhD students, to interact with
       leading social science methodologists.

      The EssexLab was launched just prior to the last REF, jointly by the Departments of
       Government and Economics. The EssexLab is one of the largest and best equipped
       experimental labs in the UK. Based in the Government Department, Lown is the Laboratory
       Manager. The EssexLab has 34 workstations with state-of-the-art equipment and software,
       a mobile wireless lab with 34 high-spec tablets and an extensive subject database. It now
       has 14 networked computers fitted with the new iMotions software and is acquiring
       biometric facilities that allow researchers to use GSR, ECG and eye tracking as part of their
       research.

      The Department houses the Jean Monnet Centre of Excellence, which is the focal point of
       expertise and knowledge on the European Union across the University of Essex. During the
       2014 – 2020 period, it has hosted several EU-funded research projects on the EU’s
       external relations with China, Japan and other Asian countries, covering political, security
       and trade issues. The Centre has facilitated exchanges of staff with the University of Kobe
       (Japan) supported by the EU’s Education, Audiovisual and Culture Executive Agency.

      The Department is proud to host the Centre for Ideology and Discourse Analysis (cIDA)
       which is a distinctive transdisciplinary space for research and critical engagement focussing
       on the study of ideologies and political discourses. cIDA maintains close ties with the Essex
       Business School, the Department of Sociology, the School of Law, the Department of
       Literature, Film, and Theatre Studies, and the School of Philosophy and Art History. It
       provides a platform for transdisciplinary collaborations across the departments of the
       University and with other benchmark universities both in the UK and Europe. The Michael
       Nicholson Centre for Conflict and Cooperation and Centre on the Politics of Representation
       in Crisis have similar functions in strengthening ties among researchers based within the
       Department, the University and beyond.

Research of Department staff further benefits from opportunities for collaboration within the Faculty
of Social Sciences – such as the Institute for Social and Economic Research, the UK Data Archive,
and Departments such as Economics, Sociology and the Essex Business School – and the
University more broadly, in particular, the Human Rights Centre based in the School of Law and
the Institute for Analytics and Data Science. The presence of these institutions means that there is
a large pool of expertise that can be consulted and deployed to ensure that research proposals
from Government Department students and staff are developed using the most appropriate
methodological tools and data resources.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The Department of Government has continued to make significant contributions to the research
base of politics and international studies. Essex provides editors to important journals. The
Department hosts the editorial office of the British Journal of Political Science with Johns (lead
editor) and Böhmelt and Bou-Habib (co-editors). Further editorial contributions are made to
Research & Politics (Gleditsch editor; Dorussen, Ezrow, Shair-Rosenfield assoc. editors); Law,
Ethics and Philosophy (Bou-Habib co-editor); International Interactions (Garriga and Gizelis co-
editors); the Journal of Peace Research (Dorussen and Gizelis assoc. editors); International
Studies Quarterly (Philips assoc. editor); Journal of Elections Public Opinion and Parties (Sudulich
assoc. editor); Policy and Politics (Bartle assoc. editor); Psychoanalysis, Culture and Society
(Glynos assoc. editor).

The Department has contributed to the operations of important disciplinary associations. In the

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
period under review, Gleditsch is the president elect of the International Studies Association; was a
member of the board of the American Political Science Association (2016-2019) and headed the
APSA Conflict Processes Section (2014-2016). Dorussen and Gleditsch are board members of the
Network of European Peace Scientists. Genovese is member of the steering committee of the
methodological section of the Italian Political Science Association (MetriSP). Gizelis is chair of the
ISA Political Demography and Geography Section.

Staff also organised major meetings: Gizelis was the program co-chair of the 2018 ISA Annual
Meeting. In 2014, Lloyd was the Academic (co-)Convenor of the Britain and Ireland Association for
Political Thought Annual Conference held at St Catherine’s College (University of Oxford). Martin
was the program co-chair for the Legislative Studies sections of the 2015 Meeting of the ECPR
and of the 112th Annual Meeting of the APSA, 2016; Garriga and Baerg were co-chairs of the
International Political Economy section of the 116th Annual Meeting of the APSA, 2020; Shair-
Rosenfield was the Comparative Politics section chair of the 2020 Annual Meeting of the Western
Political Science Association; Dorussen was the program chair of the International Security section
of the 2017 Annual Meeting of the MPSA, and van Coppenolle of the Comparative Political
Behaviour section of the 2020 Annual Meeting of the MPSA. Reflecting the Departmental interest
in this topic and the large number of ‘First Generation’ staff and PGR students at the Government
Department at Essex, Garriga and Baerg were moderators for the First Generation talk at the 10th
Annual Meeting of the EPSA, 2020.

The EssexLab has become an important platform for widening access and launching large
experimental projects as well as promoting interdisciplinary research. It has been used by
researchers from many UK universities, including, Edinburgh, Bath, Bristol, LSE, Oxford and
Nottingham was well as by researchers from overseas universities such as Bonn, Brown, UC
Davis, EUI, UC Merced, and SHUFI (Shanghai). It has also attracted interest beyond the university
sector, for example from Coast Digital and Essex County Council.

In its 53rd year, the Essex Summer School continues to supply first-class methodological training to
researchers across Europe, and increasingly globally. In collaboration with Externado University
(Colombia), the Summer School has provided training on how data analysis can improve local
governance in Colombia. GCRF funding has provided incoming fellowships enabling early career
researchers from developing countries to attend the Essex Summer School in person. Since 2018,
the Essex Summer School collaborates with Waseda University in running a Summer School in
Tokyo.

The Centre for Ideology and Discourse Analysis and its members have forged numerous links with
other universities and centres across the globe that actively draw on the tradition of ‘Essex School
of Discourse Theory’, including the work of cIDA directors Glynos and Howarth on the ‘Logics
Approach’ to critical social and political analysis. Links have been established with a wide range of
institutions, including CBS (via the Otto Monsted research fellowship award scheme), the State
University of Rio de Janeiro and UFPE, Recife (via the Capes Print Research Fellowship Award
scheme), and the Centre for Women’s and Gender Research, University of Bergen.

The Department Advisory Board further strengthens its commitment to public engagement,
providing strategic oversight and advice, facilitating the development of co-produced research, and
ensuring that research by staff has significant impact beyond the academic context.

Cross-institutional collaboration has been key to many of the research achievements by staff.
Researchers of the Government Department participate in global research networks as shown by
their research output which tends to be co-authored; many of them with scholars based outside the
UK.

Examples of specific cross-institutional collaboration include:

      Bakker is a co-PI on the Chapel Hill Expert Surveys (CHES), and lead PI on CHES
       expansion, which includes surveys in Latin America, North America, and the Antipodes.

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       CHES uses input from experts on political parties to estimate party positioning on European
       integration, ideology and policy issues for national parties in a variety of European
       countries. The CHES team includes scholars from the University of Essex, University of
       North Carolina, Syracuse University, University of Copenhagen, Sciences Po, and the
       University of Zürich. CHEAS has received funding from the Center for European Studies at
       UNC-Chapel Hill, the EU's ERC Advanced Grant on Causes and Consequences of
       Multilevel Governance (No. 249543), the EU's Horizon 2020 research and innovation
       programme EUENGANGE (No. 649281), the Swedish Research Council (No. 2016-01810),
       Riksbankens Jubileumsfond (No. P13-1090:1), Syracuse University's Maxwell School of
       Citizenship and Public Affairs, and the French National Research Agency (ANR).
      Departmental researchers extensively collaborate with Peace Research Institute Oslo
       (PRIO), Norway; e.g., Gizelis has collaborated with Professor Urdal on the Armed Conflict
       and Maternal Health in Sub-Saharan Africa project; Gleditsch is also a PRIO research
       affiliate and collaborated on non-violent mobilisation (funded via two grants of the
       Norwegian Research Council and the ERC grant of the European Commission).
      Gleditsch is contributing to the Conflict and Democratisation in the 21st Century project led
       by the University of Aarhus including PRIO and Uppsala University as further partners.
       Conflict and Democratisation has been funded with a 16M DKK (approx. £2M) Innovation
       Grant from the Danish Research Council.
      Dorussen and Gizelis are longstanding members of the Folke Bernadotte Academy (FBA)
       research networks. Gizelis is part of the FBA research group 1325 which has brought
       together senior and junior academics interested in the systematic study of gender, conflict,
       and peace, based at, among others, PRIO, Uppsala University, SUNY-Buffalo. Dorussen
       and Gizelis were among the five original members of the FBA research group on
       peacekeeping with further members from, among others, NYU, Columbia University,
       Georgetown University, University of Oxford, University of Uppsala, and SUNY-Buffalo.
      Dorussen, in collaboration with Emeritus Professor Kirchner, has organised research
       networks involving scholars across Europe and Asia for their projects on EU security
       relations with China, Japan and Asia respectively. Collaborating institutions include, among
       others, Kobe and Waseda Universities in Japan, Fudan and Renmin Universities in China,
       Nanyang and National University in Singapore, University of Melbourne in Australia, and
       VU-Brussels, Tübingen University, University of Leuven, Institute International Affairs
       (Rome) across Europe. These projects have so far led to two edited volumes (with
       Cambridge University Press and Routledge) and another forthcoming.
      Whiteley has maintained the long-standing collaboration with Professors Clarke and
       Stewart at the University of Texas at Dallas. In the current cycle, it has produced a major
       monograph with another forthcoming on the impact of Brexit. They also regularly contribute
       to The Conversation, reaching a broader public.
      Johns is a founding member of the Scottish Election Studies and has been a co-
       investigator since 2007. The Scottish Election Studies involve collaboration with the
       Universities of Strathclyde and Edinburgh.
      Glynos and Howarth are also active members of the International Research Network
       DeSiRe (Democracy, Signification, Resistance), which formalises a collaborative relation
       between academics at the Free University, Brussels (lead organisation), the Universities of
       Essex and Uppsala, and the Aristotle University, Thessaloniki; the collaboration’s remit is
       critical academic research into the political and democratic nature of societal processes
       with special focus on relevant discursive dimensions.

The Department and the University actively enable researchers to enhance the impact of their
research; a total of £311K was awarded via the University to the Department to promote impact —
of which £16K specifically for knowledge exchange activities. These and further collaborations
have also enhanced the impact of research at the Department via targeting key research uses,
beneficiaries and audiences. Examples of collaboration in generating impact include:

      Dorussen and Gizelis, via their collaboration with the Folke Bernadotte Academy, have
       been able to present their research findings on peacekeeping to stakeholders at the African
       Union, Liberian policymakers, and at the UN.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Gizelis’ collaboration via FBA as well as the Elsie Initiative has led to presentations of her
       research on gender and conflict to meetings of the International Association of Women
       Police (IAWP) in Stockholm and Geneva, UN Police Women in Barcelona, and at the UN
       offices in New York. She has further led gender budgeting workshops in Myanmar.
      Kern has worked extensively with the Ugandan Land Alliance to research the effectiveness
       of advocacy promoting women land entitlement rights. The contacts established by Kern
       enabled Dorussen to successfully apply for a UKRI GCRF / Newton Fund Agile COVID
       Rapid Response grant: GCRF_NF138: Uptake of Public Health Practices for Prevention of
       COVID-19 among Refugees, Pastoralist Communities, Truck Drivers, and Slum Dwellers
       via the EPSRC in partnership with URAA Uganda Reach the Aged Association (officially
       awarded 15 September 2020; £450k).
      Gleditsch, Böhmelt and Chiba have presented their research on conflict prediction to the
       German Ministry of Foreign Affairs and NATO offices in Lisbon.
      Quiroz-Flores and Reinhardt have worked extensively with local authorities. Quiroz-Flores
       is the Chief Scientific Advisor of Essex County Council. Reinhardt has worked with Essex,
       Medway, Kent, and Suffolk County Councils and Essex County Fire and Rescue Service
       (ECFRS) in evaluations of the impact of public services on vulnerable peoples.
      Lown and Duell have consulted with NHS health contractor Provide Colchester on the use
       of social science research methodology to improve staff training programmes on workplace
       health and productivity.

Staff also regularly contributed to media (old and new) to ensure that insights of their research
reach a broad audience: e.g., Whiteley, Dorussen and Quinn have regularly contributed to The
Conversation; Professor Natasha Lindstädt’s contributions to The Conversation have been
particularly successful in reaching large audiences. Reinhardt regularly contributes to CNN, while
Bartle and Whiteley have made regular appearances on the BBC; Johns has commented on
Scottish Elections for STV; Dorussen has commented on matters relating to the EU and Brexit on
XTOTV Enlace Bolivia and the BBC World Service; Kostelka has written a co-ed in Le Monde
following the 2017 French Elections, while Genovese has contributed to Monkey Cage.

To conclude, throughout the seven-year REF cycle, the Department of Government has made
major contributions to our scientific understanding of politics, and also provided important public
goods to the global community of politics and international relations scholars. The Department has
not only strengthened its own research base, but also enriched UK, European and global scholarly
networks. It has contributed majorly to societal discussions and debates enhancing the
effectiveness of policy at the regional, national and global level. The Department has demonstrated
its ability to sustain and grow its research base, putting it in an excellent position to realise its
ambitious plans for future growth. With a continuing and strong commitment to theoretically
informed empirical research, the Department is ready to become even more diverse and inclusive
in terms of its staff, and to opening further to public engagement and new areas of research. The
Department is set to continue generating knowledge that is not only of the highest intellectual
rigour but also has clear and immediate societal relevance. The continued commitment to
research, and the excitement and vitality of the University of Essex Department of Government
remains palpable.




                                                                                             Page 17
