Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: UoA8 Chemistry

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview of context and structure
 Sussex Chemistry is a Subject Group within the School of Life Sciences. Chemistry comprises
 18.3 FTE of REF eligible faculty (including one independent research fellow, Derudas). The
 School of Life Sciences adopts a unified structure with no formalised departments, in order to
 enhance collaborations between the five Subject Groups: Chemistry; Neuroscience; Evolution,
 Behaviour and Environment (EBE); Genome Damage and Stability; and Biochemistry and
 Biomedicine. The research synergy across the School is a particular strength of Sussex
 Chemistry, demonstrated by the establishment of the Sussex Drug Discovery Centre (SDDC) in
 2011, with research spanning medicinal chemistry and biological sciences. The close
 collaborations between subject groups in the School specifically enabled the development of the
 REF2021 impact case study by Prof. E. Hill, focussing on the development of new, highly
 sensitive, mass-spectrometry methods to detect neonicotinoids and other pesticides in
 collaboration with EBE (Prof. D. Goulson).

 REF2014 coincided with a period of restructuring at Sussex, resulting in a disappointing
 performance for Chemistry. In response to this, a new research strategy was implemented
 during the REF2021 period, leading to measurable increases in grant income and to
 demonstrable impacts of research during the current REF period. These improvements have
 been achieved by the implementation of a strategy that has promoted and enabled the
 development of staff appointed in the REF2014 period (Bagley, Spencer, Brown, Vargas,
 Kostakis) and the appointment of new staff at early career (Greenland, Pubill Ulldemolins) and
 more senior (Layfield, B.Cox, Nokhodchi) levels.

 Current and future research strategy
 Current strategy targets three research themes:
     • Organic and medicinal chemistry (including SDDC)
     • Materials and catalysis
     • Fundamental chemical processes and interactions
 The new research strategy has developed excellence in these areas by enhancing inter-
 disciplinary research and collaboration within the School and elsewhere (internal/external to
 Sussex). This strategy has enabled a resilient, sustainable and outward-looking research base in
 Chemistry, while promoting impact generation. Particular strengths of Sussex Chemistry include
 medicinal chemistry/drug discovery, and organometallic chemistry and molecular
 nanomagnetism. Many aspects of this research are aligned with the objectives of University-
 level strategic research programmes, notably the Sussex Programme for Quantum Research
 (Layfield is a member of the SPQR Steering Committee) and the Sussex Sustainability
 Research Programme.

 Organic and medicinal chemistry research includes the development of new drugs (Bagley,
 B.Cox, Pubill Ulldemolins, Spencer, Ward, Derudas); harnessing new and emerging
 technologies for organic synthesis and medicinal chemistry, including flow, thermo-, photo- and
 mechano-chemistry (Bagley, B.Cox, Spencer); new synthetic methods (Bagley, Spencer);
 organic and bio-inorganic catalysis (Spencer, Viseux); and smart polymers, adhesives, bio-
 responsive materials and drug delivery systems (Greenland, Nokhodchi). Strengths in this area
 are demonstrated by the impact case based on Photodiversity, a start-up company at Sussex.
 The company develops complex, sp3-rich, scaffolds and libraries for drug and product discovery
 in the pharma and agrochemical industries, using photochemical synthesis. Other highlights
 include Spencer and Bagley’s research in medicinal chemistry/chemical biology and the award
 of an EU Interreg programme (~£500k at Sussex) in reagentless, green technologies. This grant
 provides substantial investment in novel equipment for flow and mechanochemistry. This area
 has been strengthened by the early career appointments of Greenland (polymer chemistry) and

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pubill Ulldemolins, whose research focuses on designing bioactive peptides as novel
 therapeutics for Alzheimer’s Disease. Bio-organic chemistry research is key to the BBRSC-
 funded South Coast Biosciences Doctoral Training Partnership (SoCoBio DTP), including
 Sussex and led by Southampton, with Spencer supervising PhD students funded by the Centre
 and acting as the industrial liaison.

 SDDC research is central to organic and medicinal chemistry at Sussex. There have been
 changes to the senior personnel in SDDC, with Profs. Ward and Atack moving to Cardiff in 2017.
 Under their leadership, SDDC attracted substantial MRC and Wellcome Trust funding. The
 appointment of Prof. Jeff Hill from Singapore’s A*STAR as the new director (2019) has
 established new leadership. SDDC’s place as an integral element of Chemistry is evidenced by
 a recently funded CRUK grant on which J.Hill and Spencer (Chemistry) are Co-Is, with West
 (Biochemistry) as PI. The appointment of early-career staff (Greenland and Pubill Ulldemolins) in
 Chemistry was also implemented to enhance SDDC collaborations.

 Materials and catalysis research includes inorganic materials (Cloke, Crossley, Kostakis);
 molecular magnets (Layfield); energy materials (Chen, Turner); organometallic chemistry
 (Layfield, Crossley, Cloke); theoretical investigations of new materials and catalysis (Vargas,
 H.Cox); organic and inorganic catalysis (Spencer, Viseux, Cloke, Kostakis); and heterogeneous
 and nanostructured catalysis (Brown, Osborne, Chen). Succession planning in this area,
 following the retirement of Cloke in 2020, was achieved by appointing Layfield to a Chair of
 Inorganic Chemistry in 2018. Layfield holds an EPSRC early career fellowship and an ERC
 Consolidator Grant (CoG) grant and is a world leader in single molecule magnets, demonstrated
 by a recent publication describing the first single molecule magnet to function above liquid
 nitrogen temperatures. This work, led by Layfield, results from an international collaboration
 including scientists from China and Finland. In July 2020, Layfield secured EPSRC funding for
 £743k to further this work.

 Fundamental chemical processes and interactions covers a range of, mainly physical,
 chemistry including surface reactions/interactions applied to astrochemistry (Brown); the
 development of new theoretical methodologies and studies of fundamental chemical physics
 (H.Cox); the exploration of chemical bonding in molecules (Vargas); and single molecule
 spectroscopy with applications to biological imaging and the photochemistry of new
 nanomaterials (Osborne). Reaction mechanisms are also studied computationally and
 experimentally (Brown, H.Cox), as is sensitivity enhancement for NMR spectroscopy, with
 applications to structure determination across a wide range of chemical and biological systems
 (Day). This latter work led to an EPSRC award in collaboration with Osborne. Computational
 collaborations between faculty are growing, with theoretical investigations of properties
 (Kostakis, Vargas), mechanism (Spencer, H.Cox, Turner) and energetics (Brown and Turner)
 complementing experimental work. Nanomaterials (Chen, Osborne) are an important link
 between Chemistry and Physics, and Osborne has synthesised novel perovskite quantum dots
 for 2D nanomaterials for biosensors (with A. Dalton, Sussex Physics). Strengths in this area
 include Osborne’s work on nanocrystals and quantum dots; H.Cox’s work on electron
 correlation, demonstrated by an EPSRC award in collaboration with Manby (Bristol); and
 Brown’s astrochemical surface science work, demonstrated by her leadership of an STFC
 Consortium grant from 2015-2018.

 The new research strategy has led to measurable improvements in research quality since 2014.
 This includes a tripling in the number of funded Chemistry post-doctoral researchers and
 increased grant income, e.g. BIS/BEIS research council funding has more than doubled in the
 current REF period, and competitive charity income has increased more than 20-fold. (Figure 1).
 Increased income has led to improved international visibility, exemplified by increasing
 international collaborations e.g. Brown is part of a multi-national collaboration of chemists,
 physicists and astronomers from the UK, Europe and the USA who have been awarded
 prestigious early release science time on the James Webb Space Telescope, launching in 2022.
 Layfield has many international collaborations with researchers from Finland, China, the USA


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Germany, as well as hosting three Newton research fellows from India and China. B.Cox
 has won funding from the Swiss Innovation fund.




                 Figure 1 Chemistry income by year


 The increasing international visibility of Sussex Chemistry is demonstrated by Figure 2, which
                 Figure 1: Chemistry income by year.
 shows the percentage of outputs involving international collaborators, as a function of publication
 year. The research strategy pursued during the REF2021 period explicitly encourages
 collaborations and this has led to increased collaborations inside, and outside, Sussex.
 Increased focus on impact and a positive shift towards translation of our findings into societal
 impacts is also part of the new strategy. The REF2021 impact case studies based on (1) the
 harmful effects of neonicotinoid pesticides on bees and (2) automated and photochemical
 methods for the synthesis of biologically active molecules, clearly demonstrate the success of
 this strategy. The first of these, by E.Hill, highlights the way that sophisticated, highly sensitive,
 analytical chemistry techniques have been used to detect neonicotinoid pesticides in plants,
 leading to the banning of these pesticides by garden centres to protect bees. The second impact
 case, by B.Cox, shows how automated chemistry methods can be used to generate new
 molecules with enhanced activity e.g. as anti-malarial drugs.

 The new research strategy aims to create a resilient, flexible research environment, which has
 been demonstrated clearly during the 2020 COVID-19 pandemic. Research laboratories were
 re-opened and fully functional by the end of July 2020, with safety measures in place, allowing
 research to restart quickly and efficiently. The adaptability of our researchers is demonstrated by
 Spencer and Greenland who have both played essential roles in COVID-19 research. Molecules
 synthesised by Spencer’s group have been tested as part of the COVID-19 Moonshot project.
 Spencer’s group received a Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) award and
 Sussex COVID-19 Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) emergency funds for this research.
 Greenland’s group are actively working on anti-viral polymer coatings for surfaces, partly HEIF
 funded.

 Our future research strategy targets four areas:
    • Medicinal chemistry/drug discovery for applications in cancer and dementia therapy
    • Inorganic materials, particularly single-molecule and nanomaterial applications in
        magnetism, energy conversion and optical spectroscopy
    • Green chemistry and catalysis
    • Fundamental chemical processes and interactions



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The further development of medicinal chemistry and drug discovery is enhanced by increased
 Chemistry collaborations with SDDC, following J.Hill’s appointment. Pubill Ulldemolins is also
 building her new research group, targeting peptide-based treatments for Alzheimer’s Disease
 and cancer, and Spencer continues to develop new collaborations e.g. a new collaboration with
 Giamas (Biochemistry) has recently led to the launch of a spin-off company, Stingray Bio Ltd.,
 targeting cancer treatments.




                      Figure 2 Output percentage involving international
                                collaboration (Scopus, 12/20).


 The development of inorganic materials research includes Layfield’s expansion into new areas
 of molecular magnetism, such as the preparation of host-guest composite materials consisting of
 single molecule magnets encapsulated in metal-organic frameworks, as well as Crossley’s
 planned development (funded by EPSRC) of new molecular-scale electro-active components for
 conductors and devices used as organic light emitting diodes.

 Green chemistry and catalysis will be developed by the further formation of industrial links in
 heterogeneous and green catalysis, building on the successful Interreg programme in
 reagentless, green and sustainable technologies. Faculty members already have collaborative
 agreements or NDAs with industries in the steel, petrochemical, energy and financial sectors,
 e.g. new research concerning novel automotive catalysis is under development by Turner, with
 collaborators at the University of Brighton and Ricardo Ltd. Chen is well placed to enhance his
 research in the area of photo-catalysis, with recent results showing excellent photocatalytic
 water splitting by ZnO nanorods. A recent PhD graduate from Chen’s group, Dr D.
 Commandeur, was awarded the inaugural School of Life Sciences Latitude prize for Sustainable
 Development for this work, recognising contributions aligned with UN sustainable development
 goals. These emerging areas in Sussex Chemistry will be enhanced by supporting and
 encouraging collaborations within Sussex, the UK and internationally, and with industry.
 Collaboration is important in its own right to broaden the science base. However, for a small
 Department like Sussex collaboration is vital as it provides a platform for wider economic,
 societal and scientific impact. It also increases the visibility and reach of Sussex research
 nationally and internationally.

 Finally, the fundamental processes and interactions topic continues to build on strengths in
 physical and theoretical Chemistry. Whilst already strong, a specific aim is to appoint a member
 of staff in electrochemistry, to expand our capabilities in physical chemistry. The success of this
 strategy will be measured by continued increases in research grant income and by increased
 numbers of post-doctoral and PhD researchers, and publications.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact strategy
 We have also implemented a new strategy to translate research findings into societal impacts.
 The strategy focuses on encouraging researchers to work with industry and/or to develop spin-
 outs that translate our science into demonstrable impacts, whilst also using Public Engagement
 to disseminate research. Chemistry has a strong, well-developed, portfolio of Public
 Engagement, enhanced by the School appointment of a dedicated Public Engagement
 Coordinator, funded by the University and the Wellcome Trust. Events provide a public platform
 to show how our research benefits society. Sussex chemists have participated in events
 including Soapbox Science in Brighton, The Big Bang Fair (South East) and the Brighton
 Science Festival, as well as receiving many invitations to speak at schools across the region.

 The success of our strategy for translating research into societal impacts is demonstrated by the
 impact cases submitted to REF2021. The first of these shows how the development of sensitive
 mass-spectrometry techniques by E.Hill allowed a demonstration of the detrimental effect of
 pesticides on the bee population. This research culminated in a campaign by Friends of the
 Earth to persuade ten of the biggest UK garden centres to commit to removing neonicotinoids
 from their plants. The second impact case arises from a collaboration with the University of
 Bristol, supported by the Sussex Innovation Centre, which led to a start-up company,
 Photodiversity, created by B.Cox and Kevin Booker-Milburn (Bristol). Cox’s work focusses on the
 design and synthesis of sp3-rich screening libraries using photochemistry and high-throughput
 automated synthesis. Photodiversity has secured contracts with leading Pharma companies,
 biotechs and developing world disease drug development charitable organisations to make drug
 libraries to be tested for treating a range of diseases. The network of SMEs, developed through
 the Labfact Interreg programme, is also being enhanced with the Sussex Innovation Centre and
 the Knowledge Transfer Network, with the goal of securing translational funding from Innovate
 UK.

 Plans are in place for developing future impact. For example, Spencer is researching Niemann-
 Pick disease and has recently started a new collaboration with Goulson (EBE) looking at the
 transfer of harmful insecticides to birds. He is also working with Prof. T. Moore (Biochemistry) on
 antifungal agents supporting Moore’s spin-off, Alternox. Greenland is working on the
 development of degradable adhesives with a range of potential applications, and has recently
 published some of the research with collaborators at the Atomic Weapons Establishment (AWE).
 Layfield and Cloke have initiated discussions with the AWE relating to chemical applications of
 depleted uranium. Key to the implementation of our future impact strategy is an awareness of
 the importance of societal impact by providing support to faculty to pursue and develop impact
 wherever relevant. To this end, the School now has a dedicated impact champion, Prof. Paul
 Graham (EBE), whose role is to help researchers to nurture and develop impact cases.

 Open research strategy and ethics
 Research data management and dissemination are outlined by University policies. Researchers
 are encouraged to disseminate raw data through the University’s fileshare policy and through
 publication in open access journals. All publications are submitted to the University repository
 Elements, formerly Sussex Research Online, within 3 months of acceptance and funding is
 available for open access publication charges. All Chemistry REF-eligible staff have an ORCID
 identifier. The School of Life Sciences is contributing to development of policies to embed the
 principles of the Declaration on Research Assessment in the career progression of researchers.
 All postdoctoral fellows are trained in ethics, and the School has a dedicated ethics committee to
 scrutinise research proposals.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy
 To support our research strategy, there has been significant investment in new members of staff
 since 2014, which has allowed a >20% increase in staff from 14.4 (2013/14) to 18.3 FTE
 (2019/20). The appointments of Greenland, B.Cox and Pubill Ulldemolins were made to support
 Organic and Medicinal Chemistry, and in B.Cox’s case the impact strategy. These appointments

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support our aim to encourage collaborations within Sussex and outside. Layfield’s appointment
 allowed succession planning for the Chair of Inorganic Chemistry and contributes to the
 strengthening research in Inorganic Materials and our international profile. Crossley’s
 appointment was also made to support the Inorganic Materials strategy. Crossley was a Royal-
 Society URF and his position was made permanent in 2016, following his successful URF
 tenure. Previous School strategy was to appoint at Senior Lecturer level or higher. This has
 been revised and early career staff are now appointed, with support, mentoring and training to
 develop and nurture their academic careers and promotion prospects. Appointments since 2014
 are:

  Name                              Area                                     Date
  Prof. Brian Cox                   Organic chemistry/pharmacy               November 2014
  Prof. Ali Nokhodchi               Chemistry/pharmaceutics                  December 2014
  Dr. Ian Crossley                  Inorganic chemistry                      October 2016
  Dr. Mohammed Maniruzzaman         Chemistry/pharmaceutics                  July 2017
  Dr. Barnaby Greenland             Polymer chemistry/drug delivery          September 2017
  Prof. Richard Layfield            Inorganic/organometallic chemistry       May 2018
  Dr. Cristina Pubill Ulldemolins   Organic/medicinal chemistry              November 2018

 The research strategy in the REF2021 period has led to the award of more grants with post-
 doctoral researchers funded on those grants. This has led to growth in the number of research-
 only staff. Excluding SDDC, the number of Chemistry post-doctoral researchers has increased
 since 2014 (rising from 3 in 2014/15 to 9 in 2019/20). Total numbers of post-doctoral staff within
 Chemistry and SDDC were 29 (2014/15), 27 (2015/16), 14 (2016/17), 12 (2017/18), 13
 (2018/19) and 12 (2019/20). Fluctuations in numbers have arisen due to the movement of SDDC
 activities from Sussex since Ward left in 2017. It is expected that numbers will increase again
 following the appointment of J.Hill as the new SDDC director. Recently, a number of Newton
 International Fellows (currently four, compared to none previously) have been awarded grants to
 come to Sussex, as part of our increasing international profile. One of these fellows in the
 Layfield group was recently appointed to an Assistant Professor position at the IISER Tirupati in
 India. A Marie Curie Fellow in the Layfield group was also recently appointed as a Professor at
 Sun Yat-Sen University in China, and his work at Sussex was recognised by the inaugural
 Rising Star Award of the Asian Conference in Molecular Magnetism.

 Staff development
 Early career faculty are appointed a mentor who is a senior member of staff with research and
 teaching experience. Their role is to help the new appointee to develop their skills in grant
 writing, research group management and PhD supervision. Whilst the mentor’s role is formal,
 and is required by University procedures, Chemistry also assigns new faculty a “buddy”. Their
 role is to help the new appointee navigate University systems in an informal way. Buddies
 arrange regular meetings with new faculty. All new faculty attend compulsory University training
 courses including those covering the preparation of grant proposals, PhD student supervision
 and research management and planning. For all faculty, grant proposals are read by two “critical
 friends” whose role is to provide constructive feedback, improving the quality of submissions. A
 measure of the success of these activities is shown by the increase in research income during
 the current REF period (Figure 1).

 Staff performance is reviewed in the annual appraisal system. Appraisal is a developmental and
 supportive process, with discussions focusing around how faculty can build on and improve their
 performance and experience in particular areas. Within Chemistry, discussions also focus on
 what faculty need to do to be successful in the University promotions exercise. A number of
 promotions have been achieved since REF2014: Spencer and H.Cox were promoted to
 Professor in 2016 and 2018 respectively, and Day, Chen and Viseux were promoted to Senior
 Lecturer. More recently, Chemistry has begun a series of further staff development activities,
 with a research away day taking place in January 2019, and a further one planned for Summer
 2021. These activities complement the annual School Away Day, in which Chemistry fully
 participates.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Post-doctoral researchers are included in the appraisal system, with appraisals carried out by
 their supervisor. The aim is to help these researchers to achieve career progression. The
 University and the School run various events for post-doctoral researchers, and within the
 School a specific member of staff has the role of overseeing these activities. Each subject group
 has a coordinator so that all post-doctoral researchers know who to contact if they would like to
 attend or organise an event. The School and University regularly holds sessions for researchers
 who are considering applying for externally funded fellowships, with support, advice, mentoring
 and peer review of proposals offered at every step. Since arriving at Sussex in 2018, Layfield,
 along with colleagues in the School of Mathematical and Physical Sciences and the School of
 Informatics, has initiated an annual University-level Early-Career Fellowship training workshop,
 resulting in an increase in the number of Sussex applications for major research fellowships.

 Training and supervision of PhD students
 PGR numbers (registered FTEs) were as follows during the current REF2021 period: 2013/14 =
 40; 2014/15 = 40; 2015/16 = 45; 2016/17 = 37; 2017/18 = 32; 2018/19 = 28; 2019/20 = 27. Per
 head of faculty, numbers average around 2 PhD students. PGR numbers have reduced since
 2013/14 due to the relocation of Ward to Cardiff. Funding for PhDs has traditionally come from a
 combination of School-funded studentships, and the EPSRC DTG allocated to the University,
 and in one case the STFC (studentship for Brown, September 2019). The School of Life
 Sciences was recently successful in bidding for a BBSRC DTP (SoCoBio, led by Southampton),
 and chemists can apply for studentships from this DTP. We have been successful in obtaining
 full/part funding for PhD studentships from industry, with funding being provided from Tocris
 Cookson (full iCASE, EPSRC), GlaxoSmithKline (full iCASE, EPSRC), and Astra Zeneca (one
 CASE, one full iCASE, EPSRC). We have also been successful in sourcing charity funding for
 PhD positions including from Worldwide Cancer Research (part funding), the Songbird Survival,
 DEFRA and the Leverhulme Trust. A relatively large number of International PhD students study
 in Sussex Chemistry, with researchers funded by the Thai, Nigerian, Chinese, Libyan, Saudi
 Arabian, Iraqi and USA governments all having studied for a PhD during the REF2021 period.
 Furthermore, EU funding in the form of an Interreg programme supports four PhD students over
 four years, EU Horizon RISE provides part-funding (Spencer) and Layfield’s ERC grant supports
 three PhD students. These funding streams have enabled us to keep the number of PhD
 students at a healthy level. PhD completion rates are excellent, with the percentage of students
 submitting within 4 years being 90% (14/15); 100% (15/16); 92% (16/17); 90% (17/18) and 100%
 (18/19).

 PhD students are assigned a primary and secondary supervisor. The second supervisor role is
 primarily pastoral, but they also provide research guidance as appropriate. In 2016, Sussex
 introduced Thesis Committees for PhD students, with the aim being to help and support students
 towards the successful and timely completion of their PhD. The Chair of a student’s thesis
 committee is their second supervisor, with three other faculty members serving on the
 committee. Students have two thesis committee meetings in year 1, and further meetings in
 years 2 and 3. The first meeting in year 1 is to ascertain that the student has settled in and is
 making good initial progress and knows what the aims and context of their research are. All
 other thesis committees are accompanied by a written report, detailing progress to date. Reports
 on thesis committee meetings are approved by the Chemistry Doctoral Convenor (Kostakis) and
 are signed off by the School Director of Doctoral Studies. In this way, thesis committees ensure
 that students are making good progress, with the aim of catching any difficulties early, allowing
 the necessary support to be put into place if required. PhD students are expected to give an oral
 presentation within Chemistry in their final year, to give them experience in presenting their
 research to a broad audience. Students also give pre-viva talks on the day of their oral
 examination, summarising their work to the whole subject group. The success of this system is
 clearly demonstrated by our excellent PhD completion rates.

 PhD students undergo compulsory safety training and are strongly encouraged to attend the
 wide portfolio of training courses offered by the Sussex Doctoral School, covering areas such as
 thesis writing, time management and CV writing. PhD student pastoral support is primarily via

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the secondary supervisor and the Chemistry Doctoral Convenor. More directed support is
 available via the School Director of Doctoral Studies and the Sussex Student Life Centre. The
 University of Sussex Doctoral School is involved in a project to monitor and support the mental
 health of Doctoral students (called U-Doc) and hence excellent support in this area is readily
 available for PhD students.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 We have an international faculty, with a third of academic staff from outside the UK including
 Asia (China, Iran) and Europe (Spain, France, Greece). The School of Life Sciences holds an
 Athena Swan Silver award, demonstrating the commitment of the School to Equality, Diversity
 and Inclusion (EDI), and most recently the School has written and adopted a Race Equity Action
 Plan. Key priorities of this plan include monitoring and improving staff training around issues of
 cultural awareness, diversity and unconscious bias, an overhaul of recruitment literature and
 practices, addressing the lack of BAME role models in academia, increasing the low numbers of
 BAME PhD students, and remedying the BAME awarding gap.

 The School’s Silver Athena Swan award was renewed in 2019, with two members of Chemistry
 faculty participating in the renewal. The University has a Deputy Pro-Vice Chancellor for Equality
 and Diversity who heads up the EDI unit. This unit has set up support networks for BAME and
 LGBT+ staff, holding a range of events and raising awareness about issues affecting these
 groups. The University has published a new Dignity and Respect policy, which is fully integrated
 into our working culture. As part of this, the School has created a Code of Conduct for meetings,
 a campaign around email etiquette, and has instigated compulsory EDI training for all staff. The
 School also has a Support Network, of which Brown is a member. This network is available for
 all members of the School to raise any dignity and respect issues. Members of the network are
 trained in mediation, as well as in supporting others. The University has introduced a new
 flexible working procedure, with two Chemistry faculty members using this to help with child-care
 arrangements.

 The EDI agenda is embedded within everything that we do. The Chemistry subject chair is
 female (Brown) and there are now three female faculty, of whom two are Professors. This is a
 big increase since REF2014: until Brown joined Sussex in 2013 there was only one female
 Chemistry faculty member. The most recent Chemistry appointment (Pubill Ulldemolins) is
 female. However, it is clear that gender parity within Chemistry has not yet been achieved. This
 is not a Sussex-specific phenomenon, as demonstrated by the 2019 RSC study of the chemical
 sciences diversity landscape. In terms of ethnic diversity, 16% of faculty have declared that they
 belong to a BAME background. Care is taken in the wording of job adverts to proactively
 increase diversity of staff by using inclusive language, e.g. through the use of gender decoder
 software and by advertising all posts on the BBSTEM website. Interview panels across the
 School, at all levels, must have gender and ethnic balance. All staff who undertake interviews
 must attend the University’s Unconscious Bias and Equality and Diversity training courses.

 Equalities impact assessment of REF submission
 An assessment of the equalities data for REF outputs shows that 25% of all staff are female,
 whereas 15.8% of female staff made REF submissions. This disparity is largely due to the
 number of female post-doctoral researchers in Chemistry, who are not yet research-
 independent. All female staff on academic teaching and research contracts have made REF
 submissions, including one early career member of staff. 20% of all staff declare their ethnicity
 as BAME, and the REF submission consists of submissions from 15.8% who declare
 themselves as BAME. There is an over-representation of staff aged over 50 in REF
 submissions, who formed 47.4% of REF submissions but only 27.5% of all staff. This
 discrepancy can be explained by seniority – it is more likely that senior staff submit to REF than
 junior (especially post-doctoral) researchers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The strategy for Chemistry has led to a significant improvement in research income during the
 REF2021 period. This is clearly demonstrated by a doubling of overall research income in the
 current period (£10,399,618), compared to the previous REF period (£5,116,567). Areas in
 which research income has particularly improved includes BIS Research Council and Royal
 Society income (increased by 120% since last REF period) and UK based charity income
 (increased to £5.3M compared to £248,592 in REF2014), (see Figure 1).

 Chemistry obtains research funding from a wide range of sources including the research
 councils, EU, charities and industry. Chemistry has also been successful in obtaining time on
 central facilities, such as NSCCS and FELIX (the free electron laser in Nijmegen, The
 Netherlands). Noteworthy grants to Chemistry during the REF period include EPSRC funding
 (Cloke, Kostakis, Spencer, Crossley, H.Cox, Day, Layfield); an STFC Consortium grant (led by
 Brown); MRC funding (Ward) and EU funding via an Interreg grant (led by Bagley) and an ERC
 Consolidator award (Layfield). Layfield has also been particularly successful in obtaining Royal
 Society Newton Fellowships, and has obtained several grants for overseas researchers to work
 with him at Sussex during the current REF period. Chemistry PIs have also been very successful
 at obtaining funding from charities including Great Ormond Street Hospital, Niemann-Pick
 Research foundation, Worldwide Cancer Research, Songbird Survival and the Leverhulme Trust
 (all Spencer); Action on Hearing Loss (Derudas); and the Wellcome Trust (Ward, Spencer,
 Derudas). B.Cox has also recently set up a company in conjunction with the Universities of
 Sussex and Bristol, Photodiversity, and has been successful in achieving major investment in
 this company. This latter success story forms the basis of one of our impact cases. Chemistry
 faculty have also been very successful in obtaining internal Sussex Research Development
 Funding to pump-prime future grant applications, with funds having been awarded to Brown,
 Kostakis and B.Cox during the REF period.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 Sussex has a wide range of excellent equipment to enable research within Chemistry, the SDDC
 and within the School of Life Sciences. This includes facilities for X-ray diffraction, NMR
 spectroscopy and mass spectrometry. TEM equipment is available for use by Chemists within
 the School of Life Sciences. Sussex has excellent facilities to perform small-molecule single
 crystal X-ray diffraction studies at ambient and cryogenic temperatures, including a rotating
 anode instrument for small and weakly diffracting crystals. The single crystal diffraction suite is
 run by a dedicated technical officer who provides support, advice and training to researchers.
 For NMR, Chemistry is well-equipped with three spectrometers operating at 400, 500 and 600
 MHz, equipped with multinuclear probes allowing the study of a wide range of conventional and
 unconventional nuclei and experiments. The 400 and 500 MHz instruments are available on an
 open access basis to support inorganic and organic chemistry respectively. The 600 MHz
 spectrometer has 4 channels and is equipped with a triple resonance probe to support biological
 NMR spectroscopy. NMR is managed by a dedicated member of faculty (Day) who also
 undertakes research into NMR methodology. Mass spectrometry at Sussex is well-equipped and
 comprises 9 instruments. Of particular note are the facilities for electron impact ionisation,
 chemical ionisation and desorption chemical ionisation, liquid secondary ionisation mass
 spectrometry, matrix assisted laser desorption, electro-spray ionisation, and atmospheric
 pressure ionisation which allow-high sensitivity detection of a very broad range of samples. The
 mass spectrometry suite is run by a dedicated member of staff, Dr Alaa Abdul-Sada, whose
 expertise is regularly called upon to perform spectroscopy on difficult-to-detect samples. Abdul-
 Sada’s expertise was instrumental in the high-sensitivity detection of neonicotinoids in
 pesticides, described in one of the Chemistry impact cases arising from research conducted by
 Prof. E. Hill. Abdul-Sada is also involved in the novel therapeutic detection of molecular markers
 in cancer patients. Mass spectrometry at Sussex also has a unique facility for accurate high
 resolution mass spectrometry on highly air-sensitive organometallic compounds.

 Sussex Chemistry also has a wide range of highly specialist research equipment. Use of, and
 training on, this equipment for users outside of the individual research groups is encouraged and
 the School has recently compiled a database for exactly this purpose. Examples of some of the
 more unique equipment includes equipment for metal-vapour synthesis; ReactIR; Flash Vacuum

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Pyrolysis; glove boxes for handling air-sensitive compounds, including one box with FTIR
 capability; ultra-high vacuum apparatus for high sensitivity surface science investigations;
 equipment for flow-chemistry and mechanochemistry; a peptide synthesiser; dedicated
 microwaves for microwave-mediated synthesis; and facilities for fluorescence correlation
 spectroscopy and total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy. Unique and state-of-the-art
 equipment is also available in the automated parallel synthesis laboratory. This facility is
 equipped to industry standard using cutting-edge robotic liquid handing, purification and
 evaporation. The equipment was purchased from Novartis UK in 2014. This laboratory enables
 the potential production of 250+ compounds per week, allowing for the highly efficient synthesis
 of chemical libraries with a range of applications (see B.Cox impact case).

 The University of Sussex provides a centrally managed high-performance computing (HPC)
 environment into which research teams can add computer nodes and storage dedicated to their
 needs. Chemistry faculty make good use of this HPC environment and several of the faculty
 have purchased dedicated computer nodes on the HPC. Many of the high quality
 theoretical/computational research outputs from Sussex are dependent on this environment.
 Sussex IT Services (ITS) are currently developing a future strategy ‘Ahead of the Digital Curve’.
 With guidance from the HPC User Group (which has Chemistry representation), the ITS
 Research Support team are designing an engagement plan that includes an ‘Enabling Research’
 technology strategy and roadmap to support future research across the University.

 A number of refurbishments and investment in high-quality laboratory space for Chemistry have
 taken place since 2014, many linked to the appointment of new staff. When B.Cox joined Sussex
 in 2014, specialist laboratory space housing facilities for parallel synthesis was provided. The
 total cost of this refurbishment was £140k, funded by the Sussex Development fund (SDF).
 Investment in high quality specialist laboratory space for Nokhodchi in 2015 was also provided,
 again via the SDF, with high specification facilities for pharmaceutical research being provided.
 The total cost of this investment was £16k. More recently, in 2018, refurbishments were
 undertaken to make a dedicated glove box room for Layfield’s research group, at a cost of £45k,
 following their move to the Sussex from Manchester in 2018, borne by the School. The most
 recent refurbishment has provided a dedicated emerging technology laboratory for Interreg PhD
 students, providing facilities for mechanochemistry and flow chemistry, at a cost of £120k. This
 refurbishment was also funded by the School of Life Sciences.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our research has a strong collaborative ethos in which all members of staff are engaged in
 projects at local, national and international levels. Collaborations span academia, industry and
 other sectors of the research base. Many projects have formal support from grant-awarding
 bodies or the private sector, whilst some of our most successful joint ventures are more informal.
 The reach and significance of collaborative research is reflected in the quality of the outputs,
 many of which are highly cited and have been published in high quality, top ranking, journals.
 The prominence of collaborative research reflects the quality of the expertise offered by
 individual members of staff and reflects the outward looking nature of Sussex research. Many of
 the collaborations demonstrate strong contributions to the economy and society, such as that
 exemplified by the two impact cases from B.Cox and E.Hill.

 Collaborations within organic and medicinal chemistry
 The medicinal and organic chemistry research theme provides many opportunities for industrial
 collaboration. Current links and active funded research are in place with Tocris Biosciences,
 GlaxoSmithKline and previously Oxford Nanoreportech and Astra Zeneca (all Spencer).
 Greenland has several consultancy agreements in place in the area of organic and medicinal
 chemistry with Bramble Ventures looking at drug delivery, brewery techniques and extraction
 technologies; with EcoBubble in the area of chemical analysis and swelling studies; with Athos
 Medical technology Ltd looking at new delivery systems for inhaled drugs; and with Aliaxis
 investigating the synthesis of degradable adhesives. Organic and medicinal chemistry research
 at Sussex has also led to two patents being filed in the areas of new iron chelators (Spencer)

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and breast cancer prototypical drugs (Spencer with Giamas, Biochemistry). All of these
 demonstrate our contribution to economic and societal impact.

 The position of Chemistry as a unit within the School of Life Sciences also helps to facilitate
 collaborations with biologists which are of clear societal benefit with respect to curing/prevention
 of disease. This includes collaborative research into chemical aspects of cancer and other
 diseases. Here Spencer has a number of collaborations including two two-year grants from
 Worldwide Cancer Research to investigate “rescue molecules” for the tumour suppressor P53,
 which plays an important role in preventing the spread of cancer. This project has collaborators
 at the Cambridge Laboratory of Molecular Biology (Prof. Sir Alan Fersht FRS) and at the
 Structural Genomics Consortium in Frankfurt (Dr Andreas Joerger), and several influential
 papers have resulted from this project. Spencer was also the PI on an EPSRC project to
 investigate molecules that can be used as treatments for melanoma. This project involves the
 Diamond Light Source and SGC with Co-Is (Profs Frank von Delft, Diamond Light Source and
 Paul Brennan, Oxford) and partners (Tocris Biosciences and California Pacific Medical Centre),
 and including the melanoma expert Dr David De Semir. Spencer has also received funding from
 the Niemann-Pick Research Foundation to work alongside Prof. Fran Platt (Oxford
 Pharmacology) on Niemann-Pick type C disease. This project has resulted in several important
 publications and has led to studies in other areas of metal dyshomeostasis, including
 manganese overload. The manganese research is now supported by a Great Ormond Street
 grant with Dr. Karin Tuschl (UCL) and related NPC work is supported by an EU Horizon 2020
 RISE grant involving partners in Romania, Israel, Portugal and Chile, as described in a recent
 paper. In addition to his external collaborations, Spencer is Co-I on a Wellcome ISSF project and
 co-supervises a post-doctoral researcher in the group of Moore (Sussex Biochemistry) funded
 by the SDF and supporting a Sussex spin-off, Alternox Technology. To further strengthen our
 activities and collaborations in chemical biology, we have recently appointed Dr Cristina Pubill
 Ulldemolins to a lectureship in synthetic Chemistry. Pubill Ulldemolins joined Sussex from the
 University of St Andrews and continues to collaborate with colleagues there on the treatment of
 Alzheimer’s disease.

 Other areas of organic chemistry research at Sussex also benefit greatly from collaborations that
 increase the societal impact and reach of the research. A significant volume of organic chemistry
 research at Sussex is accounted for by an Interreg grant, funded by the EU ERDF scheme. Led
 by Bagley, Interreg is a French-English partnership focused on the Channel region with
 substantial contributions from both academia and industry. Trans-national EU cooperation is at
 the heart of the project, particularly with regards to improving the competitiveness and R&D
 capability of SMEs and chemical manufacturing in the region. This contributes strongly to the
 local economy around Sussex. Partner institutions include Sussex, Southampton, Pareon
 Chemicals, Caen University, Ensicaen, Rouen University and the CNRS. The project enables
 joint funding and exchange of students, staff and technology, with provision for trans-national
 training and knowledge exchange.

 Organic chemistry research at Sussex also extends to materials and polymer chemistry, with the
 recent appointment of Greenland bringing further collaborations in this area, many of which lead
 to research with societal benefit. For example, the AWE funds research in Greenland’s group
 focusing on making novel ‘energetic’ binders or glues. Greenland’s research on polymers
 produced from sustainable sources is also supported by funding from EPSRC’s Directed
 Assembly Network and involves a collaboration with Prof. M. Shaver (Manchester). Greenland’s
 work also extends to rheological studies in collaboration with Prof. Clive Siviour (Oxford
 Engineering), with a range of joint publications. Greenland’s more recent collaborative work on
 de-bonding adhesives received extensive media coverage because of its potential to reduce
 waste and allow better recycling, clearly of enormous societal benefit.

 Collaborations within inorganic chemistry
 Organometallic chemistry has been a world-leading area of research in Sussex since the
 inception of the department and remains a major activity. Cloke’s work on f-element-mediated
 small-molecule activation has involved important contributions from computational chemists in

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the UK (Prof. Jenny Green, Oxford) and France (Prof. Laurent Maron, Toulouse). More recently,
 Cloke has initiated a collaboration with Layfield, including work on uranium-catalysed alkene
 hydrogenation, which was reported by 14 news outlets and was the subject of an interview with
 Layfield on Heart Radio. A University press release describing this research was picked up by
 the Ministry of Defence, and as a result Layfield was contacted by the AWE and invited to
 collaborate to assist with its management of depleted uranium stockpiles. Cloke and Layfield
 also recently reported the single-molecule magnet (SMM) properties of a pentalene-ligated
 dysprosium complex, in a study that incorporated theoretical contributions from Dr Akseli
 Mansikkamäki at the University of Jyväskylä. Theoretical input into Layfield’s research on SMMs
 has involved Prof. Liviu Chibotaru (KU-Leuven Chemistry) as a formal collaborator on projects
 funded by the EPSRC, the ERC and the Royal Society Newton Fund. Layfield also has
 collaborations in China with Prof. Ming-Liang Tong (Sun-Yat Sen University), which has led to
 publications in Science and Angewandte Chemie. Layfield is the UK host for the Newton
 Advanced Fellowship awarded to Prof. Jinkui Tang, a senior academic at the Changchun
 Institute of Applied Chemistry (Chinese Academy of Sciences) and home to the State Key
 Laboratory of Rare-Earth Resource Utilization. Layfield has also hosted several Newton
 International Fellows in his group, one of whom (Dr Arun Bar) is now Assistant Professor at the
 IISER Tirupati (India), with a third Fellow arriving in December 2020. Layfield also has strategic
 links with India through the Newton alumni fund. Layfield also collaborates with Prof. Matthias
 Bickelhaupt, an expert in DFT methods at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam, where he is a
 visiting Professor, and with Prof. Manfred Scheer at Regensburg University, Germany, through a
 Humboldt Foundation Fellowship for Experienced Researchers. Adding to the multidisciplinary
 nature of his research, Layfield has also initiated a collaboration with Prof. Sean Giblin in Cardiff
 Physics, which has led to one publication, and a grant application that was funded by the
 EPSRC New Horizons scheme in 2020.

 Computational chemistry collaborations
 Computational chemistry research is a core activity in Sussex and provides important links with
 experimental programmes, locally and internationally. Vargas’s work has provided crucial insight
 into exotic and highly unusual boron compounds through his longstanding collaboration with
 Prof. Holger Braunschweig (Würzburg University, Germany). Further supporting experimental
 investigations, H.Cox has worked with Spencer in a collaboration that has resulted in seven
 publications, with Cox providing detailed mechanistic information into a range of catalytic
 transformations. Cox’s contributions ultimately allowed a number of Spencer’s palladium-
 catalysed cross-coupling reactions to be explained and optimised. More recently, Cox has a
 collaboration with Prof. Fred Manby at Bristol which has resulted in the award of an EPSRC
 grant whose aim is to design a correlation functional for use in DFT. Cox also has a collaboration
 with Prof. Erkki Brandas, University of Uppsala and Prof. Lawrence Dunne (LSBU/Imperial)
 which has resulted in a publication showing that the key to understanding the occurrence of high
 temperature superconductivity in cuprates is to be found in the Bohm-Pines Hamiltonian,
 modified to include a polarisable dielectric background.

 Collaborations within physical chemistry
 As well as the more traditional areas of Chemistry collaboration already described, Prof. Wendy
 Brown works with astronomers, chemists and physicists to support her work in the highly inter-
 disciplinary area of astrochemistry. Collaborations with Prof. Martin McCoustra (Heriot Watt) and
 Prof. Stephen Price (UCL) led to the award of an STFC Consortium grant with Brown at Sussex
 being the lead. Further collaborations with McCoustra and with Dr Sergio Iopollo at Queen Mary,
 University of London have led to the award of 4 periods of beam time at FELIX, the free electron
 laser in Nijmegen, to study infrared photodesorption of ices on interstellar dust grains. To allow
 the translation of fundamental physical chemistry data into astronomical models, Brown also
 collaborates with astronomers, including Prof. Serena Viti (Leiden). Brown is also part of a large
 consortium of chemists, physicists and astronomers from the UK, USA and Europe awarded
 prestigious early release science time on the James Webb Space Telescope, launching in 2022.
 The aim of this project, called IceAge, is to understand the formation and composition of ices in
 space, with an aim to better understanding the building blocks of life.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other areas of Physical chemistry where important contributions to the research base and to
 societal impact are made include Dr Mark Osborne’s work with Prof. Sir David Klenerman FRS
 and Prof. Ernest Laue (Chemistry and Biochemistry at Cambridge respectively). This work has
 led to the design and construction of a super-resolution fluorescence microscope for the
 detection, counting and tracking of single Mcm4 and PCNA, DNA-binding proteins associated
 with replication and repair. Osborne is also engaged in projects with Prof. Tony Carr (Sussex
 Genome Damage and Stability Centre) to elucidate the role of ubiquitin in post-translational
 modification of the chromatin associated PCNA protein in the regulation and control of DNA
 replication in fission yeast. Dr Iain Day also has a number of collaborations in the area of NMR
 spectroscopy. A recent EPSRC grant with Osborne focuses on improving NMR sensitivity and
 on providing NMR support to follow ligand dynamics on quantum dot surfaces. As a direct result
 of this collaboration, a new venture with Prof. Craig Butts (Bristol Chemistry) has been initiated
 which aims to improve the sensitivity of INADEQUATE spectra by improved spectral acquisition
 and automated analysis. This powerful method allows carbon-carbon frameworks to be
 determined in a single experiment. Furthermore, Day’s contributions to the research of synthetic
 chemistry groups in Sussex is invaluable, as shown by a number of joint publications where Day
 provided expert analysis and interpretation of NMR spectra to aid structure determination.

 The collaborations detailed above clearly demonstrate the outward facing nature of Sussex
 Chemistry research with collaborations adding to the impact and reach of that research, and with
 collaborations leading to clear examples of societal impact (e.g. in the area of disease
 prevention and cure). The impact and societal benefit of Sussex Chemistry research is also
 clearly demonstrated by the two impact cases submitted to REF2021. Public Engagement is
 also a key activity of Sussex Chemistry, as described in the Impact Strategy. These events
 provide a public platform to show how Sussex Chemistry research benefits society.

 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline
 Chemistry faculty actively participate in grant committees, act as journal editors, give invited
 keynote lectures, act on committees for learned societies and referee papers and grants for
 national and international journals and grant awarding bodies. For example, Crossley is a
 member of the Royal Society of Chemistry (RSC) Enablement grants assessment panel and a
 member of the EPSRC peer review college. Brown regularly serves on EPSRC panels, she
 chaired an EPSRC Physical Sciences panel in 2017 and regularly reviews grants for the
 EPSRC, the UK Space agency, the Royal Society, the DFG (German grant body), the Swiss
 National Science Foundation and the Danish grant awarding body. She is also a committee
 member of the RSC Astrophysical Chemistry group and an elected member of the RSC Heads
 of Chemistry UK Standing Committee. Bagley was an overseas panel member for ERC starting,
 consolidator and advanced grants in 2017. Layfield regularly serves on EPSRC and Royal
 Society panels, as well as reviewing grants for the EPSRC and several international equivalents,
 and was a member of RSC Dalton council from 2012-2015. He has also given numerous (15 to
 date) keynote lectures at national and international conferences since 2014. Layfield is a holder
 of an EPSRC Early career Fellowship (until August 2021) and has been awarded a Humboldt
 Fellowship for Experienced Researchers at the University of Regensburg and an Applied
 Chemistry lectureship at the Chinese Academy of Sciences. Cloke gave 5 keynote lectures over
 the 2014-2018 period and was a member of the Leverhulme fellowship panel. Spencer and
 H.Cox have both served on EPSRC panels and regularly review proposals for the EPSRC.
 Spencer was also a member of the Royal Society small grants committee from 2015-2018 and
 chaired the committee in 2018. Brown, Crossley and H.Cox were all reviewers for the inaugural
 EPSRC New Horizons scheme (2020).




                                                                                            Page 13
