Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 30

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Philosophy at Queen’s is a small but dynamic unit with core strengths in epistemology and applied
 moral and political philosophy. It has a strong commitment to interdisciplinarity, playing a leading
 role in institutional structures linking researchers across disciplines (as explained below).

 This commitment has been instrumental in the unit’s success in tripling its research income and
 almost doubling its PGR numbers as compared to the previous REF period. Queen’s has taken
 advantage of its unique location as the only UK philosophy department on the island of Ireland to
 establish strong cross Ireland connections, while at the same time building long lasting
 international research links with institutions in Hong Kong, Tehran, and Wuhan.

 Structure:

 In 2016 philosophy at Queen’s became part of the new School of History, Anthropology,
 Philosophy, and Politics (HAPP) from the School of Politics, International Studies, and Philosophy.
 Location within a larger unit has facilitated cross-disciplinary collaborations and enabled
 philosophy to tap into an extensive system of support for both staff and students. The unit is
 actively engaged with all three strands of the Institution’s research ecosystem as set out in section
 2b of the Institutional Environment Statement:

 • Philosophy constitutes one of the University’s core disciplinary research groups (CDRG).
   CDRGs are largely self-organising under a CDRG lead (currently Walker) who, along with the
   other research group leads, sits on the School’s Research Committee. This committee has
   oversight for all matters relating to research in the School. In addition, the philosophy subject
   lead (Walker) is an active member of the School’s Senior Management Board.
 • From its inception in 2016 to January 2020 one of the six Pioneer Research Programmes (the
   Centre for the Study of Risk and Inequality) was located within philosophy, with both its first two
   directors (Walker and Schuppert) being part of the unit. The Centre has over twenty members
   drawn from nine Schools and all three Faculties. Its core aim is to integrate normative and
   empirical work on the ways risk and justice are interconnected in the areas of finance, the
   environment, and health.
 • One member of the unit (Watkins) is an associate fellow of the Senator George J. Mitchell
   Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice.

 Active engagement with all three strands of the University’s research structure has directly
 enabled philosophy at Queen’s to meet its strategic objectives and provides a firm institutional
 basis to support meeting the unit’s objectives for the coming period.

 The unit currently has 5.5fte staff: 1 senior lecturer and 4.5 lecturers. This is slightly down from
 2014 (6fte), a change made to facilitate the personal circumstances of one member of staff. The
 period since 2014 has been one of consolidation and development following significant staff
 turnover in 2012/ 13. In the current REF period two appointments have been made (Schuppert
 and Whitten) and two members of staff have left (Archard and Schuppert).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 While relatively small, the unit supports a dynamic research culture (see below) and has particular
 expertise in two main areas:
 • Applied moral and political philosophy
 • Epistemology (including philosophy of science)

 By maintaining a focused approach to research in these areas the unit is able to leverage
 collaborations both with other disciplines within the University, and with similar subject groupings
 elsewhere.

 Research objectives:

 The unit’s 2014 REF submission identified three main research objectives:
 1. To facilitate and strengthen research, both in core areas of philosophy and in
    collaboration with political theorists located in politics;
 2. To foster interdisciplinary research more generally; and
 3. To develop and build on existing research links with other University philosophy
    departments both nationally and internationally.

 These objectives were formally reviewed in 2016 following the institutional changes that saw
 philosophy being integrated within the larger School (HAPP). The resulting disciplinary strategy,
 agreed in 2018, re-confirmed the unit’s commitment to them.

 Objective 1 has been greatly facilitated by philosophy’s location in the same School as politics.
 Throughout the period this has enabled the unit to run a weekly work in progress reading group
 bringing together members with research interests in normative philosophy (Schuppert, Walker,
 Watkins, Whitten), staff in politics with a research interest in political theory, and postgraduate
 research students from across the two disciplines. The reading group has enabled us to pool some
 of the resources available to both the politics and philosophy CDRGs to bring external speakers,
 leaders in their fields, to Belfast to present their work in progress. However, its core business is
 discussion and critical feedback on work in progress and at completion presented by its members
 (including postgraduate research students). To facilitate this process papers are circulated in
 advance to allow more time for discussion. The opportunity for sustained critical reflection that this
 allows has been instrumental in substantially increasing the quality of the research outputs of the
 staff involved. Co-location with politics and international studies has also facilitated successful
 collaborative grant applications, such as Walker’s ESRC/ AHRC project on border security and
 migration carried out with three colleagues in international studies and one in law, and
 Schuppert’s ESRC funded work with political scientists on randomising democratic decision
 making (see section 3 below).

 In addition to the more formal administrative structures linking philosophy and politics, the unit has
 worked to create a friendly and supportive research culture for all staff and students. This has
 three main strands:
 • Regular meetings of all philosophy staff and postgraduate research students, in addition to
    reading activities, which include time for updates on research progress and space for
    individuals to identify where they would benefit from colleagues’ input.
 • Ad hoc meetings at which ideas for papers, conference presentations, or grant proposals can
    be tried out before a constructively critical audience. These are deliberately left open to allow
    projects at any stage of development, from initial idea to relatively polished paper, to be
    discussed.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Hosting external speakers on a regular basis. Decisions about which speakers to invite is
   collaborative. All members of staff propose potential speakers and the program draws on these
   to ensure (as far as possible) that everyone’s research interests are covered.

 Objective 2 received a considerable boost when the Centre for the Study of Risk and Inequality
 was selected as one of the University’s six Pioneer Research Programmes after a competitive
 process. The Centre was established in 2016, in the first instance for a period of three years, to
 provide a focal point bringing together researchers from across the University to investigate the
 relationship between two significant global challenges: tackling increasing inequality and
 managing systemic risks. Since its creation its main objective has been to bring normative theorists
 together with more empirically driven social and natural scientists, with the aspiration of generating
 practically applicable normative principles that can inform the design of risk institutions and
 instruments in a way which is sensitive to the technical realities of risk calculation. Philosophy as
 a unit has played a foundational role both in the establishment of the Centre and in its leadership,
 as revealed by the fact that during its first four years both the director and deputy director were
 philosophers. In addition to philosophy, membership of the Centre includes researchers from
 engineering, law, management, nursing, planning, politics, public health, and sociology.

 The core activities of the Centre have been organising a series of meetings and workshops both
 on specific topics of interest to its members (e.g. on energy justice and energy policy in March
 2019), and on grant calls directly related to its area of expertise. These events are designed in the
 first instance to facilitate the relationship building (both across disciplines and with external
 stakeholders) necessary for successful interdisciplinary research. They are also aimed at
 developing genuinely collaborative projects leading to successful grant applications and
 publications. Grant applications coming out of the Centre and involving philosophers include
 Walker’s role as a co-investigator in an application for a UK Prevention Research Partnership
 (‘GroundsWell: Community and Data Led Systems Transformation of Urban Green and Blue
 Space for Population Health’) led by Dr Ruth Hunter, School of Medicine, Dentistry and Biomedical
 Science, Queen’s University Belfast (currently under review); Schuppert’s National Institute for
 Economic and Social Research funded project ‘The Need for a Normative Theory of Systemic
 Risk: Practical Applications and a New Social Contract?’, and his co-investigator role in a project
 on systemic environmental risk led by Dr Satish Kumar (School of Natural and Built Environment).
 Publications have included Walker’s contribution to a co-authored paper on ‘Ethical issues in
 social media research for public health’ (lead author Dr Ruth Hunter, School of Medicine, Dentistry
 and Biomedical Sciences).

 Staff in philosophy have also been actively involved with two other cross-disciplinary initiatives
 within Queen’s as a way to facilitate interdisciplinary research. First, Watkins’ associate fellowship
 with the Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice provides a
 setting in which his work on reparations connects with colleagues in law and politics working on
 related issues. Second, both Schuppert and Walker have been active participants in the
 Leverhulme Trust funded LINCS doctoral training program (with Walker serving both as theme
 lead for the cyberspace, privacy, and data protection strand, and as research ethics officer). While
 the focus of LINCS is on cross-disciplinary research supervision, creating supervisory teams that
 include both engineers and researchers in the humanities and social sciences, the relationships
 established from co-supervision provide the basis for future research collaborations.

 Objective 3 has been pursued by utilising institutional support, including but not limited to financial
 support, to build research networks in line with the following three criteria, while still allowing the
 flexibility to support other possible links as and when the opportunity arises.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a. Philosophy at QUB is uniquely placed as the only philosophy unit that is both in the United
    Kingdom and on the island of Ireland. Following the strategy review in 2018 a decision was
    taken to leverage that position when building research networks. This involved a pivot towards
    building on existing relationships with philosophy departments in Ireland (including those that
    Whitten brought with her on her appointment to the unit in 2020), and developing new
    relationships where these were lacking. In part that involved ensuring, where appropriate, that
    a representative from Queen’s was on relevant committees and steering groups with oversight
    of philosophy in Ireland, including the Irish Philosophical Club (Diekemper), UNESCO
    Bioethics Ireland (Walker), and the Ethical, Political, Legal and Philosophical Studies sub-
    committee of the Royal Irish Academy (Walker). It has also involved targeted financial support
    for workshops and conferences that bring together philosophers from across the island of
    Ireland, and applications to external funders to support networking events of this type. That has
    included Morrison’s Mind Association funded workshop on analytic philosophy in Ireland in
    2017, and financial support from the School for both the annual meetings of the Irish
    Philosophical Club and the 2019 meeting of the Society for Women in Philosophy Ireland.
 b. When building international research links the unit has focused on supporting those links that
    are either already well established (e.g. Diekemper’s links with researchers in Tehran and
    Walker’s links with the Chinese University of Hong Kong), or that have the potential to do so
    (e.g. Clarke’s work with Wuhan University). For example, the University has funded
    Diekemper’s regular trips to Tehran, and in 2019 co-funded a workshop on comparative
    philosophy with Wuhan University (Clarke in collaboration with Yong Li at Wuhan University).
    These links have been researcher led, and as such built from the ground up on the basis of
    research interests and the location of suitable collaborators. The unit has adopted this approach
    deliberately to ensure that the personal connections, which are vital if this process is to lead to
    high quality research outputs, are established and maintained over time.
 c. From its beginning the Centre for the Study of Risk and Inequality has had as a strategic aim
    building international research networks and collaborations. The philosophers within the Centre
    have been able to use this to establish, and participate in existing, research networks covering
    areas relating to their work — for example, Schuppert’s membership of both the Social
    Equality network (with Martin O’Neill (York), Emily McTernan (UCL) and Christian Schemmel
    (Manchester)) and the Land rights and climate change network (with Megan Blomfield
    (Sheffield), Chris Armstrong (Southampton), and Alejandra Mancilla (Oslo)).

 Pursuing these networks has been made possible via the School’s dedicated research budget.
 Under the direction of the School’s Director of Research and School Research Committee this has
 fully supported the unit by making seed funding available as needed to pursue the unit’s strategic
 objectives.

 Impact strategy:

 With half the staff employed in the unit working on broadly applied areas, philosophy at QUB is
 generally well placed to achieve impact both in Northern Ireland and more broadly. However, as
 a relatively young group the focus over the last few years has been on developing capacity and
 relationships with external stakeholders. In the period up to 2018 this was carried out under the
 leadership and mentoring of a now retired member of staff (Archard) who has considerable
 experience in this area. Philosophy’s location in a large School also means it can draw on a wide
 range of expertise in developing and implementing its impact plans. The School has a dedicated
 Impact and Public Engagement Champion who both contributes to the School’s research strategy
 as part of the research committee and provides advice and support on an individual basis as and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 when required. The unit is also able to draw on the support of a full time Faculty facing Research
 Impact Officer for help in developing its impact activities.

 Philosophy at QUB’s impact strategy is centred on two areas, reflecting the research strengths of
 the unit. These are:
    1. Health and social policy.
    2. Education and professional development.

 Both impact case studies fall within the first area and highlight the work carried out by Archard
 before his retirement and continue to resonate and inform the unit's practice now. These are
 currently the most well developed examples of impact in this area (see section (4) below). While
 impact to date has drawn on the work of those working in applied areas of philosophy, all members
 of the unit are encouraged, and supported, to engage with external bodies at an early stage in the
 development of their research where this is appropriate. A suite of structures have been put in
 place to support this. These include, 1. Training events organised by the Faculty Research Impact
 Officer to which all staff in philosophy are invited; 2. Individual support from both the Faculty
 Research Impact Officer and the School Impact and Public Engagement Champion; and 3.
 Feedback on pathways to impact from other members of the philosophy unit as part of its ongoing
 support for new projects and grant proposals as they are developed.

 Open Access:

 Philosophy is fully compliant with the Queen’s Open Access policy (IES, section 2f.). All new staff
 and PGRs receive training in OA requirements from a Library-based OA team who act as the point
 of contact for queries about OA and related issues. To advance a deeper OA environment, staff
 are encouraged to factor in publishing via ‘gold’ OA in grant applications.


 Research Integrity:

 The UoA is aware of the importance of maintaining the highest ethical standards in research
 undertaken by staff and students, whether funded by the School or externally. All staff and student
 research involving human participants and their data is therefore reviewed by a School-based
 Research Ethics Committee (REC), comprised of a Chair, a member from each of HAPP’s four
 disciplines, and an external lay member. The School REC reviews research proposals in
 accordance to the ESRC’s Framework for Research Ethics principles, and communicates Queen’s
 own research ethics governance policies to staff and students. Training in research ethics for staff
 and PGRs is provided at a University-wide level and via HAPP research training and methods
 modules.

 Future Research and Impact Plans:

 The unit has identified five key research objectives for the next REF period: (1) continuing the
 leading role that the department plays in connecting philosophical researchers across the island
 of Ireland to UK-wide networks; (2) growing the unit and supporting new staff in pursuing their
 research ambitions; (3) increasing the number of philosophy PhD researchers in part by launching
 an MA Philosophy programme; (4) further developing existing international partnerships,
 particularly with institutes in Wuhan, China; (5) maintaining a programme of developing effective
 grant applications, with an aim to securing bigger grants to help grow the capacity for future impact.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Philosophy’s staffing strategy and procedures for staff development are fully aligned with those of
 the wider Institution, as set out in section 3 of QUB’s Institutional Environment Statement. They
 have, in addition, been developed in conjunction with the other disciplines within the School of
 History, Anthropology, Philosophy, and Politics to provide a consistent and supportive
 environment for research across the School. Philosophy’s location within a large School has
 enabled staff to access more extensive development opportunities than would otherwise be
 possible for a small unit.

 Throughout the period covered by this statement the unit’s strategy has been to maintain a critical
 mass of philosophers at QUB by investing in the unit and recruiting new colleagues. Staff numbers
 have thus remained relatively constant. Where members of staff have been absent for extended
 periods, as during Walker’s AHRC funded leadership fellowship in 2017-18, steps have been
 taken to ensure that this does not negatively impact the research time available for other members
 of the unit (by, for example, employing temporary staff to cover teaching). Links with retired
 professorial staff are maintained via emeritus professorships that ensure their continued
 engagement with the research culture of the unit.

 All staff within the unit are research active, and are expected to obtain external funding to support
 their research where appropriate. New appointees have an initial period of probation, which
 typically lasts three years for those at the start of their career (a period that can be reduced where
 performance merits ‘career acceleration’). During that period they have an assigned mentor with
 whom they meet regularly, and who provides support, advice and guidance as required. New early
 career staff also have a reduced teaching and administration load during their probation to help
 support their research during this period. At least once a year the School progression committee
 considers each probationer’s progress. While these formal mentoring arrangements end with
 confirmation in post, informal mentoring at both School and unit level continues to be available for
 all members of staff.

 Following the successful completion of probation all staff participate in Annual Personal
 Development Review (PDR) meetings with a senior member of the School’s academic staff. In
 2019 these were streamlined to ensure that the focus is firmly on supporting the individual's
 development and career progression. PDR meetings include a detailed discussion of all aspects
 of research, including academic outputs, grant applications, and impact and public engagement
 activities. They also provide an opportunity for individuals to reflect both on their current career
 stage and what is needed to move to the next stage in a supportive environment.

 Queen’s University Belfast is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers and has developed a research development framework in line with it. This
 includes a suite of training courses and workshops covering all aspects of research, with different
 courses being tailored to the needs of those at distinct career stages. The School encourages all
 staff, particularly those at the start of their career, to take full advantage of these as part of their
 career development plans. In addition to these centrally provided training opportunities, workshops
 are regularly organised by both the School and Faculty that focus on the specific needs of
 researchers in their disciplines. These have included, among other things, workshops (with input
 from potential end users) on impact for those working in the arts and humanities.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All full time and part time members of academic staff on teaching and research contracts are
 eligible to apply for one semester of sabbatical leave after every six semesters of qualifying service
 (time on probation in an academic post is included in qualifying service). All staff within philosophy
 fall into this category. Those applying for sabbatical leave are required to develop, in discussion
 with the School’s Director of Research, a detailed plan for the period requested which includes
 outputs, grant applications, and impact and public engagement activities as appropriate. Following
 a period of research leave each individual prepares a short written report on their activities and
 achievements during it, which is reviewed by the School’s Research Committee.

 The School has a dedicated budget to support conference attendance and put on research
 workshops. All staff in philosophy are eligible to apply to this as and when required. Applications
 are initially assessed by the philosophy CDRG lead (Walker) before being passed to the School’s
 Director of Research for approval. Oversight of the research budget lies with the Director of
 Research and School Research Committee. Staff also have access to centrally administered
 funds to support distinct research related activities — for example, support in developing impact.

 As outlined in section 3b of the Institutional Environment Statement the University has systems in
 place to recognise researchers who have demonstrated exceptional leadership through the Vice-
 Chancellor’s Research Prizes. It also recognises staff identified as research pioneers through the
 DNA of Innovation series. Research in philosophy has been recognised in both these ways, with
 Archard winning the Vice-Chancellor’s Prize for Impact in 2015, and Walker’s research being
 highlighted in DNA of Innovation VI.

 Research students

 The last few years have seen a sustained increase in the number of philosophy research students
 awarded PhDs at QUB, with ten students successfully completing their PhD and one successfully
 completing his MPhil in this period (compared to six in the last REF cycle). This reflects renewed
 efforts by the unit to create an attractive research environment for incoming students. It also
 reflects the success research students have had in obtaining funding from highly competitive
 sources — including the China Scholarship Council (Xu), the AHRC funded Northern Bridge DTP
 (Barone), the Leverhulme Trust funded LINCS DTP (Day), and Northern Ireland’s Department for
 the Economy (Loonan, Hewitson, Milburn, Stachowski, Whitten). There are currently three
 postgraduate research students in philosophy enrolled in the unit. All staff in the unit are either
 current or past supervisors of research students, and all are actively engaged in recruitment of
 new students.

 Philosophy research students are fully integrated into the School’s vibrant doctoral programme,
 along with those from history, anthropology, and politics. This programme is managed by the
 School’s Director of Postgraduate Studies and the School Postgraduate Research Committee
 (which includes student representation). A postgraduate representative also sits on the School
 Research Committee to ensure that research students’ views are taken into account in all matters
 relating to research in the School.

 Supporting its doctoral programme, the School provides office space, PCs and shared printing
 equipment for 139 PhD students. Those in the first year of their studies are primarily located in a
 large shared lab, with those in later years housed in one, two, or three person offices. Hot desk
 facilities are available for part time students. Two offices are set aside as dedicated teaching
 assistant rooms to allow for one to one meetings with students. The School provides two common
 rooms (with kitchens) for its research students. Philosophy research students also have access to
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the facilities, including group study rooms and a silent study area, in the University’s Graduate
 School (launched in 2015) which is located just across the road from the School.

 As part of its doctoral programme, all postgraduate research students in the School have access
 to a wide range of training and development opportunities delivered at both University and School
 level — including short classroom based training courses, online learning resources, peer
 mentoring, and one to one consultancy and advice. The University’s postgraduate development
 programme has been developed in line with Vitae’s Researcher Development Framework and
 aims both to develop research skills and enhance employability. Included within it is a PGR Peer
 mentoring programme that matches incoming students with those nearer the end of their studies
 to aid the transition to more independent research. Funding is available via the Graduate School
 both for postgraduate student led training initiatives to supplement those provided by the
 University and for conference/ seminar organisation.

 Each research student is allocated two supervisors for the duration of their study. Progress is
 monitored via a program of annual progress reviews carried out by a panel that is independent of
 the supervisory team. All students registered for a PhD must complete differentiation within the
 first year of their studies if they are full time, and within the first two years if they are part time. This
 involves submission of a draft chapter, a detailed plan of the proposed thesis, and a short
 presentation. Following that, each annual review has a different format, reflecting what is
 appropriate for that stage of the student’s progress. These reviews provide an opportunity for
 students to discuss progress over the last year and their plans for the coming year.

 Postgraduate research students are actively encouraged to participate in all philosophy focused
 and School wide research activities. These include a regular series of seminars with visiting
 speakers throughout each semester, and a weekly political theory and philosophy reading group.
 The latter provides students with the opportunity to present their work in a supportive and friendly
 environment and obtain constructive feedback on it. Postgraduate research students are expected
 to present work at least once a year, though many take the opportunity to present each semester.
 In addition to the specifically philosophy focused programme of events, philosophy research
 students have full access to the whole suite of events organised by the School. These include an
 away day for students in their first year and annual writing retreats for students in later years. The
 School also supports postgraduate research students who wish to organise events related to their
 work. For instance, in 2019 Whitten and Shuttleworth co-organised a two day conference on
 Modern Ethical Ideals funded by the Royal Institute of Philosophy.

 The School aims to provide postgraduate research students with the skills necessary for success
 in pursuing either academic or non-academic career paths following graduation. For those
 choosing to follow an academic career this includes encouraging and assisting them to publish
 their research. Of those graduating since 2013, Milburn has published nine articles and five book
 chapters, and Bonotti, Xu, and Whitten have each published two articles. The School also offers
 all research students who have passed differentiation the opportunity to work as a teaching
 assistant on first year undergraduate modules. Training is provided to all students taking up this
 opportunity. The success of this programme and the supportive research environment at QUB is
 reflected in our students’ success in obtaining research and teaching posts. For example, Xu was
 appointed to a lectureship in medical ethics at Nankai University immediately after completing his
 PhD; Milburn obtained a postdoctoral fellowship at Queen’s University Canada on finishing his
 PhD before going on to posts as assistant lecturer in political philosophy at the University of York
 and a British Academy postdoctoral fellowship in politics at the University of Sheffield; and Whitten
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 obtained a fixed term lectureship at the University of Limerick before being appointed as a lecturer
 at Queen’s University Belfast.

 Equality and diversity

 In constructing its REF submission the unit has followed the processes set out in the University’s
 Code of Practice. It is also fully integrated with, and actively engaged in, the University’s equality
 and diversity procedures as set out section 3e of the Institutional Environment Statement. This
 includes playing an active role in the process leading up to the School of Politics, International
 Studies and Philosophy’s successful application for an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2016.
 Action points from this application inform policy within the unit across all areas, including staff and
 postgraduate research student recruitment, staff development, research activities, and
 postgraduate student supervision. Following the merger of this School with the School of History
 and Anthropology to form the current School, a new School-wide Athena SWAN committee was
 formed. Philosophy is represented on this committee both by the philosophy Athena SWAN
 champion (Morrison) and members of the student body. The committee organises training events,
 workshops, and networking events each year which are open to both staff and research students.
 An Athena SWAN champion sits on each of the School’s committees, including the School
 Research Committee, to ensure that equality and diversity are at the heart of its activities. The
 School also funds a variety of schemes through the Athena SWAN committee to support women
 researchers, including the SWAN postgraduate travel award and teaching relief for early career
 staff putting together large grant applications.

 The University provides a range of equality, diversity, and inclusion training for staff at all levels.
 This includes mandatory e-learning courses for all staff: ‘Think Difference, Act Differently’, and
 ‘Unconscious Bias’. More tailored courses are also mandatory for those taking on particular roles,
 such as sitting on recruitment panels or constructing the REF submission. This training is an
 integral part of embedding equality for all across the University’s research activities and forms a
 key part of its Equality, Inclusion and Diversity Policy.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 In the period 2014-2020 the unit tripled its research income compared to the period 2008-2013 —
 from £164k to £547k. This increase was facilitated by two strategic choices coming out of the unit’s
 research strategy outlined in (1) above:

 • Increased engagement with interdisciplinary research. Successes in this period include,
   Walker’s role as PI on an project funded by the ESRC/ AHRC under the ethics and rights in a
   security context call that brought together researchers from philosophy, politics and
   international studies, and law (total value: £191,544), Schuppert’s participation as Co-I in an
   ESRC transformative research grant on randomising democratic decision making (PI: John
   Garry, Politics), and Archard, Schuppert and Walker’s participation in the University’s
   successful application to establish the Leverhulme Trust funded LINCS DTP.
 • A planned process, supported by the University, of using small grants to build the
   networks necessary for successful applications to larger schemes. This strategy is
   exemplified by Walker’s AHRC network grant (£31,165) with Professor Hon-Lam Li (Chinese
   University of Hong Kong) on what is owed to older people that led directly to his successful
   application for an AHRC leadership fellowship for a project on ethics and chronic illness
   (£128,337), and by Schuppert’s engagement in a series of network grants (funded by the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    British Academy and Society for Applied Philosophy), that fed into his successful application to
    the National Institute for Economic and Social Research for a grant on the need for a normative
    theory of systemic risk (£62,520).

 Implementation of both these strategies has been greatly aided since 2016 by philosophy’s central
 role in the Centre for the Study of Risk and Inequality, and by its connections to the Senator
 George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice. Both the Centre and the
 Institute hold regular meetings and workshops, including some specifically tied to relevant grant
 calls, which have supported building the relationships necessary for collaborative and
 interdisciplinary research — both with potential external partners and with researchers working in
 engineering, law, medicine, nursing, politics, and sociology. Both have also put resources into
 building links with potential end users of research in their areas. That, in turn, has facilitated the
 development of new collaborations with external bodies that have opened up pathways to potential
 impact.

 As set out in section 4 of the Institutional Environment Statement the infrastructure to support
 research in philosophy at Queen’s University Belfast is extensive, being made up of an interlocking
 set of structures at University, Faculty, School, and Unit level. Dedicated Faculty facing staff in the
 University’s Research and Enterprise Directorate are available to help researchers applying for
 external funding from both UK and International funders through all stages of the process. This
 includes circulating details of new calls, meeting with individuals to help them identify suitable
 funders, providing costings, and arranging internal feedback on draft applications. The Directorate
 also contains staff with particular expertise in impact and public engagement, including a Faculty
 facing Impact Officer, who are available to assist individual researchers in putting together their
 proposals, as well as organising events that bring together researchers and potential end users of
 their research.

 In addition to the internal feedback on grant proposals organised by Research and Enterprise,
 opportunities to obtain feedback on research is available within the unit, and for those working in
 relevant areas via the Centre for the Study of Risk and Inequality and Senator George J. Mitchell
 Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice. As detailed in (1) above this includes the
 opportunity to obtain critical but supportive feedback at all stages in the development of a grant
 proposal, paper, or monograph — from initial idea to relatively polished draft. Feedback is
 facilitated by the unit’s weekly reading group (in conjunction with politics), by ad-hoc meetings,
 and by one to one feedback depending on what is most appropriate. Early career researchers and
 postgraduate research students are fully integrated into this process, both in terms of obtaining
 feedback on their draft work and in having the opportunity to provide feedback on the work of
 others.

 Philosophy is located, along with the rest of the School, in a terrace of Victorian houses at the
 heart of the University campus. All research active staff have their own one-person office, and up
 to date computing and printing facilities. The School provides a staff common room, with kitchen,
 and is also home to a suite of meeting rooms that staff can book for meetings or talks. Additional
 rooms in the School are occupied by postgraduate students (as outlined in (2) above), post-
 doctoral fellows, visiting researchers, and emeritus professors. The unit’s location places it close
 to the University’s McClay library, home to the main collections in the Arts and Humanities,
 Sciences, and Social Sciences. The library contains an extensive collection of philosophy books
 and journals among its approximately 1.2 million volumes and 2,000 print and 20,000 electronic
 journal titles.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit’s research culture is enhanced by a vibrant programme of external speakers, organised
 in three main ways:
 • Visiting speaker programme: This programme, funded between 2013 and 2018 by the Royal
     Institute of Philosophy and since then by the School, brings speakers to Belfast for regular talks
     during term time. The unit’s approach has been to prioritise researchers near the start of their
     career when selecting speakers for this programme. Speakers during this period include:
     Lindsey Porter (Sheffield), Anna Mahtani (LSE), Peter Schaber (Zurich), Paula
     Sweeney(Aberdeen), Conor McHugh (Southampton), Christine Straehle (Hamburg),
     Christopher Mole (British Columbia), Sorcha Ui Chonnachtaigh (Keele), Adam Toon (Exeter),
     Tom Dougherty (Cambridge), Fiona Woollard (Southampton), William Lane Craig (Houston
     Baptist), Glen Pettigrove (Glasgow), Naomi Thompson (Southampton), Patrick Todd
     (Edinburgh), Jonathan Jenkins Ichikawa (British Columbia), Sara Uckelman (Durham),
     Edoardo Ongaro (Open University), Tim Fowler (Bristol), Clare Moriarty (Trinity College Dublin),
     Lani Watson (Edinburgh) and Heather Widdows (Birmingham).
 • Workshops programme: The unit organises on average two workshops a year at QUB, funded
     by a combination of external grants (British Academy, AHRC, Wellcome Trust) and School
     funds. Workshops have covered a range of topics reflecting the unit’s research strategy and
     research strengths. Topics covered include: Doing Good in Chronic and Long Term Care
     (2013-14), The Ethics and Politics of Public Health (2014-15), The Value of Social Equality:
     Insights from Normative and Empirical Research (2014-15), Understanding Charlie: New
     Perspectives on Contemporary Citizenship after Charlie Hebdo (2014-15), two workshops on
     What We Owe Older People: Who Should Provide Care and How Much Care Should They
     Provide? (2014-15 and 2015-16), Analytic Philosophy in Ireland: Language, Epistemology,
     Metaphysics and Science (2016-17), Global Justice and Decolonisation (2017-18), Ethics and
     Chronic Illness (2018-19), Modern Ethical Ideals (2018-19), Energy Justice and Energy Poverty
     (2018-19), and Society for Women in Philosophy Ireland workshop (2018-19). Many of these
     workshops were interdisciplinary to assist in taking forward the unit’s research strategy.
 • Political Theory and Philosophy seminar series: In 2018 a decision was made by philosophy
     and politics to include external speakers in their on-going joint seminar/ work in progress series.
     Speakers to date include, Beth Kahn (Durham), Guy Aitchison (King’s College London), Peter
     Stone (Trinity College Dublin), Lisa Herzog (Munich), Miriam Ronzoni (Manchester), Alexa
     Zellentin (University College Dublin), Jonathan Lewis (Dublin City University), Alan Coffee
     (King’s College London), and Kevin Lacourse (Trinity College Dublin).

 All research staff and postgraduate research students in the unit are encouraged to attend these
 events. Where appropriate given the topic of their research, research students are also
 encouraged, and supported, to present at these workshops, to chair workshop sessions, and to
 participate in workshop organisation.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research networks/ collaborations with academics at other institutions

 As set out in (1) above developing research links with academics at other institutions has been
 one of the unit’s three strategic priorities over the last seven years. That has included prioritising
 links with philosophy departments across the island of Ireland (including TCD, UCD, NUI Galway,
 and UCC) by adopting a two pronged approach as described earlier (engagement in, and funding
 of, events with an all-Ireland focus, and ensuring where possible that members of the unit are on
 the committees/ steering groups for all-Ireland bodies connected with philosophy). The unit has
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also actively pursued networking grants, supplemented by internal funds where appropriate, as
 part of its long-term strategy for increasing income from external funders, as described in (3)
 above. For example, in 2014 the University funded Archard and Walker to spend time at Renmin
 University of China, Beijing Normal University, and the Chinese University of Hong Kong (CUHK).
 Links with CUHK were then deepened in 2015 via an AHRC network grant with Walker as PI and
 Hon-Lam Li of CUHK as Co-I that funded a series of workshops in both Belfast and Hong Kong.
 This in turn led to Walker being invited to spend a period as a visiting professor at CUHK in 2017
 (funded by CUHK), and a further research visit in 2018 funded by the AHRC. Coming out of the
 same initial visit in 2014 links were also deepened with both Renmin University and Beijing Normal
 University, with Watkins being invited to be a guest lecturer at the former’s summer school later
 that year and Clarke being invited to teach a class at the latter in 2015. More recently, the School
 has co-funded a workshop with philosophy at Wuhan University (co-organised by Clarke) that is
 intended to provide the starting point for future collaboration.

 As a result of the unit’s strategy members have spent time, or engaged in collaborative research
 with colleagues, at a range of institutions since 2014, including: the University of Belgrade
 (Schuppert), the University of Bergen (Morrison), the Chinese University of Hong Kong (Walker),
 Oxford University (Walker), the University of Sydney (Walker), the University of Umea
 (Schuppert) and the University of the Witwatersrand (Schuppert). In May 2017 Morrison was
 invited by the Philosophical Association of Japan to speak at several Japanese Universities (Chiba
 University Tokyo, Hitotsubashi University Tokyo, University of Sendai, University of Kyoto) about
 the British Philosophical Association’s ‘Good Practice Scheme’, about UK philosophy, and to
 present his own research.

 Wider contribution to society not captured in impact case studies

 As described in (1) above the unit’s impact strategy is focused in two areas: 1. health and social
 policy, and 2. education and professional development. Both impact case studies are located in
 the first. However, these are only the most developed cases within this area. For example,
 Walker’s work on medical ethics led to his appointment in 2016 as a member of the Expert
 Advisory Group (EAG) for the Irish Citizen’s Assembly in its work on abortion. Following on from
 the Citizen Assembly’s report, a referendum was held that resulted in changes to the Irish
 constitution that have significantly altered the legal permissibility of abortion in Ireland. Walker’s
 role on the EAG was to help ensure that members of the Assembly received a balanced picture
 of the ethics of abortion, something that was essential for the credibility of the process. Similarly,
 Whitten serves as the sole philosopher on the Core Expert Group in the Northern Ireland Judicial
 Review on Hate Crime. In this role she has so far produced one paper with them, and is currently
 working on another.

 In relation to education and professional development, Watkins has a long standing engagement
 with schools in Northern Ireland, drawing on his on-going research into citizenship in post-conflict
 societies, to provide citizenship education at primary school level. This formed the basis for one
 of the unit’s impact case studies in 2014, and the work has continued to develop since then.
 Walker has also drawn on his work in public health ethics to provide training for public health
 professionals in Northern Ireland in collaboration with the Faculty of Public Health. This
 engagement was initiated in 2018 and is planned to develop substantially over the coming years.

 Members of the unit have also taken the opportunity to present their work to broader public
 audiences as part of their public engagement activities. Highlights over the last few years include,
 Diekemper’s participation in the 2015 philosophy and music festival at Hay-on-Wye, Walker’s
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participation in a British Academy funded panel on robotics and healthcare at the 2017 Imagine
 festival of ideas and politics in Belfast, and Morrison organising a workshop on ’Balancing Equality
 and Freedom’ as part of 2019 Belfast Imagine Festival. In 2019 Morrison also established a series
 of podcasts, under the title ‘Generous Questions’, that features interviews with members of the
 unit (including students) and visiting researchers. The podcast’s aim is to engage the general
 public with contemporary work in philosophy. In developing their public engagement activities
 members of the unit are able to draw on extensive support from both the University’s public
 engagement team, and the School’s Impact and Public Engagement Champion.

 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 The School encourages all academic staff to contribute to the discipline in ways commensurate
 with their career stage. Since August 2013 this has been progressed in four main ways:
  Committee membership. Staff within the unit have been appointed to the following prominent
     roles in supporting the discipline: Director of the British Philosophical Association 2014-
     present (Morrison), Secretary Tyndale Fellowship Philosophy of Religion Group 2014-18
     (Diekemper), Member Analysis Trust steering committee 2016- present (Morrison), Member
     Royal Institute of Philosophy Council 2016- present (Diekemper), Member of UNESCO
     Bioethics Ireland steering committee 2016-present (Walker), Chair Nuffield Council for
     Bioethics 2017- present (Archard), Member Ethical, Political, Legal and Philosophical sub-
     committee of the Royal Irish Academy 2018- present (Walker).
  Refereeing academic publications and grant proposals. All staff within the unit are actively
     involved in refereeing articles and book proposals for the leading journals and publishers in
     their area of expertise. They have also refereed grant proposals, and been members of the
     peer review college, for a range of funders, including the AHRC (Morrison, Walker), ESRC
     (Walker), Leverhulme Trust (Diekemper), and the Irish Research Council (Morrison).
  Invited lectures. Members of the unit have been invited to present their work at a wide range
     of Universities (including as invited participants in workshops). These include: Humboldt
     University of Berlin, University of Hamburg, Peking University, Wuhan University, Zhejiang
     University (all Clarke); Kharazmi University Tehran, University of St Andrews, Sharif University
     of Technology Tehran, University of Cambridge, University of Neuchatel, University College
     Dublin, Heythrop College (all Diekemper); Chiba University Tokyo, Hitotsubashi University
     Tokyo, University of Sendai, University of Kyoto, University of Sheffield, University of Southern
     Denmark, University of Bergen, University of Glasgow, Tilburg University, University of
     Manchester (all Morrison); HU Berlin, University of Graz, University of Trondheim, Mercator
     Institute Berlin (MCC), University of Quebec, University of Warwick, University of Kiel,
     University of Umea, University of Belgrade, Institute of Advanced Studies in Paris, University
     of Erfurt, University of Zurich, University of Hertfordshire, University of York (all Schuppert);
     Oxford University, Chinese University of Hong Kong, University of Sydney, University of
     Copenhagen, NUI Galway (all Walker).
  Editorships. Associate Editor at Analysis (Clarke)
  External advisor roles. Morrison chaired the panel responsible for authoring the QAA's
     Subject Benchmark Statement for Philosophy (2015). Walker has been appointed as an
     external ethics advisor for two EU funded projects (in 2016 and 2019).
