Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: Swansea University
  Unit of Assessment: (18) Law
  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Unit context
Research at the Hillary Rodham Clinton School of Law focuses on three principal areas: Commercial
and Maritime Law, Governance and Human Rights, and Criminology and Criminal Justice.
Underpinning these research areas are five crosscutting themes: Contemporary and Future
Challenges; Digital Age; Theory, Ethics and Methodological Innovation; Wales as a Legal
Laboratory, and Iterative Pedagogy. These themes facilitate collaboration and cross-fertilisation
across subject areas and methodologies within and beyond the discipline.

Since REF2014, we have benefitted from considerable expansion and investment, evidenced
by:
     Capital investment in the School (enabling its expansion into a modern second building) and
       bespoke facilities, such as our new Legal Innovation Lab Wales, a £5.6M initiative supported
       by the European Regional Development Fund (2019-2023);
     A doubling in research income (from £851,956 in 2014 to £1.76M in 2020);
     A growth in postgraduate student numbers (from 17 completions in 2014 to 26 in 2020);
     An expansion of our community of early career researchers (ECRs), to build longevity and
       ensure the sustainability of our research environment.

In 2015, Professor Elwen Evans QC was appointed Head of the School of Law. She initiated a wide-
ranging review of the School’s research environment, informed by five core principles:
inclusivity, transparency, collegiality, equality, and efficacy. Consistent with these principles, the
process of research environment review is open-ended, involving regular dialogue with staff, to
ensure the environment facilitates the continued attainment of our research ambitions.

An initial review led to a refocusing of our research strategy. Strengths in Commercial and Maritime
Law and in Criminology and Criminal Justice continue to be a focus. The review also identified
growing strengths in Governance and Human Rights, in which the School has further invested. Areas
of research strength that were nascent in 2014 but are now well established are the interdisciplinary
Cyberterrorism Project (which has evolved into the Cyber Threats Research Centre (‘CYTREC’))
and research on sex work and sexual exploitation. An emerging area of research strength lies in the
inter-disciplinary Legal Innovation Lab Wales.

Our research structures reflect the evolution that has occurred in areas of research strength and
respond to our researchers’ expressed needs. While some of the formal University research centres
have been retained (namely, the Institute for International Shipping and Trade Law (‘IISTL’) and the
Centre for Criminal Justice and Criminology), we have updated and expanded School-based
structures (e.g. CYTREC and the Observatory on Human Rights of Children (‘Observatory’)) and
created others (e.g. Governance and Human Rights research group; Sexualities Consortium).
Additional, less formal structures, such as regular thematic Discussion Groups and Roundtables (on
Public Law; Cybercrime; Children, and Vulnerabilities) supplement them. The activities of these
groups are open to all researchers, including PGRs, and there is no requirement for researchers to
align themselves to any one group. Instead, the deliberate porosity of these structures seeks to
facilitate collaborations within and beyond the Law School, cross-fertilisation of research methods
and the sharing of research findings, thereby enhancing the vitality of our research environment.

1.2 Progress against goals since 2014
The School met its objectives described in REF2014, namely to:
    1. Produce excellent research, nurturing research potential and recruiting staff accordingly;
    2. Integrate PhD students into the research community;
    3. Establish links with international partners;
    4. Secure the external funding needed for research to thrive;
    5. Support interdisciplinary research;
    6. Collaborate with research users.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We achieved this through a programme of investment and support to enhance our world-class
reputation for enabling high quality research with impact:

   1. The excellence of our research is demonstrated by monographs with leading publishers
      (e.g., OUP, CUP) and articles in top journals (e.g., LQR, CLJ; MLR; OJLS; Br. J. Crim.; BYIL;
      Sexualities; Public Law) that generates esteem (e.g., 30 citations to this research by courts
      in ten jurisdictions, including the Supreme Courts of UK and Canada). Section 2 outlines how
      staff recruitment and retention has enabled excellent research to thrive.
   2. Our PGR community is an integral part of our research environment, as evidenced by
      collaborative funding applications and projects, engagement activities and co-authored
      publications during the census period (Section 2.3).
   3. A diverse range of international partnerships have led to co-authored outputs, joint events,
      and collaborative projects and grants (Section 4.1).
   4. Research income across the review period has more than doubled to over £1.76M, with
      research grants secured from an increasingly diverse range of funders (Section 3).
   5. Interdisciplinary research has been supported through various School initiatives, including
      recruitment; funding interdisciplinary events, and identifying research synergies with other
      University departments (Section 1.3.1).
   6. Extensive collaborations with research users, including contributions to the work of Welsh
      and UK governments; the EU; UN bodies; NATO; non-governmental organisations and
      industry partners (Section 4).

1.3 Research Strategy
Our research strategy aims to create an enabling, vibrant research environment. It was developed
in an inclusive manner through extensive discussions with colleagues across all career pathways
and stages at a series of away days and staff meetings. During the census period, there has been a
greater emphasis on support for generating interdisciplinary research and research impact, with a
continuing emphasis on core issues such as research ethics. Operational oversight is provided by
the School’s Research Committee (which includes representation from all key research areas, ECRs
and our PGR community) and Director of Research (a member of the School’s Senior Management
Team).

1.3.1 Interdisciplinary Research
Interdisciplinary research is a core component of our research strategy. In 2018, the School made
the University’s first-ever joint cross-departmental academic appointment of an Associate
Professor in Law and Computer Science. The appointment of two computer scientists and two
political scientists in August 2020 (as part of the Legal Innovation Lab Wales) will bolster further our
interdisciplinary research.

To facilitate the development of research networks across disciplines, the School co-hosts events
with other University departments (e.g. Computer Science; the Morgan Academy (public policy),
Engineering) to identify synergies in research activities and potential areas of collaboration. We also
host visiting academics from other disciplines to promote interdisciplinary research collaborations
(e.g. the European Centre for Minority Issues, Germany, 2018) and provide funding for
interdisciplinary conferences (e.g. Terrorism and Social Media Conferences, 2017 and 2019) and
summer schools (e.g. International Children’s Rights Summer School, 2018).

Our support for jointly supervised PhDs (with Geography, Computer Science, Politics, Linguistics,
Medicine, Social Policy, and Management) facilitates links across disciplines and contributes to the
creation of the next generation of researchers with a firm grounding in interdisciplinary research.

Beyond the School, University funding has enabled the development of interdisciplinary networks,
projects, and funding bids. Our academics regularly participate in Sandpit events organised by the
University’s Research, Engagement and Innovation Services (REIS) and external bodies (e.g. a
2019 interdisciplinary residential sandpit on Landscape Scale Socio-ecological Resilience, which
has led to collaboration with the Welsh Peatland Action Programme).

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.3.2 Achieving Impact
Our research strategy has contributed to the purposeful generation of considerable research
impact. Regular events, such as school research away days and bespoke training sessions, ensure
that all researchers are alert to the possibility of generating impact from their research and how best
to do so. An Academic Impact Lead provides support and advice on achieving impact, develops
the School’s programme of impact events, and identifies where further School support may be
needed. Access to School funding to support engagement, outreach and dissemination
activities has contributed to colleagues’ success in generating research impact. School support and
match funding of collaborative PhD projects that evolve from user need (e.g., on cybercrime
victimisation, co-designed with the Southern Wales Regional Organised Crime Unit in response to
law enforcement need) also contributes to research impact. This is set to continue in the next census
period, with the School match funding four ESRC collaborative PhD studentships developed in
conjunction with the Welsh Government Office of the Legal Counsel, Migrant Action and Tech
Against Terrorism respectively. The School also grants sabbatical leave to colleagues on the
Enhanced Innovations and Engagement career pathway to engage with research users. Our three
impact case studies have developed against the backdrop of this support and benefited from the
additional support of a research assistant/officer, funded by the School, at various points in their
development.

In addition to targeted research engagement activities, we recognise the importance of promoting
the visibility of our research with the express aim of maximising impact. Our REF Officer supports
researchers through enhancing awareness and training on research visibility. In 2018, the School
established a Working Group on Enhancing the Visibility of our Research. An away day on this theme
in 2019 provided training on media engagement; writing for The Conversation; promoting our
research on external research platforms, and making research methods, data, and outputs as
accessible as possible.

1.3.3 Research Integrity
To ensure that our research meets ethical standards, all researchers are required to complete online
research ethics training (Epigeum): this is monitored at School and University levels. A School
Research Ethics and Governance Committee ensures that we undertake research in accordance
with the highest standards of research ethics. The Ethics Committee advises on issues such as open
research data and reproducibility, safeguarding, and wellbeing (of both researchers and research
subjects).

The Committee recognises the specific challenges posed by the nature of some of the research in
the School (i.e. on sex work, cyberterrorism, and children) and has been proactive in developing
further ethical guidance and protocols within and beyond the School. For example, it contributed
to the University’s Policy on Researching with Children, which reflects best practice in participatory
children’s rights research. The School is represented on the Board of the Research Institute for
Ethics and Law (RIEL), a cross-University Institute committed to research in applied ethics and law.
Colleagues have presented at RIEL events (e.g. on the ethical dimensions of the Children as
Researchers methodology) and contributed to ensuing publications (e.g. Neurolaw and
Responsibility for Action, CUP 2018).

Researchers are also developing cutting-edge research and practices in the field of research
ethics. For example, with School support, one of our PGR students, in partnership with researchers
at the Cambridge Computer Lab, co-designed and co-delivered sessions on ethical internet research
at a summer school at Ruhr University, Germany. We have integrated this research into our MA
Cybercrime and Terrorism curriculum. CYTREC researchers are also currently engaged in a
research project, developed in collaboration with external partners (Dublin City University, Twitter,
and the Hedayah and Modus|zad think tanks) exploring ethics, risks and harms to online terrorism
researchers. In collaboration with its third sector partners, the Student Sex Work Project provided e-
health services to both participants and researchers involved in the project, making Swansea one of
the first universities in the UK to provide such support.


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.4 Future ambitions
A collaborative all-staff consultation process in 2019 resulted in the identification of concrete
research plans for the School for the next census period. We aim to:

      Continue to support researchers at every career stage to fulfil their research ambitions and
       deliver research excellence including through the further embedding of the five core
       principles that underpin the School’s inclusive research community;
      Expand research impact through transformative, world-leading research that is relevant
       locally as well as globally;
      Further maximise the opportunities that our location in a devolved jurisdiction affords us in
       developing innovative research relevant within and beyond Wales;
      Continue to develop our academic and non-academic research collaborations, including
       interdisciplinary collaborations;
      Embed further the mutually reinforcing relationship between our research and teaching, by
       expanding research opportunities for undergraduate and postgraduate students;
      Strengthen research on Chinese-British Commercial Law, building on the strong
       relationships we currently enjoy with a range of leading institutions in China;
      Support emerging research strengths, e.g. under the Digital Age research theme, while
       further consolidating established research areas;
      Drive the development of a vibrant Welsh LegalTech sector through our Legal Innovation Lab
       Wales project, which aims to support the development of toolkits to enhance access to justice
       and the legal profession and explore new platforms to support counterterrorism and security
       initiatives.




                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy
Our staffing strategy has evolved in line with our research review and has four core components,
namely to:
       Retain and recruit talented researchers to augment and sustain established and nascent
        areas of research strength;
       Maintain an appropriate balance between researchers at all career stages to ensure vibrancy
        and longevity within the School;
       Recruit academics on all career pathways to ensure the School can meet its mission to
        deliver excellent research while simultaneously delivering excellent teaching and a positive
        student experience;
       Grow research leadership from within the School in addition to recruiting senior researchers
        externally.
This has shaped the nature and composition of our research community since 2014.

In 2014, the Unit returned 24 academic staff (19.5 FTE), five of whom were non-Swansea-based
fractional appointments, recruited to provide external research leadership and advice. It now
comprises 26 Category A staff (23.55 FTE), all of whom are submitted, and 13 of whom were
appointed since 2014. Our two colleagues currently on international fractional contracts were
appointed to augment the work of CYTREC and IISTL (including through teaching and research
supervision).

There also has been a significant re-balancing of the composition of our research community
since 2014. While Professors represented 63% of our REF2014 submission (15/24), they comprise
35% of this submission (9/26), with Lecturers and Senior Lecturers now comprising 42% (11/26).
This reflects our efforts to ensure the sustainability of our research community.

2.2 Staff development and support
Colleagues benefit from being part of a community characterised by collegiality. Complementing the
wide-ranging programme of University staff development initiatives (outlined in REF5a section 3),
we have adopted an extensive range of formal and informal support mechanisms. They include
a Director of Career Development who is a member of the School’s Senior Management Team,
and whose role includes offering strategic advice on career pathways and promotion, supplementing
discussions in the professional development review process.

Other mechanisms for career development include our Sabbatical Policy, adopted in 2016 following
extensive consultation with colleagues and the UCU (to confirm equality considerations were
appropriately addressed). To promote a strong research culture across the School, sabbaticals are
available to colleagues on all career pathways, not just Category A staff. This means that colleagues
who may wish to transfer to a research career pathway have the opportunity to develop a research
output or project to facilitate that transition. The policy is also flexible in duration (normally six months)
and objectives (accommodating impact or engagement-driven activities, as well as traditional
outputs or funding applications). In the census period, 27 colleagues have benefitted from
sabbatical leave. In addition, we ensure that the timetabling of teaching and School meetings
enables all colleagues to have at least one teaching-free research day each week, with ECRs
normally having at least two teaching-free days per week.

Colleagues across all career pathways benefit from a generous individual Staff Development
Allowance (SDA) of £1000/year, which has been used for a wide range of activities including: travel
and conference attendance, impact/engagement/networking activities, and access to research
materials. It has enabled ECRs, for example, to present their research at events in Switzerland,
Australia, and Canada. In addition, an ad hoc School Research Fund (with a total value of £30,000)
allocates funds on a competitive basis to support research activities where expenses exceed the
SDA. This fund is open to academic staff and postgraduate researchers (who also benefit from an
individual research allowance of £550/year).
                                                                                                      Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In the census period, school research away days (open to all colleagues and PGRs) were held on:
      Research Strategy (2017)
      Outputs (2016; 2018)
      Impact (2017; 2019)
      Environment (2019)
      Enhancing the Visibility of our Research (2019)

These away days enhance the vitality of our research including by bringing staff together to share
experiences and skills. We also host a programme of regular Research Seminars, Thematic
Discussion Groups and Roundtables (which continued online during the Covid-19 pandemic).
These enable colleagues to share, and receive feedback on, research projects and outputs at all
stages of development, as well as to explore possible research collaborations. An internal database
of expertise and experience (e.g. of peer review for funding bodies; journals) facilitates a system of
voluntary internal peer review of outputs and grant applications prior to submission.

2.2.1 Additional support for ECR development
Formal and informal mentoring of ECRs takes place between and across career pathways, giving
access to experienced researchers with whom to discuss research plans. Every ECR is allocated a
mentor. We also ensure ECRs benefit from a reduced teaching load in the first three years of
appointment. Average teaching load will necessarily vary but, for example, in 2018/2019, established
staff taught approximately 100 hours across the academic year, while ECRs taught on average just
under 70 hours/year. ECRs are also supported in developing new modules based on their research
interests.

Opportunities exist for ECRs to undertake leadership roles (e.g., as convenors of Thematic
Discussion Groups) and as members of the School Research Committee and other committees.
Two of our postdoctoral researchers represent the School as members of the University's Research
Staff Working Group (part of the Research Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers – see REF5a 3.1.3).

We also encourage ECRs to apply for leadership development programmes, such as the award-
winning Welsh Crucible, which develops leadership skills and interdisciplinary networks for ‘the
future research leaders of Wales’. Two colleagues graduated from Welsh Crucible during the census
period. Similarly, the UK Digital Economy Crucible, in which three colleagues have participated since
2014, supports early and mid-career researchers to acquire new skills and competencies at the
intersection of digital innovation and societal impact. Both Crucibles resulted in significant
interdisciplinary collaborations (including OSR4Rights, an ESRC Transformative Research project
on using open source evidence for human rights investigations).

2.2.2 Career progression
School measures to support career progression are complemented by the University’s promotions
policy (see REF5a 3.1). Indicative criteria for progression within each academic career pathway are
designed to provide transparency, clarity and consistency around the promotions process, and
enable colleagues to plan their professional development with clearly-defined goals and milestones.
We support colleagues to apply for promotion and receive informal feedback on their applications
through the annual Professional Development Review process and from the Director of Career
Development. This has yielded results. Since 2014, 10 Category A staff were promoted: two to
Senior Lecturer, two to Associate Professor and six to Professor, with 50% of those promoted to
each strand being female. Significantly, there has been a 100% increase in female professors, from
two to four (of a total of nine) Professors.

2.3 Research students
There has been significant growth of the School’s postgraduate research (PGR) community
since 2014. 26 PhD students have completed their studies in the census period, representing an
increase of 53% since REF2014 (17 completions). In line with sector practice, this UoA does not
award research-based professional doctorates. This growth has been facilitated by:

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      consolidating and expanding our research strengths and supervision capacity through staff
       recruitment and promotion;
      developing PhD projects in conjunction with external partners;
      investing in part-funded PhD scholarships, and
      membership of the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership.

Since 2014, our PGR cohort has featured an increasing number of collaborative PhDs, which have
been developed in conjunction with external academic partners (Grenoble, Leiden, and Amsterdam)
and non-academic research users (e.g., QinetiQ, CJCH Solicitors, Onego Shipping and ABMU
Health Board) with a view to expanding our PGR community and recruiting talented students to work
on innovative, impact-driven, projects. These external collaborators provide 50% scholarships, with
the School/University providing match funding. We also provide funding for ESRC collaborative
PhDs where ‘in-kind’ contributions (e.g., internships, dissemination opportunities) have been
provided by external bodies, including the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) and the Southern
Wales Regional and Organised Crime Unit.

Other sources of external funding include overseas government funders and our membership of the
ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership (12 scholarships since 2014) and EPSRC Centre for
Doctoral Training on Enhancing Human Interactions and Collaborations with Data and Intelligence
Driven Systems (one scholarship to date). Three of our current PhD cohort are recipients of Swansea
University Research Excellence Scholarships, highly competitive full scholarships awarded by the
University.

We provide PGRs with a supportive research environment and seek to equip them with the
necessary skills for graduate employment. Each student is allocated a minimum of two
supervisors, and monthly meetings are recorded on the University’s online system. Our Director of
Postgraduate Research, supported by a PGR Administrator, is proactive in identifying and
responding to the needs of our PGR community. A programme of events offering bespoke support
to PGRs complements the University’s doctoral training programme (see REF5a 3.2). It includes: a
comprehensive induction programme (on topics including research skills and wellbeing); a regular
PGR student/staff forum; PGR-led discussion groups, and a weekly writing group. An annual PGR
Colloquium offers students the opportunity to present their research in progress and receive
feedback from faculty and fellow students. Specific training sessions (e.g. on employability, open
access, and REF) are included as part of the annual Colloquium programme.

PGRs have the opportunity, and are mentored, to achieve Associate Fellowship of the Higher
Education Academy, and have their fees paid by the School. This enhances PGR employability, as
well as broadening students’ research skills through engagement with pedagogic literature. During
the census period, nine PGRs have been awarded AFHEA status.

Each student benefits from office space in our dedicated PGR suite and an annual research
allowance of £550 to cover the cost of conference attendance and other research expenses. With
School support, our PGRs have disseminated their research findings to academics and policy
makers (e.g., the FCO, Wales Cyber Trade Mission in Brussels, American Criminology Conference,
Child Rights European Academic Network, and Houston Law Center). We also promote
opportunities for PGRs to showcase their research through the University’s Research as Art and
Three Minute Thesis competitions.

As an integral part of our community, PGRs regularly participate in School research seminars and
thematic discussion groups, away days and training events. PGRs have also hosted research events
and chaired panels at events organised by faculty. For example, in 2019, with financial support from
the School, our PGRs hosted and presented their work at the international 2019 UK
Postgraduate Bioethics Conference. The PGR organisers were mentored by the Director of PGR,
who held regular meetings and provided advice and support.

PGRs also participate in research projects led by the School’s established researchers. Two
CYTREC PGRs secured competitive funding to present at the Global Internet Forum to Counter

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Terrorism (GIFCT) inaugural conference at the Brookings Institute (Washington DC) in 2019. Others
have co-authored outputs included in our submission.

Undergraduate and postgraduate students are also provided with opportunities to develop their
research skills, enabling us to grow the research community of the future. The Criminology
Schools Research Partnership has enabled 39 undergraduate students to undertake empirical
research in local schools and in partnership with local criminal justice agencies. Four of these
students have gone on to undertake PhD research in the School. Undergraduate and postgraduate
students have also undertaken paid research internships (e.g., on access to legal advice for asylum
seekers in Wales, 2019; on terrorists’ use of the internet, 2016, which included attendance at a NATO
Advanced Research Workshop on the theme). One of our first School research interns went on to
complete a PhD at Ohio State University and recently co-authored an article with a senior academic
colleague.

The quality of research produced by our PGRs is illustrated by the prestigious Research Award of
the Confederation of European Probation (CEP), awarded to a recent graduate in 2019 for her
research on evaluation systems for probation services. Other PGR graduates have gone on to
pursue academic careers, including at Cardiff, Swansea, the Open University, and Portsmouth in
the UK and Ludwig-Maximilian University in Germany. To give an example of career trajectory in the
School, in the census period, one colleague was awarded her PhD, appointed as a Lecturer,
participated in the UK Digital Economy Crucible, awarded a Fulbright Scholarship, and promoted to
Senior Lecturer. PGR graduates have also pursued careers as legal professionals or government
officials in the UK, Cyprus, Nigeria, China, and Turkey, among others. Notably, one PGR graduate
was appointed Kuwaiti Minister for Social Affairs in 2019, becoming one of only three female
government ministers.

2.4 Equality and diversity
The core principles of inclusivity, transparency, collegiality, equality and efficacy inform all our
activities, including recruitment and career development. The School is actively cultivating diversity
in our research community, encompassing a range of protected characteristics. Females account
for 43% of our Professoriate, which compares favourably to the Advance HE Benchmark for Law
(33.2% female). 50% of our Associate Professors, and 61% of Senior Lecturers are female. 12% of
our Category A staff are BAME and 8% have declared a disability. 92% (24/26) are on permanent
contracts, with clear pathways and support in place for those on fixed-term contracts.

All colleagues are consulted on decisions affecting our research environment such as our
Sabbatical Policy, Statement of Intent and REF preparations, to ensure that equality and diversity
considerations are addressed. Meetings and events are timetabled to accommodate colleagues with
caring commitments. There are opportunities for colleagues at all stages of their careers to undertake
research leadership roles. For example, our Research Ethics Committee was chaired by a Senior
Lecturer from 2015 to 2017. Flexible return-to-work policies following parental leave, such as
reduced workload, and adjustments for staff with caring responsibilities and disabilities ensure that
staff wellbeing is prioritised and staff are empowered to research productively.

The University’s policies on inclusion and diversity are embedded at School level (see REF5a 3.3).
We submitted our application for an Athena SWAN Bronze Award, identified by the University’s Code
of Practice as a measure to mitigate and reduce the impact of discrimination or inequality, in
November 2020 (underpinning work completed in census period). In addition, all members of the
UoA team with responsibility for decisions on the selection of outputs and impact case studies for
this submission undertook mandatory equality training, including specialised courses on equality and
diversity and unconscious bias. Our outputs submission is evenly (50%/50%) gender balanced. This
compares favourably to REF2014, when 8 of 24 submitted staff (33%) were female.

The University’s promotions policy and PDR processes account for career breaks and extended
periods of absence and enable colleagues to adapt their working patterns according to individual
needs. For instance, some colleagues have moved from full-time contracts to fractional
appointments, and then back to full-time employment as their caring responsibilities shifted.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Promotions data by protected characteristics is monitored annually and any resulting trends are
highlighted for action.

Our commitment to equality and diversity is reflected in a diverse range of activities, including our
support and successful advocacy for the views of our PGR community that a University PGR
Maternity Policy was needed. Prompted by current social developments, including the Black Lives
Matter movement, the ‘School Conversations’ initiative was launched by the Director of Career
Development to provide a forum for informal discussion and sharing resources on equality and
diversity issues, such as Decolonising the Curriculum, and Gender and the Law School (learning
from our Athena Swan engagement).




                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income and strategy
The root-and-branch review of our research environment initiated in 2015 resulted in far-reaching
changes to our research culture, structures and ambitions. These changes have delivered tangible
benefits in terms of enhancing the volume, diversity and sustainability of our research income
compared with REF2014. They have also promoted the development of research networks to
generate funding applications, innovative and impactful research projects, and excellent research
outputs, as befits a vibrant research community.

Over this REF census period research income has more than doubled to £1.76M (an increase of
107% compared to £851,956 for REF 2014 period). Notwithstanding an increasingly competitive
funding environment, this trajectory seems set to continue with awards totalling £3.2M obtained in
AY 2019/2020. Aside from the increase in the volume of research income, to ensure the
sustainability of our research income, we have deliberately targeted a wider range of funding bodies.
During the census period, we secured 57 awards from 34 distinct funders, including:
    UK research councils (e.g. ESRC; EPSRC; British Academy);
    Welsh government (e.g. National Assembly of Wales; Public Health Wales);
    UK charities (e.g. Wellcome Trust; Paul Hamlyn Foundation; Legal Education Foundation;
       Waterloo Foundation);
    Other UK public bodies (e.g. Big Lottery Fund; Police and Crime Commissioner Wales;
       Equality and Human Rights Commission; Youth Justice Board of England and Wales);
    European government bodies (e.g. European Parliament);
    Overseas funders (e.g. NATO; GIFCT).

There also has been an expansion and diversification of those applying for research funding
during this period. This is significant not only in ensuring the sustainability of our research income,
but also signals an important culture change in the School. A series of School research
development seminars, research away days, individual mentoring and the availability of dedicated
professional service support have contributed to this culture change. Our Professional Development
Review processes include Key Performance Indicators that provide clear and sector-appropriate
grant capture targets for researchers, while a wide range of School and University mechanisms
exists to support the attainment of those targets. This has yielded results as academics at all career
stages and across all career pathways are involved in funding applications, with 85% of Category
A staff submitting at least one funding application during the census period.

Aside from the increased volume and diversity of research income, there have been important
qualitative changes in our research funding. These include

      An expansion in collaborations with non-academic research users to produce research
       projects delivering societal impact. For example, research on counselling for victims of sexual
       violence in childhood and/or as adults, funded by Lloyds Bank Foundation and undertaken
       in collaboration with New Pathways, will inform the content and mode of delivery of a new
       Diploma in Trauma Counselling.
      An increase in inter-disciplinary funding applications. For example, colleagues are, or
       have been, Co-Investigators on funded projects led by other Schools, such as the £7M (£3M
       EPSRC) CHERISH-Digital Economy Centre project (a seedcorn funding scheme designed
       to nurture interdisciplinary research collaborations for the Digital Economy). To date, our
       researchers have received CHERISH-DE funding totalling £56,955 (e.g. to examine the
       dissemination of online terrorist magazines).
      The involvement of our PGR community in funding applications. For example, PGRs
       participated in successful bids to research:
           o social media algorithms and extremist content, resulting in a publication and the
               dissemination of findings to policy makers in London, Ottawa and Washington DC;
           o ethics and resilience of terrorism researchers, in conjunction with external academic
               collaborators and research users;


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           o   the implications of Universal Credit for digitally excluded citizens, an inter-disciplinary
               study developed with the College of Human and Health Sciences. This led to the
               submission of evidence to the UN Special Rapporteur on Extreme Poverty during his
               2018 UK visit.
      Contemporary global challenges have been at the heart of many of our funding
       applications in the census period. Research funding has been secured to examine: human
       rights fact-finding (ESRC); climate change (Society of Legal Scholars); environmental law
       after Brexit (National Assembly for Wales); cyber-terrorism (NATO; GIFCT; US Office of
       Naval Research); the potential uses of artificial intelligence in medical decision-making
       (Wellcome Trust) and international criminal investigations (Nesta); and the interplay between
       religion, human rights and peace (Auschwitz Institute for the Prevention of Genocide and
       Mass Atrocities).
In addition to external sources of research funding, we encourage colleagues to apply to University
administered sources of internal seedcorn funding. They include the Swansea University
Research Grant Enabler (SURGE) scheme, helping researchers scope research programmes,
develop networks, and undertake small, proof-of-concept projects. One of the first awards was for a
collaborative, cross-College (College of Arts and Humanities and School of Law) project on human
rights and ASEAN that brought together researchers from Swansea and Southeast Asia, leading to
several collaborative funding bids, publications and the development of an ongoing research
network. Colleagues from the Observatory on Children’s Rights also secured SURGE funding to
develop a collaboration with the University of Houston and other USA-based research and advocacy
organisations, leading to an international conference on Children Displaced across Borders in 2016,
and an ongoing research collaboration on that theme. Ultimately, this increased the international
profile of the School and the Observatory, leading to our partnership with Hillary Rodham Clinton
(after whom the School was re-named in 2017), and to awards totalling £700,000 from the Welsh
Government and Sky to support the Hillary Rodham Clinton Global Challenges postgraduate
research programme.

Researchers within the School have also received funding from the University’s Global Challenges
Research Fund, including funding to undertake research on new psychoactive substances in six
Eurasian States (Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Georgia, Serbia, Moldova and Belarus). In addition to
academic outputs (e.g. a 2020 article in the Harm Reduction Journal), this research has produced
six country reports, which are being used by national and regional NGOs to inform policy change.

The School’s Legal Innovation Lab Wales, launched in November 2019, will provide a further
impetus to the generation of innovative research projects with the potential to deliver significant
economic and societal impact. A £5.6M initiative supported by the Welsh European Funding Office
(WEFO) with £3.9M of European Regional Development Funds, it represents a major investment in
our research in cyberterrorism and LegalTech. The Lab has secured funding until June 2023 and
aims to provide a unique environment that supports innovative and impactful collaborations between
researchers, legal practitioners, the legal tech community, policy makers and wider stakeholder
community. Already, researchers are making significant progress against the project’s ambitious
targets and secured £603,000 of research funding by March 2021 (exceeding WEFO’s target of
securing £350,000 by February 2021). The considerable investment in the Lab, including the
recruitment of researchers (at least 12 over the life of the project, including postdoctoral researchers,
with the majority appointed on permanent contracts), a dedicated five-person project support team
and bespoke research facilities, has helped to facilitate this success. Our commitment to inclusivity
ensures that all researchers are encouraged to contribute to the Lab’s work and avail of its facilities
and the support of its project team. This strategy has generated funding applications from existing
researchers from each of our three principal research areas. They include projects recently awarded
funding from HEFCW’s Research Wales Innovation Fund/Innovation Capacity Development Fund
on cyber risk insurance, countering violent extremism, and supporting online human rights
investigations (with impact generating KPIs including the development of Knowledge Transfer
Partnerships, SMART Partnerships and licensed prototypes).




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our growing success in attracting research income has been facilitated by the extensive range of
University and School support introduced during the census period. The Arts, Humanities and Law
Hub (AHL), funded by REIS (see REF5a 4.1), provides research development support, including:
     a dedicated Bid Writer, who assists colleagues with refining their proposals before
        submission;
     a Research Development Officer, who supports researchers with identifying and responding
        to funding calls;
     an Impact and Engagement Officer, who works with colleagues to maximise research impact
        and collaborative partnerships;
     a Research Development Assistant, who provides administrative support throughout the
        grant application process.
In addition, REIS provides administrative support for contracting with funding bodies and for financial
management and reporting of projects.

In 2017, the AHL Hub Manager, in liaison with the School’s Director of Research, developed a
bespoke programme of research development seminars for all our academics to enhance
awareness and understanding of the grant application process, particular funding opportunities, and
the support that the Hub can provide. These events and the participation of the Hub in our research
away days, foster greater interaction between our researchers and the University’s research support
mechanisms, and this has contributed to further successful funding applications.

Supplementing University-level support, the School appointed a Research Engagement Officer in
2018 as an internal resource to assist researchers in applying for research funding. Working
collaboratively with colleagues in the Hub, this ensures a high level of tailored support for our
researchers at every stage of the funding application development cycle, from identifying funding
opportunities, to initial project scoping, through editing and costing applications, to grant submission
and interview preparation. Additionally, the School has an internal peer review system whereby
colleagues can obtain feedback on draft funding applications, while School funds have been used to
commission external peer review for larger grant applications prior to submission.

The Legal Innovation Lab Wales project team provides further in-house support for our
researchers. The team comprises a Project Manager, Engagement Officer, Project Administrator,
Software Development Team Leader and a Software Developer. Weekly drop-in sessions enable
researchers to explore research projects within the Lab’s remit with the team and to avail of their
support. In addition to the specialist support provided to Lab projects, the team also facilitates the
development of interdisciplinary and collaborative networks with researchers across and beyond the
University as well as collaborations with external research users.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
In 2019, the University invested c. £3M to accommodate the School’s continuing growth, enabling
its expansion into a modern second building. This investment led to the provision of an additional
3,500sqm of new facilities, including: An Artificial Intelligence in Law Laboratory and Research and
Development Centre; a Law Clinic, with client meeting rooms and workspace, and a Cyber Threats
Research Suite (a Police Assured Secure Facility, scheduled to open in Spring 2021). Dedicated
research and office space for collaborations is open to all researchers, and every member of
academic staff has their own office.

These sector-leading facilities further enrich our research environment and enhance our capacity to
deliver transformative research in collaboration with external partners. They augment existing
facilities, including the School’s extensive Law Library, located in the University’s main library, with
three Subject Librarians dedicated to Law and Criminology. Additionally, following the untimely death
of our colleague in 2018, we established the Dr. Theodora Nikaki Library of Shipping and Trade
Law, a collection of more than 2,000 texts available to researchers, students and visiting academics.




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our innovative and interdisciplinary research is firmly embedded within a wide range of national and
international collaborative networks of scholars, beneficiaries, policymakers, and stakeholders.

4.1 Academic collaborations, networks and partnerships
Collaborations with academic researchers from within and beyond the discipline are encouraged and
sustained, through:

    A. Financial support
Colleagues have used their annual research allowance and the additional School Research Fund to
participate in academic conferences, workshops, and visits to partner institutions. Four researchers
(PGR and staff) were awarded CHERISH-DE International Mobility Fellowships in the census period
to spend time as visiting scholars at Universities in the USA, Singapore, France, and Australia.

    B. Collaborative events
School funding has enabled key collaborative meetings and events to take place, while
administrative support is provided by our dedicated Marketing and Events team. Of note is the
Terrorism and Social Media conference, a biennial event featuring (in 2019) 74 speakers and over
200 delegates from 23 countries, and a broad range of academic and stakeholder organisations,
including all the major social media companies. In 2016, the School co-sponsored the Lex Petrolea
– Reality or Myth? symposium (jointly with the University of Texas, Austin), and in 2019, part-funded
the Law and the Climate Emergency workshop, which also received support from the SLS Small
Projects and Events Fund.

    C. Research leave
Our sabbatical policy has enabled colleagues to develop collaborative outputs and funding bids, and
to spend time as visiting professors at leading international universities. For example, two colleagues
spent three and six months respectively as visiting Fulbright Scholars at the Orfalea Center,
University of California Santa Barbara, a leading global cyber studies centre.

    D. Visiting scholars and research networks
Since 2014, we have hosted visiting faculty from Emory Law School, USA; Piri Reis University,
Turkey; Jimei University, China; Uppsala University, Sweden, and the University of Houston, USA.
Colleagues are members of over 40 leading research networks and consortia, including COST action
networks and expert working groups. External roles include:
     Executive Director of the RESOLVE Network, a global research consortium on violent
       extremism, housed at the US Institute for Peace;
     Chair, International Centre on Human Rights and Drug Policy, based at the Human Rights
       Centre, University of Essex;
     Founding Director of the Collaboration of Researchers for the Effective Development of
       Offender Supervision (CREDOS) international research network.
In addition, CYTREC is the only UK higher education member of the GIFCT research network,
established by Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Twitter. These associations enhance the vitality of
our research environment, by engaging with the broader research community, and its sustainability,
by providing a link to established research networks for our ECR and PGR researchers.

    E. Collaborative PhD supervision
Three of our current PGR students are undertaking collaborative, jointly supervised, funded PhDs
(at Leiden, Amsterdam, and Grenoble Universities). University funding enabled colleagues to meet
with counterparts at partner institutions to identify projects and supervision teams, while
University/School scholarships facilitated the recruitment of talented PGRs to these projects.
Colleagues additionally supervise seven PGRs primarily supervised by other Faculties and are
external supervisors to PhD students at other Universities (e.g., Cardiff; EUI; La Trobe).




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As well as many co-convened conferences, workshops, and summer schools, the success of our
academic collaborations in the census period is evidenced by a wide range of joint-authored
outputs, namely:
    Five monographs;
    83 journal articles and book chapters;
    16 jointly edited books and journal symposia/special issues.
These academic collaborations have generated demonstrable impact. For example, in addition to
two journal articles on the topic of illegal, unreported and unregulated (IUU) fishing, a collaboration
with the University of British Columbia (funded by the Waterloo Foundation) contributed to the
development of the world’s first insurance industry statement on sustainable marine insurance,
confirming the commitment of leading insurers not to insure vessels involved in IUU fishing.

4.2. Engagement with research users and beneficiaries
In addition to academic collaborations from a broad range of disciplines, the rapid expansion of
collaborative partnerships with non-academic research users has been a driver for our
increasing focus on research impact during the census period. These collaborations have added
vibrancy to our research environment by providing opportunities for staff and PGRs to participate
in research events, expand their networks and participate in collaborative funding bids. More
generally, during the current period they have enhanced the School’s international profile, itself
a catalyst for further collaborations and the sustainability of our dynamic research environment.

Support for collaboration with research users is integrated across our policies and practices.
Sabbaticals or reduced teaching loads have been granted for the purposes of deepening
collaborations with research users and beneficiaries through events and placements. In the census
period, we supported two colleagues to undertake secondments with research user organisations,
the Older People’s Commissioner for Wales and the NSPCC. We supported another colleague to
undertake a research fellowship with the National Assembly for Wales, on collaborative law-making
after Brexit. Colleagues have also used their staff development allowances for networking, pilot
research projects and attending workshops and meetings with research users.

Research impact extends beyond our current impact case studies and the census period. For
example, probation research (a REF2014 impact case study) has borne considerable recent
influence on French and Finnish probation services. The impact of our research on the law is
evidenced by citations to our research by the: Supreme Courts of the UK, India, Canada, and
Jamaica; Court of Appeal and High Court, England and Wales; South African Constitutional Court;
International Criminal Court; Hong Kong Court of First Instance; District Court of Colombia, and the
US Court of Appeals for the 11th Circuit, among others, in the census period.

Our research has also been cited as authority in reports of leading national and international
bodies, including: The Commission on Justice in Wales; the Law Commission and Scottish Law
Commission; the UN Office of the High Commissioner on Human Rights; the Independent Expert
leading the United Nations Global Study on Children Deprived of Liberty, and the Counter-Terrorism
Committee Executive Directorate of the UN Security Council. Our Head of School was the only
Welsh Law School member of the Commission on Justice in Wales, established to undertake a
review of the justice system in Wales. 15 academics from the School gave evidence to the
Commission, informing its 2019 report on the long-term vision for the future of justice in Wales.

We communicate with research users and beneficiaries through:
   Providing evidence, briefings, advice and training, including to:
        o The Justice Select Committee’s enquiry into the organisation of probation services,
           and the Ramsbotham review of probation service governance;
        o The House of Lords All-Party Parliamentary Human Rights Group, on the death
           penalty for drug offences;
        o Commercial law judges (upon the invitation of the Judge in charge of the Commercial
           Court), on the Insurance Act 2015;


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          o     Facebook’s Policy Manager at Facebook Headquarters, San Francisco, on extreme
                Right-Wing Use of Social Media’;
           o Staff at Twitter Headquarters, Dublin, on ‘Extremism, Affect and the Online Space’;
           o UK Department for Transport, on Shipping Law and Brexit;
           o The research service of all four governments in the UK at the House of Commons
                Library, on Nature Conservation and Brexit;
           o Ministry of Justice staff and HM Prison Service training college, on effective probation;
           o The Welsh Parliament Committee on Climate Change, Environment and Rural Affairs
                and Committee on Children, Young People and Education, and the Northern Ireland
                Assembly ad hoc Committee on a Bill of Rights;
           o The UN Working Group on Discrimination against Women in Law and Practice, on
                legal pluralism and international human rights law.
      Membership of expert advisory bodies, including for example:
           o Welsh Government (Modern Slavery Research Consortium; Advisory Groups on
                Equality, Children’s Rights, and Human Rights);
           o UK Government (HMI Probation and Youth Justice Expert Advisory Group; MoJ
                Correctional Services Accreditation and Advisory Panel);
           o Third sector (e.g., Wales Monitoring Group on the UN Convention on the Rights of
                the Child);
           o UN bodies (Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights Expert Group on
                Challenging Unjust Criminal Laws; UNDP Core Expert Group on Developing
                International Guidelines on Human Rights and Drug Policy).
      Acting as external experts, advisors, or consultants to, among others: Amnesty
       International; ClientEarth; Equality and Human Rights Commission; Europol; Global Legal
       Action Network; Global Network for Human Rights and the Environment, and the OSCE.
      Empowering research beneficiaries: A key facet of our approach to impact has been a
       deep and inclusive engagement with research users to enable them to advocate for change.
       For example, one colleague authored a report on enshrining the right to adequate housing
       into Welsh legislation on behalf of Shelter Cymru, Tai Pawb and the Chartered Institute of
       Housing, which has been used in campaigning for the right to housing in Wales. The
       extensive collaborations fostered by researchers working on children’s rights have shaped
       legislation in Scotland and current legislative proposals in Jersey on incorporating the UN
       Convention on the Rights of Children into national law (following the successful integration
       of the Convention into Welsh law, a REF2014 case study). Through major initiatives like the
       Big Lottery-funded Lleisiau Bach (Little Voices) project, which has pioneered the ‘children as
       researchers’ model, researchers have engaged with and empowered an extensive range of
       NGOs, schools, community organisations, and children. In 2015, the Lleisiau Bach report to
       the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child was the first-ever child-led report to the
       Committee. Lleisiau Bach was a nominee in the 2016 National Co-ordinating Centre for
       Public Engagement awards, achieving high commendation as an ‘exemplary method’ of
       engaging young children as researchers.
      Collaborating with local beneficiaries: The IP Wales project (which received significant EU
       funding in the REF2014 period) provides support to SMEs to identify and protect their
       intellectual property, with a particular focus on digital intellectual property. This has led to a
       collaborative PhD project with a law firm, and the development of an IP subcluster of the
       South Wales Cyber Security Cluster (a network of 247 SMEs across South Wales). Access
       to justice research has led to the successful establishment of the Swansea Law Clinic and
       Children’s Legal Centre Wales, both of which collaborate with local legal firms in providing
       legal advice to members of the community and engage with the legal and other professions
       more broadly. One colleague is Chair of the Law Society’s Access to Justice Committee.
       CYTREC’s local collaborators include Swansea Hate Crime Police School and Swansea
       Council (including PREVENT teams), and close links have been established with the Welsh
       Counter Terrorism School.
Our research appears regularly in online, TV, radio and print media. An away day in 2019
provided training and an opportunity to share experiences on enhancing the visibility of our work.
We regularly engage with online dissemination networks such as articles in The Conversation, and

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have been interviewed for the Washington Post, Times Higher Education, The Guardian, BBC
Wales, BBC Radio 5 Live and BBC Radio 4 (Today programme) among many others. The Student
Sex Work project (an Impact Case Study) led to the BAFTA Cymru-winning film ‘Fog of Sex’, which
was shown as part of BBC3’s Gender Season with over 1M views. The BBC produced a five-episode
series of short films with testimonies taken directly from the research, which was screened on BBC3
and online, with more than 17M views.

4.3 Contributing to the sustainability of the discipline
Section 2 highlights the School’s investment in its researchers across all career stages, which
demonstrates commitment to sustainability and succession planning. Section 1.3.1 demonstrates
support for and exemplars of interdisciplinary research. Notable contributions to sustaining the vitality
of the research base in the census period include:

      Peer-review for over 100 journals, including cross-disciplinary journals;
      Membership of the editorial boards of 28 journals that reflect our research strengths,
       including: Annals of Air & Space Law; Criminal Law Forum; Journal of Human Rights and the
       Environment; European Journal of Probation; International Centre for Counter-Terrorism
       Journal; International Journal of Children’s Rights; International Journal of Drug Policy;
       Journal of Artificial Intelligence and Law; Journal of International Maritime Law, and Lloyd’s
       Maritime and Commercial Law Quarterly;
      Guest editing special issues of 7 journals, including: Health and Human Rights;
       International Community Law Review; Journal of International Criminal Justice, and Studies
       in Conflict & Terrorism;
      Series editors/editorial board members for series published by Edward Elgar, Routledge,
       Ashgate and University of Wales Press.
      Serving on grants committees and/or Peer Review Colleges for funding bodies, from the
       UK (including AHRC, ESRC, EPSRC, Leverhulme, Wellcome, and UKRI) and internationally
       (ERC; Finnish Academy; Dutch Research Council; Research Council of Norway; Social
       Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada; South Africa National Research
       Foundation).

Our broader contribution to the discipline is evidenced by colleagues’ authorship or co-authorship of
leading textbooks on human rights (OUP); the English legal system (Routledge); contract law (OUP),
and criminal law (Pearson) in the census period. An impact case study submitted to UoA20 on
changing the law to tackle contract cheating, ghost writing and essay mills in higher education was
co-authored by a colleague, and has received significant media attention (e.g., Times Higher
Education; Telegraph; Guardian; Irish Times, BBC Radio 4).

Research excellence is recognised through prizes and awards given to Unit staff, such as:
     Academy-ICPC Submarine Cables Writing Award, for research published in (2014) 45
        Ocean Development and International Law 107 (van Logchem);
     Book Prize, British Insurance Law Association, 2015 (Soyer);
     Inaugural International Research Award, Confederation of European Probation, 2016
        (Raynor);
     Named as a ‘Top Ten Legal Scholars of Jilin Province’, China Law Society (Wen);
     Best Paper Award, 32nd International Conference on Legal Knowledge and Information
        Systems (JURIX), 2019 (Wyner).
We have delivered: invited keynote presentations (e.g., a Current Legal Problems annual lecture
(UCL, 2014); ‘New Frontiers in Environmental Law’ Conference, University of Potchefstroom (South
Africa 2016); World Congress of Probation (Tokyo, 2017); Tarragona International Environmental
Law Colloquium (Spain, 2020)), and invited lectures at institutions including: Oxford, Edinburgh,
Harvard, Monash, Athens, and Dalian Maritime Universities; RUSI; Europol, and the Inner Temple.
We have also presented at international conferences, e.g., Southeast Asian Human Rights Studies
Network Conference (Thailand, 2016), ICON-S Annual Conference (Hong Kong, 2018), and IVR
World Congress (Lucerne, 2019).


                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Staff examined PhD theses for 14 UK (e.g., Imperial College London, Oxford, Leeds, Manchester,
Birmingham, Nottingham, Sussex) and 12 international Universities (e.g., Adelaide; Monash;
Bologna; Turin; Ghent; Leuven; Gothenberg; Trømso) in the census period.

Our research themes evidence a responsiveness to pressing national and international priorities.
The end of the census period was characterised by an unprecedented global pandemic, which had
the potential to profoundly disrupt research worldwide. Instead, the vitality and sustainability of our
research environment was exemplified by extensive Covid-19 related research activities in 2020 –
including webinars, four journal articles specifically on the impact of the pandemic on the law (e.g.,
‘Devolution and Covid-19’, (2021) Public Law); conference papers and presentations to various
international bodies (e.g., to UNCTAD on commercial law implications of the pandemic, and to
UNDPPA on monitoring peace agreements remotely). Despite the pandemic, all research leave
arrangements were honoured.

Building on the remarkable strengthening of our research environment since 2014, we will continue
to develop our national and international collaborations with academic and non-academic partners
in the next REF period. This will ensure that our reputation for world-leading research and delivering
impact in an inclusive and supportive environment will continue to thrive.




                                                                                              Page 17
