Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Stirling

 Unit of Assessment: C19 Politics and International Studies

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 Politics at Stirling is a division of History, Heritage and Politics in the Faculty of Arts and
 Humanities. We conduct research in global politics and policy problems, specialising in human
 rights and global justice, climate change, energy and resource conflict, and public health. As a
 previously small unit, no independent Politics submission was made to REF2014, but since 2014
 Politics has experienced sustained and transformative growth through strategic institutional
 investment. Our REF2021 submission is the fruit of that investment, and has been achieved
 through:

     •   three senior appointments with specialisms in public policy, gendered politics and
         policymaking, and Middle Eastern politics whose research aligned with and provided
         impetus in our key areas and who have brought dynamic research leadership and given
         substance, direction and a clear strategic research vision to the unit,

     •   a doubling of our permanent full-time research-active numbers to 10 FTE, to deepen and
         consolidate our research strengths in international politics and public policy;

     •   collaborative national and international partnerships with intergovernmental and state
         actors, NGOs, and policymakers to deliver impactful research.

 This programme of investment has strengthened and broadened our research specialisms, helped us
 achieve a profound change to our gender balance, and invigorated a collegiate research culture. It
 has brought the capacity to deliver substantial input to governmental, public and Third Sector
 policy and practice, nationally and internationally, and the expertise to contribute to policymaking
 directed at attainment of the UN Global Goals for Sustainable Development.

 Highlights of our achievements include:

     •   Impact through partnership with public health agencies in the devolved jurisdictions,
         improving public health policy and practice across the UK;

     •   Impact through optimizing the use of evidence in European Union policymaking;

     •   Collaborative research to advise on Human Rights and Climate Change at the United
         Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Conferences of the Parties;

     •   Collaborative research to inform the strategy and agenda of the EU Non-Proliferation and
         Disarmament Consortium;

     •   Securing over £800,000 in external competitive grant funding since 2015.

 1.2 Research Structure

 Research in the University is organised through three interdisciplinary, mission-oriented themes:
 Cultures, Communities and Society; Global Security and Resilience; and Living Well. All Politics
 research aligns with these University research themes and in particular with nine of the
 programmes that sit beneath them: Being Connected; Cultural Heritage; Home, Housing and
 Security; Digital Society and Culture; Environmental Change; Extremes in Science and Society;
 Global Food Security; Human Security, Conflict and Co-operation; and Health and Behaviour.
 To optimise and maximise the effectiveness of our research contribution to these programmes,
 and to operate as a cohesive unit, we co-created a sustainable intellectual vision that

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 encompasses our collective identity: to be at the heart of international and interdisciplinary political
 research. We have implemented a research strategy that is focused on specific global policy
 problems in which Politics as a discipline has a pivotal role. Our research strategy has four
 objectives:

    •   to strengthen key sustainable areas of research

    •   to deliver strong public policy impact;

    •   to be an open, equal, and respectful research community;

    •   to have a world-class graduate programme.

 Our strategy provides a framework for the research specialisms of Politics colleagues, which
 include human rights and global justice, climate change and resource conflict, and a changing
 global order that has prompted diverse responses, from transnational cooperation to new
 demands for constitutional and political change.

 Our research activity is organised into two overarching groups:

    •   International Politics, including Human Security & Human Rights and Critical International
        Relations;

    •   Public Policy.

 International Politics (Baumeister, Dee, Haastrup, Hoffmann, Kasbarian, Lynch, Saade,
 Schapper) Our analyses of the role and influence of international organisations, networks, ideas,
 and policy frameworks helps set the international research agendas in these areas. We focus
 particularly on human rights and human security and are at the forefront of critical academic and
 policymaker debates on the global governance of human rights. Our research includes the
 analysis of the gendered institutions, networks, and practices that influence foreign policy, peace,
 and security, the actors and organisations fostering conflict and cooperation in Middle East
 politics, and the normative foundations and limits of a human right to freedom of religion.

 Public Policy (Cairney, Dee, Hoffmann, Kippin, Lynch, Munro, Schapper, Stephan, St Denny). As
 a group, we are at the centre of international research networks which are delivering insights on
 the relationship between research evidence, policymaking, and policy. Our research focus has
 delivered critical analysis of the effectiveness of evidence-informed policy learning between
 governments (and government agencies) and encouraged its adoption as practice across political
 systems, focussing particularly on the extent to which government policies prevent policy problems
 and reduce inequalities. Our research has contributed new insights on the past, present, and future
 of energy and environmental policy, housing and homelessness policy, gender equality policy,
 and public health (including tobacco, alcohol and food) policy.

 Both groups have contributed to intersecting issues such as gendered politics and policymaking.
 Other thematic foci are encouraged and facilitated through these groups. For example, area
 studies experts in the International Politics group have generated insights on key aspects of Middle
 East politics, including the study of diaspora, genocide, resource competition, and religion, foreign
 policy, and disarmament diplomacy. Collaborating with colleagues in the Stirling Law School, we
 also research human rights in Bangladesh and India, and key issues of energy and environment
 in UK and devolved politics.




 1.3 Research and Impact Strategy


                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institutional investment in Politics since 2014 has given leadership, direction, and capacity to our
 research endeavour. New leadership appointments have brought focus and impetus to our
 research, adopted with distributed leadership within our research groups. The reach and impact
 of our new research – in international human rights and human security, the politics of energy and
 environment, evidence-informed policy-making, and international governance – is growing as the
 Politics unit continues to expand and strengthen its expertise in these fields

 Our research strategy is to identify, understand and address complex domestic and international
 policy issues and societal challenges through cutting-edge research approached from theoretical,
 empirical, doctrinal and interdisciplinary perspectives. This is a core, over-arching aim of our
 research groups and is met by assembling teams of researchers within and across the groups to
 advance solutions to, for example, challenges of transnational cooperation, new demands for
 constitutional and political change, policy change and governance, accountability, human rights
 and global justice, or climate change and resource conflict. Solutions typically combine research
 and co-production methods to integrate academic and practitioner knowledge. The results are
 developed and deployed in close collaboration with specialists in academic disciplines in the
 humanities, social, environmental and computational sciences, stakeholders, including
 policymakers at national and supra-national levels, intergovernmental organisations, non-
 government organisations and third sector organisations. To realise this strategy, we pursue two
 primary aims:

 i. Develop new approaches to tackling complex issues and societal challenges

 Both research groups support the sharing of ideas and collaborative working internally, with each
 other and beyond Politics, and with external stakeholders. This has led to collaboration on
 research and writing projects and grant applications. Examples of the synergies we exploit
 include:

    • Participation in the ESRC Centre on Constitutional Change 2013-15, an interdisciplinary
      project including political scientists, lawyers, economists, and social policy specialists from
      five research institutions, looking initially at constitutional change in Scotland. We analysed
      the implications of Scottish independence and other constitutional options. Outputs included
      working papers and blog entries designed to inform policymaker thinking and public
      knowledge in the lead up to the 2014 Scottish independence referendum, and partnership-
      working with civil servants from the UK and Scottish governments aided production of their
      analysis papers. Evidence-giving to the Scottish Parliament, Welsh Assembly, Northern
      Ireland Assembly, and the UK inquiry on the West Lothian question, facilitated the
      development of networks across all devolved legislatures and provided the foundation for
      further collaborative work in other policy areas.

    • These networks were mobilised for our contribution to the ERC Horizon 2020 IMAJINE
      (Integrative Mechanisms for Addressing Spatial Justice and Territorial Inequalities in
      Europe) project 2017-21. IMAJINE includes political scientists, geographers, statisticians,
      and economists from 12 European research institutions analysing social justice and equality,
      focusing on the extent to which governments could learn from each other’s success. Case
      studies of innovation by some governments were researched, with best practice from those
      communicated through training or feedback sessions with other governments
      (supplemented by reports and blog posts). The Stirling-led work-package encouraged policy
      learning by convening workshops with UK and devolved government Public Health agencies
      and formed the basis for one of our REF impact case studies.

    • UK Energy Research Centre ‘The impact of multi-level policymaking on the UK energy
      system’ 2018-19. This project drew on political science, law, and economics in three Scottish
      Universities to combine research with workshops and policy briefings to inform policymaker
      and practitioner planning for the effects of Brexit.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • Royal Society of Edinburgh ‘Connecting with a low-carbon Scotland’ 2016-18 This network
      brings together scholars across the humanities – including literature and theatre, politics,
      law, visual arts and media – to facilitate the creation of a low-carbon society in Scotland
      through the development of shared understandings of the challenges posed for Scotland by
      climate change, energy use and the process of transition. The objective is to share culturally
      powerful narratives from the different disciplines to develop fresh thinking on how these
      complex issues can be approached and made accessible for decision makers and citizens.

 ii. Facilitate collaborative, interdisciplinary research

 Our collegiate atmosphere stimulates research within Politics and supports collaborations with
 academics and stakeholders beyond our research groups, especially through the faculty Centre
 for Human Security, Conflict and Co-operation research. We work with our partners to identify and
 understand complex challenges that can benefit from our disciplinary input and methods to deliver
 interdisciplinary solutions. Since 2014, incoming colleagues have added new personal external
 contacts to our networks and, as they familiarise with Stirling’s internal research landscape, they
 have broadened our connections within and across that research community, activating and
 realising the range of opportunities this affords

 Stirling’s institutional ethos and academic profile encourages close collaborative links across
 disciplines. Politics leverages institutional strengths in history, philosophy, religion, law, public
 policy, media studies (especially digital), health and sports sciences, social sciences, psychology,
 and environmental science to deepen and broaden our research, strengthening our contributions
 to multiple institutional research programmes. Collaborative, interdisciplinary research projects
 have been stimulated through explicit cross-disciplinary “away days”, presentations at Faculty
 research showcases, and the annual Stirling Festival of Research, and through providing
 leadership in the university-wide research programmes and projects.

 Through these partnering mechanisms, we have leveraged research collaborations that have
 exposed previously under-exploited synergies between disciplines. This is most evident in our
 work with colleagues in environmental sciences and human rights law, where we have contributed
 to five programmes under the Global Security and Resilience theme, on topics ranging from food
 security to environmental activism, and demonstrated the added value of our distinct empirical,
 theoretical and comparative research perspective in interdisciplinary projects. This has led to the
 submission of larger, multidisciplinary grant applications that maximise colleagues’ domestic and
 international research links in projects that bridge between disciplines.

 1.3.1   Activating Research

 An integral part of our annual staff development and appraisal process – referred to as Achieving
 Success– is the production and review of a Personal Research Plan (PRP). Guided by the
 Research Director and agreed with the Politics lead, alongside identification of person-specific
 support and/or development and training needs, the PRP details colleagues’ research funding
 applications, impact activities and output plans.

 Our strategy encourages involvement and ambition by all colleagues in grant applications.
 Research funding plans are central to colleagues’ PRPs - they will normally have at least one
 research grant project ‘in play’ (whether as PI or CI) – and are discussed and formalised through
 the Achieving Success process. Small grants are viewed as a basis for high-quality publications,
 as impact triggers, and in laying the groundwork for large bids. Escalation from ‘seed-corn’ awards
 to larger funding applications is a planned element of our research strategy, designed to grow our
 research community and capacity through recruitment of research assistants (RA) and open-
 ended early career researcher (ECR) posts. Such opportunities are exemplified by Cairney’s
 IMAJINE grant, where a 1 FTE fixed-term RA progressed to an open-ended ECR contract to
 expand capacity within the Public Policy research group. Each research group’s strategic growth
 plans are agreed with the Head of History, Heritage and Politics and the Faculty Dean and are


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 embedded in colleagues’ PRPs and through annual review, to support planned and sustainable
 expansion. Grant planning, therefore, forms a central plank in our staff development strategies.

 Extensive institutional support is available for development of larger funding applications
 (>£100,000) while informal support is offered within the Faculty for smaller ones. Grant-writing and
 other skills development workshops are provided through the Institute for Advanced Studies by
 Research and Innovation Services, with colleagues’ specific needs identified through Achieving
 Success meetings. Support to enable enhanced participation within GCRF projects is available
 through the University’s competitive Connect, Connect+, Spark and Escalator research funding
 schemes. ECRs are prioritised for support in attending conferences at which they present work-
 in-progress, to help them build networks of potential collaborators and mentors and to provide
 opportunities for research dissemination and feedback on draft outputs and impact activities.
 Conference attendance is, thus, an integral component of PRP discussions for its place in the
 development of planned project outcomes.

 Outputs are aligned to Politics’ strategy, which aims to increase the visibility, reach and impact of
 the research our two groups through publication in the top-rated peer-reviewed journals for each
 specialist field and agenda-setting monographs. While the written quality of colleagues’ work has
 been honed and enhanced through writing, research promotion, editing skills and research ethics
 workshops offered by the University’s Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS), the intellectual
 tightness and rigour of publications have been achieved through formal and informal peer-review
 processes. Drafts go through multiple iterations before submission, via mentorship and peer-
 review by senior colleagues, conference panels, presentations at internal research seminars and
 invited seminars of external networks, including the Scottish Middle East research network
 (MENET) and the Centre for Feminist Foreign Policy (UK).

 1.3.2   Achieving Impact

 Impact permeates our research and we have intensified impact within our research culture through
 the Faculty Impact Strategy, which encompasses all researchers and research students in the
 Faculty of Arts and Humanities. This Strategy has three objectives:

    •    to improve impact literacy through training and the sharing of best practice, enabling
         identification of a wide range of potential and ambitious impact objectives;

    •    to maintain an impact support structure;

    •    to recognise and track impact as it happens.

 To achieve these objectives, Politics is supported by History, Heritage and Politics’ Impact
 Champion, who coordinates with the Faculty’s Deputy Associate Dean of Research (Impact) and
 the Faculty Impact Committee. Impact is a key dimension of our research planning and
 development of impact pathways and tracking of achieved impact is embedded into colleagues
 PRPs. Impactful research is recognised and rewarded within Achieving Success and its planned
 pursuit is a criterion for research leave. Within Politics, our current and future case study authors
 are the ‘impact ambassadors’, who share knowledge, skills, connections and insights gained
 during their journeys to impact creation. They are the catalyst for enhancement of impact across
 our research groups, identifying new opportunities, advising on planned impact activities to
 support new projects, sharing best practice on optimising and maximising impact in mature cases.
 The University-wide network of Impact Champions, supported through the institutional Impact
 Working Group, makes it easy for us to share our best practice and learn from others across every
 Faculty and Division within Stirling. Our Faculty Communications Officer supports colleagues
 routinely to write for, and present to, non-academic audiences, through blogs, webinars and public
 events. The effect of this approach is evidenced in the high volume and wide range of our impact
 activity, exemplified by the University of Stirling Policy Blog (which averages 250k hits per year)
 and contributions to media outlets, including The Conversation.


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The success of this integrated approach to impact awareness and generation is exemplified by
 one of our impact case-studies, Optimizing the use of evidence in European Union policymaking.
 It originated in 2015 in a collaboration between Cairney and the European Commission Joint
 Research Centre (JRC) which set the agenda for the European Commission’s approach to
 evidence-informed policymaking. This led in 2018 to the co-production of further research with the
 JRC and policymakers, delivering an evidence review and report, whose findings – disseminated
 through formal publications and promoted through our blogs - have been taken up by policymakers
 within the European Commission. The outputs of the original partnership have also stimulated new
 impactful research collaborations, most notably from 2017 with the Scottish Parliament’s
 Commission on Parliamentary Reform, whose agenda included the incorporation of evidence and
 long-term planning in parliamentary scrutiny, informed by expert advice from Public Policy
 colleagues.

 1.4 Open Access

 Stirling is a pioneer in open access to research. Since its inception in 2008, all Politics staff upload
 publications to the institutional repository STORRE, which provides green open access to
 research outputs and PhD theses. The University operates an Article Processing Charge Fund
 which supports the costs of publishing research papers stemming from Research Council
 supported grants and open access publishing via the gold route, available to all research-active
 staff. All STORRE-held publications are listed automatically on colleagues’ externally visible
 web profiles and can also be found through the University’s searchable Research Hub web
 interface via the institutional organisational unit, research programme and research group
 headings, and tags. Outputs are then made available automatically or, if currently under publisher
 embargo, by an automated request function which is directed to the author. This enables
 colleagues to communicate directly with the requesting individual as appropriate and to give
 access to the requested output. Research data is stored in dataSTORRE, and accessible in
 compliance with GDPR regulations.

 1.5 Research Integrity

 All Politics staff and PGR activity involving primary research complies with The Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and must receive approval from the General University Ethics Panel
 before research is conducted. Ethics applications are managed through the secure online Ethics
 Research Manager System and supported by the institutional Research Integrity and Governance
 Manager. Given the focus of our research groups and the nature of some of our external
 partnerships, we are alert to both the challenges and advantages of embedded and participant
 research, with ECRs and PGRs receiving dedicated training, including Peer Review, Ethical
 Approval, Plagiarism, Authorship and Collaborative Research issues, through University
 Researcher Development workshops, Institute for Advanced Studies workshops, and shared best
 practice within Politics.

 1.6 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact

 As a dynamically evolving field, the recurrent themes already evident across our research groups
 will continue to offer rich opportunity for impactful research. Coherence and cohesion will continue
 to be afforded by the group structure, which has the flexibility to adapt to new interdisciplinary
 opportunities, the emergent specialisms of ECRs and more recently appointed senior colleagues,
 and to changing political and policy agendas nationally and internationally. Research output
 continues to be managed through our PRP and Achieving Success processes, underpinned by
 the research group discussion and peer-review mechanisms and aligned with the over-arching
 institutional research themes and programmes. While our current Impact Case Studies revolve
 primarily around the endeavours of single project leads, they arise from a strategy where research
 group impact pathways are identified collectively by group members and confirmed through PRPs
 to build multiple avenues to deliver impact. Pathways and impacts will consequently develop at
 different pace, delivering a continuous flow through the work of the research groups.


                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research and staffing strategy has allowed us to establish coherent areas of research strength.
 Our next goal is to increase the intensity of engagement through the further development of multi-
 disciplinary approaches within Stirling and beyond. Our work crosses notional research group
 boundaries and carries the potential to strengthen the collaborative nature of our research, and
 for colleagues working in different areas of Politics to offer insights from their own particular
 specialisms. The influence of established colleagues and that of new arrivals is readily apparent
 in both groups, and it will allow the research of future appointees and early career researchers in
 particular to flourish, thus ensuring their progression and encouraging staff retention.

 2. People

 Our people give the substance to our research aims. They form the collegial body that conceives
 research, including supervising research students, as its central rationale, an understanding that
 informs colleagues’ attitudes to one another, their availability for discussion, their readiness to
 read draft work and to offer criticism. These attitudes are underpinned by supportive staffing
 policies and made effective through our research support structures.

 We are an open, equal, and respectful research community, who use a distributed leadership
 model to ensure that all voices inform the design of our overall vision and contribute to the
 development of new research directions. We recognise, respect, and encourage individuals’
 differences, not simply with reference to our legal but also to a wider political agenda on academic
 equality led by professional organisations such as the Political Studies Association and British
 International Studies Association. Our practices have contributed to the transformation of the
 social background and cohesiveness of our group as it changed considerably from 2014.

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development Strategy

 Since 2014, Politics has benefited from significant investment in staffing, through replacement of
 retired colleagues and those who have moved elsewhere, and with newly created posts. We have
 grown from 5 FTE research active staff in 2014 to 10 FTE in 2021. This turnover provided the
 opportunity for a strategic review which strengthened the alignment of staffing and research
 priorities and was incorporated and prioritised in Faculty planning. This commitment means that
 with the appointment of 2 associate professors to form an expanded senior cohort, we have gained
 momentum to realise our research strategy. In addition to these senior colleagues, 5 new
 lectureship appointments – 4 open-ended and 1 fixed-term – since 2015 have increased research
 capacity and broadened our range of research specialisms.

 Recruitment has helped transform the social background of our unit, which is increasingly
 representative of a multicultural Scotland and an international university. In 2014, 6 of 7 (86%) full-
 time Politics staff were men. At present, 5 of 10 (50%) permanent staff are men, which compares
 to a sector wide figure for the discipline of 69%. External recruitment and internal promotion mean
 that women now hold 4 of 6 senior positions, and we have maximised our chances of producing
 a gender balanced Professorial staff via internal promotion:

                     Position at census point 2020            Women        Men
                     Lecturer                                 1            3
                     Senior Lecturer/ Associate Professor     4            1
                     Professor                                0            1
                     Total                                    5            5

 These actions have a major impact on the informal culture and power dynamics within the unit, in
 which we have moved from a single Professor model to a distributed model in which over half of
 the unit have responsibility for leadership actions.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.1 Staff Development

 Support for colleagues begins before appointment. Our University’s innovative recruitment model,
 piloted by Politics, is lauded as best practice by the Political Studies Association. It promotes
 equality by anticipating the well-documented biases of traditional recruitment processes, using
 blog communication to share detailed information with all candidates, and supplementing formal
 advertisements with well-worded ‘further particulars’, thus ensuring all short-listed candidates are
 fully informed about our recruitment processes and the posts for which they are applying.

 Stirling was amongst the first signatories of the 2009 RCUK Researchers Concordat. Its
 implementation earned us EU HR Excellence in Research awards in 2011 and 2020. We signed
 the revised Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers in 2019. Evidence of
 the Concordat’s positive influence within Politics includes research induction programmes upon
 employment, peer to peer mentoring arrangements for all staff and faculty-organised senior
 colleague mentoring of early career colleagues.

  For ECRs, introductions to interdisciplinary research are made through the Stirling Crucible
 programme, which brokers cross-institutional relationships and with potential external
 collaborators. Its intensive residential ‘skills labs’ offer models and practical experience for
 interdisciplinary practice. For all colleagues, Crucible-style connection-building is central to
 Stirling’s annual Festival of Research, with work showcased in pecha-kucha presentations and
 collaborations forged through follow-up initiatives. Politics leadership and input to the University
 research programmes in Human Security, Conflict and Co-operation and Health and Behaviour
 originated in these showcases.

 History, Heritage and Politics’ budget supports all staff (permanent and temporary) with an annual
 research budget for conference travel and related costs: currently £1000pa per head, with
 additional funds available on application through the Head of HHP.

 2.1.2 Early Career Researcher (ECR) Development: is supported through an annually-reviewed
 plan approved by the Faculty Dean, which is reset as appropriate during any probationary period.
 Policies and opportunities from which all of our ECRs in the assessment period have
 benefited include:

    •   Stirling’s 3-year probation scheme with reduced teaching loads (initially 50% reduction,
        reducing to 25% in year 3) and no major administrative roles.

    •   assigning a Senior Colleague to every ECR, to advise on PRPs required by the
        probationary scheme and provide mentoring. Senior Colleagues work closely with
        probationers, reading drafts, suggesting directions for research focus, advising on outlets
        for presentation/publication and research grants.

    •   active involvement in research groups, exposing ECRs to and involving them in the
        development and delivery of large research projects led by established colleagues, to
        provide the experience needed to realise their personal research ambitions.

 External project funding for permanent staff means we typically employ at least one non-
 permanent lecturer, and more than one postdoctoral researcher (PDRA), at any one time. For
 example, Cairney’s IMAJINE award and associated project funding currently supports a 1 FTE
 temporary appointment in Public Policy and 1 FTE PDRA. Temporary staff are treated as full
 members of the unit, benefitting from the same supportive provisions as new permanent lecturer
 ECRs. ECRs seeking their first funding, and lecturing staff seeking major grants, are inducted into
 funded research projects by working with senior researchers. Through our distributed leadership
 model, ECRs can contribute to strategy and outputs regardless of status. Early career and senior
 researchers engage in collaborative projects and discussions of future research directions for their
 research groups. For example, one multi-partner UKPRP/MRC application included an ECR with
 a professorial staff member, while a UKRI (ESRC/NERC) application saw an ECR/senior

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleague collaboration on UK shale oil and gas policy, and another with colleagues from
 Aquaculture and Biological and Environmental Sciences on food security.

 2.1.3 University and Faculty schemes support all staff and allow the opportunity to review
 circumstances:

    •   Achieving Success is an annual cycle through which non-probationary colleagues plan
        research and teaching, review progress against previous plans, and discuss opportunities and
        difficulties. Reviews are conducted by the Politics lead and reviewed by the Head of History,
        Heritage and Politics, who supports colleagues to identify ways to realise research goals, e.g.
        through planning teaching load, workshop support, time for impact and interdisciplinary work,
        reviewing drafts and proposals.

        Career progression is a topic for every Achieving Success meeting, and advancement is a key
        element in our reward and recognition arrangements. The Politics lead works closely with
        colleagues in constructing advancement cases and one post-2014 ECR appointee has already
        secured promotion to senior lecturer.

    •   Targeted mentoring by senior colleagues from other Arts and Humanities units is organised at
        Faculty level. It addresses the following areas: Promotion, Applying for Grants & Managing
        Awards, Taking & Returning from Parental Leave, Women Working at Stirling University,
        Working on Casualised and Temporary Contracts, Taking on and Shaping Administrative
        Work.

    •   Funding-supported access to Institute of Leadership and Management and other externally
        accredited leadership development programmes and women-specific personal and
        professional development programmes including Aurora (provided by Advance HE) and
        Stepping Stones (an internal programme), researcher development programmes and a full
        suite of health and safety courses (including personal travel safety). Politics colleagues are
        mentors and role models on Aurora and Change Management Programmes.

 Through our equality and inclusivity commitments, Politics strongly supports the University’s maternity,
 paternity and parental leave schemes, alongside possibilities for fractional contracts and flexible
 working. We work with individuals to find the best approach for them, and since 2014 have supported
 3 colleagues with parental leave. In particular, we encourage colleagues returning from maternity leave
 to take one semester of research leave at the most appropriate point for them, (in addition to the
 institutional research leave scheme), and offer reduced teaching loads for those returning from parental
 leave. Two colleagues have benefited from post-maternity research leave since 2018. We are
 committed to embedding parental leave and fractional working for caring or other reasons.

 2.1.4 Institutional Research Leave operates at Faculty level and is employed by Politics to provide
 colleagues with additional time to bring substantial research plans or projects to fruition. Our
 institutional workload allocation model provides research, teaching, and administration ratios of
 40:40:20, to embed research within the academic routine, with periods of research leave intended to
 give extended blocks of focused time for activities that require sustained effort, including impact
 activities. Colleagues can apply for one semester’s leave each after six semesters teaching (or two
 semesters’ leave after twelve). Time spent on temporary contract or on parental, caring or
 compassionate leave contributes to research leave entitlement.

 Leave plans are developed and shaped through PRPs and Achieving Success meetings: to coordinate
 plans for institutional leave with external research applications; to frame the aims of the leave; and
 agree the outputs to be delivered at its completion. The University formally monitors research leave
 effectiveness.

 2.2 Research Students [PGR]

 Politics has benefitted greatly from the expertise of the Faculty Associate Dean of Graduate
 Studies, who is an Executive Committee Member of the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
 Humanities (SGSAH), the AHRC and Scottish Funding Council-funded Scottish Doctoral Training

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Programme. Our participation in SGSAH and the ESRC Scottish Graduate School for Social
 Sciences (SGSSS), reinforced internally through the Institute for Advanced Studies (IAS), has
 embedded best practice to deliver supervision and skills training to staff and PGRs and stimulated
 a research environment that focuses on interdisciplinary partnerships and collaboration from which
 Politics PGRs are beneficiaries. All staff undergo regular training (online and in-person via IAS,
 and externally by the Scottish Graduate School) in PhD supervision. We pair senior and less
 experienced staff to learn from each other through co-supervision. This combination of training
 and support helps ensure that all Politics staff are highly skilled in postgraduate research
 supervision.

 Colleagues across the Faculty are SGSAH studentship award panel members and ‘catalyst’
 members (who, for example, deliver discipline-specific training sessions on Data Protection and
 Ethics in the Field to SGSAH-funded PGRs), while Politics colleagues contribute training
 workshops to the SGSSS. Shared best-practice between these colleagues, reinforced by
 advanced supervisor training programmes in IAS, has helped potential Politics supervisors to work
 closely with doctoral programme applicants to enhance the quality of PGR applications and
 projects, and increase studentship application success rates for UKRI and non-UKRI-funded
 projects.

 Since 2014, we have striven to grow our PGR numbers to give us the critical mass to join the
 SGSSS as a specialist unit. Successful Master’s programmes in International Conflict and
 Cooperation, Public Policy, and Human Rights and Diplomacy have established progression
 routes into our doctoral programmes, including the innovative Doctorate in Diplomacy (DDipl),
 designed for working professionals in international affairs. This growth strategy has, since 2014,
 seen 4 doctoral students graduate and 10 Stirling PGRs have been supervised by Politics staff: 4
 as first supervisor and 6 as co-supervisor.

 All Politics PGRs are based in offices with personal workstations in the same building as the
 Politics staff, to maximise interaction, stimulate a collegial atmosphere, and encourage full
 participation in the intellectual life of our community. All have two supervisors, allocated according
 to staff expertise. Politics colleagues also supervise interdisciplinary PhD projects with colleagues
 in other Faculties, forming one of a supervisory team of up to three staff in such circumstances.
 We also facilitate DDipl supervision off-campus, such as when students are working for
 international organisations while studying part-time (e.g. one DDipl student works currently for the
 UN Mission in South Sudan).

 Every PGR has an annual review with two staff members not involved in their supervision. All
 students submit chapters and plans for this annual review, supported by supervisors’
 assessments and student assessment of supervision. The review focuses on supervisory
 arrangements, with students invited to raise issues and reflect. Reviewers act on students’
 feedback, making recommendations for interim reviews or supervisory development where
 needed, identifying strengths for dissemination. Students are offered a mock viva on submission
 of their thesis.

 Skills-mapping and identifying development needs for students is formalised across the Faculty,
 with courses on data protection, research methods, supervisor training (for example on how to
 work with international research students) and viva skills. Politics PGRs participate in Faculty-wide
 doctoral writing retreats, in skills workshops, and ‘shut up and write sessions’ organised by IAS.
 Membership of SGSAH has broadened and enriched research training opportunities across the
 Scottish sector, our PGRs benefitting especially from its summer school on impact.

 Research presentation skills are developed throughout the doctoral programme, from induction to
 pre-viva presentations to staff and fellow students. PGRs participate in research group seminar
 programmes, the Faculty PG Research Showcase, and are included in the University Festival of
 Research. All are strongly encouraged to take external opportunities to present their research,
 aided by an annual individual research support award of £200 from the History, Heritage and
 Politics budget. Additional funds of up to £750 for conference attendance are available on

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 application, with the expectation that recipients present papers that will be refined and submitted
 for peer-reviewed publication.

 Our PGR development includes assisting graduating doctoral students into the profession. We
 offer professional development workshops for graduate students to advise on publications, job
 applications, and interview advice. Of our PGRs supervised since 2014, three have secured
 academic posts and one has moved into a Scottish Government policy role. We provide similar
 support for PDRAs to find permanent work, one securing an open-ended academic appointment
 and another a position with Scottish Government.

 2.3 Equality and Diversity

 One of our core objectives is to build an open, diverse and inclusive research community and
 we have developed iterative policies to achieve this that are central to our strategic direction and
 collective self-conception. These are mapped directly with the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion (EDI) policies and practices, and are realised through the Faculty EDI Action Plan,
 instituted in 2018 and initially headed by the Politics lead. Politics colleagues are panellists on the
 Faculty’s Athena SWAN committee. Advancing gender equality has been the main focus to date
 but from 2020 the University has adopted more intersectional activity to ensure a supportive and
 inclusive research environment for all.

 Our key EDI actions, pursued across the University:

    •   address structural barriers to promotion and advancement from doctoral students through
        to Chairs;

    •   support continuing professional development for fixed-term research staff (mainly women
        at grades 6-8);

    •   widen accessibility of training materials to doctoral students studying part time;

    •   and embed equality discussions into all committees with decision-making power.

 Within the Faculty EDI Action Plan, our mentoring scheme ensures equality and inclusion. Our
 researcher cadre is evenly split on gender but all benefit from policies that recognise and support
 caring responsibilities and other protected characteristics. Structured career development support
 for women, principally Aurora and Stepping Stones , has benefitted colleagues, and others
 are mentors and role models on Aurora and Change Management Programmes. To
 support all to attend development events, none are organised outside a 10.00-16.00 window.

 This embedded approach to EDI is reflected in our output selection, which underscores
 Politics’ strategy for all staff to be supported to develop excellent research and the finest outputs
 of their work submitted to REF. Through induction events and subsequent mentoring,
 all ECRs are made aware of expectations in terms of research quality and resourced to achieve
 these. Within the framework set by the University and through transparent processes, we have
 ensured that outputs ranked highly by internal and external assessors are submitted. Regular
 communication on process and rapid notification of outcomes has occurred throughout. The
 process was Equality Impact Assessed.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our Research Strategy encourages a sustainable model for income generation. We have
 substantially increased our external funding since 2014. Our new income includes successful
 applications to ESRC, UK Energy Research Centre, ERC Horizon 2020, Social Sciences and
 Human Research Council of Canada, Newton Fund, Carnegie Trust, and the Royal Society of
 Edinburgh.



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Two strategies have proved successful and sustainable. The first is to provide an essential
 disciplinary contribution to large multi-disciplinary consortia. Examples, on projects with
 colleagues as PI or CI, include awards of £410,000 from ERC Horizon2020, as part of the IMAJINE
 project; £66,000 via the UK Energy Research Centre The impact of multi-level policymaking on
 the UK energy system; and £200,000 through the £2.4m ESRC Scottish Centre on Constitutional
 Change.

 Secondly, we focus on nascent funding to nurture larger long-term projects. For example, support
 to enable enhanced participation within GCRF projects is available through the University’s
 competitive Connect, Connect+, Spark and Escalator research funding schemes, with up to
 £10,000 seed funding and administrative support available when we lead multi-University and
 multi-disciplinary research applications. Cairney and St Denny, for example, were awarded
 £10,000 in 2018 to support a £7m multi-partner funding bid on health promotion. Institutional funds
 to develop nascent research projects saw Schapper and Hoffmann receive £26,500 for the
 Human Security, Conflict and Cooperation Group, for workshops, equipment, and travel. External
 funding used to develop larger project funding applications include: Hoffmann’s £10,000 British
 Academy award for a Newton Katip Celebi Mobility fund, to research Turkey’s Geo-Political
 Economy with colleagues at Istanbul Bilgi University, delivering a research monograph and a large
 grant proposal; and Stephan’s £4,500 from a Royal Society of Edinburgh (RSE) £20,000 network
 award for interdisciplinary work on low-carbon transition policy, which led to an AHRC funding
 application.

 When possible, we connect such funding to externally and internally funded PhD studentships.
 For example, a University of Stirling-funded studentship on shale oil and gas policy in Scotland
 connects to a UKERC project and the RSE network on low-carbon transitions.

 Worktribe, the University’s research management system, is used to manage and develop
 research funding applications from the earliest stages. Applicants are assigned a dedicated
 Research Support team member from Research and Innovation Services (RIS) and receive early
 input from History, Heritage and Politics’ Director of Research and the Politics lead. The Faculty
 Research Development Officer offers advice on the formal details of funding schemes,
 administrative and financial support staff in RIS provide outstanding support in negotiating the
 specific requirements of funding regimes, including costings, proof-reading, fact-checking,
 nominating internal peer reviewers and advising on ethics and GDPR compliance.

 All colleagues are supported for impact development by our Impact Champion, Deputy Associate
 Dean of Research (Impact), and our Research Impact Officer in RIS. This academic/professional
 services linkage optimises the coordination of internal and external impact training through the
 Researcher Development Programme and IAS. Faculty Impact Development Funding, to provide
 additional financial support for workshops, stakeholder networking events and evidence gathering,
 is distributed on application to the Faculty Impact Committee. External communication of our
 impact is supported by the Faculty Communications Officer.

 The University’s online repository STORRE receives all published work and assists the
 dissemination of our research to the wider community. The University Library/Information Services
 subscribes to a wide range of hard-copy Politics journals and extensive online subscriptions to
 journals and to databases. The Politics Subject Librarian in Information Services manages the
 acquisition of new resources, especially to support our research group specialisms, utilising a
 significant annual budget.

 The Scottish Political Archive (SPA) is a unique Stirling resource which collects political material
 and archives from Scottish politicians and political organisations to chronicle the political history
 of Scotland in the twentieth and twenty first centuries. Its collections on the devolution referendums
 of 1979 and 1997, the 2014 Independence Referendum and material relating to further devolution
 for Scotland and the prospect of a second referendum on independence, informed the work of the
 ESRC Scottish Centre on Constitutional Change and provide core research materials and
 research methods training opportunities for our PGR students. SPA is a key medium for

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dissemination of Politics’ research through its knowledge exchange events. In 2020, SPA
 launched a new online catalogue alongside the University archives and Art Collection, designed
 to increase its accessibility and useability by internal and external researchers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 In addition to our immediate context in Scotland and the UK, Politics colleagues play a full role in
 the development of our discipline globally.

 1.   Publication and presentation:

      • Three colleagues edit major journals (Haastrup, Kasbarian, Cairney): the Journal of
        Common Market Studies; Diaspora – a Journal of Transnational Studies; Evidence &
        Policy.

      • Many members of staff edit special issues or sections of academic journals: e.g. Cairney
        on the ‘politics of evidence based policymaking’ for Palgrave Communications; Kasbarian
        on ‘Armenians, Turks and Kurds Beyond Denial’, in a co-edited special issue of Patterns
        of Prejudice; Haastrup on ‘EU in International Mediation’, in a co-edited special issue of
        International Negotiation; Schapper on ‘The Material Politics of Damming Water: Conflict
        and Contestation in Hydroelectric Energy Projects’, in a co-edited special issue of
        Sustainable Development; Hoffmann on ‘War, revolt and rupture: The historical sociology
        of the current crisis in the Middle East’, in a co-edited special issue of Journal of Historical
        Sociology; and Cairney on ‘Practical Lessons from Policy Theories’, a co-edited special
        issue of Policy and Politics, where the introductory article won the journal’s Best Paper
        prize.

      Co-editorships have forged new collaborations with the Alliance for Useful Evidence - Nesta,
      the Cabinet Office Open Innovation Team, and the UK Government’s Policy Profession.

      • Since 2014, colleagues have reviewed over 150 articles for approximately 100 journals,
        and sit on the editorial boards of Politics and Gender; European Journal of Politics &
        Gender; African Security, Policy Studies Journal, Policy Sciences, Regional and Federal
        Studies, Scottish Affairs, Globalizations, Partecipazione e Conflitto, Security Dialogue, and
        Global Studies Quarterly.

      • We have presented papers at over 100 UK and international academic conferences or
        academic-practitioner workshops.

 2.   Service

 Politics staff contribute widely across the profession. Cairney was on the Political Studies
 Association Executive Council (2016-17), and working group on impact (2017), initiated its new A-
 level politics teaching resources, and chaired its Mackenzie book prize panel in 2020. Baumeister
 is on the Executive of International Political Science Association (IPSA) RC31 Research
 Committee on Political Theory. Stephan was Co-convenor of the European Consortium for
 Political Research (ECPR) Environmental Politics Standing Group (until 2019). Schapper was co-
 chair (2012-18) of the Human Rights Section of the German Political Science Association (DVPW).
 Hoffmann is the elected co-convenor of the Historical Sociology working group of the British
 International Studies Association (from 2019). Haastrup was on the British International Studies
 Association (BISA) Board of Trustees (2016 – 2019), and African Studies Association UK Council
 (2017- 2020). She is also a member of the Committee on the Status of Women of the International
 Studies Association (ISA). Saade is a member of the Beirut Critical Security School (BCSS)
 funded by the Arab Council for the Social Sciences.



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Politics staff contribute to peer reviewing for funding bodies eg ESRC, MRC, Leverhulme, for
 funding Bodies in Hong Kong and the Netherlands, and for NGOs. r the British Council, ESRC,
 Leverhulme, and for funding bodies in Belgium and the United States. Kasbarian is the external
 assessor on grants for the Council of British Research in the Levant (CBRL). Stephan has
 reviewed energy/ climate change proposals for the Dutch Research Council. Schapper has
 reviewed for the Swiss National Science Foundation.

 In addition to these contributions to the discipline, staff members have made notable contributions
 to discussions in government and wider society, supplementing the impact activities we described
 with events at: UK and Scottish Governments, the OECD (Paris), Alliance for Useful Evidence
 (London), Nuffield Trust (London), Geneva Macro Labs, Pew Institute, Economist group
 (Washington DC), Royal Society (London), World Wildlife Federation (Washington DC), Oxfam
 (London), Michael Hill Foundation (Vancouver), Royal College of Surgeons (Dublin), UK Cabinet
 Office, Open Society Foundations (NY), Japan Institute (London), COPOLAD (The Hague),
 European External Action Service (Brussels), Government of Ireland (Dublin), African Union (Addis
 Ababa); RUSI (London), UNFCCC, Direct Democracy Festival (Greece), Bradford Literary Festival,
 Edinburgh World Justice Festival, and the ATL National Women’s Conference.

  Our work has contributed to articles in online and print media, and radio and TV. In addition to the
 referendum work we describe – in which our staff gave over 100 interviews on this topic, to print,
 social media, radio and TV journalists in over 15 countries – we contribute regularly to debates on
 constitutional change in the UK, gender equality, energy justice, geo-politics and religion in the
 Middle East, and human rights.

 Politics staff also lead key aspects of internationalisation including:

    •   Fostering international research networks with the United Nations in Geneva (as part of
        CPCCR research and PGT/PGR trips);

    •   Collaborating with partner Universities (including UC Denver (US), Istanbul Bilgi University
        and Bogacizi University (Turkey), KTH Stockholm and University of Gothenburg (Sweden),
        Technical University of Darmstadt and Humboldt University (Germany), Addis Ababa
        University (Ethiopia), Hokkaido University (Japan);

    •   co-leading a project on legitimation in international negotiation with colleagues at the
        University of Duisburg-Essen (Germany) and consulted by the United Nations Special
        Rapporteur on Human Rights and the Environment;

    •    co-convening and leading the EU International Mediator research network with colleagues
        at the University of Mainz and the German Development Institute; and Gendering EU
        Studies network with colleagues at the University of Amsterdam, University of
        Christchurch, New Zealand and in collaboration with Quaker Council for European Affairs
        in Belgium;

    •   consulting for the Government of Ireland and the European External Action Service on
        developing Action Plans on the Women, Peace and Security agenda;

    •   collaborating with the Energy Center at Bilkent University in Turkey;

    •   membership of the international advisory board of Armenian Diaspora Survey, a global
        research project funded by the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation.




                                                                                              Page 14
