Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

General Overview

The Department of Psychology at Essex supports world-leading, interdisciplinary research that
promotes a better Understanding of Our Place in the World. This organisation of our research
mission allows us to unite and synthesise knowledge across core psychology disciplines and
beyond. To contribute to our mission, staff work across three research themes that dismantle
conventional, disciplinary boundaries and that match our broad research strengths: Thinking
about the World, Interacting with the World, and Experiencing the World. This unique
approach benefits from the use of multi-methodological approaches, while nurturing the translation
of our research findings into practical tools that benefit society.

Research and Impact Strategy

The Department was ranked joint 13th in REF2014 (intensity weighted GPA, THE) and laid out
clear plans that focused on maximising research intensity; continuing to grow our world-wide
reputation; enhancing the translational potential of our research; and investing in our
researchers through recruitment, mentoring and development and enhancing our research
infrastructure. Our ongoing research vision for maintaining excellence through planned rapid
growth led us to develop a novel conception of the Department as an environment defined by
research crossing conventional disciplinary boundaries. We moved away from traditional
distinctions of research groupings still in place for REF2014, in favour of a more progressive,
forward-looking, generative approach. We devised this framework guided by a conception of a
Department that would drive collaborative efforts with impact focus more-closely matched to
the current needs of society and, accordingly, that were better-suited to meet prevailing calls from
funders that require cross-disciplinary approaches. This new initiative was embraced and shaped
by all staff at a research-focused ‘Away Day’ in 2018. The overarching aim of our initiative is to
leverage the Department’s strengths in diverse areas by fostering interdisciplinary research
links and by replacing traditional ‘research silos’ with cross-disciplinary think tanks.

With a view to generating world-leading research that has a lasting and measurable impact on
society, the initiative begins – as noted above - with the holistic vision of Understanding Our
Place In the World. Under this broader goal, we focus on research efforts that address how
individuals are Thinking About the World, Interacting with the World, and Experiencing the
World. The theme clusters are of roughly similar size (25-35 staff, with contributions to multiple
themes possible) and have senior staff as theme leads (Hibbard, Paulmann, Pekrun), who facilitate
the themes operational management. This approach allows staff to pursue their intellectual
ambitions and to achieve research excellence, while fostering an interdisciplinary approach
promoting collaboration and utilising multiple, complementary methodologies. Since presenting this
framework publicly (e.g., website, recruitment pack) we have seen excitement about its promise
from high-calibre scholars of different seniority applying to work at Essex (e.g., Stoet, Yamaguchi,
Korb, Vrticka).

Our updated strategic aims up to 2020 were thus to further grow and firmly establish us as an
internationally well-connected Department that produces societally relevant research that is not
restricted by disciplinary boundaries. This objective has been met through:

      large-scale growth that allowed us to recruit promising early career researchers and
       established leaders in their respective fields, as well as retain excellent researchers;
      reframing of our research mission;
      targeted research infrastructure investments;
      supporting impact activities financially and through dedicated staff;

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      providing a supportive environment that facilitates our activities with a strong focus on
       career development opportunities guided by principles of diversity, equality and inclusion.

Achievements

1. Recruitment and retention of excellent researchers

We have appointed 35 new staff since January 2014 and thereby more than doubled in size (21
FTE were submitted to REF2014, increasing to 51 FTE for REF2021; 4% average turnover). We
made significant investments in appointing staff who can lead and develop our new research
themes (e.g., Professors: Eacott, Pekrun, Stoet; Senior Lecturers: Juanchich, Yamaguchi).
However, we have predominantly focused on strengthening our skill base through appointing early
career researchers (ECRs) with excellent track records and research trajectories (e.g., Filipetti,
Gutierrez, Hanel, Korb, Klabunde, Lamarche, Lisi, Vrticka). We additionally increased specialist
technical staff (e.g., Boalch, Broggin, Fowles,) to further support this growth. Strong staff
development is evident in more than 20 promotions since REF2014 (e.g., Geereart, Gillmeister,
Sandstrom, Sirota, Rieger). Research excellence of staff is evidenced by outstanding publication
quality and emerging grant capture for ECRs (e.g., Clarke, Sandstrom, Korb). Since REF2014,
staff have published nearly 800 peer-reviewed articles (Web of Science) of which more than half
made data publicly available and more than a quarter included pre-registration practices,
reflecting our commitment to open science practices. Staff have captured project funding from
sources including BBSRC, ESRC, EPSRC, British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Academy of
Medical Sciences and Department for Transport. Recent databases of standardised citation
indicators (Ionannidis et al., 2020) include seven (Hanley, Foulsham, Orbell, Pekrun, Stoet,
Wilkins, Meddis) staff who are listed amongst the top 1% of cited scientists worldwide, or 2%
of cited Psychology scientists.

2. Investment in infrastructure

Since REF2014, strong investments have been made to grow and maintain state-of-the-art
research facilities (£390,000), housed in a specialised lab facility built in 2009. For example, to
facilitate work on developmental neuroscience topics (e.g., Babylab Essex), we invested £50,000
in novel hyper-scanning capable functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) facilities. We have
also been successful in competitive University-wide funding (PVC-Research and capital investment
funds). This targeted investment has led to well-equipped, advanced computer labs,
electrophysiology (EEG), eye-tracking, physiology, fNIRS, and transcranial magnetic stimulation
(TMS, £178,000); functional, modern office space including an independent suite with 12 offices
and meeting space (£50,000); a mobile testing van (£50,000); and social spaces that foster
opportunities for innovation, dissemination, training and collaboration. We have also
received financial support for more specialised work on pain, biofeedback and vision research
including water bath, physiological and vision display systems (£62,000). Building on considerable
investments from the previous REF2014 period, our research management ensured that staff have
access to world-leading facilities by continuing to invest in planned maintenance and facility
enhancement. To support staff with needs for brain imaging, we have negotiated prioritised
imaging access at the local Colchester Hospital (structural imaging), and in the wider local area
(functional imaging at UEA).

3. Fostering a supportive environment that facilitates impact and excellence in research

Organisation

Departmental research organisation is a combination of bottom-up and top-down activities. The
departmental research committee (RC) is made up of members from all research themes, includes
staff at different seniority levels (SL, Reader, Professor) and is gender and age balanced (3
female, 4 male staff; 3 staff ≥ 50 years, 4 staff ≤ 45 years ). It meets formally once per term and
serves in a more agile way to discuss pressing issues informally via email and other channels as
needed. The RC is chaired by the Director of Research (DoR), and members include Head of

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Department (HoD), Deputy DoR, Director of Impact (DoI), Postgraduate Student Director (PGRD),
research theme leads, and Transparent Research Facilitator (TRF) to promote open science.
Departmental Manager and Head Technician attend relevant parts of the meeting. RC discusses
research governance, facility maintenance, expansion for soft-and hardware, seed-corn funding,
general research and impact support activities and PGR training. It promotes a strong research
culture by sharing best practices. DoR and DoI attend termly Faculty RC meetings and are linked
to the University’s Research Enterprise Office (REO) staff who support funding applications and
impact activities. The linked REO Research Development Manager (RDM) regularly communicates
funding opportunities and supports grant writing. Theme leads act as advocates for their research
domain on RC and ensure that investments are strategically implemented. Theme leads convene
meetings to facilitate research communication within the Department and also provide support in
grant writing. They ensure all staff can benefit from being part of an intellectually stimulating
community with state-of-the-art facilities. The TRF runs regular activities (seminars, workshops) to
encourage best practices. A departmental Moodle site with research information and support
documents is regularly updated by RC members and support staff. Departmental Zoom research
discussion channels enhance rapid communication and support, especially important during
COVID-19 times.

Finances

The DoR oversees the annual research budget (~£67k). Funds predominantly cover: 1) seed-
corn funding for (collaborative) projects leading to grant proposals or excellent publications;
2) contributions to open access publication fees to enhance accessibility and visibility of outputs;
3) small research equipment or software needs; and 4) individual personal research budgets of
£1000 each for discretionary research funding by academic staff. Moreover, the Department has
introduced a fund to support work of post-doctoral researchers to help foster independence
(£1000/year to bid for). A similar scheme runs for PGRs. Research seminars are supported with
£4,500 yearly. The Department runs an Open Science Incentive Scheme. Equipment and
consumable needs are funded from an additional yearly budget of £40k.

Open Science

We embrace the values of open science (OS) that go beyond publishing open access. This
includes teaching about the replication crisis in psychology and how open and transparent
research practices can alleviate this issue (statistics; research methods). We provide an
environment that supports staff and students in making their data, materials and analytical code
publicly available as well as in pre-registering their studies: staff and PGRs are financially
rewarded to conduct and publish transparent and open research. To be eligible, research needs to
follow the three principles of OS: open data, open materials, and pre-registration. A change in
practice is clearly evidenced by a significant increase in staff publishing through gold open access
(30% of all publications since 2014 are gold open access).

We run an open access publication fee scheme every term to provide financial support for
publication fees. The University also has access to UKRI block grant funding that can be used to
support open access funding (linked to UKRI funded projects). The University has open access
publishing agreements with Wiley, SAGE, Springer, CUP and PLoS. More agreements are under
negotiation.

Our Transparent Research Facilitator facilitates OS practices by: regularly reviewing
recommendations about reproducible and transparent research practices; informing staff about
these; offering workshops on OS practices; providing individual advice on implementation of
transparent research practices; inviting guest speakers to further promote OS.

Other positive changes include staff making data publicly available for 54.7% of their published
outputs in 2020 compared to 18.6% in 2016. Pre-registration of publications also increased
significantly, now at 26.7% (against 1.3% in 2016). The TRF chairs the ‘Essex’s Open Science
Working Group’ which is part of the UK Network of OS Working Groups. It meets bi-monthly with

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
40+ members across the University. They organise training and workshops (e.g., pre-registering
studies; sharing data; how to use the Open Science Framework).

Staff have contributed to large-scale replication efforts of psychological research (Sandstrom,
Sirota, Korb, Hanel). Sirota will co-lead a Horizon2020-funded work package to develop an OS
strategy for Young Universities for the Future of Europe partners and collaborates with Elsevier on
OS and trust in science. We are a founding member of the South East of England Replication in
Psychology Syndicate formed in Autumn 2020 to promote research reproducibility.

Collaborations

Our staff are active in many within-department and cross-University collaborations which
are complemented by strong international links (Section 4). Nearly 60 scholars visited the
Department since REF2014. The University supports international visits with a fellowship
programme. International visitors (e.g., from Australia, Canada, USA, Korea) received funding from
the British Academy, Essex International Visitor Fellowship and other sources to collaborate with
Essex staff. Projects pursued during these visits are aligned with key interest areas.

Research Outcomes

Staff publish work in leading journals and are doing so more than ever. While 18.6% of all
staff papers published in 2014 were in the top 10% of psychology and neuroscience journals
(CiteScore), this nearly doubled to 36.2% in 2020. Similarly, when focusing on the Department’s
outputs in the top 10% for citation globally, 10.9% of outputs were among this elite list in 2014,
increasing by more than 60% in 2020, to 17.6%. 70 research projects (totalling £3,666.000) were
funded from diverse sources including Academy of Medical Sciences, Austrian Science Fund,
American Institute of Bisexuality, Bial Foundation, BBSRC, British Academy, European
Commission, ESRC, EPSRC, Innovate UK, Leverhulme Trust, Oculus, Department for Transport,
Templeton Foundation, NIHR, RSPB, and The Royal Society. The linked RDM promotes
psychology funding opportunities and helps with grant applications. This support is particularly
helpful for ECRs who are less experienced and benefit from the personalised approach. The
Department introduced obligatory peer-review of grant proposals since REF2014 to support staff in
preparing high-quality applications. The DoR also feeds back on applications and keeps a list of
comments to help outline recurring themes in feedback. This helps to target support for areas of
developmental need. The University provides match-funding for equipment costs in UKRI
grants. Grant holders receive 10% of the indirect costs recovered from their grants (capped at
£20k) in recognition of their performance. This can be taken as salary, University-based childcare
payments or awarded into personal research incentive accounts.

Activities and Achievements

One goal of reframing our research mission was to better facilitate exchange of new ideas and
research programmes, development of grant applications and our approach to methodological
challenges. Below, we present selected research to illustrate our theme activities and
achievements since REF2014 and to highlight how we achieved our goal to produce societally
relevant research not restricted by traditional boundaries.

Thinking about the World

Research in this theme focuses on the psychological underpinnings of individual and group
motivated behaviour and reasoning. It brings together researchers applying different
methodologies to study how people make decisions (Buchanan, Clarke, Cooper, Dawtry,
Juanchich, Lamarche, Lisi, May, Roberts, Rolison, Russo, Sirota, Van Tilburg), remember (Eacott,
Hanley, Loaiza, Ward, Zengel), and feel and act (Cozzolino, Gillmeister, Klabunde, Mahadevan,
Orbell, Paulmann, Pekrun, Poerio, Sel, Valentini, Van Tilburg, Zengel); this is studied in the
political arena (Cozzolino, Dawtry, Hanel) and in health and disease (Barry, Cooper, Dent,
Foulsham, Gillmeister, Hanel, Orbell, Paulmann, Rolison, Valentini). Staff have strong skills in

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
experimental behavioural, electrophysiological and neuromodulatory techniques and their success
is mirrored in their strong publication profile both in terms of quantity and quality and which
includes outputs in leading journals including: Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences;
Journal of Personality and Social Psychology; NeuroImage; Psychological Medicine; Journal of
Personality; Health Psychology; Pain; Cortex; Proceedings of the Royal Society B: Biological
Sciences; and Human Brain Mapping. The wide variety of funders reflects the interdisciplinary
outlook: the British Academy supported Orbell’s research on persuasion and health behaviour
change. Her expertise in psychosocial health allowed her to evaluate the uptake of bowel cancer
screening that led to changes to recommendations in practice (impact case). The ESRC funded
risky decision-making research (Rakow), while the EPSRC supported Rolison’s work on age-
related biases in existing measures of driver crash risk and Ward’s work with the NHS and BBC on
privacy and consent management in future pervasive environments. Other funders include the
European Commission (Ward’s research on using technology to augment human memory);
Innovate UK (Russo, Rolison and Buchanan evaluated patients’ acceptability of an AI-driven
automatic triaging system); Leverhulme Trust (Sirota and Juanchich for work on (ir)rational
decisions); The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (Rigato); NIHR (Juanchich); Department for
Transport (Rolison’s work on mobile road accident reporting; impact case). Collectively, research
conducted under this theme has contributed to improving people’s lives from the
development of a mobile traffic accident reporting device that reduces biases in accident reporting
to changing cancer screening procedures leading to reduced deaths caused by bowel cancer (see
impact cases).

Interacting with the World

This theme contributes to our understanding on how we perceive and present ourselves in
relation to others and how this affects our behaviour and well-being. Staff study individual and
group processes that are fundamental to social relations and that address questions around
social wellness (Buchanan, Cooper, Mahadevan, Paulmann, Poerio, Sandstrom, Zengel), sexual
and interpersonal relationships and their links to identity and meaning of life (Cozzolino,
Klabunde, Lamarche, Mahadevan, Poerio, Rieger, Sandstrom, Orbell, Van Tilburg, Zengel),
justice and trust (Cozzolino, Dawtry, Hanel, Lamarche, Mahadevan, O’Gorman, Stoet). They also
focus on education, language and cross-cultural processes and their interaction (Barry,
Hanley, Geeraert, Guiterriez, Hanel, Paulmann, Pekrun, Stoet). Staff regularly publish in the most
prestigious journals including: Journal of Personality and Social Psychology; Nature
Communications; Educational Psychology Review; Journal of Educational Psychology; Journal of
Experimental Psychology: General; Cognition; Developmental Cognitive Neuroscience; or
Psychonomic Bulletin & Review. Work has been funded by American Institute of Bisexuality
(Rieger’s work on sexual relationships, orientation and arousal); British Academy (Gutierrez
explores how COVID-19 information is communicated to deaf people); European Commission
(Foulsham’s contribution to promoting social interaction); ESRC (Sandstrom studies how to
improve difficult social interactions); ESRC Impact Acceleration (Lamarche studies the impact of
befriending programmes on health and well-being; Paulmann’s works with private sector
companies on the role of prosody in the classroom); and Leverhulme Trust (Callan’s projects on
reasons behind innocent victim rejection and personal deprivation; Weinstein and Paulmann’s work
on motivational language). The impact of this theme’s research is widespread and includes
highlights such as Sandstrom’s research informing millions of BBC viewers/listeners about the
benefits of talking to strangers and inspiring the Tate Modern to change its museum guide
training practices. Cooper and Orbell’s research transformed over 200 military veteran’s lives
with post-traumatic stress disorder through a novel intervention programme. Staff use multiple
methodologies including self-report, behavioural observations, and (electro-)physiological
measures to provide a wide-ranging look into the psychological processes underlying
society’s pressing issues and that guide our most important social interactions.

Experiencing the World

This theme aims to unravel the physiological and neural underpinnings of how we experience our
body states (interoception; Filipetti, Gillmeister, Hughes, Klabunde, Korb, Sel, Valentini), how we

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
see (Clarke, Cole, Dent, Foulsham, Hibbard, Hughes, Kennet, Lisi, May, van Dam, Yamaguchi)
and how we control our actions (Buchanan, De Klerk, Hughes, Kennett, Russo, Sel, van Dam).
Staff further answer questions on how our perceptions and experiences change as we age (De
Klerk, Filipetti, Klabunde, Loaiza, Poerio, Rigato, Simpson, Vrticka). Infant and children work is
conducted in the Essex Baby lab, the leading infant lab in the east of England. Staff use a
variety of techniques including EEG, fNIRS, fMRI, TMS/tDCS, physiological and behavioural
measures. The strong publication record includes work in Nature Human Behaviour;
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences; Psychological Science; Cortex; Current
Biology, and Psychological Medicine. Work is funded by: Academy of Medical Sciences
(Filipetti’s research on body perception and representation across the life span); Austrian Science
Fund (Korb explores the influence of neuromuscular electric stimulation on social experiences);
BBSRC (Hibbard studies brain processes of three-dimensional vision); BIAL foundation
(Valentini’s research on thinking about death; Hughes’ studied the sense of agency during Ouija
Board engagement); British Academy (Gillmeister investigated atypical body perception;
Hibbard’s work on 3D vision; Hughes studies naturalistic visual search); ESRC (perception of
dynamic facial expressions by van Dam); EIRA (visual field loss in stroke); Oculus VR LLC (Van
Dam’s research on integrating senses into virtual reality); The Guarantors of Brain (Filipetti’s line
on body perception); Leverhulme Trust (Hibbard investigated how visual information creates our
visual experience); and Suffolk Mind (Hibbard developed an e-learning platform). Theme
research leads to impact as companies develop and improve their products (e.g., coloured
page overlays; colorimeter device to prescribe precision tinted lenses; impact case) and informs
consumer virtual reality through perception science (e.g., virtual learning environment; gamer’s
avatar response). Research has also influenced industry lighting standards and supported
health and wellbeing by improving lighting (impact case). The interdisciplinary and multi-
methodological angle of this theme ensures that the world-leading work funded by a variety of
sources has direct implications for diverse sectors such as arts and performances; health; and
biomedicine.

Research and Impact Strategy, Objectives and Plans up to 2027

We have grown significantly and will continue this growth trajectory over the next 5-7 years,
creating an even more vibrant research environment that fosters collaborative, inter- and cross-
disciplinary efforts. The shared long view of the Department leverages the increase in critical
mass, with a clear mission of ensuring that staff thrive in an environment that supports
research that makes a difference and in exploring promising, newly emerging areas of
psychology (e.g., interoception). As outlined, the pursuit of our mission requires a shift from
traditional siloed approaches of research activity, to a more dynamic and modern collaboration
across disciplines, focused on asking – and answering – the questions that impact the lives of
people around the world. We are on a path of transformation, becoming more of a ‘think-tank’ of
psychological expertise, rather than maintaining the practices of conventional academic
departments. This focus shift has already shown an increase in consultancy work in which ECR
staff are supported and engaged (e.g., Buchanan, Poerio, Van Dam) and will be cultivated further
to attract industry income. Perhaps most important, we are confident that this approach is a
promising path for the future of the Department and will help nurture new research activities
that will address contemporary societal challenges.

Following on from this vision, our future strategy concentrates on four main pillars:

1) To facilitate high-quality, inter-disciplinary, multi-method research to foster Understanding
   our Place in the World, thereby addressing issues directly impacting society. Staff will be
   supported to reach out to other disciplines to enhance cross-sectoral and cross-
   intellectual capacity. Crucially, this will feed into research student recruitment enabling
   future generations of Essex psychology researchers to contribute to a clear research
   mission that will deliver impact for society.
2) Doubling our research income capture by 2026/27. From 2021 onwards, research theme leads
   will be specifically tasked to facilitate and contribute to income generation for their theme. They
   will be supported in these endeavours through a reduced and selective teaching workload.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Theme leads will pursue funding calls (e.g. Centre bids, large cross-disciplinary bids) that allow
   maximising the Department’s potential. Individual staff will continue to be supported in
   submitting small and medium-sized bids.
3) To continue to develop a world-wide reputation for using multi-method approaches. This will
   be achieved by leveraging departmental expertise from different fields and further facilitating
   inter-disciplinary research. Additional targeted investment in research equipment will be
   crucial. Income to support these investments will come from grants, research training events
   (e.g., summer schools; training programmes), and philanthropy (supported by the University
   philanthropy team).
4) To work more frequently with public and private sector companies. To address this, staff
   will work with the REO to develop knowledge transfer partnerships and other relevant links. We
   will continue collaborations with external stakeholders and will increase public engagement
   further, especially in terms of broad research dissemination.

Collectively, these pillars will ensure that psychology research at Essex will continue to thrive.

2. People

Staffing Strategy

The Department has seen significant staff expansion. 35 academic appointments were made since
2014 (53% women, originating from 14 different countries; 2 BAME; age brackets spanning 4
decades). Three appointments each were at professorial (Eacott, Pekrun, Stoet) and Senior
Lecturer level (Costantini, Juanchich, Yamaguchi). Building on the successful strategy around
ECRs, which was noted by the last REF panel, we made significant investments to further recruit
exceptionally talented ECRs at lecturer level who would bring added-value to existing strengths or
address unmet needs. We are internationally competitive in attracting and retaining high-quality
researchers as evidenced by more than 80% of our new recruits coming from outside the UK.
Nine of our most recently hired ECRs published 48.9% of their papers in the top 10% of journals
(CiteScore), higher than the UK average (27.6%). In terms of the Field-Weighted Citation Impact,
these nine ECRs (FWCI = 1.87) also outperform the average for UK university staff (FWCI = 1.49).
Our strong focus on nurturing ECRs has helped build the strength and critical mass required for
each research theme. Crucially, it has secured significant potential to build future leaders. We
are committed to providing a welcoming workplace for people from all backgrounds and will
attempt to increase diversity even more in future recruitments. To support this, an equality and
inclusion working group was formed (see below). One positive change they introduced includes
offering job applicants the opportunity to meet with existing staff who share (protected)
characteristics. Our staffing strategy has resulted in a balanced seniority level distribution (21
Lecturer, 17 Senior Lecturer, 13 Reader/Professor).

Staff Development

The Department follows the University’s action plan for implementation of the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers. The University was re-awarded the HR
Excellence in Research award in 2020. Beyond this, new staff receive a departmental and
University induction. Our induction includes a formalised meeting with the DoR. This covers
research governance; grant application support; ethics; development and training opportunities;
and facilities use. Equipment and software needs are identified to prioritise purchases. Teaching,
administration, knowledge exchange and other academic contributions are allocated to staff via a
Workload Model which is reviewed annually. The model provides staff with a tool to discuss
development needs, preferences, and actual workloads with the leadership team to help pursue
their research ambitions. Centrally conducted workload monitoring exercises demonstrate staff can
devote a high proportion of their time (39%) to research activities. Three staff have trained as
workplace coaches (Geeraert, Paulmann, Russo) to offer further support in terms of workload
pressures. Annual professional development reviews between HoD and individual staff address
objectives around funding, impact and outputs for the coming year and personal development
opportunities (e.g., promoting research through media; grant writing workshops; supervision;

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
leader workshops). Since REF2014, more than 30 different research-related development events
were attended. Research activities are collected in an annual monitoring exercise, providing DoR
and HoD an opportunity to discuss staff performance and growth potential.

Postdoctoral researchers

Principal investigators support the professional career development of postdoctoral researchers.
They hold annual appraisals to ensure that the researcher is adequately trained and resourced.
They foster careers through meetings, co-authoring, and networking. We also provide a
dedicated mentor to postdocs and financial support for projects fostering independence.
Postdocs are invited to staff meetings. Two researchers are currently funded by South East
Network for Social Sciences (SeNSS) ESRC fellowships.

ECRs

The Department provides abundant support in guiding ECRs through the University’s Pathway
to Permanency. Three-year plans that encompass education, leadership and citizenship and
research development goals are drafted by staff, their permanency advisor and HoD. Progress is
assessed via 18 and 36 month reviews by senior staff and centrally. ECRs on their pathway to
permanency benefit from reduced teaching and administrative workloads (1/3 load in the first year,
2/3 in the second year). The success of the approach is reflected in 100% of newly appointed
staff achieving permanency, with 33% securing early permanency through the support
provided. We run a mentoring scheme for probationary staff. Mentors provide guidance on
achieving targets, support in research funding activities and research project management and on
career trajectory. They advise on training provided via the University’s People and Culture team
which coordinates the University’s professional development programme (e.g., Future Leaders
Programme). Termly mentor meetings led by DoR and EDI team provide opportunities to discuss
recurring issues and share best practice.

Established Staff

Staff at all seniority levels have the opportunity to become key role holders to support career
development. For instance, Director for Strategy and Marketing posts are held by Lecturers;
Admissions, Impact and Education Director posts are carried out by Senior Lecturers. This staff
development strategy has proven successful in securing promotions. Since 2014, 25 staff
promotions were awarded (14 to Senior Lecturer, 7 to Reader, 4 to Professor; of these combined
promotions 35% were female staff; 65% parents to children under the age of 18; 73% international
staff). Psychology staff held key University roles in this REF period (University PVC-Education:
Eacott; acting Faculty Deputy Dean Research: Paulmann; both female; different age brackets).

Technical Support Staff

Seven staff (2 female; different age brackets; 5 parents; 1 BAME) support departmental research
activities. The University has signed the Technician Commitment, holds membership of HEATED
(professional organisation supporting technicians) and offers training and networking opportunities.
A technician representative sits on Faculty RC. The departmental operating budget allocates
£3,000 p.a. to support CPD, equipment and software training for technicians. The Head
Technician sits on the departmental steering group and contributes to capital planning bids
and departmental equipment funding decisions. Where applicable, technicians are included as
authors on publications.

Research Leave

The University has a generous research leave scheme (every 6 terms, 1 term of leave is accrued;
time spent on maternity or paid leave of absence counts towards entitlement). The Departmental
RC provides feedback on applications to strengthen them from a staff development perspective
before they are considered centrally. Since REF2014, 18 staff have been granted research leave

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(average length: 2.8 terms).

Research Students

We have a vibrant and active PGR community supported by a dedicated team headed by the
PGRD. They serve as contact and oversee student progress and well-being. An administrator
supports admissions, progress, extensions and Vivas and is another point of support. The PGRD
and nominated staff (balanced for seniority level, gender, age, and nationality varied) review and
shortlist PhD student applications for funding. This ensures a fair, transparent process when
selecting the strongest candidates for studentships. Since REF2014, we have invested over
£550k in scholarships. The University Alumni Office provides match funding to external sources.

The PGRD represents the Psychology pathway for the SeNSS-ESRC Doctoral Training
Partnership and offers support in preparing applications. Since October 2014, the Department has
been successful with 15 research-council funded studentships, exemplifying the strengths of
staff’s research project ideas and doctoral students. The Department aims to fund one to two
PhD students per year from the departmental budget. It has been particularly successful in
securing faculty-funded interdisciplinary PhD studentships. Since the launch of the programme
in 2018, 12 students have been supervised by at least one Psychology staff member (2 students
with supervisors in Psychology/Sports; 2 in Psychology/Sports/Health and Social Care; 1
Psychology/Maths; 7 Psychology/Computer Science). Students were also supported through
industrial and charity funding bodies such as Leverhulme Trust, BIAL, Essex Alumni, the
Leventis Foundation, Facebook and Arabian, Mexican and Chinese government scholarships.

We have a policy of dual supervision (supervisor/co-supervisor or joint supervision) which is in
place for within- and between-discipline supervision teams (i.e. students who have at least one
Psychology supervisor). This helps to ensure student progress and benefits the student by
experiencing different supervisory styles. Progress is monitored by bi-annual supervisory boards
with a non-supervisor as chair where advice is given and barriers are identified. The aim is to have
the chair of the board constant for the student. 90% of students complete within the required period
(100% in 2019/20). Several staff were nominated for the University’s supervisor of the year
award (Hibbard and Juanchich won).

The Department provides desks and PCs for PhD students who also receive preferential access to
lab space to help complete their studies on time. The University provides specialised training
courses relevant for student progress and development (e.g. advanced writing, preparing
papers for publication) via its unique Proficio PhD training programme (runs 150 courses/year
focussed on career prospects, progression and wellbeing). Students receive funds to access these
courses (£2,500 per student) which are advertised via mailing lists/website. Engagement is good
(e.g., PGRs attended ‘preparing for the viva’ and ‘GRIT’ courses to help build resilience).
Specialised courses are also provided by psychology staff (e.g., May, Loaiza, Clarke, Van
Dam) ensuring the programme offers skills training required for psychology research. Proficio
offers an opportunity to advance administrative skills: The 2019 Essex Cross-Disciplinary
Experimental Methods Conference was organised by Psychology PGR students and funded
through Proficio. Proficio funds support attendance of external training and academic conferences.
The Department provides a further £500 p.a. as a personal allowance for students to cover
research expenses and conference attendance. A PGR fund allows students to bid for up to £1000
for additional funding. These open, competitive calls train students in grant writing skills and
improve their CV.

The Department holds an annual PGR conference in which students present their work.
Students also attend and present in the weekly seminar series. They are encouraged to attend
social events to network. Students regularly participate in the nation-wide 3 Minute Thesis
competition (3MT®) and have been successful in doing so. Students can participate in outreach
events throughout the year (regular events include nursery visit days (20 children), Big Bang (900
year-9 students); public engagement days (50 attendees)). Teaching skills can be developed by
working as graduate learning assistant or giving guest lectures. PGRs have access to PG Cert in

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Higher Education Practice. PGR students have successfully applied for recognition of their
teaching practices by Advance HE under the UK Professional Standards Framework (9 PGRs
achieved D1, 3 achieved D2 status). They are prepared for the academic market by practicing job
talks, working on CVs and application letters. Students who completed their thesis during this REF
cycle have taken up positions as post-docs (e.g., Marshall, Thorpe, Liu, Redhead), lecturers (e.g.,
Watts, Clark), work in industry (e.g., Berntsen; Wolinski) and higher education (e.g., Southsworth;
Zahid). To help secure academic positions, supervisors support their students to publish thesis
work in high-ranking journals before completion (e.g., Raines: Psychological Science; Marhall:
Neurobiology of Aging; Haigh: NeuroImage; Holmes: PNAS). Supervisors also support students in
obtaining other academic achievements (e.g., Watts & Grove: winner of Essex 3MT ®; Lotun: £5000
SeNSS award business boost; Liu and Mitchell: winner of social science lab seed-corn funding).

Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI)

We are committed to equality and diversity and to building an inclusive and open
environment for all. We deliver this through policies and practices as well as through
support for established EDI staff and student networks (e.g., LGBTQ+ Allies, Access Forum,
BAME network) and institutional commitments to equality charters and accreditations (e.g.,
Disability Confident Scheme, Athena SWAN, University of Sanctuary, Race Equality Charter and
Stonewall Top 100 Employer). The University offers flexible working, operates a Report and
Support and Harassment Advisory Service. All staff complete training on EDI within six months
of joining. We contributed to the design of the Unconscious Bias component of the University
training. We are represented on the Achieving Potential Group which links to work supporting
Black and Ethnic Minority (BAME) students. Sandstrom is leading a key work-stream to support the
University achieve the Race Equality Charter.

The Department’s aim is to foster a confident, high-performing, creative, and productive
department, where we support each other in our endeavours. An Athena SWAN team has been
in place since 2015. The team consists of a changing selection of role-holding staff and students
(e.g., fixed-term staff mentor, inclusivity lead). The team meet termly with the HoD, report to staff
meetings and organise Open Lunch meetings on changing topics (e.g., parental leave,
permanency). While there is a minority of women at senior levels, the proportion of women has
improved through changes in the way academic posts are advertised (including explicit equality
statements) and promoted to personal contacts and mailing lists by existing staff. This has
increased application rates from women (53% of staff appointed since 2014 are women). Women
have held senior roles within the Department over the past decade: HoD (2 women, 2 men), DoR
(3 women, 2 men), Director of Education (3 women, 2 men), Marketing Director (2 women, 1 man),
and are well represented across all types of committees. Paulmann serves as Science and Health
Professorial Network lead. Similar distributions can be found when comparing parents and non-
parents. The Department’s international profile ensures cultural diversity on committees. Our
approach ensures that everyone has similar amounts of time for research activities and
opportunities for personal development. We hold a Silver Athena SWAN Award.

Staff expecting babies meet with People and Culture staff who discuss support (e.g., health and
safety, Keep in Touch (KIT) days, flexible working). We follow University guidelines on maternity,
paternity and adoption leave. We conduct risk assessments to identify adjustments. The
University operates a Parents Network. Staff are encouraged to stay in touch with paid KIT days
during their leave. Staff can apply for a career break to extend their leave. Upon return, staff are
allocated a lower teaching and administrative workload to facilitate re-establishing research
and impact activities. Carer funds (centrally funded) have helped staff to attend conferences
abroad (e.g., Juanchich, Sirota, Paulmann). The University’s People Supporting Strategy sets out
an aspiration to increase the use of flexible working and we are committed to helping achieve
this.

We monitor gender, ethnic minority and full- vs. part-time distributions in different staff and
student bodies, in staff committees and outreach activities, to ensure equality of workload and
presence of role models. We support the University’s endeavours to increase disclosure of

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
protected characteristics. BAME students are well represented in our UG (36%) and PGT (31%)
courses. They represent 20% of our PGR students. We continue our efforts, such as ensuring the
diversity of appointment and selection panels and encouraging under-represented groups to apply,
as the number of BAME staff is currently low (84.3% staff identify as White). We put in every effort
for the department to increase in terms of diversity: recruitment panel members complete
University training programmes on EDI Essentials and Unconscious Bias Training; a newly-formed
EDI working group generates and implements ideas to remove systemic barriers in increasing
diversity. Initial positive changes include initiatives such as decolonising the curriculum and
updating the Department’s webpage to make it easier for staff and students to find information
relevant to them.

Regular survey data is collected from academic, administrative, and technical staff and students
about perceptions of the departmental culture, including awareness and perception of support
with academic pursuits and perceived equality and inclusivity. Data indicate that the Department
is perceived as fair, transparent and good in supporting research career development (e.g.,
through appraisal, feedback on promotion and grant applications, mentoring). There is a good
sense of belonging among staff.

We promote research role models through the website, noticeboards and representation in
research seminars. The EDI team advertises CPD offers. Data shows good engagement with
courses, especially by ECRs. Students report having access to role models. Our commitment
to EDI is also reflected in our research which studies gender equality in education (Pekrun,
Stoet) and academia (Sandstrom), cultural diversity (Geeraert) and how to increase BAME uptake
of cancer screening (Orbell).

Our approach to REF management and output selection was guided by the desire to provide a
supportive research environment while monitoring progress to assess success in allowing all
staff to thrive. Annual monitoring exercises have identified potential barriers to progress and
provided individual support. Final output selections were based on ratings from the Department
REF2021 reading group (gender-balanced, age varied). The resulting profile has, where
possible, been assessed across relevant characteristics (e.g., the 60/40 male/female author
submission split mirrors the Department’s overall gender split).

Positive Research Culture

We aim to provide a culture that enables staff to perform at the highest standard and that values
individual contributions and collaborations for research and impact activities. A collegial and
supportive approach is a key underpinning pillar to our mission. We employ different channels to
communicate and share good practice, provide support, and celebrate staff success: bi-
weekly staff meetings and monthly newsletters cover grant and publication successes, CPD events
and significant research findings. Termly Research Conversation sessions encourage staff to
exchange information on key developments.

We host weekly research seminars featuring internal and external speakers (see Section 1). All
seminars are scheduled during regular working hours (9am, 1pm, or 4pm) to ensure a large
proportion of staff can participate. We invite staff, students and technical staff. The Department
has strong links within the Faculty (e.g., CSEE, SHSC) and beyond (Language and Linguistics,
Government, Sociology). Termly Faculty and University cross-disciplinary research seminars
enhance the offer and provide opportunities to form collaborations: The Cross University
Research Events series (launched in 2019), included ten psychology staff to address topics on
Digital World, Environment, Behavioural Social Science, Brain and Mind, Food, Human Rights,
Collective Systems, and COVID-19, demonstrating the breadth of our research expertise. Faculty
seminars have included 18 psychology speakers since 2017. To further foster collaboration in an
organic way, a number of specialised journal, think tank, and research discussion clubs are
on offer (e.g., Interoception; Cognitive Neuroscience; Vision, R, MATLAB, Psytoolkit), all open to
other departments.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Integrity

Research Integrity and quality are ensured through adherence to strict ethical guidelines. Staff and
student research activities conform to the University’s Research Integrity statement, Code of Good
Research Practice and the principles set out in the 2019 Concordat to Support Research
Integrity. The University provides training to staff who serve on the departmental ethics
committee. The departmental Ethics Officer provides advice on the process, reports new
developments and runs a dedicated webpage to support ethics applications. PGR students are
taught about ethics and research integrity in a specialised research methods module. The Ethics
Officer sits on one of the three University Ethics Sub-Committees. Our research ethics practices
are informed by the BPS Code of Human Research Ethics.

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

Since REF2014, we have been awarded over £3.6M in competitive grant funding from a large
portfolio (Section 1) for 70 projects. This figure contains a large number of projects which, while of
relatively low financial value, have created strong links with a range of partners, and delivered
value impact for them. Our long-term goal is to build on these successful partnerships in larger
scale projects, that is we aim to maintain a varied portfolio and to maximise success by
strengthening inter- and cross-disciplinary research through our theme approach and cross-
faculty research collaborations.

The Department’s funding strategy centres on securing funding for societally relevant projects. We
have aimed to increase collaborative and interdisciplinary research: departmental funding
(£83k) has been prioritised for projects spanning traditional boundaries. Several Away Days
have focused on funding activities (e.g., competition to develop a group bid with the winner’s bid
receiving seed-corn funding) and improving the staff’s skill set in this area. Staff are supported in
their applications by DoR and DoI to increase success rates. In line with our mission to strongly
encourage work that leads to impact, staff have very successfully adapted some of their
research lines. The shift is evidenced in securing competitive Impact Acceleration Account
(ESRC IAA) funding for seven projects since 2016, enabling impact with a broad range of
organisations. The projects, valued at nearly £50,000 ensure an impact pipeline for the
Department’s future. Similarly, the Department increased research projects focused on
innovation working with the University’s Knowledge Exchange (KE) team who help draft
applications and offer support in linking up with stakeholders. Recent projects have been funded by
Research England (via Enabling Innovation: Research to Application Initiative (>£45,000)),
Innovate UK (£140,000), Provide (£140,000), Oculus (>£55,000), Department for Transport
(£15,000) and Cerium Visual Technologies (>£145,000).

Infrastructure and Facilities

Since REF2014, the Department has reconfigured and updated existing facilities at a total cost
of over £390k. Staff have access to various specialist laboratories with the majority housed in a
purpose-built building (opened in 2009). Laboratories have state-of-the-art equipment for
social and cognitive (neuro)-science work. Facilities and labs are managed by an experienced
team of technical support staff. Below, we detail how researchers are supported through
facilities and access to participants. Strategic capital investment is provided centrally to help with
maintenance and renewals.

1. In-house equipment

Neuromodulation work can be conducted with two Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS)
systems. A stereotactic image guidance system facilitates positioning of TMS coils. An additional
system supports stimulation in continuous or pulsed modes. Another state-of-the-art TMS coil
positioning system is shared with CSEE. Electrophysiological (EEG) work is supported through

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
a 128-channel system, 4 x 64-channel systems (creates 2 x 128 channels), and a portable, field
work compatible 64-channel system. Some amplifiers are compatible with TMS to stimulate
brain areas while recording EEG. Staff have access to a wide variety of specialised analyses
software and in-house expertise can create custom made MATLAB scripts. The Department
has two 24-channel near infrared systems (creating one 48-channels system) and two 8x8-
channel mobile systems for off-site research. Staff have the ability to perform hyper-scanning (e.g.,
parent/child) research. Staff can use 8 eye-trackers (head mounted; free-standing; portable;
stationary) and 8 virtual reality headsets incorporating head, hand and eye-tracking capabilities.
These are integrated with Optitrak motion capture facilities. Specialised labs include a sexual
studies lab, an observation room equipped with video recording facilities, a visual perception
lab with access to a telespectroradiometer; intuitive colorimeter; precision tints; optometric trial
lenses; monochromator; photometers, autorefactor, and a range of clinical optometric test
equipment. Auditory work benefits from two psychoacoustic hearing labs and three double-
walled soundproof booths (including recording facilities). A group testing suite consists of
multiple neighbouring cubicles, whose computers can be interlinked to allow real-time group
behavioural studies. Papers reporting data using this specialised equipment are published in
prestigious outlets: Current Biology; Cortex; Human Brain Mapping; NeuroImage. Over 50% of
academic staff and their research students are regular, experienced users of the equipment, while
others access neuroscience techniques through collaborations.

2. MRI scanning

The Department has started to develop strong links to the psychology department at UEA and
supported their successful bids for an fMRI scanner. Submitted grant applications using fMRI
facilities have received input from UEA’s imaging team and collaborative projects have started
(supported through Eastern Academic Research Consortium). Staff will have prioritised imaging
access and the Department has negotiated reduced access fees for pilot work. Structural
imaging, important for specialised TMS work, is possible at the local Colchester Hospital.

3. High Performance Computing (HPC)

HPC needs are supported by the University’s cluster to help with resource intensive data analysis
(e.g., imaging), computational time, and resource intensive computer modelling (e.g., deep
learning).

4. ESSEXLab

Staff use the world-leading social science research laboratory which offers access to a diverse
database of over 2,500 participants, 32 mobile lab devices for field research and sound proof
partioning or one-way glass set-ups for group studies. ESSEXLab has supported field work (e.g.,
PGR student Lotun used mobile devices to collect data at a convention) and group testing (e.g.,
O’Gorman’s work on community perceptions, in-and outgroup members, or social network
positions). Staff secured >£5000 through ESSEXLab funding.

5. STEM building

The £18m newly built STEM building gives Faculty departments shared collaborative lab (e.g.,
150-seat IT-rich space) and social space. It is part of an initiative to create a dedicated science
square. The open-plan structure allows researchers to share and co-create ideas more easily
(e.g., joint investigations started by Rigato/Filipetti and computer scientist Andreu-Perez; Paulmann
and brain computer interface specialist Scherer). Staff use it to meet collaborators, businesses,
and other partners.

6. Office Space

Most staff have individual offices and those who share offices do so because they wish to. All have
access to a state-of-the-art PC which is upgraded regularly to ensure fast data processing times.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

7. Participant recruitment

Online and in-lab participant recruitment is facilitated through SONA, a cloud-based participant
management software, currently listing over 1,300 active participant volunteers from different
socio-economic backgrounds and age groups from which to recruit.

4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Our direct mechanisms to promote stimulating, collaborative impact focussed research include
seed-corn funding for interdisciplinary work, theme meetings, seminars, termly Research
Conversation sessions, and focused Away Days. As part of our commitment to producing high
quality research with longer-term returns to society, much of the collaborative work is widely
disseminated and researchers engage locally, nationally and internationally to deliver the
benefits of our mission. Exemplar collaborations summarised below describe projects that
transcend borders and collectively contribute to addressing our key mission.

Essex Collaborations

Thinking about the World

Theme members collaborate on various topics: Juanchich’s expertise on communication and
Sirota’s strengths on statistical reasoning resulted in joint work on climate change
communication (e.g., in Climate Change) and how health professionals communicate risk-
related information (e.g., in Medical Decisions). Buchanan and Russo (impact case) have
focused on how individuals’ environmental efforts can be enhanced. They received continuous
funding from industry (e.g., Green Energy Options LTD; EIRA). Decision-making and
communication practice work is complemented by health behaviour research: Orbell and
Cooper studied how outdoor activities can lead to reduced PTSD symptoms. Their collaboration
led to the first published formal evaluation (RCT) in this field, has received wide media coverage,
led to a documentary film on life with PTSD and the programme has been adopted into the
provision of the NHS. These impacts demonstrate the end-user focussed research drive of
the Department. Similarly, Kennett’s and Gillmeister’s research on altered body image perception
revealed biomarkers of eating disorder symptoms and benefits from multi-method approaches
(behaviour, eye-tracking, EEG). Gillmeister and Rigato extend this to infant and toddler populations
to explore body image (dis)satisfaction longitudinally (departmental seed-corn funded, published in
Developmental Psychology and Biological Psychology). Holmboe and Rigato explored
longitudinal trajectories in brain function in infancy (The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation),
aiming to enable an early identification of children with impairment. In short, staff produce
interconnected dimensions of research across this theme to enrich knowledge on
motivated behaviour and reasoning.

Interacting with the World

Several strong cross-disciplinary collaborations were facilitated by the Department through
workshops and funding: a well-funded (Leverhulme Trust, IAA, from 2021 the Belgian Science
Foundation), novel programme was developed by Paulmann and Weinstein on motivational
language spanning infants, adolescents, adults and different cultural groups (e.g., published in
Journal of Experimental Social Psychology; Developmental Psychology; Social Cognitive Affective
Neuroscience), covered in various (inter)national media outlets. Rieger and Paulmann also
combine traditionally distinct fields: they explore how sexual preference manifest at the voice
level through secondary data analysis of Rieger’s research funded by the American Institute of
Bisexuality. Rieger also successfully combines expertise from Biological and Social Psychology
with Orbell as evidenced in high-profile publications (e.g., Psychological Science). Cooper
(Neuroscience) and Simpson (Developmental) looked at (mental) well-being in youngsters,
directly contributing to critical debates such as the impact of screen use on children’s
mental health and attention (e.g., covered in BPS screen-use recommendations). Foulsham and

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
O’Gorman unite cognitive and evolutionary psychology questions in their work on social
hierarchy (Department funded; published in Evolution and Human Behaviour, 2019; already 29
citations Google Scholar). More traditional collaborations between theme members of similar
background also flourished in this REF period (e.g., Dawtry and Cozzolino’s work on victim
blaming published in Personality and Social Psychology Bulletin; Sandstrom’s and Orbell’s work on
gender equality in Personality and Social Psychology Review). Theme collaborations have
directly benefited from methodological diversity and multi-disciplinary pursuit, cross-
fertilising different research fields to further our understanding of social actions and
interaction processes.

Experiencing the World

Multi-method strengths include research in vision science (e.g., Dent and Cole; Dent and
Foulsham; Hughes and Clarke; Hibbard and Van Dam): traditional work on precision and
accuracy is complemented by investigations on perception and behaviour in media and cultural
experiences (e.g., Psychology/Art History research on spectatorship published in Leonardo). Other
work focusses on psychological changes across the lifespan with a strong focus on work that
directly benefits society: Loaiza and Ward address memory abilities in healthy ageing
populations; pioneering work showed that ageing does not have to be associated with memory
decline (EPS funded, published in Journal of Gerontology, Series B: Psychological Sciences and
Social Sciences), now followed up by researching strategies for ageing people to improve their
memory. Younger generations are studied by combining behavioural (Simpson) and
neurophysiological (Rigato, Filipetti, de Klerk, Sel) techniques to investigate infants’ psychological
development over time. Cross-disciplinary collaborations supported by the Department
(Psychology/CSEE) developed new tools and approaches for the discipline. Examples include
AI systems that can be combined with fNIRS data to provide alternatives to fMRI data collection
which is not suitable for infants (published in NeuroImage). Critical mass exists for cutting-edge
work on exploring how interoception affects perception, cognition, and emotion. Staff
(Daughters, Filippetti, Gillmeister, Hughes, Klabunde, Korb, Sel, Valentini) from different
backgrounds (social, cognitive, developmental, neuroscience) apply EEG, fNIRS, interventional
techniques and behavioural measures to combine their varied skill set. Their collaborations on the
relationship between interoceptive processing and psychopathology and the influence of
internal sensations on social behaviour is funded by diverse sources (e.g., BIAL, British
Academy, Guarantors of Brain) and regularly published in high-impact journals (e.g., Cognition;
Current Biology; Sleep).

By stimulating open dialogue and encouraging staff to engage beyond core research
interests and by strongly promoting collaborative research activities (e.g., promotion fund;
publication fees support; shared labs), we have brought together researchers with diverse
perspectives and skills sets.

International Collaborations

The Department has a large number of international collaborations. Since REF2014, 41.4% of
our outputs originated through international collaborations. Staff are tightly connected to
colleagues at elite universities across the world. Since 2014, 384 publications were co-authored
with researchers affiliated to institutions in the top 100 Times Higher Education (THE) ranking
(2020), highlighting how Essex researchers contribute globally. For example, Klabunde
collaborates with Reiss (Stanford; #2) on the neural correlates underlying interoceptive processes
in clinical populations (e.g., Turner syndrome; Prader-Willi syndrome). Sandstrom’s work on the
benefits of communicating with strangers has led to collaborations with Boothyby (Cornell; #19)
and Cooney (Harvard; #3) published in leading journals (e.g., Psychological Science). Rieger’s
longstanding collaborations with Bailey (Northwestern; #24) and Savin-Williams (Cornell; #19) on
human sexuality has led to high profile publications in PNAS and JPSP. Loaiza’s expertise in
memory research has led to collaborations with Bartsch (Zurich; #73) and Lewis-Peacock (Texas;
#44) published in distinguished outlets (e.g., NeuroImage; Psychology and Aging). Similarly, Ward
collaborates with Zurich (e.g., Oberauer) emphasising the acknowledged strength of the unit’s

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
memory research world-wide. Paulmann published with Pell (McGill, #40) on some of the most
cited work on emotional prosody. Work on emotion in the classroom is produced by Pekrun with
colleagues from McGill and LMU (#32). Cole’s work on action understanding includes
collaborations with Welsh (Toronto; #18). Hanley and Nozari (Johns Hopkins University; #12)
investigate speech errors and speech production mechanisms. G Hughes has a long-term
collaboration with van den Bussche (Leuven; #45) on action and cognitive control. Foulsham’s
vision research programme leverages long-term collaborations with Kingstone (British Columbia;
#34).

We actively support international research engagement and exchange by providing
international research visitors with desk space, library access, presentation opportunities and
access to equipment and facilities. Visitors came from Australia (Wilson, Melbourne University,
recipient of Essex visiting fellowship); Canada (Pell, McGill) the U.S. (Croft, University of Arizona,
BA visiting fellowship; Ebert, Brandeis University; Elsner, Ohio State University, Essex visiting
Fellowship); Korea (Lee, Yeungnam University); Spain (Vergara-Martinez, University of Valencia,
Generalitat Valenciana funding); and Norway (Sjoberg, Kristiania University College) amongst
others. As part of our commitment to supporting the next generation of psychology
researchers, staff receive administrative and technical support to host ERASMUS+ (Succi,
University of Bologna; Hruska, Slovakia; Safarova, Czech Republic; Fiorentino, University of Pavia;
Roos, Mid Sweden University; Orengul, Kadir Has University) or otherwise funded research
students from across the globe (Bielefeld University; Shanghai International Studies University;
University of Grenoble; Colorado State University; University Goettingen; University Konstanz;
University Würzburg; Milan).

Our expertise is utilised in many internationally funded research projects: Lamarche
collaborates with Murray (University of Buffalo SUNY) on an NSF (US$117,890) funded project
which utilised the COVID-19 pandemic to test a transformative new theoretical model of trust and
social cooperation. Rieger is a consultant on a Northshore University Health System project funded
by the NIH (US$ 3,177,202) to research the genetic basis of female sexual orientation and female
fluidity. Moreover, he is a consultant on Brotto’s (University of BC) NSERC grant (CAN$200k) on
physiological and psychological causes of asexuality. Sirota contributed to projects funded by the
Spanish Ministry of Science (EUR 71k), Slovak Research and Development Agency (£180k) and
the Research Council of Norway (£523k). ECR Hanel collaborated with Zarzeczna (Amsterdam)
on how trustworthy information about COVID-19 is considered when provided by scientists as
opposed to governments (Templeton Foundation; £20k). He also collaborates on internationally
funded (National Council for Scientific and Technological Development, Brazil; European
Association of Social Psychology; GCRF) political psychology projects. Paulmann and
Vansteenkiste (Ghent) will soon start work on an FWO funded project (EUR250k) on motivational
language use with children. Gutierrez-Sigut investigates with Baus (Pomeu Fabra) the neural
underpinnings of learning sign language as a second language (Spanish Ministry of Science;
EUR46k). Anna Hughes’ expertise in image analysis is needed for a Czech Science Foundation
(GACR; £350k) project led by Sulc (Institute of Vertebrate Biology). Together with Roth (Limerick),
van Tilburg collaborates on a project on how a UK-Ireland border affects intergroup relations in
Northern Ireland (European Association of Social Psychology) and with Chan (Hong Kong
University), he investigates how people deal with boredom (funded by Hong Kong SAR
Government, ~£53k). Collectively, these projects are worth nearly £4 million and demonstrate
how valuable the Department staff’s research skills are internationally.

Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences and Impact

The DoI ensures we support, engage and encourage research that translates into solutions
for industry and society. Impact is a standing agenda item on all RC meetings and Away Days
focus on impact. Impact activities are included in promotion and probation criteria. Engagement
beyond the discipline is a core focus of staff. The REO’s Research Impact team helps staff to
engage with partners, provides legal support (e.g., signing NDAs) and communicates opportunities
(e.g., policy engagement). Since 2017, three staff members have received a University
Celebrating Excellence in Research and Impact Award (Buchanan: ECR category; Wheeler:

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR; Wilkins: Best international impact). Staff are regularly involved in projects involving end-
users. For instance, Ward’s work in the RECALL project (EU FP7), aimed to improve access to
memories and looked at ways in which technology can improve understanding of memory, while
the PACTMAN project (EPSRC) examined the role of consent, security trust and privacy in using
technology. The research directly involved the NHS and BBC. One of the resulting publications
(Cortis-Mack et al., 2017) is one of the most downloaded papers in the Journal of Memory and
Language. Similarly, Loaiza’s research on mentally holding information and working with
information and how this impacts memory has focussed on end-users. Loaiza regularly
communicates her research findings at public events (e.g., Café Scientifique, Pint of Science),
and organises public focused events. Based on her engagement with the public and
beneficiaries, she has been invited to sit on the Board of Trustees for Age Concern.

Vision research investigates attention in film and comics (e.g., in collaboration with Cohn, Tilburg
University). International and industry partners (e.g., Facebook Reality Labs) are helping to
investigate new virtual reality experiences, and our expertise in this area is also benefitting
creative industries in the UK (e.g., Van Dam and Hibbard’s work). Vision researchers work with
local and national art galleries and theatres to ensure wide applications (e.g., usage of virtual
reality in theatre). Knowledge exchange projects in this area have received funding from EIRA
and have benefited from the Department’s agility to form outstanding teams with diverse skill
sets from within and outside the discipline. Recent examples include vision/AI focused projects
(e.g., led by Hibbard and van Dam) which included contributions from language (Paulmann) and
theatre (UoA 33) to enhance research value to external partners.

Departmental staff help shape debates on educational issues. Paulmann’s work on prosody
explores the role of voice use in the classroom and further attempts to investigate the role of
voice training in teachers’ education and continuing professional development. She works
directly with teachers, teacher training companies (SCITT Essex Thames), and voice trainers
(5Voices) to help outline ideal motivational communication strategies for teachers (ESRC IAA-
funded). This work addresses calls from the teacher agency, OFSTED, and Carter Review for
teachers to learn how to use voice effectively. Stoet’s education work has made significant
contributions to the national and international debate on underrepresented gender groups
in secondary and tertiary education. It has been covered in the news and internationally in
influential outlets. He has been consulted for solutions about the underrepresentation of girls by
important institutions (e.g., Department of Education), schools, and professional
organisations (e.g., Institute of Physics). This research is published in prestigious outlets
including PNAS. Work by Pekrun similarly focuses on under-representation: his research
contributes to understanding the role of emotions in diverse student populations (e.g., gender
differences, different cultural backgrounds and students who are at risk emotionally and
economically). His work helps understand why female students are emotionally disadvantaged in
STEM disciplines. Pekrun contributed to international large-scale assessments such as the
OECD’s Program for International Student Assessment (PISA) which evaluates high school
students’ educational attainment in countries across the world. In recent PISA cycles, the scales he
developed (e.g., Achievement Emotions Questionnaire; Epistemic Emotion Scales) were used in
over 70 OECD and non-OECD countries with more than 500,000 students per assessment. He is a
member of the Senior Advisory Board for the OECD PISA 2021 Framework (2018-2021).
Pekrun’s work has substantial implications for classroom practices, which have been made
available to practitioners and the wider public through various outlets (e.g., monograph
Emotion at School, Taylor and Francis, 2017) and his 2014 booklet Emotions and Learning was
distributed worldwide by the UNESCO International Bureau of Education and the International
Academy of Education.

Other examples of research with end-users in mind include Russo, Rolison and Buchanan’s
research funded by Innovate UK and Provide (~£558k) focused on designing, testing and
implementing an AI driven automatic triaging system for musculoskeletal referrals. They
investigated how acceptability of such systems can be increased. Buchanan’s expertise on
usability and acceptability of products also led to consultancy work for Green Energy Options
LTD (in-home display survey; impact case). Similarly, Wilkin’s KTP with Cerium Visual

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Technologies led to a subsequent licensing deal which resulted in royalties totalling ~£27k so
far. The developed colorimeter is used world-wide to help optometrists prescribe precision
tinted lenses to help those suffering from visual stress (impact case).

Impact case studies were directly supported through a number of routes: PVC-R funding
(~£30k) supported impact case study developments. The University paid for legal costs to file a
patent and supported the secondment of staff. Essex UK Data Archive provided data used
for research in one of the impact cases. The REO Research Impact Team helped catalogue
evidence and supported drafting case studies. The Department has prioritised impact case
authors when bidding for publication fee funds and included impact activities in the workload
model.

We strongly focus on outreach activity to contribute to a more scientifically literate and informed
society that can critically assess research and have confidence in its experts: we have launched a
pod-cast series (Understanding our Place in the World) that highlights our research to a wider
audience. Staff participate in local (e.g., Café Scientifique) and national (e.g., Pint of Science;
ESRC Festival of Social Science) events to communicate latest research findings; they
demonstrate experimental methods (e.g., eye-tracking; EEG) in public places such as
museums or art galleries; they frequently contribute to mainstream outlets (e.g., The
Conversation); present to special end users (e.g., Age Concern, Pensioners Group, Veterans,
Teachers, charities); engage with schools and colleges; and have presence in national and
international media (print, radio, TV).

Staff from all themes share links to external bodies in the health sector: NHS (Cooper,
Daughters, Orbell), ESNEFT (Rigato, Orbell), NIHR Research Design Service and NIHR East of
England ARC Prevention and Early Detection in Health and Social Care (Klabunde), Provide
(Buchanan, Russo, Rolison), including health focussed charities: Suffolk Mind (Hibbard), Walnut
Tree Health and Wellbeing CIC, Combat Stress, Help for Heroes, The Angling Trust, Sport
England, Active Essex, Community 360 (Cooper); Essex Respite and Care Association (Barry);
The European Pain Federation (Valentini); Campaign to End, St Helena Hospice, Cruse
Bereavement, Marie Curie and Essex Cancer Research (Sandstrom). We also work with the
transportation sector: Docklands Light Railway (Roberts) Department for Transport (Rolison);
and education sector: Educational Testing Service, OECD/PISA, Bavarian and Mexican Ministry
for Education (Pekrun). We work with charities focussed on young and old age including Age
UK (Loaiza), Age Concern Colchester and Northeast Essex (Lamarche); National Childbirth Trust
(de Klerk); and charities focussed on language: British Dyslexia Association (Hanley), We Love
Reading (Lisi). Other strong links include: American Institute of Bisexuality (Rieger), The
Commonland (Hanel) and QuinetiQ (Hughes). Industry links include Facebook Reality Labs,
Matthew Linley Creative Projects (Hibbard, Van Dam); Auduro Communications (Poerio); Beat
Eating Disorders, Unreal (Gillmeister); Royal Deaf Association (Gutierrez); 5Voices, Verenigma
(Paulmann); Green Energy Options, Centre for Sustainable Energy (Buchanan); Monsenso
(Pekrun). These links support direct impact from our research and will help to secure funding for
research and impact in the future.

Staff are board members, trustees, or scientific advisors on a number of different organisations
including: National Cancer Research Network Primary Care Clinical Sciences Development
Group (Orbell); AgeUK (Loaiza); BabyBrains (Rigoto, Filipetti); Essex Respite and Care
Association (Barry); PISA 2021 (Pekrun).

Contribution to the Discipline

All staff undertake regular grant application reviewing. Nationally, they reviewed for Arthritis
Research UK, BBSRC, British Academy, Cancer Research UK, Department of Health, ESRC;
GCRF, Leverhulme Trust, MRC, NHS dissemination centre, Nuffield Foundation, Pain Relief
Foundation, The Waterloo Foundation and Wellcome Trust. Internationally, staff reviewed for
Austrian Science Fund, Canadian Institutes of Health Research, European Research Council,
European Science Foundation, Flanders Institute, French National Research Agency, Fundacion

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
La Caixa (Spain), FWO (Belgium), Genesis Oncology Trust of New Zealand, German Research
Foundation, Israel Science Foundation, National Science Centre Poland, National Institutes of
Health (USA), National Science Foundation (USA), Natural Sciences and Engineering Research
Council (Canada), NWO (Netherlands), Research Grants Council of Hong Kong, Slovak Research
Agency, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada, Studienstiftung des
Deutschen Volkes (Germany), Swiss National Science Foundation, Templeton World Charity
Foundation, The Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology, United States - Israel
Binational Science Foundation and Volkswagen Foundation (Germany). All staff peer-review for
leading journals in their discipline.

Since REF2014, staff have had editorial board membership of leading journals including:
Anxiety, Stress and Coping; Attention, Perception, and Psychophysics; Cognition; Cognitive
Science; Contemporary Educational Psychology; Educational Psychologist; Educational Research
Review; European Journal of Psychology of Education; Frontiers in Psychology; Journal of Eye
Movement Research; Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Performance and Perception;
Journal of Behavioural Decision-making; Journal of Cognition; Journal of Cognitive Psychology;
Journal of Educational Psychology; Metacognition and Learning; Neuroscience & Biobehavioral
Reviews.

Staff organised conferences and workshops at Essex including British Association for Cognitive
Neuroscience (Cooper); EU workshops (Ward); Binocular Vision: Challenges and Techniques
(EPSRC; Hibbard); 1st UK Culture & Psychology Mini Conference (Geeraert); 70 Years of
Attachment Research: A Multidisciplinary Social Neuroscience Perspective (Vrticka); Bodily and
Cognitive Selves Workshop (Valentini); Babybrains workshops for parents (Rigato and Filipetti).

Many staff are widely recognised for their excellence in research in their field: collectively, staff
gave 28 invited keynotes at (inter)national conferences. Yamaguchi received the APA Earl
Alluisis Award for early career achievement (2016). Hibbard received a mid-career Fellowship
from the British Academy to explore 3D vision in natural complex scenes. Sandstom is an
elected fellow of the Society for Experimental Social Psychology. Loaiza received the best
paper award from Journal of Cognitive Psychology (2015). Pekrun received the 2017 Sylvia
Scribner Award of Division C, AERA, which honours a research programme that has ‘significantly
influenced thinking and research in the field of learning and instruction’. He received the EARLI
Oeuvre Award 2017 which recognises the lifetime achievement of a researcher who contributed
ground-breaking work across a broad range of fields in research on education. He received the
John G. Diefenbaker Award (Canada Council for the Arts), Lifetime Achievement Award 2018
(German Psychological Society) and Outstanding International Collaboration Award 2017 (SIG
Technology, Instruction, Cognition, and Learning of the AERA).




                                                                                             Page 19
