Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 9: Physics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 Cardiff University’s (CU) School of Physics and Astronomy, one of the seven Schools in the
 College of Physical Sciences and Engineering, is a leading research department focused on
 creating new fundamental understanding and impact on a wide spectrum of physical processes
 governing nature, from the small-scale physics of quantum devices all the way to the largest
 cosmological scales. Following REF2014, the School was identified by CU as a priority for
 investment, building on an explicit ‘School Strategic Plan’. This included expansion in astronomy
 and compound semiconductors, high prioritisation of Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) and
 later supplemented by expansion into experimental gravitational wave physics.
 Four School research groups comprise the CU UOA9 REF2021 submission (academics listed as
 Professor (P), Reader (R), Senior Lecturer (SL), Lecturer (L) or Senior Research Fellow (RF)):
    •   Astronomy Group (AG): (P) Eales (Head), Gomez, Greaves, Whitworth (50%); (R) Clark,
        Peretto; (SL) Davis, Matsuura, Negrello; (L) Ragan, van de Voort; (RF) Bowey, Duarte-
        Cabral. Current PDRAs: 11 (with Dunne (80%), Maddox (80%) and Smith being returned);
        PhD students: 18.
    •   Astronomy Instrumentation Group (AIG) PIs: (P) Griffin (Head; 50%), Ade (50%),
        Calabrese (joint with AG), Hargrave, Tucker; (R) Doyle, Pisano; (RF) Sudiwala. Current
        PDRAs: 7; PhDs: 6.
    •   Condensed Matter and Photonics (CMP): (P) Langbein (Head), Giblin, Huffaker,
        Macdonald, Smowton, Williams; (R) Buckle, Lynch, Muljarov; (SL) Ladak, Read; (L)
        Abadia, Beggs, Deng, Hou, Kesaria, Klemencic (joint with AIG), Li, Oh, Pereiro-Viterbo.
        Current PDRAs: 21 (with Mandal being returned); PhDs: 49.
    •   Gravitational Exploration Institute (GEI): (P) Fairhurst (Head; 80%), Grote, Hannam,
        Sathyaprakash (25%), Schutz (50%), Sutton; (R) Dooley (95%); (SL) Raymond; (L)
        Antonini, Inserra (joint with AG); (RF) MacLeod. Current PDRAs: 8; PhDs: 15.
 The School also hosts the nascent Brain Imaging Group (BIG) (Murphy, Beltrachini, Tax) which
 drives interdisciplinary research involving physics, aligned to the University’s flagship Cardiff
 University Brain Research and Imaging Centre (CUBRIC, see REF5a). The BIG both contributes
 to and benefits from the environment of the School; researchers from this group were submitted
 to UOA4. Consequently, all data subsequently reported for UOA9 excludes BIG.
 UOA9 has grown considerably since REF2014, from 34 to 53.1 academic FTE (both including
 T&S), with 52.2 FTE REF Category A staff, and improved diversity (Juno Champion award in 2020;
 Section 2.8). The Unit has considerably grown its research income (to £114M in REF2021
 compared to £46M in REF2014 and £36M in RAE2008). As a result, our cohort of postdoctoral
 researchers (PDRAs) and postgraduate (PGR) students has increased to its highest ever level
 (Sections 2.3 and 2.7). There has been multi-million-pound investments into refurbished laboratory
 space, as well as new space as part of Cardiff’s new £131M ‘Translational Research Hub’, to be
 completed in 2022 (Section 3), which brings a state-of-the-art semiconductor fabrication facility
 and a further 1000 m2 of high-quality physics laboratories. We have produced over 1800
 publications and delivered a range of economic impacts, as well as leading on national and
 international research initiatives and engaging with communities through organising conferences
 and extensive public engagement (Section 4).
 1.2 Research strategy
 Our strategic vision is to advance basic understanding and application of physics and astronomy,
 including through international collaborations, both academic and commercial, allowing new
 discoveries that address significant research and societal challenges, while contributing to national
 economic growth. This is achieved through our research group structure which aligns with our
 strengths and future research aspirations. Since REF2014, considerable strategic development

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 includes: the foundation of the Institute for Compound Semiconductors (ICS), jointly with Cardiff
 School of Engineering; the establishment of the Sêr Cymru Advanced Materials and Devices
 Research Group; the expansion of gravitational wave research with the addition of an
 experimental group and new positions in transient astronomy; growth of the AG through hosting
 Royal Society and STFC-funded research fellows achieving permanent academic positions.
 Aligned to this, substantial improvements in core facilities and research space have provided
 greater research capacity, enabling a strategic increase in PGR numbers and junior researchers.
 We have also made significant advances in EDI, a major element of our 2014 strategic plan (see
 Section 2).
 Specifics of the approach in each area follow.
 The AG focuses on how planetary systems, stars, galaxies and the whole Universe were formed
 and evolved. The group addresses these questions using observational programmes at major
 optical to millimetre wavelength observatories, and numerical simulations, and by focussing on
 the life cycle of interstellar dust, star formation and galaxy evolution, transient astronomy, the
 Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) and exoplanets. Highlights include: leadership of a
 consortium of 16 UK universities collaborating with the East Asian Observatory on the continued
 operation of the James Clerk Maxwell Telescope (JCMT); leadership of an international
 astronomical survey (ePESSTO+); significant roles in the UK consortium for the Vera Rubin
 Observatory; thousands of hours awarded for observing time on multiple telescopes (Section 3.4).
 The AIG leads, and is involved in, major international astronomy projects through building and
 exploiting far-infrared-millimetre instrumentation for astronomical observatories, for CMB studies,
 and for Earth observations. Key research is in superconducting detectors, metamaterial-based
 quasioptical components, ultra-low-temperature cryogenics and data processing. Highlights
 include: leading roles in recent high-profile missions and instruments including the Herschel-
 SPIRE and Planck-HFI satellite instruments, and the SCUBA-2 ground-based submillimetre
 camera; involvement in several current world-class projects including the Ariel exoplanet
 characterisation satellite (ESA’s M4 mission), the Japanese-led LiteBIRD CMB satellite, the
 Simons Observatory (SO) ground-based CMB project; and provision of flight hardware for the
 microwave sounder (MWS) instruments to fly on EUMETSAT’s next-generation of weather
 satellites (see impact case). AIG researchers work closely with the AG on mutually supportive
 strategic objectives, fostering in-house scientific exploitation of AIG projects, and guiding technical
 R&D. Examples include a strategy to build capacity in exoplanet science, and leadership by Cardiff
 astronomers of observing programmes which use AIG instruments.
 The CMP group addresses understanding the optical, electrical and magnetic properties of
 materials, growth mechanisms of diamond and compound semiconductors, application to devices,
 and novel instrumentation for materials and device characterisation, including characterisation of
 biological materials. The group is strongly multidisciplinary with strong links to Chemistry (e.g.,
 virus filtration, Welsh Government funded), Biosciences (e.g., Raman active proteins, EPSRC
 funded) and Engineering (e.g., integration of diamond with GaN, EPSRC funded), as well as the
 ICS and CUBRIC. Highlights include: the development of long-lived semiconductor lasers grown
 epitaxially on silicon, demonstrating coherent control in solid state emitters; developing
 understanding of magnetic monopoles; integration of diamond with GaN, filtration of viruses from
 the water supply and the establishment of a compound semiconductor (CS) research and
 manufacturing cluster in South Wales (see impact case).
 The GEI is unique in developing all aspects of gravitational wave (GW) physics and astronomy,
 such as new instrumental techniques to improve detector sensitivity, identification of gravitational
 wave sources in the detector data, and modelling the physics and astrophysics of black holes and
 neutron stars. It is the fourth largest group in the international Laser Interferometer Gravitational
 Wave Observatory (LIGO) collaboration. It is a strong component of the University interdisciplinary
 Data Innovation Research Institute (DIRI) and includes joint appointments with AG. Highlights
 include: leadership roles in LIGO (Section 4.1), several multi-million-pound research awards
 (Section 3.1), and prominent involvement in the discovery of gravitational waves and their
 electromagnetic counterparts (see outreach impact case) followed by awards and recognitions
 (Section 4.5), e.g., Schutz’s Eddington Medal and Nobel Prize opening lecture in 2017.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Research Strategy is formulated by synthesising documented strategic plans from each
 Research Group (RG), led by the RG heads, and refined and prioritised by the Head of School
 (HoS), supported by the School Board (SB). Since REF2014, the Research Committee (RC),
 chaired by the Director of Research (DoR), has been expanded so that Safety, Research Ethics
 and EDI are standing agenda items and are fully embedded in our research culture. The work of
 the DoR (Williams) is supported and shared by two deputies (Calabrese and Inserra), with all
 three coming from separate RGs. Further research leadership is provided by the RG Heads (all
 ex officio members of the SB and RC), who are responsible for the day-to-day organising and
 prioritising of activities in their areas, and for overseeing the periodic update of each group’s
 strategic plan (covering research and appointment priorities, funding plans, publications, impact,
 and resource needs). The RG strategic plans feed into the research-related elements of the School
 strategic plan. The RC oversees policies and issues that affect all groups, such as space
 allocations, technical support, and infrastructure development. Research is a central agenda item
 at senior management meetings, including the SB. Systematic research support is also provided
 by the Director of Postgraduate Research Studies (DPGS), the Director of Innovation and
 Engagement (DI&E), the School Manager, the School’s Technical Services Manager, and the
 Safety, Health and Wellbeing Coordinator.
 1.3 Progress against REF2014 research strategy
 As described in Section 1.1, our strategy following REF2014 has focussed on critical mass,
 research quality, investment in facilities and research culture, including EDI, and incorporated and
 delivered all key elements from the 2014 environment template (text in bold).
 1. Recruitment of high-quality academic staff to expand critical mass and consolidate research
 strengths in all research groups including exoplanet research (Sections 1.1 and 2, linked to
 delivery of goals 2, 4 and 5 below).
 2. Establishing BIG to enhance interdisciplinary research, aligned to Cardiff’s £44M investment in
 the multidisciplinary brain imaging centre, CUBRIC, which includes scanning facilities unique in
 the UK. BIG’s research applies physical principles to neuroimaging for more accurate
 measurements of processes in the brain, is fully interdisciplinary and enables multidisciplinary
 networks within the School (e.g., with AIG, Section 3.1), and with researchers from Computer
 Science and Informatics, Engineering, Psychology, Medicine and Biosciences.
 3. Foundation of the ICS, with Engineering (led by Smowton), as a major investment in
 infrastructure and expertise, with over £50M from external sources (e.g., UK Research Partnership
 Infrastructure Fund and EPSRC), and including a purpose-built 1350-m2 fabrication cleanroom in
 the Translational Research Hub (TRH). The 10-year ICS development plan supplements existing
 CS academic expertise within CMP with eight new hires (three to date). ICS enhances innovation
 activity and links with industry as a core member of the Compound Semiconductor Cluster,
 which includes the Compound Semiconductor Applications Catapult and CSC Ltd., a company
 jointly owned by the University and semiconductor company IQE.
 4. Establishment of the Sêr Cymru Advanced Material and Devices Research Group, targeting
 integrated and functional device platforms to boost activity in semiconductor physics and
 technology (and 3 above), merging optoelectronics with nanostructures, metamaterials and
 plasmonics. Applications include remote sensing and quantum technology with local, international
 and industrial collaborations (e.g., UCLA and Huawei, £270k). This has been enabled by taking
 advantage of Welsh government investment (Sêr Cymru programme to attract scientific talent
 – Huffaker – to Wales, £4.1M from the Welsh Government and £5.9M CU match).
 5. Expansion of the Gravitational Physics Group (now GEI) enhancing a strong theoretical and
 computational team and, with £1.2M invested by the University, initiating an experimental
 programme with new academic positions and laboratories (Section 3.2). The GEI enables a
 comprehensive approach to problems in GW and offers a bridge to quantum and optical physicists
 in CMP, AIG and astronomy, moving from preparation for gravitational wave detection to
 exploitation.
 6. Pivotal role (Fairhurst as initial Director and Schutz as founder) in the establishment of DIRI,
 approved in 2014 with a budget of £500K/year and designed to strengthen interdisciplinary

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research in data science via sharing of expertise across Schools of Physics and Astronomy,
 Computer Science and Informatics, Mathematics and Engineering.
 7. Formation of the Physics Education Research Group (PERG) to coordinate and systematise
 the School’s substantial pedagogical expertise, thereby stimulating advances in physics teaching,
 and ensuring that innovations in teaching and engagement match our excellence in other areas
 of research.
 8. Diversification in funding, with less dependence on STFC and more EU income (Section 3.1).
 1.4 Research impact
 Impact is a high-priority area and all research group strategic plans include impact. The DI&E
 (Hargrave) leads impact reporting to the RC and SB. The DI&E sits on the wider College Impact
 Forum, providing an effective support mechanism to introduce best practice into the Unit. Impact
 is central to individual academic staff Performance Development Reviews (PDR) and promotion,
 and researchers are empowered to exploit the impact of their research with time allocation,
 professional support and University training for impact, including IP protection and Market
 Awareness. We also use University Research Institutes such as DIRI to facilitate impact by
 bringing together diverse researchers with key stakeholders for research falling within their remit.
 The School has supported specific initiatives since REF2014 to promote impact. The ICS was set
 up with a strategic focus on translation of fundamental research into applications, and to instigate
 consideration of manufacturing impact from the very inception of new research ideas. Co-location
 of research and manufacturing scale equipment, as well as industry and University staff, facilitates
 this approach. The ICS also acts as a conduit for Continuing Professional Development activities
 with local Compound Semiconductor Cluster companies (Beggs, Lynch; Section 4.3) creating a
 talent pool that supports industry (e.g., six PDRAs joined cluster companies since REF2014;
 Section 2.3). The School has part-supported an Ogden Science Lecturer and Director of Public
 Engagement (North, within AG and GEI), facilitating outreach activities across the School (Section
 4.3). Accommodation is provided to three spin-out companies: the award-winning international
 science communications company, Science Made Simple; the long-established QMC Instruments
 Ltd., specialising in cryogenics, filters, detectors and systems; and the newly-created Sequestim
 Ltd., formed to develop and market novel video-rate THz security systems, based on detectors
 and data processing technologies invented for astronomy instruments (Section 3.1).
 During the REF period, the DI&E worked with RG Heads and academics to identify and develop
 a breadth of potential impact cases. Of our five REF2021 impact cases, two cases are outreach
 and education based, detailing major international educational and teacher-training initiatives
 developed from AG and GEI research. A THz technology case study describes the impact arising
 from commercialisation of AIG technologies through QMCI and other AIG industrial partners. The
 other case study arising from the AIG is based on the development of unique quasioptical systems
 for the next-generation of European weather satellites. Finally, the ICS case study details the
 impact arising from CMP research, leading to major strategic investment in South Wales to create
 a CS research and manufacturing ecosystem. Two of the five cases are led by female academics
 (Gomez and Tucker).
 1.5 Interdisciplinary research
 Research collaborations exist with other Cardiff University Schools (e.g., Biosciences, Pharmacy
 and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Engineering, Chemistry, Psychology, Computer Science and
 Informatics, and Maths), and with external institutes and companies. Cross-disciplinary
 collaborations foster innovation in physics and astronomy research and impact for UOA9 in a wide
 range of sectors. Highlight projects include: Raman spectroscopy of proteins, and novel cell
 imaging supported by joint grants between Physics and Astronomy and Biosciences; the
 application of AIG research to other topics e.g., submillimetre hyper-spectral sensing of the Earth’s
 atmosphere, provision of flight hardware for meteorological satellites, joint development with BIG
 of data curation systems for brain imaging facilities using practices developed for space astronomy
 missions; and multiple activities on diamond nanoparticles, such as controlling their surface
 chemistry to adsorb viruses and emit light at imaging relevant wavelengths for biomarking (Physics
 and Astronomy, Biosciences, Chemistry and Engineering) with multiple joint grants from BBSRC,

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme, DSTL, Wellcome and the Welsh Government, as well as a patent filing on virus
 filtration. See also Sections 3.1 and 4.1.
 As a measure of both our interdisciplinary research and evidence of the success of our strategy,
 we are host and partner in several Centres for Doctoral Training (CDT; Section 2.7). These
 programmes allow us to train the next generation of physicists and astronomers, and to enhance
 transfer of knowledge between academia and industry. For example, our CDT in Compound
 Semiconductor Manufacturing ensures that every student has an industrial as well as two
 academic supervisors from different universities and disciplines.
 1.6 Open Research
 The School is enthusiastically compliant with all funder requirements and the Concordat on Open
 Research Data, ensuring full online access to scientific information free of charge. Open data is
 managed through our institutional research information management system, with mandated
 datasets assigned a unique DOI. The Open Access (OA) Coordinator (Morgan), assisted by the
 University OA Team, manages OA for the School, overseeing staff training, recording and
 ensuring output compliance, and that all post-print files and bibliographic details for publications
 are held in Cardiff’s digital publications repository, along with digital copies of all theses from the
 School. Following Research England’s recommendations, 100% of Category A staff have ORCID
 registration. CU is a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (see
 REF5a). Assessment of research for funding, appointment, and promotion considerations is
 exclusively made based on intrinsic merits of the work, rather than journal-based metrics.
 As part of a broader commitment to open research, many data products and outputs are made
 available to other researchers. For example, the design of one of our diamond growth systems
 has been made open source and published on wikiversity, and the OA data from relevant papers
 has been used by the Universities of Cadiz and Wurzburg and eVince Technology to build similar
 systems.
 1.7 Research ethics and integrity
 Research Integrity training is mandatory for all academic staff and PGR students within the
 University. We comply with all University ethics protocols and the School Ethics Officer (EO,
 Beltrachini) is responsible for managing ethical issues in research and chairing the School
 Research Ethics Committee (SREC). The EO monitors the procedures, reviews issues, and
 ensures that all appropriate researchers receive the correct documentation. The EO reports to the
 RC and Head of School and yearly to the University, and conducts three-yearly reviews of the
 School’s ethical procedures, relaying the outcome to the University Open Research Integrity and
 Ethics Committee. When relevant the SREC oversees that research involving human participants
 follows appropriate protocols and that all research proposals are checked against ethical
 concerns.
 1.8 Future plans
 The Unit will maintain and build on its strategy of having the critical mass to tackle grand scientific
 and societal challenges while ensuring cross-fertilisation of ideas and activities between research
 groups, across the University and via international networks supporting advancement of the
 broader discipline. Future aims include:
    ●   Continue to grow strength in gravitational physics, exploiting scientific opportunities
        facilitated by the now frequent detections, and to further cement links with the AG through
        activities in transient astronomy.
    ●   Combine AIG and AG creating a Cardiff Institute for Astrophysics Research (working title)
        to strengthen the ability to address open questions in astronomy, contributing to and
        exploiting major international experiments, and maximising in-house guidance and
        exploitation of instrumentation projects. Appropriate recruitment will be necessary to
        maintain capability and support ambitious goals.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Expand the ICS with recruitment of five high-quality academics to take advantage of the
        new TRH facilities, providing expertise in theory, modelling, materials growth, and device
        fabrication and characterisation, with translational activities to exploit outcomes.
    ●   Expand BIG, increasing and driving opportunities for multidisciplinary collaborations and
        the University’s broader research agenda.
 Each RG has identified grand challenges for the coming period to ensure continued discipline
 excellence, while also strengthening collaboration networks inside and outside the Unit:
    ●   The Institute for Astrophysics Research will address two out of the three Astronomy
        Science Challenges identified by STFC: 'How did the Universe begin and how is it
        evolving?' and 'How do stars and planetary systems develop and how do they support the
        existence of life?'. We will use new facilities which have already received large UK financial
        investment (e.g., the Rubin Observatory, the Square Kilometre Array, the ESA Euclid
        space mission) and next-generation CMB experiments, to study galaxy evolution and
        cosmology, and continue diversification into transient astronomy and into exoplanet
        science and astrobiology, building on our hardware and data-processing contributions to
        ESA’s ARIEL mission. Staff are strategically positioned to have key leadership roles in
        these projects (e.g., Calabrese Science Chair of SO and Section 4.1). We will further
        develop detectors, metamaterial-based quasi-optics, and cryogenic technologies to enable
        new instrument concepts and capabilities for astronomy and Earth observation, and work
        with our QMCI and Sequestim spin-out companies to identify and realise commercial
        applications.
    ●   CMP will focus on impact and interdisciplinary research, such as coherent Raman
        scattering, quantum biology with Biosciences, virus filtration with Pharmacy and
        Pharmaceutical Sciences, and build on strong industrial collaborations (e.g., with Huawei,
        4K-MEMS, IQE and eVince Technology). The group will address both discipline and major
        societal challenges, further strengthening EPSRC’s stated priority areas such as Photonic
        Materials, Materials for Energy Applications and Quantum Technologies. Facilities such as
        the Cardiff Diamond Foundry will be set up as TRAC facilities to complement the TRAC
        device fabrication of ICS and the MOCVD laboratory with links to the CS Cluster. By these
        means, CMP will demonstrate fundamental physics research connected to impact, such
        as manufacturing at scale.
    ●   Having initiated a research programme that encompasses all major aspects of the field,
        GEI will establish the field of gravitational astronomy, using gravitational waves as a new
        tool to observe the Universe, and play a leading role in the development of the science
        and technical case for third-generation gravitational-wave detectors (such as the Einstein
        Telescope, a proposed European GW observatory). Through DIRI, GEI proactively seeks
        out collaboration with other CU departments in areas where sophisticated signal analysis
        is critical to progress, e.g., biologists or social scientists with large data sets requiring
        identification of useful patterns and separation from noise artefacts. “Big Data” techniques
        have enormous impact across many areas of science and society.
 Building critical mass is about infrastructure, facilities, and support staff, as well as academic
 numbers. We will continue to invest to make sure that our academic teams have access to the
 best working environment, including multidisciplinary support (as in CUBRIC and the ICS). We will
 continue to provide support for all staff and early career researchers (ECRs) in particular on
 research and career development, and build on our Juno Champion award to guarantee that work
 is carried out in an environment that strongly supports diversity and inclusion.
 We will ensure that the discipline is sustainable with a pipeline of trained people by adding to
 undergraduate, postgraduate taught, and doctoral training centres associated with each of our
 research groups, and by augmenting our technical support staff with apprentices. Planned
 initiatives include: a new MPhys programme with a focus on brain imaging; strengthening
 postgraduate taught programmes in semiconductor physics and astronomy; expanding doctoral
 training in gravitational physics.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People
 2.1 Staff development strategy
 Staff are strongly supported to achieve their full potential. Advice, guidance, and mechanisms for
 raising concerns are provided at the RG level, as part of the PDR process, and by promoting a
 strong cultural emphasis on equality and diversity. The School supports and encourages staff to
 take advantage of a wide range of training covering professional and personal development. Many
 of these courses are mandatory for all staff (see REF5a), including: EDI, Unconscious Bias, and
 Information Security; Line Management training is mandatory for all staff whose roles involve
 formal line management; Academic Practice is mandatory for ECRs; and Leadership and
 Management programmes are available for Senior staff. A specific mandatory training programme,
 which includes EDI as a key element, must be completed before being allowed to chair a
 recruitment panel.
 All staff are appraised yearly through the PDR process – with 100% completion rate in four out of
 five years, and greater than 95% in the fifth year, pre-COVID. Career development of postdoctoral
 staff is a standing item in both the postdoctoral staff PDRs and in the PDRs for line managers of
 those staff (Section 2.3). There are clear routes of progression for academics on both Teaching &
 Research and Teaching & Scholarship career pathways. Academic promotion is by self-
 application and is encouraged in PDR. It is administered by the University, with a strong emphasis
 on external assessment. 27 academics in the Unit were promoted during the REF period; on
 average more than 80% of applications have been successful. Rapid career progression via
 promotion is strongly supported in significant cases, e.g., Calabrese was promoted from Lecturer
 to Professor.
 The Unit has two University “Darlithwyr Disglair” (Brilliant Lecturers), a previous research-only
 postdoc (Klemencic) and an external hire (Deng). This scheme supports early career academics
 wishing to pursue lecturer roles by giving them the opportunity to experience life as a full-time
 University lecturer for two years along with specific leadership training. During this scheme
 Klemencic secured an EPSRC New Horizon grant and a permanent School post.
 Other development programmes include Cardiff Futures, led by the Vice-Chancellor and designed
 to support early career academics to develop their career and explore how they might contribute
 to shaping the future of our University, promoting collaborative working across disciplines. Nine
 UOA9 staff attended the programme over the REF period; mentoring via this programme led
 Tucker to take on new positions on committees and boards, including Deputy Head of School.
 Four UOA9 staff participated in Welsh Crucible, a programme encouraging interdisciplinary
 working for the future research leaders of Wales (2013 Times Higher Education Award for
 outstanding contribution to leadership development). School public engagement experts (Griffin
 and North) have also participated in the programme with an annual presentation on media
 engagement. A Professorial Leadership Program, led by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor, helps newly
 promoted or appointed professorial staff refine and develop their understanding and skills relevant
 to their academic leadership roles. The majority of newly appointed Physics professoriate have
 taken advantage of this scheme; this led Sutton and then Fairhurst to become Head of GEI. UOA9
 staff also received several nominations and awards in the University’s Celebrating Excellence
 Awards, recognizing the importance of UOA9 and its research to the University. The Vice-
 Chancellor Award for Outstanding Contribution to the University was awarded to the Gravitational
 Physics Group in 2016.
 2.2 Staffing and recruitment strategy
 UOA9 has expanded considerably since REF2014, by strategically recruiting new staff across all
 career stages to bolster capacity in our priority areas (Section 1.3), ensuring a healthy age profile,
 robust succession and progression planning as well as facilitating flexible approaches to
 retirement and part-time working (Section 2.4). The School requires that all interview panels
 include at least one female member of staff regardless of the post type or the gender of
 interviewees. Further, aligned to our commitment to improve our gender balance, the School
 introduced a gender decoder to check language in job adverts, and provides both a male and
 female contact in all adverts. The gender balance of staff recruited has increased significantly


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 since 2014 (Section 2.8); UOA9 hosts 57 full- or part-time academic staff, of which 23% are female
 (compared to 35 staff members and 11% in REF2014).
 2.3 Early career researchers
 To help newly appointed academics establish themselves in their role, the policy is to give them
 priority access to PhD students as well as low-level teaching in their first year, followed by a half
 load the following year. As well as the support that they get through being embedded in their RG,
 junior appointees are mentored and advised by established academics, generally from different
 disciplines within the School or College, and have access to the School’s library of grant
 applications (e.g., leading to Negrello (AG) and Pereiro-Viterbo (CMP) securing Marie
 Sklodowska-Curie fellowships). We encourage senior PDRAs interested in academic careers to
 give guest lectures and, in some cases, they also act as Module Organisers or Deputy Module
 Organisers, with active monitoring and guidance from an experienced academic in every case.
 The School and CU strongly support and involve ECRs in leadership, as well as developing the
 University’s research strategy (see REF5a and below).
 Fellowship applications are a strategic target for the Unit as a step towards independent academic
 positions, with an in-house discipline-specific mentoring scheme organised by the RGs in addition
 to the University’s training, peer review of applications and practice interviews. 22 externally
 funded research fellowships were secured during the REF cycle (21% success rate). The majority
 have been Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships (seven), followed by Sêr Cymru (six), STFC (six),
 and Royal Society URF (two); with 38% female and 21% BAME. In particular, in 2019 all STFC
 ERF candidates internally selected were female, and they all succeeded in securing fellowship
 awards from STFC and Royal Society. Six permanent staff members appointed in the REF period
 started as fellows (Antonini, Calabrese, Davis, Matsuura, Oh, van de Voort).
 Start-up funds of ~£10k are provided for new academic appointees for travel/computing; in some
 cases a School-funded PhD student or postdoc is part of the start-up package; substantial funding
 for equipment is given (e.g., GEI experimentalists); and for most of the REF period a return of a
 fraction of grant overheads to grant PIs, providing an incentive to win grant funding and flexibility
 to manage their programmes and staffing, and to develop new initiatives. To encourage and
 support funded research, PhD studentships have been funded by the School for grants over £750K
 (over and above the EPSRC/STFC Doctoral Training Accounts). This is particularly helpful for
 ECRs starting to build a research team.
 The Unit has a large contingent of PDRAs (headcount averaging over 50 throughout the REF
 period). The junior academic representative on the SB is specifically tasked with interacting with
 PDRAs personally and via the PDRA Forum which was set up for postdocs to share experiences,
 opportunities and issues. The RC has a postdoc representative to ensure good communication
 with, and representation of, postdoctoral staff; two positions for PDRAs are in place on the
 School’s EDI Committee to ensure that the development of research culture is aligned to the needs
 of PDRAs. A School-customised PDR form (developed in consultation with the PDRA Forum) is
 used for all PDRAs, with guidance notes sent to reviewers including and emphasising career
 development. PDRAs are supported by the line managers, mentors, and during PDRs to establish
 their next career goal either in academia or in other sectors. For example, several of our PDRAs
 have progressed at Cardiff (e.g., Duarte-Cabral, now Royal Society Fellow), left for permanent
 academic roles (e.g., Pannarale, University of Rome; Nuttall, University of Portsmouth), joined
 industry (e.g., Boulbar, Newport Wafer Fab; Kastein, IQE; Royle, SPTS), or are partners of our
 spin-out companies (e.g., Rowe and Papageorgiou, Sequestim). A page on our intranet has been
 created to further help PDRAs source funding and develop career opportunities.
 2.4 Research leave and flexible working
 The University’s Research Leave scheme provides funding for teaching cover during periods of 6-
 12 months, focusing on generating high-quality publications and/or impact, and is available to all
 staff. During the REF period, ten UOA9 staff members took research leave (three female, seven
 male), leading to an ERC Consolidator grant (Gomez), Spitzer ALMA & NOEMA telescope time
 (Eales), and a two-year secondment to UCSB (Read). Staff returning from periods of long-term
 leave are offered additional support and flexibility to minimise the impact of extended leave on the


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 delivery of their duties. This allows them to refresh their skills, knowledge and confidence thus
 enabling continued career development.
 We are supportive of flexible working, with reduced teaching and administration loads for staff with
 caring responsibility or coming back from parental leave, and of part-time working for staff
 approaching retirement, without any impact on their career progression (e.g., Gomez and Dooley
 have restarted research careers using flexible working following parental leave).
 2.5 Technician Commitment
 In May 2017 the University became one of the founding signatories for the national Technician
 Commitment, led by the Science Council to ensure visibility, recognition, career development and
 sustainability for technicians working in higher education and research (see REF5a). The School
 supports the career development of its technical team and recognises and promotes the status of
 technical staff (Section 3.2). This included hosting the national Technical Managers at Universities
 (TMU) conference in June 2018, organised by technicians, for technicians. The School’s current
 Technical Service Manager was a co-organiser of the 2018 TMU conference and is a member of
 the CU Technical Commitment working group. He is also technical contact for the GW4 Alliance
 (see REF5a). The School is also a member of HEaTED (Higher Education and Technicians
 Educational Development) and has signed up to the Employer Champion initiative which
 encourages staff to move towards professional registration. There are 19 volunteers engaged in
 this process and we achieved Employer Champion Status in 2018.
 2.6 Staff wellbeing
 The University’s Staff Wellbeing Group was formed in January 2018 to support and promote a
 wellbeing strategy across the University. It has in place an Employee Assistance Programme, a
 programme of wellbeing events, and provides bespoke events for teams and Schools. For
 example, the Mental Health First Aid training is mandatory for our Dignity at Work contacts (see
 below) who are now qualified Dignity at Work and Wellbeing advisors. Aligned to the University’s
 approach, the School has implemented a range of initiatives to support staff and enhance
 wellbeing. We aim to hold meetings within core working hours (10am-4pm) and, where possible,
 limit them to 50 minutes and with breaks of 10 minutes between meetings. The School holds
 monthly informal all-staff meetings which are well attended and cover briefings on topical issues
 and developments, also providing a forum for staff to ask questions and raise concerns. These
 meetings are held at times accommodating staff with childminding or other home responsibilities
 (e.g., late morning or early afternoon). Since the COVID crisis, lunchtime and Friday meetings
 have been suspended. Eight wellbeing days, free of meetings and tasks, were introduced by the
 University during the lockdown, giving staff the opportunity to work on whatever they desired or
 take time off. For staff members with caring responsibilities, where it may be harder to deliver work
 at the normal level, close consultation on priorities and additional support was provided. A survey
 of staff home working conditions was carried out by the School’s EDI committee with particular
 attention to PhD students, who are likely to work in less ideal conditions. Provision was made for
 staff and PhD students to pick up items (courier if required) for help with working from home as
 well as a budget of £100 automatically authorized, and higher amounts on a case-by-case basis.
 The School also initiated an independent survey by Science Made Simple to assess working
 conditions and concerns of all staff and PhD students (75% completion rate), and to make targeted
 adjustments to home working conditions.
 Staff workload is agreed during PDR with an overall balancing overseen by the HoS and based
 on the University academic workload modelling scheme (see REF5a). To ensure an equitable and
 appropriate working environment where all staff can flourish, this workload modelling scheme has
 been carefully designed. This included undertaking an Equality Impact Assessment on the scheme
 and establishing specialist task groups to provide staff input to a thorough revision. Three School
 staff supported this process – the Juno lead (Sadler) advised on how to define what used to be
 classified as the ‘other’ activities beyond teaching and research, while Inserra (Deputy DoR) and
 Langbein (CMP head) advised on research matters.
 Specific initiatives have responded to suggestions made/discussions held at the annual School
 awayday and at the monthly informal staff meetings. Examples include: establishment of well-
 advertised and proactive Dignity at Work contacts available to discuss and help resolve issues

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 before they become sufficiently advanced for more formal processes (84% of staff in the School
 agreed they were treated with respect by colleagues in our 2019 survey); in 2015 forming a Social
 Events Committee including members from academics, professional services, postdocs and PhD
 students, to promote integration of all staff and PhD students with a variety of family-friendly events
 (e.g., the annual departmental quiz night in December, the summer barbecue family outing, and
 boardgame evenings), with costs met by the School. A Facebook page (180 members) organised
 by the Social Events Committee regularly encourages all to join planned and ad hoc social events.
 There have also been improvements to the working/social environment with a refurbished coffee
 area, coffee machines and water fountains, ergonomic desks and chairs.
 2.7 PGR recruitment, monitoring, and support
 During the REF period, 117 (36% female) PhD students have been recruited from 947 (28%)
 applicants. Studentships are clearly advertised on the CU website and on FindAPhD. Diversity of
 applications is encouraged, most recently using a language decoder to improve the attractiveness
 of adverts to females, and offering a wide portfolio of projects proposed by a diverse cohort of
 prospective supervisors (see Section 2.8 for improvement in gender balance).
 Student monitoring is overseen by the DPGS (Lewis). All students have at least two supervisors
 and one independent mentor, with progression review panels populated with two independent
 academic staff. Students are interviewed at 9, 21 and 33 months, with intervening self-assessment
 and reported supervisor meetings. This rigorous and supportive process resulted in a 79%
 submission rate and led to 85 students completing their PhDs during the REF period.
 PGR feedback is facilitated by the PG committee which includes the DPGS and EDI Committee
 chair. Monthly lunch consultations are held by the DPGS with the PGR students, and PGR reps
 can raise any issues brought to them by their cohort to a specific Postgraduate Staff-Student Panel
 or, in some cases, are invited to report directly at the SB (e.g., Eknath on gender). The School
 also provides a PG Disability Contact to aid with the implementation of reasonable adjustments
 requested by the Disabilities and Dyslexia Service. All students are invited to attend informal all-
 staff meetings, awaydays and regular seminars/colloquia/’Physics Chats’. In an initiative based in
 large part on active discussion with PGR students through these channels, a new PGR Support
 Module has been created on Learning Central (the University’s online teaching and learning
 platform) with information and guidance on progress reviews, thesis submission, extenuating
 circumstances, health and safety, wellbeing, and teaching assistant duties. Feedback from
 students indicates that the new module is easier to navigate, more aligned with student
 requirements, and more effective in providing support.
 PGRs are also supported by the University’s Doctoral Academy, providing research and personal
 skills development, as well as a range of interdisciplinary community events and funding
 opportunities. The University’s Careers & Employability service has supported the career
 development of PGR students and postdocs with over 70 sessions during the REF period, the
 majority being face-to-face careers appointments. The DPGS also arranges a School-based
 training programme for PGR students. For example, students who are involved with teaching and
 demonstrating are provided bespoke support and mentoring for their roles. This led to a PhD
 student (Askey) obtaining Associate Fellow of the Higher Education Academy (HEA) recognition
 and is currently in the process of applying for a full Fellowship of the HEA following further School-
 supported development. Students are supported with an organised Postgraduate Lecture Series
 which covers transferable skills and technical topics and ensures that students can achieve a top-
 level understanding of the research carried out in the Unit.
 The Unit is heavily involved in four CDTs providing students with links with other Universities and
 industrial partners: the STFC Data Intensive CDT (3 Universities, >10 partners); UKRI Centre for
 Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning & Advanced Computing (5 Universities, >20 partners);
 EPSRC Centre for Diamond Science and Technology (9 Universities, >20 partners) and
 Compound Semiconductor Manufacturing (4 Universities, >25 partners). The Unit is part of EU
 International Training Networks, including the Quantimony consortium (Kesaria) and
 multidisciplinary imaging MUSIQ (Langbein/Borri, with Biosciences). These programmes provide
 excellent platforms to train the next generation of physicists and astronomers working across
 academia and industry.

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.8 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are core values and aspirations within the School, which promotes
 a culture of dignity and respect amongst all staff and research students. We believe this starts with
 strong role models, at both University and School level. For example in 2018, Holford, Deputy
 Vice-Chancellor, received a CBE for services to engineering and the advancement of women.
 Sadler (PERG) was awarded an MBE in 2017 for her work in communicating science, including to
 underrepresented groups, and Gomez (AG) was awarded an MBE in 2018 for inspiring the next
 generation of physicists and astronomers by communicating her research to a wide audience.
 Gomez, Huffaker and Sadler have been members of the Welsh Government Women in STEM
 committee.
 As noted in REF5a, CU was awarded Global Stonewall Diversity Champion in 2019, the top UK
 University for the fourth consecutive year and 10th in the top 100 employers. It has held the Athena
 SWAN Institutional Bronze award since 2009 and created a Dean for EDI in 2019, alongside a
 Dean for Research Environment and Culture. The University has well-established networks for
 LGBT+ staff and postgraduates (Enfys), BAME staff, carers and working families, disabled staff,
 Welsh language speakers, and an international staff network. Led by the School, and also
 including the Schools of Engineering and Computer Science and Informatics, we have a dedicated
 Women in STEM networking group (TWiSTEM) bringing together those identifying as female
 across the Queen’s Buildings campus with bespoke events (e.g., lunch, seminars, and diversity in
 physics workshop).
 In 2020, the School was awarded Juno Champion status by the Institute of Physics (IOP),
 recognising further progress in EDI following its achievement of Juno Practitioner status in 2015.
 Since 2012 the School has made it its mission to improve equality and ensure diversity within its
 staff. As a result of our efforts and recruitments, the representation of females on academic
 pathways has increased dramatically over the REF period, from three (no professorial) in July
 2014 to 13 (five professorial) in July 2020. The overall proportion of female academic staff is 22%
 (above the national average of 18% given in the Juno benchmark data), and the proportion of
 female of our staff returned in the current REF is 24%.
 The School EDI Committee has continued to gain momentum since its establishment in 2012, and
 now includes staff, postgraduate and undergraduate representation. The committee meets three
 times a year, collects data on students and staff every August, and reports regularly on key issues
 at the informal staff meetings. The Committee chair produces an annual report of all key statistics
 and interventions which is presented to the School Board each September. University HR data
 are also being made available to the Committee chair for their annual report, helping identify any
 trends or areas of concern which need an amendment of our Juno action plan. An EDI Committee
 member sits on all major School committees.
 At the REF census date there are a total of 160 staff, with 31% of those identifying as female.
 Within those employed on a research only pathway (academic staff and PDRAs) our female
 proportion is at 28%, which has more than doubled from the level of 11% in 2014. Our
 administration team has also become more gender-balanced with around 36% male (18% in 2019,
 25% in 2018) compared to none at all in 2015. Our technical team is around 19% female compared
 to 16% in 2015. We have a total of 113 male staff, 12% of whom work part-time, and 52 female
 staff with 33% part-time. Since 2013, the average proportion of female PhD students has been
 36% (with one year at more than 50%), well above the national average of 25%. Our taught
 postgraduate MSc programmes have attracted an average of 26% females. Combining all
 categories of staff, there has been a significant increase in both applications and recruitment of
 female staff over the REF period.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research Income
 Our overall strategy and specific priorities and objectives depend upon healthy and sustainable
 grant income and, to this end, the Unit has significantly increased research awards over the REF
 period, with a grant and contract portfolio of over £114M (147% increase over REF2014). Most
 funding comes from research councils, major UK and European agencies, and industrial contracts,

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achieving our REF2014 objective to have a more diverse range of funders. We have targeted
 longer-term awards as baseline support and continuity for our research groups, e.g., STFC
 Consolidated grants (£11M) support AG, AIG and GEI research, large EPSRC awards (£23M,
 including a Manufacturing Hub (Smowton)) support CMP, £10M ERC awards (Consolidator
 (Gomez, Hannam, Williams) and Starting (Calabrese) grants) across all RGs. These are
 supplemented with shorter duration grants from the UK Space Agency (£1M) and ESA (£2.4M)
 for our space astronomy instrumentation development programmes, other project-specific support
 obtained from the Leverhulme Trust, the Royal Astronomical Society, the Global Challenges
 Research Funding, Innovate UK, Welsh Crucible, Sêr Cymru, Cancer Research UK, Higher
 Education Funding Council for Wales, European Regional Development Fund, Biotechnology and
 BBSRC, alongside independent industrial support from Huawei, IQE and Airbus.
 We have achieved our objective of increasing staff numbers (Section 2) through significant
 research income with STFC Rutherford, Royal Society, EU Marie Sklodowska-Curie, and Sêr
 Cymru Fellowships (Section 2.3). This has been particularly successful for the AG, being the main
 route to a doubling of staff numbers since REF2014 and facilitating coverage of the full spectrum
 of astronomy research and strong connections to other groups in the School with joint
 appointments. AG Fellows have contributed to significant breakthroughs in astronomy (e.g., the
 first image of a black hole) and releases of new state-of-the-art simulations, enhancing the
 School’s visibility with a strong presence in the science news (Section 4.3).
 Continuous support from a diverse range of funders is crucial to maintain and upgrade the
 infrastructure and expertise which underpins excellent science. For example, this strategy has
 provided the continuity necessary for AIG’s participation in world-class astrophysics and
 cosmology projects, such as Ariel, SO, and LiteBIRD, and usage of the AIG's unique technologies
 in virtually all ground-based and spaceborne instruments at far infrared to millimetre wavelengths
 leading to front-rank scientific and technical publications. It has also fostered enhanced impact
 from the MWS meteorological satellite and the new Sequestim spin-out company, which develops
 and markets novel video-rate THz security systems, based on unique AIG detectors, filters,
 cryogenics, optics and data processing technologies invented for astronomy instruments.
 To facilitate our strategy to develop a compound semiconductor research and manufacturing
 cluster we have invested in infrastructure, equipment and expertise through support from sources
 including the Welsh European Funding Office (£37M) and EPSRC (£2M). The former provides
 advanced equipment for semiconductor fabrication, long-term support for expert engineers and
 technicians, and for business development staff. The benefits are seen in high-impact, cross-
 disciplinary publications on electronic devices, biomarkers, photonics and a number of patents
 and translation. This is exemplified by the announcement (June 2020) of the £42M Strength in
 Places project (Smowton PI) to develop a compound semiconductor powerhouse in South Wales.
 This builds further infrastructure, expertise and interaction with, and translation of research results
 to, industry. It will consolidate the lobbying for high-value science and for outreach to schools and
 educational bodies such as Techniquest, funded by ICS and the EPSRC Manufacturing Hub.
 A 2017 University investment creating the GEI, and large and long-term awards (ERC, STFC and
 Leverhulme) have facilitated our strategy to expand staff numbers to incorporate all areas of
 gravitational wave research: experiment, data analysis, numerical modelling, astrophysics and
 multi-messenger astronomy. The group played a significant role in the first observations of
 gravitational waves and in the continuing exciting developments. With the 2020 award of a
 STFC/EPSRC £4M Quantum Technology grant led by GEI experimentalists and involving a UK-
 wide consortium, the GEI is now also at the forefront of future technological applications of GW
 interferometry in quantum and optical physics.
 UOA9 has won over £63M contributing to research across multiple departments, demonstrating
 that Physics is driving multi- and interdisciplinary research. Examples include understanding the
 interface between diamond and aluminium nitride to facilitate diamond heatsinks for nitride-based
 RF electronics (Physics and Astronomy and Engineering, EPSRC program grant) and developing
 non-linear optics for microscopy of cells (Physics and Astronomy and Biosciences, EPSRC and
 BBSRC). The BIG exemplifies the interdisciplinary research culture embedded in the School,



                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including development of data curation systems for brain imaging facilities using practices
 developed for space astronomy missions (joint with AIG).
 Academic staff, and in particular ECRs, are strongly supported in grant applications by the School
 and the research groups via announcement of upcoming grant calls in the Research Bulletin;
 active planning with line managers, including in PDRs; sharing of successful applications; review
 of ideas and proposals at the RG level as well as by the DoR; and by expert administrative support
 during the preparation and running of grants.
 3.2 Operational and scholarly infrastructure and facilities
 The investment in the ICS (Sections 1 and 3.1), comprising a semiconductor fabrication facility for
 up to (currently) 150-mm wafers, is operated as a TRAC facility with open access (e.g., supporting
 AIG, CMP and industrial partners such as IQE) and with nine permanent support staff. Similarly,
 some of the Sêr Cymru investment (Section 1) in epitaxial growth (a serviced MOCVD reactor,
 based in IQE, and associated characterisation capability) is operated as TRAC, with supervised
 open access. Further related equipment such as twin chamber MBE (Sêr Cymru) and the Cardiff
 Diamond Foundry (four CVD growth reactors) are operated by academic experts in a collaborative
 fashion. It is School policy that facilities and equipment are shared, to improve efficiency and
 collaboration between groups and other Schools; all new equipment is listed within a centralised
 University database with contact points and access costing. For example, the University invested
 £300k in a dilution refrigerator, which has been operated as a shared resource by AIG and CMP
 and which has facilitated an ERC grant (Williams), three EPSRC grants (Giblin x2, Klemencic), an
 InnovateUK grant (Giblin and Klemencic), and industrial users such as SeeQC UK to observe a
 several Qubit system.
 The Unit has benefited from the University Research Infrastructure Fund (RIF), allocated on a
 competitive and strategic basis, targeted towards facilities with potential to enhance research
 excellence, and supporting interdisciplinary research across the University (see REF5a). Since
 REF2014, RIF awards of £2.3M supported a new experimental gravitational wave laboratory, a
 diamond chemical vapour deposition system, a two-photon laser lithography installation (to create
 structures to observe magnetic monopoles), and infrastructure for the Compound Semiconductor
 Manufacturing CDT (complete training cleanroom fit-out). Other RIF-funded facilities supporting
 research in the Unit during this REF period include a Raman/photoluminescence system based in
 the School of Chemistry and an advanced electron microscopy suite, based in the School of Earth
 and Environmental Sciences, which serve our joint quantum technologies, advanced materials
 and biological sensing efforts. These RIF-supported investments have already led to significant
 new funding, including large EPSRC grants such as the GEI-led STFC/EPSRC Quantum
 technology grant, and industrial contracts.
 The AIG has expanded the filters and metamaterials facilities for development and production of
 its unique optical components via a £1M contract with the Simons Observatory (SO). These new
 facilities support the increased demand from SO and provide crucial improved infrastructure for
 delivering devices to many other current and future CMB collaborations (such as CCAT-prime and
 CMB-S4). The School has supported this strategic participation by covering the Cardiff SO
 institutional membership (£94k).
 Research is supported by a dedicated and highly skilled technical team, including three full-time
 machinists in our mechanical workshop, and two highly experienced mechanical design and
 manufacturing engineers in a dedicated AIG workshop. Both workshops are equipped with
 multiple CAD/CAM systems and jobs are moved between shops based on need and to expedite
 turnaround. A separate electronics workshop is staffed by two highly skilled and experienced
 electronics technicians, complemented by two newly recruited apprentices, and we have multiple
 vacuum and clean room specialists and process engineers working with ICS and AIG. The
 School’s Technical Services Manager liaises with commercial suppliers and the University Estates
 division to support equipment installations and maintenance. Technical staff help drive the work
 of the RGs. For example, AIG engineers are critical to the group’s involvement in major
 international projects, liaise directly with external collaborators, and have been recognised by the
 University through Outstanding Contribution awards.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit has several computationally-intense research areas such as simulations of star
 formation, cosmology and gravitational wave physics which benefit greatly from access to the
 University’s Advanced Research Computing at Cardiff (ARCCA) and Supercomputing Wales (SW)
 (see REF5a). ARCCA provides high performance computing and support for University
 researchers who need additional computing power and, during the REF period, has been
 extensively used by GEI, AG and AIG members. For example, GEI’s contribution to gravitational
 wave results has been enabled by STFC-funded computing (over £1M) operated at ARCCA and
 a dedicated research software engineer funded by SW.
 The University Library provides access to over 1.1m items with an annual budget of £6.4M, and
 electronic journal access from work or home, based on University subscriptions, is available to all
 staff. A University librarian liaises with a School-designated academic as library point of contact
 to ensure rapid response to changing requirements such as purchases of support materials and
 books.
 During this REF period, renovations to infrastructure were undertaken, aligned to promotion of our
 EDI ambitions. Male-only toilets were converted in several areas of the building to easy access
 and unisex facilities, as requested by disabled and female staff, a lift was upgraded to
 accommodate a powered wheelchair and occupant, and hi-vis stair nosings were fitted at the main
 entrance to improve contrast for partially-sighted building users.
 3.3 Professional services, contracts and impact support
 Academic staff are supported in the preparation and costing of grant proposals and contractual
 arrangements locally by the School Manager and two Finance staff, and at University level by
 Research and Innovation Services, including a dedicated European Office. In particular, the
 specialised and locally knowledgeable School financial and administrative staff ensure that the
 relevant aspects of grants are well-supported at the proposal stage and, when awarded, with
 accurate and up-to-date information about expenditure and commitments provided regularly to
 PIs. Group- and activity-specific grant-funded Programme Managers (three full time) and
 Programme Administrators (one full, two part time) organise and manage portfolios of grants. For
 the AIG’s programme manager this includes national and international consortium-level
 management roles (otherwise national). Local administrators also provide expert HR support for
 recruitment and staff contract management supplementing University support.
 IT facilities and computational research are supported by the University IT service, and project-
 specific IT support is requested on research grants when appropriate. The School has a policy of
 bringing in and training young apprentices in electronics, IT and other support areas (e.g.,
 mechanical and electronics workshops) with two current apprenticeships. This resulted in follow-
 on internal positions for the two staff within the REF period.
 The University Commercial Development and Contracts Teams provide support for all aspects of
 research-related contracts and spin-out companies, including consortium agreements, sub-
 contracts, confidentiality agreements, intellectual property, and work closely with our local
 research administrators and grant PIs. Further University support is provided by the Business
 Incubation team. The Unit has received almost £400K in University-administered STFC and
 EPSRC Impact Acceleration funds during the REF period used to support brain imaging data
 curation (STFC IA award to foster the deployment of astronomical observatory-style data archiving
 for brain imaging facilities) and THz video camera development (facilitating the spin-out of the
 Sequestim company).
 3.4 Major benefits in-kind
 UOA9 researchers have been awarded significant access to facilities, equating to more than
 £2.7M, during the REF period. These are crucial to deliver our research goals and include: more
 than 1400 hours of observing time on highly-competitive telescope programmes such as JVLA,
 IRAM, GBT, NOEMA, CARMA, VLA, NASA Swift; synchrotron beamtime at several facilities,
 including 35 days at the Advanced Light Source (Berkeley) and PSI; and computer time allocation
 at NERSC (Berkeley) and Della (Princeton).




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 During the REF period, the Unit has strengthened and established new leadership or major roles
 in many large international consortia. Examples of strategic astronomy leadership include: a
 consortium of UK universities led by Cardiff (Eales PI) that has bought a share of the observing
 time on the JCMT; a large astronomical survey aiming at discovering the transient Universe
 (ePESSTO+, Inserra PI). Notable examples of the AIG leadership in worldwide projects and space
 missions such as Herschel-SPIRE Post-Operations 2014-16 (from Cardiff’s leadership of the
 SPIRE instrument, Griffin PI); Planck HFI (Calabrese Core Team member of final cosmology
 release); the ARIEL exoplanet characterisation satellite (Griffin UK Co-PI); LiteBIRD (Calabrese
 and Pisano UK coordinators and Calabrese also European Deputy Spokesperson); the SO CMB
 experiment (Calabrese Science Chair); and the MUSCAT camera for the Large Millimetre
 Telescopes (Doyle PI). The GEI has influential management positions in world-leading
 collaborations (e.g., Fairhurst Executive Committee member and Program Committee Chair of
 LIGO, Dooley LIGO Academic Advisory Committee Co-Chair), and significant involvement in
 planning for future observatories (LISA space mission, Einstein Telescope). In CMP, Huffaker’s
 appointment was a crucial component in the development of the ICS, Smowton leads research
 and training consortia across the Universities of Manchester, Sheffield and UCL, and 27 partner
 organisations, including IQE, National Physical Laboratory and CSC Ltd., where he is a Director.
 In addition to multidisciplinary research described in Sections 1.5 and 3.1, collaborations with other
 CU Schools are fostered by topical research networks. Examples include: a cross-department
 multidisciplinary network on materials science, the Cardiff Materials Network (13 UOA9 academics
 participate); and participation in DIRI with Calabrese and Inserra (DIRI Ambassadors from the
 Unit) leading a Special Interest Group on unveiling and predicting data patterns.
 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audience
 Recognising the importance of disseminating research activities and outputs to the scientific
 community, UOA9 members are very prominent at international conferences. During the REF
 period, UOA9 academics from all career stages organised/chaired 42 major conferences (e.g., the
 European Week of Astronomy and Space Science in 2015 and 2019 (Clark, Inserra), International
 Semiconductor Laser 2014 and Laser Electro Optics 2015-18 (Smowton), the American Physical
 Society meeting 2014 (Giblin), the European Material Research Society and MRS conferences
 2019/2020 (Williams)), and have delivered 83 keynote/invited lectures at international
 conferences, including plenaries at the 25th Semiconductor Laser Conference 2016 (Smowton),
 Cosmo19 2019 (Calabrese), 66th Diamond Conference 2016 and Diamond D Day 2019 (Williams),
 ECR keynote talk at the Euclid Consortium Meeting 2017 (on invitation, Inserra).
 The many international collaborations we are part of involve regular meetings. Active participation
 in these is of strategic importance to advance research collaborations and Cardiff visibility within
 them. To promote this, UOA9 academics have organised annual meetings of LIGO/VIRGO and
 SO, and hosted LiteBIRD and LSST:UK meetings in Cardiff. UOA9 researchers have also
 stimulated collaboration and knowledge exchange by organising several conferences and
 symposia in Cardiff (with 40 to 100 participants), including the annual “Semiconductor and
 Integrated Opto-Electronics (SIOE) Conference”, the biennial bio-nano-photonics conference in
 collaboration with Biosciences; cooling electrons below 1 mK for novel physics (Institute of
 Physics); SPACEKIDS (AIG-led EU FP-7 project to develop kinetic inductance detectors for space
 applications) and Galactic Formation workshops. School funding has covered staff attendance
 and organisation of some of these meetings.
 The research groups run dedicated seminar series (including online seminars during Covid-19)
 with external speakers from the UK and abroad, and also hold regular internal group meetings
 and journal clubs. There are cross-School, cross-College seminars and series with Bremen and
 Xiamen Universities.
 4.3 Examples of wider contributions to Economy and Society
 Public engagement is of key importance for the Unit. UOA9 academics, together with other School
 members, under the coordination of the School’s Head of Public Engagement, North (Section 1),

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have run successful and substantial programmes. The Cardiff-led Universe in the
 Classroom project (see impact case) targeted schools less likely to engage with science
 education, specifically those in rural areas, with more students in poverty, and lower educational
 attainment. It involved training of undergraduates and postgraduates as Stellar Role Models
 (STARS) able to attend Welsh primary schools and communities with our 0.4-m robotic telescope,
 sparking curiosity about the Universe in young children. STARS also count towards the Cardiff
 Award Scheme, which recognises extra-curricular activities and focuses on students’ professional
 development. A number of large-scale outreach activities (e.g., Physics Mentoring Project,
 UniverseLab, and Our Space Our Future) have attracted over £1.5M in funding since 2016, from
 Welsh, UKRI, and EU funding sources, and involve staff and students from Cardiff and other
 universities, reaching out to the general public and school students across the UK (~43 million
 people with TV and radio interviews, and 16,000 school children during the REF period). Other
 public engagement activities include: physics and astronomy presentations to school groups and
 a Christmas Lecture pitched at GCSE students; participation in scientific fairs and festivals,
 including Big Bang UK, Big Bang Cymru, Cheltenham Science Festival, the Eisteddfod, the Cardiff
 Science Festival, and the Diamond: more than a gemstone Royal Society 2016 Summer Science
 Exhibition; taking science directly to the community with our Science Busking programme and Pint
 of Science (total public talk audience 20,000). We have also run a series of inspiring outreach
 seminars given to the public by prestigious scientists collaborating with UOA9 members, including
 2017 Physics Nobel laureate Kip Thorne (live: 450 people, including 90 school children, YouTube
 views: 263,000). Our staff have made many appearances in high-profile mainstream media outlets
 including The New York Times, The Financial Times, The Guardian, BBC News, BBC Wales
 News, and Sky News on gravitational waves, astronomy (e.g., the potential discovery of phosphine
 on Venus), cosmology and diamond research. Research results produced by School members
 have also been highlighted on BBC News, El Pais and many other international web/paper
 journals, which covered 38 School research results during the REF period (total media: 60 million).
 Impact on economics and wider society has been achieved via industrial applications of our
 research and partnerships, built on the strategy defined in Section 1.4. The interaction with
 semiconductor companies such as IQE, Newport Wafer Fab and CSC demonstrates the value of
 the School of Physics and Astronomy to the manufacturing economy - e.g., with IQE via an
 Innovate UK Knowledge Transfer Partnership on the rapid fabrication and characterisation
 techniques for novel CS products. Lynch is seconded for two days a week to the CS strand of a
 £1.3M HEFCW-funded project supporting industry in the region to address skills gaps and leading
 to School to PhD level provision in CS relevant skills across FE and HE. Beggs is also seconded
 to teach a continuing professional development course to 80 staff at Newport Wafer Fab helping
 to reposition the company in the CS field. Connections with industrial partners are also enhanced
 with over 20% of the UOA9 academics acting as consultants to industry. For example, Williams
 collaborated with 4K-MEMS on ultra-high temperature materials (also funded by EPSRC New
 Horizons) and Photonis on negative electron affinity surfaces for enhancing night vision, and our
 design of a low-cost diamond growth reactor (Williams, Mandal, Thomas) developed under EU
 FP7 “WASPS” which is now in use by eVince Technology as “one of the key in-house tools we
 use for several steps in the manufacturing process”. This project led to the employment of 10
 people, over £2.1M in financial angel funding and over £1M in grants/project income (Eurostars,
 ESA, Innovate UK). Surface acoustic wave devices demonstrated by the Cardiff Diamond Foundry
 are being developed by Huawei for 5G base stations. The ERC “SUPERNEMS” project led to a
 patent on virus filtration and a high frequency AC susceptometer which is currently being sold by
 the company RI.SE. AIG members (Ade, Doyle, Hargrave, Tucker) lead key applications of the
 group technology for spin-out companies (see impact cases).
 4.4 Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline
 To maintain the vitality and the high standard in research and teaching of the discipline, 32% of
 UOA9 academics have been external examiners (e.g., Tucker for the University of Maynooth
 Experimental Physics, Griffin for QMUL Astrophysics MSc, Smowton for St Andrews and Heriot
 Watt Optoelectronics MSc, Williams for UCL Nanotechnology MSc). UOA9 academics are also
 prominent on national and international advisory boards/committees, policy-making and research
 management bodies, and panels across the physics and astronomy disciplines. Examples include:
 EPSRC National Centre for III-V Technologies steering committee (Smowton); the UKSA Athena

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PMB, Euclid Science Review Team, and ESA Euclid Independent Science Review Panel (Griffin,
 chair); and STFC Projects Peer Review Panel (Hargrave, Pisano); major leadership in
 collaborations proposing and developing new projects and facilities (Section 4.1), and helping
 research councils to establish future research priorities (e.g., LiteBIRD:UK and SO:UK for the 2018
 STFC priority project call, Calabrese). UOA9 academics contribute to funding peer review, with
 many (e.g., Buckle, Calabrese, Fairhurst, Gomez, Griffin, Inserra, Matsuura, Sathyaprakash,
 Schutz, Smowton) serving on national (EPSRC, STFC, UKSA, Royal Astronomical Society, and
 REF2021) and international (e.g., Chinese Academy of Sciences, NASA, ESA, the European
 Commission, the University College Cork, LISA, LIGO, VIRGO) research programmes, review and
 funding panels.
 Our researchers have contributed to current knowledge of the discipline and shaping future
 research panorama with textbooks and white papers. Books include: Nanodiamond (Williams),
 Equations in Relativistic Gravity (Schutz), Inventing a Space Mission: The Story of the Herschel
 Space Observatory (Griffin co-author) and Gravitational Waves: A History of Discovery (Grote).
 Book chapters include Novel Aspects of Diamond (Williams, Mandal), Handbook of Supernovae
 (Matsuura) as well as special issues in the IEEE Access (Neural Engineering Informatics,
 Beltrachini) and the IET Optoelectronics (Smowton, Beggs, Oh, Li). White papers include:
 Astronomy 2030 (Matsuura lead author, Gomez and Inserra), ngVLA white paper (Davis), four
 Astro2020 Decadal Survey papers (Calabrese), and Origins Space Telescope ESA Voyage-2050
 white paper (Griffin).
 All academics contribute to the fundamental process of peer review for scientific journals. During
 the REF period, School members have also held senior editorial board positions: Griffin is editorial
 board member of the Journal of Astronomical Instrumentation, Fairhurst of the International
 Journal of Modern Physics D and Classical and Quantum Gravity, Smowton of Semiconductor
 Science and Technology and IET-Optoelectronics, Ladak of Scientific Reports; Williams is an
 associate editor of Elsevier’s Diamond and Related Materials; Schutz is the founder and editor-in-
 chief of Living Reviews in Relativity; and Dunne is an Associate Editor of Royal Society Open
 Science.
 4.5 Indicators of wider influence
 More than 20 academics (e.g., Huffaker, Schutz) are members/fellows of international or learned
 societies, including the Institute of Physics, the US National Academy of Sciences, the
 International Society on General Relativity and Gravitation, the American Physical Society, and
 the Learned Society of Wales.
 UOA9 researchers have received high-profile awards both as individuals and as members of
 consortia. International awards include: Special Breakthrough Prize 2016, Gruber Foundation
 Prize in Cosmology 2016, Princess of Asturias Award for Technical and Scientific Research 2017,
 Einstein Medal 2017, and Bruno Rossi 2017 (Schutz, Raymond, Sutton, Fairhurst/LIGO & Virgo
 Collaborations); MBE (Gomez, 2018); Gruber Foundation Prize in Cosmology 2018, Marcel
 Grossmann Award 2018, and European Physical Society Giuseppe and Vanna Cocconi Prize
 2019 (Ade, Calabrese, Sudiwala/Planck team); Honorary Doctorate, Aix-Marseille University
 (Griffin, 2018); Richard Isaacson Medal of the American Physical Society (Schutz, 2020);
 Buchalter Prize in Cosmology (Sathyaprakash, 2020). UK awards include: RAS Group
 Achievement Awards (Griffin/SPIRE Team, 2014, and Ade, Calabrese, Sudiwala/ Planck Team,
 2018); RAS Fowler Prize (Gomez, 2015); RAS Herschel Medal (Eales, 2015); RAS Winton Capital
 Award (Inserra, 2017); IOP Fred Hoyle Silver Medal (Greaves, 2017); Philip Leverhulme Prize
 (Dooley, 2018); RAS Eddington Medal (Schutz, 2019). This long list of awards includes several
 UOA9 members new since REF2014 and at different career stages (e.g., the Fowler prize for
 Gomez in 2015 recognized her early career achievements), highlighting the Unit’s upwards
 trajectory of generating impact and success in the fields of physics and astronomy.




                                                                                             Page 17
