Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure
 The Department of History at Southampton enjoys a vibrant research culture that sustains
 ambitious research on topics across the breadth of historical time, space and praxis, from the
 ancient world to the present day, from the local to the global, from the operation of the senses to
 explorations of the cosmos. Our research is the generative core of a broader mission that
 encompasses our approach to teaching undergraduates as well as our work with user
 communities beyond academe, consistent with the University of Southampton’s commitment to
 ‘make a real impact on society’s biggest challenges’ (REF5a§1.2). It underpins a curriculum
 which places discovery at its heart whilst also creating funds of expertise of proven value to
 governments, foundations, media and heritage organizations, and other institutions. By
 producing work that is timely, authoritative, and productively provocative, the Department
 enriches its learning community and maximizes the difference it makes in the world.
 At 40 independent researchers (25M:15F), the UoA, part of the School of Humanities within the
 Faculty of Arts and Humanities, has grown 26% since REF2014. With an average annual
 increase of 17% in postgraduate research degrees awarded (§2.2), and an average annual
 increase of 21% in research income (§3.2), our community is thriving. A research culture that is
 ‘creative, adventurous, diverse and collegial’, as expressed in our updated departmental strategy
 (2018) underpins this success. Of the six clusters we highlighted in REF2014, all but one has
 grown over the intervening period. Furthermore, strategic appointments have consolidated the
 emerging cluster in Ancient History, while developing our expertise in the history of the
 contemporary world. As a result, the Department has achieved a critical mass of research
 expertise across all main chronological periods from antiquity to the 21st century while extending
 its geographical range. Our research clusters are currently as follows:




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our long-standing commitment to globalizing our research coverage beyond British and
 European history underpins our reinvestment in modern Chinese history and the expansion of
 our expertise in modern American history, continuing a trajectory established over successive
 periods of assessment. Given the twentieth-century focus of new research projects undertaken
 by colleagues working on India and Iran, and our renewed commitment to international history in
 keeping with recent shifts in the discipline, our research capacity in the history of the
 contemporary world has significantly improved. Our research culture has been energized by
 these collective shifts, which continue to bring new opportunities for cross-fertilization, resulting
 in improved ability to co-supervise PhD students; to make large funding bids; and to collaborate
 on events, outputs, and public outreach.
 1.2 Research objectives
 In REF2014 our major strategic aims remained: a) the enhancement and dissemination of
 problem-driven research of the highest calibre, b) the maximization of opportunities for
 collaborative work within and beyond the University, and c) the making of new strategic
 appointments to reinforce research concentrations and encourage synergies. We have met
 these objectives in several ways:
    a) Since 2014, 28 monographs and scholarly editions, several achieving scholarly
       distinction (§4.1), have been published by staff at all stages of their career. These include
       major editions of medieval texts by Wahlgren-Smith, Clarke and Woolgar; and first
       monographs by Mishra, G. Gilbert, Forster, Fuller and Colpus.
    b) The collaborations we nurture have been key to the generation of much of our excellent
       scholarship and impact (§1.3). To offer just one example: our connections with the
       Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute (SMMI), which fosters interdisciplinary,
       cross-sector partnerships in the humanities, natural, physical and social sciences have
       thrived, leading not only to more co-supervision of PGRs (§ 2.2) but also to financial
       support for the conference that Petley and McAleer organized at the National Museum
       of the Royal Navy in Portsmouth (2014) and the resulting publication of The Royal Navy
       and the British Atlantic World (2016). McAleer’s subsequent AHRC-funded network
       further strengthens our external partnerships and consolidates our expertise in maritime
       studies (§4.2).
    c) The appointment of ECRs Cazemier and Ross (until his departure in 2019), along with
       Revell (a transfer from Archaeology) expanded our investment in the ancient world,
       creating a new focus on the Mediterranean, and extending our existing expertise in
       textual editing, exegesis and interpretation. Additional ECR appointments in modern
       European history have strengthened the cluster’s work on histories of the far-right and on
       Russia (G. Gilbert), while the inclusion of the Central Europeanist Straner has
       deepened our commitment to urban history. Riley and Young, both ECR appointments
       in modern British history, enhance the link between the metropolitan and colonial
       interests of the cluster. The ECR appointments of Hunt, a specialist in the history of the
       global Cold War and Cox, a specialist in the politics of race, have enriched the American
       history cluster. In 2018 the ECR appointment of Forster re-established our expertise in
       modern Chinese history.
 Our refreshed departmental research strategy (2018) rearticulates these long-standing strategic
 aims. It commits us to sustaining our wide chronological and geographical breadth alongside the
 consolidation of the critical, risk-taking drive in our research culture. This requires us to ‘support
 the development of long-range projects with field-transforming potential’, and to ‘facilitate internal
 exchange and engagement with research produced elsewhere in the UK, Europe and the wider


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 world’. The new Southampton Institute for Arts and Humanities (SIAH) (REF5a§2.6), which
 History is co-creating alongside other Faculty disciplines, will provide us with crucial additional
 infrastructure for conducting adventurous research, including advanced digital humanities
 equipment, and for taking our research out into the world, providing funding as well as internal
 and external networking opportunities to sustain and extend our collaborations.
 1.3 Impact
 The Department is committed to impactful research beyond REF2021 and is supported by
 University infrastructure and funding in our endeavours. We nurture it through one-on-one
 coaching by the Department's Impact Champion on how to incorporate impact-raising activities
 into the research design of our work. Regular ‘Conversations about Research’ workshops
 provide colleagues with a supportive environment in which to share their plans. Importantly,
 impact-related activities are rewarded in History’s workload model. We have also embedded
 support for public engagement activities through the creation of two new roles: Museums and
 Galleries Liaison Officer, and History Outreach Officer. History is already feeding into Faculty
 plans for enhancing support for enterprise and public engagement through SIAH.
 Our impact arises out of a strategic commitment to activities that fall along three main axes:
 educational, heritage, ethical.
 The educational strand targets those in formal and informal education. Most notably, the Parkes
 Institute for the Study of Jewish/non-Jewish Relations runs an extensive programme of
 outreach, delivering workshops for colleges, adult learners, interfaith and community groups,
 and educators that draws on our expertise in Jewish history. Beyond Jewish history and culture,
 we engage a broad demographic of learners in the local and regional community. Under Lifelong
 Learning, Cornwall curated the interdisciplinary ‘Great War Unknown War’ programme that ran
 in 2014-2015 and 2017-2018: a series of 50 evening lectures, silent film screenings, roundtables
 and concerts accompanied by two exhibitions. Nearly 1,000 people attended the 2017-2018
 events. Department members are also well represented in University-wide initiatives such as the
 Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu), which funded theatrical rehearsals for Petley’s
 Sweet Tooth collaborative performance project (ICS). Oliver, Fuller and Conlin have organized
 free events for the annual Human Worlds Festival focussing on the 2016 US Presidential
 Election, the future of capitalism, Brexit and the Good Death Movement.
 In the realm of heritage, our close collaborations with regional (e.g., Southampton, Eastleigh,
 Salisbury), national (e.g., National Maritime Museum, Imperial War Museum, V&A) and
 international (e.g., Johannesburg, Nuremberg, Paris) museums, foundations and other
 institutions have yielded clear results. For example, Lambert's research into the Tudor merchant
 marine informed the redesign of the NMM's Age of Discovery galleries, and he also worked with
 Eastleigh City Council (2015-17) to develop a travelling exhibition on medieval shipbuilding in
 the Hamble River. Virtual visitors make heavy use of the online databases we have created:
 Medieval Soldier (ICS) and Medieval and Tudor Shipping. Launched in 2015 and 2017
 respectively, these allow users to search a vast corpus of fourteenth- and fifteenth-century
 muster rolls and port books. Conlin’s work has been instrumental in engendering a thorough
 reorientation of the funding strategies of the Gulbenkian Foundation (ICS), just as close
 engagement with museums and other heritage sites in France, Germany and South Africa
 underpinned our ICSs on Agincourt and the Holocaust.
 Moreover, our commitment to taking historical understanding out into the world is predicated on
 the belief that scrupulous and creative research empowers all of us to ask critically what a better
 future might look like. Thus, much of our work with policy-makers, be they legislators,
 governments or international NGOs is driven by our ethical engagement. The Parkes Institute


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forms a focal point of this ethical strand due to its commitment to Holocaust education (ICS).
 Thus, Kushner’s research has informed government policy at home (UK Holocaust
 commemoration), and Gregor and S. Gilbert have shaped major museum projects abroad (at
 the Nuremberg Party Rally Grounds and Johannesburg Holocaust and Genocide Museum
 respectively). Locally, the Institute’s activities include its long-standing leadership of
 Southampton’s Holocaust Memorial Day, in collaboration with Southampton Solent, local
 colleges, and Southampton and Eastleigh councils. Additionally, Cornwall's research into the
 history of modern treason has led to consultancy for UK parliamentarians drafting a new
 definition of treason in British law; and D. Levene is a founder member of THENA, a
 multidisciplinary group of academics and medical health professionals attempting to resolve the
 problem of non-communicable disease in underserved rural Ethiopia.
 1.4 Interdisciplinary Collaboration
 The vibrancy of History’s research culture is ensured by our involvement in research centres that
 promote interdisciplinary collaboration. The largest and longest-standing of these is the world-
 renowned Parkes Institute for the Study of Jewish/non-Jewish Relations, which celebrated
 its 50th anniversary in 2015. Led by History since 2014, the Parkes Institute includes members in
 English, Archaeology, Film, Modern Languages, and Music. Colleagues in History edit or co-edit
 three interdisciplinary journals under its remit (Patterns of Prejudice, Jewish Culture and History
 and Holocaust Studies) and have collaborated with colleagues at the University of Graz in
 founding a fourth (Open Access) journal Mobile Culture Studies. Since 2014 members of the
 Parkes Institute have organized a rich series of over 20 interdisciplinary international
 conferences or workshops. Highlights include: ‘German Jews in the Middle East’ (2014, with the
 Hebrew University of Jerusalem); ‘Jews and Racialized Spaces’ (2017, with the University of
 Cape Town); ‘Representations of Port Jews’ (2017, Southampton). In 2015, the Parkes Institute
 hosted a major international conference to mark its jubilee year. The Institute also runs a
 fortnightly interdisciplinary seminar, and hosts well-established annual named lectures, including
 the Ian and Mildred Karten Memorial Lecture, the Parkes Lecture, and the Montefiore Lecture. A
 recent addition – the Howard Rein Memorial Lecture – extends the interdisciplinary flavour of the
 Institute by encompassing medical themes.
 The Centre for Imperial and Post-Colonial Studies (CIPCS) is led by History and provides an
 interdisciplinary hub for research on empire and post-colonial studies, involving colleagues from
 English, Archaeology and Modern Languages. Its regular seminars promote intellectual
 exchange by approaching empire and post-colony from diverse disciplines ranging from cultural
 geography to digital humanities. In collaboration with other institutions, CIPCS has organized 6
 international workshops and conferences since 2014, including: ‘Towards the Ends of the Earth:
 Exploring the Global History of American Evangelism, 1840-2010’ (2014 with Keele University,
 KCL and Roosevelt Study Centre, Netherlands); ‘On Edge: New Frontiers in Atlantic History’
 (2016, with Temple University); ‘An Empire of Islands: Concepts, Contexts and Collection’s
 (2016, AHRC funded project with Winchester University); and ‘Exploring the Post-Colonial
 Encounter: Performance, Language and Violence’ (2018, with German Historical Institute of
 London).
 The activities of the medievalist cluster coalesce around the interdisciplinary Centre for
 Medieval and Renaissance Studies (CMRC), which includes colleagues from English,
 Archaeology and Music, and covers the period from late antiquity to the seventeenth century. In
 addition to holding the long-established annual Reuter lecture, the CMRC has hosted
 workshops, conferences, and study days, some the fruit of international connections. A special
 lecture by Professor Jelle Koopmans (University of Amsterdam) on ‘Automated performances:
 things acting in the Middle Ages’ (2014) strengthened our link with the Centre for Medieval

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Studies in Amsterdam. A collaboration with the Southampton City Art Gallery produced an
 exhibition on the theme 'Capturing the Castle' in 2017. The programme to mark the anniversary
 of the Agincourt campaign began with a research day on ‘Conflict’ featuring a keynote address
 by Valérie Toureille (Université de Cergy-Pontoise) and culminated in a 75-delegate conference
 in summer 2015. An international day conference in honour of Curry’s career contribution to the
 topic was held in Southampton in 2020.
 1.5 Open Research
 We are committed to the University’s Open Research agenda (REF5a§2.4), going beyond
 minimum requirements in expanding the proportion of our work published openly in scholarly
 and other media. Schlör is co-founder and co-editor of the afore-mentioned fully Open Access
 Mobile Culture Studies. Woolgar (on Wellington and the Battle of Waterloo) and Curry (on
 Agincourt) have developed research-led MOOCs that have generated substantial public interest.
 Woolgar’s registered over 5,000 learners and over 90% participated actively. PGR student
 White was founding editor of a new PGR-led OA online journal Romance, Revolution and
 Reform, supported financially by the Faculty. Furthermore, colleagues across all clusters have
 published OA research pieces. Examples include: Colpus (Past and Present), Conlin (Turcica:
 Revue d’études Turques), Gregor (Aus Politik und Zeitgeschichte; Bulletin of the German
 Historical Institute London), G. Gilbert (Quaestio Rossica), Hayward (Apparences; Textile
 History, European History Yearbook); Karn (Anglo-Norman Studies); Kushner (Mobile Culture
 Studies); Lambert (Journal of Medieval History); Le Foll (Jewish Culture and History; Clio);
 Pearce (Journal of Biblical Literature; Studia Philonica Annual; Transactions of the RHS);
 Spurling (Jewish Culture and History; Jewish Studies Quarterly), Straner (Korall
 Társadalomtörténeti Folyóirat). Since 2018 a new departmental blog has complemented the
 promotion of our work through social media; and various staff members maintain personal
 web/blog pages to disseminate their research findings.
 1.6 Research integrity
 History works within the Faculty’s accelerating commitment to research integrity beyond the
 institutional processes that ensure all research at Southampton complies with the highest
 standards of research ethics (REF5a§2.8). The latter includes a rigorous review process for all
 research involving human participants, human remains and tangible cultural heritage. All such
 research proposals are reviewed through the University's online research ethical approval
 system, ERGO2. The new role of Faculty Research Integrity Champion will boost regular training
 (tailored for each discipline) to help staff and students embed the principles of research ethics in
 their own work. RI is a standing item on departmental boards. History ensures that RI is
 embedded culturally through the maintenance of two departmental Ethics Officers, and by
 playing a full part in emerging Faculty-wide mutual support initiatives (e.g. Research Cafés).

 2. People
 2.1 Staff development strategy
 History has flourished since 2014. Consistent with our objective of enhancing existing areas of
 strength, and extending them where possible (§1.1,1.2), staff numbers in the UoA have risen
 from 30.7 FTE to 38.8 FTE. The Department has appointed nine junior researchers (three
 recruited from outside the UK), and we were additionally strengthened by five externally-funded
 research fellows across the census period (§3.2). Appointing individual scholars of promise or
 distinction, from across the world, remains central to our pursuit of research excellence. The
 highly-international makeup of our community (28% non-UK for REF2021 cf. 22% for REF2014)
 attests to its openness and to our desire to embrace excellence wherever it may be found. The
 balance of senior, mid-career and junior colleagues, too, has improved since 2013 as a result of

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 greater recruitment and promotion of ECRs, especially to Levels 5 and 6 (§2.3). As well as
 testifying to effective support for career progression, this trend aids succession planning in the
 Department.

                             Proportion of researchers by level



                                    30%                     31%                        39%
               2019-20




                                     36%                     25%                       39%
               2013-14



                         0      5          10       15        20       25         30         35   40

                                                Level 4-5    Level 6    Level 7


 We are proud that full-time, permanent, balanced contracts with 40% reserved for research are
 the norm in the Department, facilitating our commitment to research and career progression
 opportunities for all. This success aligns closely with our current strategic research aim of
 nurturing a collegial, creative research culture, in which colleagues are supported to achieve
 scholarly excellence. Only two colleagues are part-time, one of them due to the University’s
 flexible working policy (REF5a§3.2). The four fixed-term ECRs appointed on a temporary basis
 in 2015 were all subsequently made permanent. A further two colleagues (Straner and Young)
 are on three-year temporary contracts facilitated by Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships;
 they have the same access to internal resources and research support as permanent staff.




 All ECR staff are assigned a senior colleague to mentor them through the 2-year probation
 period. Mentors and probationers meet regularly (at least five times in the first year) with
 progress in research a major focus of discussion. The mentoring relationship also socializes new
 colleagues into the culture of the Department.


                                                                                                       Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECRs are integrated into the departmental research culture in several further meaningful ways:
    •   Consistent with the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the Career
        Development of Researchers (REF§5a3.5), adjustments are made to teaching loads to
        ensure that ECRs maintain research activity whilst developing their teaching portfolios.
    •   ECRs are encouraged to work-shop draft papers, publications, and grant applications in
        the supportive, informal environment of ‘Conversations about Research’, a forum for all
        History colleagues and PGRs.
    •   Annual Away Days familiarize new colleagues with departmental and institutional
        research agendas and developments in the wider research landscape. An ECR
        representative sits on the monthly History Operating Board.
    •   The Faculty provides a personal allowance (£250) for each ECR to support their
        research. All such funding is made available and allocated without prejudice as far as full-
        time or part-time status is concerned.
    •   The Faculty hosts an ECR network headed by an ECR champion; the network’s
        meetings allow ECRs within and beyond the Faculty to share experiences and ideas for
        research collaborations.
    •   ECRs are expected to complete the Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP)
        PGCAP and/or training modules tailored to the needs of junior research staff.

 Furthermore, we have significant mechanisms for supporting the research of all staff:
    •   Our strong commitment to sabbatical leave reflects a recognition that the production of
        work of world-class substance in the Humanities demands time and space. Throughout
        the audit period, applications for sabbatical leave in the Faculty have been invited on a
        basis more generous than the University’s 1/8 semester policy. It is currently 1/7. Both
        full-time and part-time staff are eligible, and applications are assessed at Faculty level to
        ensure equitable treatment (REF5a§4.5).
    •   Annual appraisals, conducted by the Head of Department or their delegate (REF5a§3.1),
        encompass progress in research. Training, including EDI aspects, is mandatory for all
        appraisers (REF5a§3.8).
    •   The History Head of Research provides advice and feedback on individual colleagues’
        research activities, including publication plans and grant applications; annual research
        surveys explicitly encourage colleagues to identify matters on which they would welcome
        such guidance and support.
    •   History runs a diverse programme of research events, comprising traditional papers,
        panel discussions on matters of topical interest and book-launch lectures, consistent with
        the Department’s aim of folding students and external audiences into its learning
        community. For example, ‘Historicizing Brexit’, featuring a talk by Dr Martina Steber
        (Institut für Zeitgeschichte, Munich) with commentary by Prior and Riley, attracted an
        audience of 150 (2019); a book-launch lecture for Petley’s White Fury, featuring an
        external discussant from the University of Bristol, drew an audience of 100 (2018).
    •   The Staff Development Unit provides a wide variety of modules for research staff,
        including ‘Managing Your Career’, ‘Exploring Enterprise’ and ‘Networking for
        Researchers’. Senior and mid-career colleagues have access to leadership training
        modules. The Hartley Library provides training on topics such as Open Access
        Research, Bibliometrics, and Research Data Management.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research is managed as well as supported. The Head of Research supports the Head of
 Department on research strategy; a REF ‘champion’ manages REF preparation through the
 cycle; our Impact ‘champion’ has specific responsibility for enhancing Impact activity beyond the
 ICS. The Head of Research is a member of the monthly History Operational Board, with
 ‘Research’ as a standing agenda item.
 Funding for research activities, typically involving sums up to £500, is provided by the
 Department on a bid-by-bid basis: ECRs are given priority. Applications are assessed by a
 gender-balanced panel, with the gender balance of recipients reviewed in History’s annual EDI
 audit (§2.3). The Faculty Strategic Research Fund offers larger sums (no upper limit) to enhance
 impact and enterprise activities, and to seed ambitious bids for external grants.
 History actively encourages colleagues to seek external support for research activities. In
 keeping with our core emphasis on sustainability (REF5a§2.2), the Department promotes the
 advantages of FEC awards. However, it also welcomes applications to a broad range of bodies:
 research councils, philanthropic trusts and foundations, libraries and archives, academic
 institutions, learned societies, and private donors. All colleagues are given mentoring and
 feedback on grant bids, with peer-review provided by the Head of Research in collaboration with
 experienced colleagues and – for bids larger than £10,000 – by a Faculty panel including the
 Associate Dean (Research).
 2.2 Post-graduate researchers
 We currently host an international body of research students, hailing from the UK and EU, and
 further afield (e.g. Iran, Poland, Sweden and Singapore). 51.6 doctorates were awarded in the
 current census period cf. 31.5 for the 5-year period captured by REF 2014, the annual average
 rising from 6.3 (REF2014) to 7.4 (REF2021). This success was achieved despite a downturn in
 enrolments caused by the relative scarcity of funded studentships and the spread of registrations
 for co-supervised PGRs across the AHRC-funded SWW-DTP.




 We continue to attract strong candidates, as evidenced by the number of funded studentships
 we have secured across the census period. We are one of nine universities to have been
 awarded postgraduate scholarships in the Humanities by the Wolfson Foundation. Nine such
 studentships have been held in History since 2014. Oliver, Hayward, Woolgar, Spurling,
 Tumblety, Riley and Kushner have all been involved in the co-supervision of PGRs through the
 AHRC SWW DTP. Further awards have come from Burgess Funding for the history and
 archaeology of Wessex (4), University VC Fellowships (13), SMMI (4), Leverhulme Funding (4),


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the annual Karten studentship in Jewish/non-Jewish relations (10), and our internal archival
 studentship (5); with 5 additional one-off studentships from different sources, including the
 Gascony Scholarship, the Arms & Heritage Trust, and the Memorial Foundation for Jewish
 Culture. Studentships in our gift are allocated by departmental and Faculty panels via a fair and
 rigorous ranking system against published criteria.
 The SMMI provides a forum for innovative interdisciplinary doctoral supervisions that reach
 beyond the Humanities. Petley (with co-supervisors in Archaeology and Ship Science), Lambert
 (co-supervisor in Economics), McAleer (co-supervisor in Economics), and Hayward (co-
 supervisors in Ship Science and Archaeology) have supervised SMMI students. History PGR
 students have been heavily involved in organizing the annual Southampton Marine and Maritime
 Postgraduate Group (SMMPG) multidisciplinary colloquium. Since 2014 we have been building
 links with the University’s Web Science Institute (WSI) via shared PGR supervisions (Fuller,
 Schlör).
 In History, all PGRs are assigned a supervisory team of at least two members and are supported
 by regular meetings (fortnightly for first-year students and monthly thereafter), written records
 and annual reports. The strategic partnering of experienced and inexperienced supervisors in
 supervision teams ensures a strong supply of potential supervisors for the future whilst also
 enhancing our research clusters.
 As well as providing advice and support, supervisors (for whom University-level training is
 mandatory) conduct an annual skills audit, enabling discussion of career development. The
 History Director of Doctoral Programmes as well as the Director of the Faculty Graduate School
 (FGS) monitor progress, overseeing annual reporting and the compulsory annual reviews. The
 Faculty provides additional pastoral support, overseen by the Senior Tutor.
 The FGS represents an exceptionally strong framework for doctoral training, including
 workshops on presenting conference papers, getting published, writing grant applications, and
 applying for jobs. Further training is supplied by the University’s Doctoral College (REF5a§3.7),
 reflecting a commitment to embed interdisciplinary activities across the whole institution, not just
 cognate disciplines. The Doctoral College provides mandatory courses for all new doctoral
 researchers covering issues like equality and diversity, ethics, and research data management,
 and runs an annual Director’s Awards competition in which History PGRs have been successful,
 e.g. Ferguson (Public Engagement and Outreach) and Joy (Education) (2017).
 The FGS provides desk space and laptops for all research students, alongside free printing,
 copying and inter-library loans; PGRs can also draw on the FGS for up to £750 p.a. for
 conference attendance, research costs and external training, for example at the Institute of
 Historical Research. A dedicated section of the Careers Service runs targeted events for PGRs,
 and the Graduate Passport career development programme complements their academic
 training.
 We encourage PhD students to enhance their employability by developing teaching experience;
 the School’s ‘PGRs Who Teach’ programme provides opportunities and ring-fenced funding for
 appropriately qualified and trained students to do this. PhD students are mentored throughout
 their teaching experience and their teaching is observed.
 Doctoral students co-create a vibrant research community in History and the wider School and
 Faculty. GradNet, a PGR body that encourages networking and socializing among Humanities
 doctoral students, runs academic seminars and conferences and publishes a peer-reviewed,
 multi-disciplinary journal, entitled Emergence. Amongst History medievalists, Curry has
 organized several workshops foregrounding the work of PGR students. CIPCS has hosted two
 postgraduate conferences (2016, 2017) as well as a series of interdisciplinary theory master-

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 classes for postgraduate students on topics like race, gender and environmental humanities
 (2018-19). The Parkes Institute runs a lively fortnightly PGR seminar and a dynamic international
 PGR summer school every two years. PGRs participate and regularly present work for
 discussion in our innovative ‘Conversations about Research’ series.
 The success of our PhD programme and the quality of its training is attested by the career
 destinations of our graduates. Several of our students have gone on to academic positions,
 postdoctoral fellowships, or employment in cognate fields. Fuller, appointed to the Department
 in 2015, was our PhD student, as was Ferguson, appointed to a teaching fellowship at
 Southampton (2018) and subsequently Sheffield (2020). Since 2014 students have gone on to
 posts at Warwick, Loughborough, LSE, Chester and Northumbria; Paynter was awarded a
 Gerda Henkel Stiftung postdoctoral scholarship to work at Southampton on the Victorian Homer;
 Waine is a curator at the National Museum of Scotland; Houghton acted as historical costume
 consultant for ‘Gentleman Jack’ (BBC); Hatto continues to brief British ambassadors to Slovenia
 on Slovene history and Buckle is deputy-head of internal communications at the Foreign Office.
 Many of our PGRs have had article manuscripts accepted for publication in peer-reviewed
 journals before submitting their PhDs. Ankit, Fuller, Ferguson, Ellis, Martinez, and Peck are
 among those whose work was accepted by peer-reviewed journals, including Diplomatic History,
 Intelligence and National Security, Journal of American Studies, History, Northern History,
 Historical Research, and India Review. J.P. Newman’s PhD monograph was published with
 CUP (2015); Buckle’s with I.B. Tauris (2015); Spencer’s with Amberley (2018); Craig-Norton’s
 with Indiana UP (2019). McDonald was awarded a Social History Society prize for his exhibition
 on ‘James Parkes and the Age of Intolerance’ (2020).
 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI)
 We are wholly committed to addressing the issues of gender and racial (in)equality in the
 historical discipline, as discussed in the Royal Historical Society’s recent reports. Indeed, as a
 member of the RHistS council (2012-16), Stoyle served on the working party that drew up the
 society’s first gender report. The RHistS equality reports have been the subject of departmental
 meetings. Our research activities and our curriculum - where we articulate our commitments on
 issues of race, gender, sexuality, and identity - emphasize calling out structures and cultures of
 inequality across time and space, and we communicate that awareness to a wider world (§4).
 These perspectives oblige us to act in the immediate spaces in which we have agency. We work
 in alignment with but seek to go beyond the University’s commitment to equality, diversity, and
 inclusion (REF5a§3.8). When hiring, we ensure that job advertisements explicitly encourage
 applications from members of underrepresented groups, we word job specifications to be
 gender-inclusive, and we ensure that appointment panels are diverse by gender and level. The
 University’s Athena SWAN award and the pursuit of further such awards at School level are
 welcome, but we seek to complement and extend these with our own initiatives. Since 2018 our
 departmental Operating Board (the senior leadership team) has included an Equality and
 Diversity Officer. EDI is a standing item on our History Board of Studies, and we have instituted
 an annual EDI audit of all aspects of our activity. Bids for internal funding are assessed by a
 panel that includes both male and female, professorial and non-professorial staff.
 The under-representation of BAME scholars in the University and discipline is mirrored in our
 Department: future appointments will provide an opportunity to address that issue. We are
 pleased to have improved the gender balance in the Department through appointments since
 2013 (57% female), achieving near gender parity at Levels 4-5. That is also the case at Level 6
 thanks to improved career progression: in the current census period, more women (7) than men
 (5) have been promoted to associate professor.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 We are also working to improve the gender imbalance at Level 7: currently, 2 women and 13
 men are professors (thus women are 15.4% of professorial staff while comprising 37.5% of
 research staff overall). A fifth of those promoted to Level 7 over the census period were women,
 cf. 44% of the Department’s promotions in general. Given the trajectories described above, and
 the University’s commitments and policies, we can be optimistic about a narrowing of the senior
 gender gap in future.
 The Head of Department actively encourages career development among women and BAME
 staff, encouraging them to put forward Expressions of Interest for departmental leadership roles,
 which are assigned after a rigorous interview process involving School-level managers.
 Evidence points to successful progression into the most senior roles, with Curry serving as
 Dean of the Faculty through most of the period and Pearce serving both as Head of Department
 and, since 2018, as Head of School. History aligns with the University’s commitment to flexible
 working (REF5a§3.2) in adjusting for staff on domestic and compassionate grounds, including
 where the workloads of female colleagues returning from maternity leave are concerned.
 Maternity leave counts as service towards sabbatical entitlement.
 Staff have access to and participate in the networks supported by the University in respect of
 characteristics protected under Equality and Diversity legislation (REF5a§3.5,3.8). Since 2012
 the Department has organized the annual Stonewall lecture (Cornwall), directly supporting the
 activities of the Pulse LGBT+ Staff Network. This high-profile lecture communicates cutting-edge
 research on LGBTQ history to a wider public whilst registering our affirmation of colleagues’
 diverse identities. Similarly, we seek to acknowledge the link between our intellectual activities,
 our institutional obligations, and the culture of diversity that we value by mounting events
 (organized by Cox, Mishra and Parkes) to mark Black History Month such as roundtables and
 lectures by external speakers. The recently refurbished Avenue Campus (£2.75M) is also fully
 accessible to disabled staff and visitors, as befits the University’s partnership with AccessAble.
 We have a strong commitment to equitable distribution of workloads, manifest in our recently
 updated comprehensive workload model, which counts all teaching and administrative work in
 terms of hours per annum and allows departmental managers to make compensatory
 adjustments year to year. Doing so acknowledges the central link between wellbeing and
 productivity as well as providing equal opportunity for research. Our commitment to fairness is
 embedded in our management of the REF submission too. All potential outputs have been read
 by 2-3 readers, drawn from a large and gender-mixed panel of mainly professorial staff; full
 written notes have been shared with authors to ensure transparency. Impact Case Studies have

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been reviewed by at least 5 assessors and an external consultant, with detailed comments
 shared with authors.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Department is housed on Avenue Campus where it shares facilities with the School of
 Humanities, including a dedicated on-site library and IT support; further infrastructure support is
 provided centrally. All staff are provided with office space and computer facilities which give
 them immediate direct access, locally and remotely, to the full range of the digital infrastructure
 that supports research – from online journals to databases and software as required.
 As a long-established institution, the University holds a comprehensive library of scholarship on
 History and cognate disciplines which is constantly expanding and provides the basis for our
 research. Furthermore, the Special Collections Division of the Hartley Library houses some 6.5
 million items of manuscript and 50,000 printed books – and much of this material is of especial
 interest to Southampton’s historians. There are two principal focuses: military, political, official,
 and diplomatic papers, mainly of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, linked generally to the
 University’s region; and papers relating to Jewish peoples. We hold one of the largest collections
 of Jewish archives in Western Europe.
 The first focus coheres around three major collections: the papers of two nineteenth-century
 British prime ministers, Wellington (some 100,000 items of military, political and diplomatic
 papers) and Palmerston (with 40,000 letters from his period as foreign secretary). The archive of
 Earl Mountbatten of Burma (and other archives from Broadlands House) encompasses records
 of the allied forces in South East Asia Command, 1943-6, and papers for the end of empire and
 the creation of the new states of India and Pakistan. Supporting collections provide material from
 the wars against Napoleon, particularly in the Iberian Peninsula, the politics of nineteenth- and
 twentieth-century Britain and Ireland, further material for India and Pakistan in 1947-8, through to
 extensive collections of diaries and correspondence from the nineteenth century.
 These are the foundation for long-term research exploitation by the Department and
 engagement with research students. Brown is editing the diaries of the Victorian philanthropist
 and social reformer, the seventh Earl of Shaftesbury, for the British Academy’s ‘Records of
 Social and Economic History’ series; the Mountbatten papers have been used extensively by
 Talbot. The Wellington papers and nineteenth-century military papers also underpin a series of
 Wellington Congresses (latest held in 2013, 2015 and 2019), and an annual series of Wellington
 Lectures (the thirtieth was given in 2018).
 The Jewish archives are exceptional. We hold over 850 collections, including those of major
 communal organisations like the Jewish Board of Guardians, the Anglo-Jewish Association, and
 the Jewish Chronicle; war crimes material, including the Nuremberg Military Tribunal, and
 important Holocaust-related materials in the archives of the British section of the World Jewish
 Congress; the Chief Rabbi’s Religious Emergency Council and the papers of Rabbi Solomon
 Schonfeld head a large group of material relating to refugees. Among many private papers, the
 papers of Dr James Parkes focus on his life-long promotion of the understanding between Jews
 and non-Jews, which complements the printed material of the Parkes Library. Related inter-faith
 collections include the archives of the International Association for Religious Freedom, of the
 Council of Christians and Jews, the World Congress of Faiths. Several PGRs (including Finlay,
 Woodhead, Sanzenbacher, Smilg, Steele, Sessa) and Parkes visiting fellows have made
 extensive use of these unique holdings. Among visiting researchers, Dr Sebastian Musch
 (University of Osnabrück) worked on Rabbi Hermann Helfgott-Zvi Asaria (1913–2002) using the


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lady Rose Henriques Papers (2017-18), and Dr Susanne Korbel (University of Graz) developed
 her project on ‘Versatile Encounters between Jews and non-Jews in Vienna around 1900’ by
 drawing on documents across the collection.
 Complementing the archive collections, the unique Parkes Library is devoted to the relationships
 between Jewish and non-Jewish worlds. It includes books on most of the important writers on
 Jewish history since antiquity as well as 360 periodical titles. The collection focuses on the
 history of Jewish communities, Jewish-Christian relations, antisemitism and the Holocaust,
 together with a section on the development of Zionism and the history of Palestine up to and
 including the foundation of the state of Israel.
 3.2 Income
 In the current census period, the Department generated £1.73M in research income (£247k
 p.a.), an average annual increase of 21% over REF 2014 (£1.02M, £204k p.a.). These grants
 are administered by the Faculty Finance Office, while the preparation of funding bids is
 supported by Research and Innovation Services (RIS) and the Research Finance Hub, which
 offer advice, costing, and technical assistance.
 Our strategy remains focused on maximizing income from public sources such as UKRI while
 broadening the range of public and private foundations from which we secure funds in an
 increasingly challenging funding climate. The variety of grants awarded since 2013 testifies to
 the success of this strategy, and we are particularly proud of the recognition we have received
 from the Leverhulme Trust and several international foundations. Highlights include:
 UKRI and British Academy:
    •   Lambert, The Evolution of English Shipping Capacity and Shipboard Communities from
        the Early 15th Century to Drake’s Circumnavigation (1577) (AHRC, 2014-17, £194k).
    •   McAleer, An Empire of Islands: Concepts, Contexts and Collections (AHRC, Academic
        Network, 2016-2017, £45k).
    •   Together with colleagues at Cardiff, Nottingham and Leicester Stoyle was awarded
        £816k for the collaborative project Conflict, Welfare and Memory: English Civil War
        Petitioners, 1640-1700, (AHRC, 2017-2021).
    •   S. Gilbert was awarded £24k under the British Academy International Partnership and
        Mobility Scheme to collaborate with Professor Deborah Posel (Cape Town), one of our
        partner institutions.
    •   British Academy Small Grants supported Tumblety’s The thermal spa cure in early to
        mid-twentieth-century France (2013-15, £6k) among others.
 National private foundations:
    •   Brown was awarded a Major Research Fellowship (Leverhulme Trust, 2019-22) to
        support his work on the seventh Earl of Shaftesbury and Victorian philanthropy and
        social reform (£137k).
    •   Similarly, Cornwall held a Leverhulme Trust MRF (2017-20) to work on the concept of
        treason in the late Habsburg Empire (£148k).
    •   Curry was awarded £250k by the Leverhulme Trust for a two-year project (2013-15),
        Old Wine in new bottles: English Gascony (1360-1453) for the digital future, with Dr
        Philip Morgan (Keele) and Paul Spence (KCL), which led to the on-line calendaring of all




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the Gascon Rolls from 1360 to 1468. She also holds a Leverhulme Emeritus Award on
        the Norman Rolls (2020).
    •   Gregor was awarded a Leverhulme Trust research fellowship for work on the
        Symphony concert in the Third Reich (£40k, 2014-2016).
    •   Colpus received £4,750 from the Wellcome Trust to fund her witness seminar project
        30 Years of Childline (2016-2017).
    •   The Wellcome Trust awarded Ebrahimnejad £5k in 2014 for work on waqf and public
        health in the Islamic countries in archives in Tehran, Mashhad and Neyshabur.
    •   In 2015 D. Levene received £6k from the Wellcome Trust for work on Traditional beliefs
        and chronic non-communicable diseases in Ethiopia.
    •   The Winston Churchill Memorial Trust awarded Colpus £3k for work on popular
        politics and television in 2019.
 International private foundations:
    •   Conlin’s £400k award from the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation (2012-17) funded his
        major prize-winning biography of Gulbenkian, which was also supported with £15k follow-
        on support from the foundation and the Gingko Foundation.
    •   Hunt received a $215k Carnegie Corporation of New York grant for The Constitutional
        History of the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty (2019-21).
    •   Clarke (Clergy and Criminal Violence in Later Medieval England and Wales, £32k, 2018-
        19), Gregor (The Symphony Concert in the Third Reich, €7k, 2014-15) and D. Levene
        (The Scroll of Righteousness and The Magic Book of the Disciples, €12k, 2015) have
        benefited from Gerda-Henkel-Stiftung support.
    •   Oliver was awarded $16k from the Henry Luce Foundation for a workshop on
        American evangelicalism.
 The department has been creative in its effort to facilitate and fund extended research visits both
 by its own staff to other institutions, many of them overseas, and by external scholars to
 Southampton. It seeks to support staff in securing visiting fellowships, including during term-
 time, subject to workload and cost considerations. In 2015-16 Ambühl held a Fernand Braudel
 IFER research fellowship of the European Commission and Fondation Maison des Sciences de
 l’Homme (€18k); Hunt was awarded fellowships of $7k and $10.5k by the Kennan Institute of the
 Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars; Mishra held a Fung Global Fellowship from
 the Princeton Institute of International and Regional Studies to work on her book on language
 politics in India ($75k); Riley held a Rockefeller Grant-in-Aid to work in the Rockefeller Archive in
 2016; Ross held fellowships to work at the Fondation Hardt, Geneva (2017), Dumbarton Oaks
 Research Library, Washington D.C. (2017), and the Department of Classics, Dartmouth College,
 NH (2018-9); Stoyle received a Visiting fellowship at the University of Canberra; Talbot held a
 Senior Visiting Fellowship at Harvard (2018-19); Wahlgren-Smith a Huntington Library short-
 term fellowship (2017). For 2016-17 Mishra was awarded $15k as a Fung Global Networks
 grant from Princeton Institute of International and Regional Studies for an international workshop
 organized in collaboration with Nanyang Technological University and Princeton University on
 ‘Language, Nationalism and Nations: Multilingualism Beyond Europe’; she has also been
 awarded S$10k by the Academic Research Fund of the Government of Singapore and Nanyang
 Technological University for 2018-20 to work on crafting an Asian model of linguistic justice.
 Those holding visiting fellowships at British institutions include Riley (Sassoon Fellowship,


                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bodleian Library, 2017); Karn (John Rylands Research Institute Visiting Fellowship, University of
 Manchester, 2015); and Cornwall (All Souls College, Oxford, 2017).
 The Parkes Institute is particularly successful with external fundraising to support incoming
 scholars. It has hosted five visiting fellows supported by private donors since 2014, including
 Vladimir Levin (Center for Jewish Art, Hebrew University) to work on the East European
 Synagogue and Jewish society in the long nineteenth century (2016-17). Further success has
 come through highly competitive post-doctoral fellowship awards: the Marie Skłodowska-Curie
 European Fellowship scheme supported Dr Maite Ojeda-Mata (2017-19); Dr Jennifer Craig-
 Norton held a British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship (2015-2018); and the Rothschild/
 Hanadiv Foundation supported Postdoctoral Research Fellow Dr Kathrin Pieren (2013-15). In
 2014-16 the Parkes Institute also co-hosted (with English) Professor Phyllis Lassner of
 Northwestern University who was awarded a University Jubilee Fellowship to visit Southampton.
 Private donors have supported postdoctoral fellows Koch and Williams (£10k-15k p.a.); the
 Clinton Silver endowment supported a seminar series in East European Jewish history (£25k).
 Beyond Parkes, post-doctoral research on medieval representations of war by Dr Pierre
 Courroux was funded by a Newton Fellowship (2017-19); Dr Gary Baker worked alongside
 Lambert on the AHRC-funded Evolution of English Shipping Capacity project (2014-17). Our
 doctoral programme has also benefitted from external funding in addition to Wolfson Foundation
 recognition - The Arms and Armour Trust doctoral studentship (£100k, 2015-18); and the
 Parkes-based doctoral project in association with the Music in the Holocaust project (private
 donors, £62k, 2015-18).
 More generally, the Ian and Mildred Karten Charitable Trust provides £120k annually to support
 a range of research, outreach and impact activities on the Parkes Institute. The Kaplan
 Foundation gave £20k to support S. Gilbert’s exhibition and film project based on her
 monograph From Things Lost; a further £120k was secured from private donors and charitable
 foundations for her educational website on Music and the Holocaust.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1. Contributions to the research base
 Our mission to leverage our research expertise in the wider world (§1.1,1.2) begins with a
 commitment to sustaining and strengthening the complex ecology of the discipline itself.
 Through wide-ranging acts of service, we also keep open channels for cross-disciplinary
 exchange, ensuring that new perspectives both enrich our discipline and encourage innovation
 elsewhere.
 Editorships
 We shape the contours of the discipline, and others, by exercising leadership in the
 management of scholarly publications, many of them interdisciplinary in remit. Schlör is a
 founding editor of the interdisciplinary OA journal Mobile Culture Studies, and co-edits Jewish
 History and Culture. Gregor is founding co-editor of the OUP ‘Studies in German History’ series,
 which prioritizes ambitious, methodologically innovative enquiries into the German past. Pearce
 edited the Journal of Jewish Studies (2014-17) and is associate editor of the Studia Philonica
 Annual; Kushner co-edits Patterns of Prejudice; Woolgar has edited the Journal of Medieval
 History since 2009. Mid- and early-career colleagues are encouraged to assume editorial roles,
 too. Thus, Colpus is Deputy Editor of Women’s History Review; and Riley reviews editor of the
 Journal of Contemporary History. Karn is Series Editor of the ‘Suffolk Charters Series’ of the
 Suffolk Records Society; McAleer co-edits ‘Maritime Humanities 1400-1800: Cultures of the



                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sea’ for Amsterdam UP. Colleagues at all career stages serve on the editorial boards of over 20
 scholarly journals.
 Scholarly societies
 Colleagues across all clusters perform leadership roles in scholarly societies, living out our
 departmental mission by confronting issues of inequality amid the narrowing winds of the
 political present. Spurling has been Secretary (2012-19) and President (2019-21) of the British
 Association for Jewish Studies, communicating publicly its concerns about proposed boycotts of
 Israeli academic institutions. As chair of Historians of the Twentieth Century United States
 (HOTCUS) (2017-20), Oliver organized an extensive survey of American historians in the UK to
 explore and address problems of opportunity and inclusion in the field. Stoyle’s work on the
 RHistS Council (2012-16) contributed to the publication of its gender report (§2.3). Our
 engagement with scholarly societies reflects our commitment to transnational and
 interdisciplinary intellectual exchange, too. Pearce has been Honorary Secretary of the
 European Association for Jewish Studies since 2018; Cornwall sits on the Barbara Jelavich
 Prize Committee of the American Association of East European and Eurasian Studies and
 chaired the UK Forum for Czech and Slovak Studies (until 2017); Talbot sits on the Council of
 the Royal Asiatic Society (since 2017); G. Gilbert is secretary of the British Association for
 Slavonic & East European Studies (since 2019); Mishra (since 2016) is Secretary of the British
 Association of South Asian Studies; Revell is a trustee of the Roman Research Trust and
 served on the Archaeology Committee of the Roman Society (until 2017); Straner has served on
 the committee of the European Association for Urban History since 2016; and Gammon runs the
 ‘Sexuality Network’ for the European Social Science History Conference.

 Governing and advisory boards
 Reflecting the esteem in which they are held, several colleagues hold positions of influence on
 the governing or advisory boards of a wide range of scholarly institutes. These positions often
 reflect our broader commitment to transnational collaboration and/or minority histories: for
 example, the Stephen Kuttner Institute of Medieval Canon Law (Clarke); the Collegium
 Carolinum, Munich (Cornwall); the German Historical Institute, London; and Leo Baeck Institute,
 London (Gregor). Kushner has served in various capacities for the Jewish Historical Society of
 England Executive Committee; and Schlör served the Hamburg Senate as head of the
 Evaluation Commission for the Institute for the History of the German Jews, Hamburg (2016).

 Research councils and projects
 Over and above the routine peer-review of scholarly manuscripts for journal articles and books
 that we all undertake, several colleagues offer expert advice to national and international funding
 councils. For example, Hayward served as advisory board member for the AHRC project at
 Hampton Court/Historic Royal Palaces, which recreated one of the tents from the Field of the
 Cloth of Gold; and as advisory board member for the ERC project ‘Refashioning the
 Renaissance’ based at Aalto University, Helsinki (since 2017). Talbot sits on the South East
 Asia Studies panel of the British Academy and serves on the advisory board of the Harvard
 Mittal Institute Partition Project; Karn is a management committee member for the British
 Academy English Episcopal Acta research project. Conlin, Hayward, Pearce, Stoyle, and
 Oliver have served on the AHRC Peer Review College. Pearce, Ross, Woolgar have refereed
 grant applications for the Fonds de la Recherche Scientifique (Belgium) and the Czech Science
 Foundation GAČR; Pearce for Rothschild (Hanadiv) Europe Foundation, the German-Israel
 Foundation for Research, and the Paris Institute for Advanced Study; Oliver for the EU Marie
 Curie scheme.



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Keynotes and invited lectures
 In testament to the influence of our work within the broader ecology of the discipline, all
 colleagues have given invited papers nationally and/or internationally since 2014. Keynote
 lectures were delivered at major international events, for example Clarke (German Centre for
 Venetian Studies in Venice, 2017); Conlin (Gulbenkian Museum, Lisbon); Cornwall (University
 of Leiden, 2019); Ebrahimnejad (Austrian Academy of Science, Vienna, 2017); Oliver
 (Columbia University, 2017); McAleer (Sorbonne, Paris, 2020). In addition, several (including
 Brown, Hayward, Kushner, and Woolgar) have given keynotes at international conferences
 held in the UK. Colleagues at all career stages have presented their research internationally,
 including: Ebrahimnejad (Tanger, First Moscow State Medical University; École des Hautes
 Études en Sciences Sociales, Paris); Ambühl (Tilburg, Lille, Bern, Paris IV); Bernard
 (Amsterdam, Wittenberg); Spurling (Lund, Stockholm, BBAW Berlin, Erlangen); Cazemier
 (Rome, Aarhus); Clarke (Notre Dame, Paris I); Conlin (Columbia, Boston, USC), Cornwall
 (TCD, NYU, Budapest, Ljubljana); Forster (Hamburg, UCD); Fuller (Pennsylvania, Yale, UTA);
 G. Gilbert (Ekaterinburg); Hunt (Tokyo); Kushner (Indiana); Mishra (Chicago); Riley
 (Melbourne); and Tumblety (Perth, Australia).
 Prizes and Honours
 The excellence of the work we produce is exemplified in the following accolades. In 2015 Stoyle
 was awarded the W.G. Hoskins Prize for his monograph Water in the City (2014); in 2018 the
 Devon and Cornwall Record Society held a sell-out public event to celebrate his work on the
 South West over the past quarter-century. Conlin won the 2020 BAC Wadsworth Prize for
 Business History for his monograph on Gulbenkian (2019). In 2014 Hayward was awarded the
 British Art Book Prize for her co-edited volume The Inventory of King Henry VIII (Vol 2): Textiles
 and Dress (2012); Colpus was ‘Highly Commended’ by the Women’s History Network Book
 Prize judges for her monograph on female philanthropy in 2019; S.Gilbert’s book From Things
 Lost received the same accolade from the British Association for Jewish Studies (2019). In
 significant testaments to the wider recognition of our research, Cornwall was awarded the Silver
 Medal of Jan Masaryk by the Czech Republic for services to Anglo-Czech relations (2019), and
 Woolgar was elected a Fellow of the British Academy (2020).
 4.2. Collaboration and contributions to the economy and society
 The mutually supportive and ambitious research culture that History has nurtured (§1.2-1.4;
 §2.1) also drives and enables our strong commitment to collaborative research and public
 engagement both in Britain and internationally. Colleagues across all established and emerging
 clusters, and at all career stages have built productive working relationships with academics in
 other institutions, and with a range of museums, government agencies, NGOs, charitable
 organisations, media partners, local schools and colleges, art galleries and theatres.
 Cumulatively, this work plays a crucial role in our strategy for achieving impact across our three
 axes of educational, heritage and ethical engagement (§1.3).
 Research collaborations and formal partnerships
 The Department’s fundamental commitment to network-building and sustained collaboration with
 other academic institutions manifests in two forms of partnership. In addition to broader
 institutional agreements arranged by the University, the Department nurtures formal partnerships
 instrumental to its own specific interests. For example, the Parkes Institute has such links with
 the Department of Hebrew, Biblical and Jewish Studies, University of Sydney; the Zentrum für
 Jüdische Kulturgeschichte, University of Salzburg; Center ‘Petersburg Judaica' at the European
 University, St Petersburg; Addis Ababa University; and the Kaplan Centre for Jewish Studies,
 University of Cape Town. These partnerships have generated collaborative activities including


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 jointly-sponsored conferences, successful grant applications (§3.2) and publications, including
 S.Gilbert’s co-edited volume on racialized Holocaust memory that emerged from a collaboration
 with Dr Avril Alba (Sydney). Meanwhile, individual colleagues are supported in developing and
 maintaining their own networks, often with the assistance of Department funding. McAleer, for
 example, collaborated with partners at Sheffield Hallam University, the National Maritime
 Museum and an international cohort of contributors on the AHRC-funded project ‘An Empire of
 Islands’.
 Museums and heritage bodies
 Our mission to engage with wider user communities is reflected in the close relationships that a
 growing number of colleagues have forged with museums, and in initiatives – for example,
 mentoring and away-day roundtables - to share those experiences with others in the Department
 (§2.1). In addition to the work described in our ICSs, Hayward’s expertise informs the exhibition
 Les Tudors at the Réunion des Musées Nationaux, Paris through its advisory board (since
 2015); Cornwall was consultant to a major exhibition at the Musée de l’Armée, Paris, on the
 aftermath of WWI (2018-19); Gregor was consultant on the Fovant Badges Society’s project to
 establish a centenary addition to their Scheduled Monument site (2016); Karn has advised
 Peterborough Cathedral on successful English Heritage and Heritage Lottery grant bids for
 survey work, museum and public engagement activities; King has been commissioned to
 produce a report for Historic Environment Scotland on the siege of Caerlaverock castle in 1300,
 to help improve its presentation to the public; Prior has been a consultant for the
 Commonwealth War Graves Commission since 2014; and ECR Young liaises with artist Victoria
 Adukwei Bulley in an ongoing collaboration with the V&A. McAleer is a member of the advisory
 boards of the British Empire and Commonwealth Collections, Bristol, and of the Heritage Objects
 Expert Panel of the South African Heritage Resources Agency.
 National policy-makers
 Our commitment to maximize the difference we make in the world is also evident in our
 engagement with national policy-makers, supported by the University’s Public
 Policy|Southampton (REF5a§2.9). Talbot advises the FCO on contemporary Pakistan; Kushner
 has addressed the Home Office History and Policy seminar on migration; Woolgar served as
 expert advisor for the Department of Culture Media and Sport on the acceptance of manuscripts
 in lieu of taxation. In 2016 Colpus’ Wellcome Trust Witness Seminar project on ‘30 Years of
 Childline’ brought together figures in policy, government, and social work to discuss its impact.
 Riley has participated in symposia organized by the Labour Party and by the Fabian Society.
 Further afield, Fuller served as a counterterrorism consultant for the UN Office on Drugs and
 Crime’s Education for Justice Programme (2019); S.Gilbert has addressed the United Nations
 for Holocaust Memorial Day (2014).
 Media
 We also bring our disciplinary understanding to bear on the world via our media appearances
 both in Britain and overseas. Such work can lead serendipitously to impact, as in the case of
 Petley’s media activities (ICS). As well as many appearances on BBC1, BBC2 and ITV Meridian
 (including several on BBC1’s Who do you think you are?), colleagues have ventured abroad.
 Oliver’s work underpinned a documentary produced by the Museum of the Bible, Washington
 D.C; Fuller was consultant and guest on a documentary series for Sky History (2020). In
 addition to Riley featuring on BBC Rethink, colleagues have appeared extensively on National
 and Local Radio (BBC Radio 3, BBC Radio 4 BBC Radio 5, BBC World, BBC Asian Network,
 Radio Solent, BBC Radio Devon). In terms of International Radio, colleagues have appeared on
 the Canadian Broadcasting Company; France Culture; Radio Svaboda, Minsk; and the South
 African Broadcasting Corporation. Colleagues routinely communicate their work to wider publics

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 via popular fora including History Today, BBC History Magazine, The New Humanist, Prospect
 and Tribune, and BBC Countryfile Magazine. Forster was interviewed by the New York Times
 about Chinese politics (2019); Riley has written for The Washington Post. Amongst many other
 acts of public communication, Stoyle has contributed programme notes for the Royal
 Shakespeare Company; McAleer advised the Royal Mail on its Captain Cook anniversary issue;
 Tumblety has written on medical history for The Lancet; Young gave a post-performance talk
 on the new play 'Mother Country', at Norwich Arts Centre (2020). The Parkes Institute mounted
 a hugely successful public theatrical event at the Nuffield Southampton Theatre in 2019:
 ‘Rediscovering the King of Lampedusa’ combined lecture, drama and a string quartet in reviving
 a Jewish musical score for the first time since 1945.
 Public lectures
 Local
 Our commitment to engaging with the regional community is reflected in the many public talks
 that colleagues have given locally since 2014. Highlights include: Karn’s Dudley Keep Memorial
 Lecture for Hampshire County Council (2015); Colpus’ address to the South Downs Women’s
 Institute (2018); Le Foll’s talk for the Bristol Old Vic and Southampton Nuffield Theatre (2016).
 Annual lectures have been delivered by McAleer (Hampshire Archives Trust, 2014), and
 Tumblety (Hampshire Field Club, 2019). Lambert delivered a positively received talk to 2,000
 members of the public for the ‘Medieval Weekend’ at Manor Park Country Farm (2016) which
 launched the ‘Great Ships Trail’ that his research had helped to design.
 National
 Our research has been communicated to broader national audiences at public venues including
 the Dulwich Picture Gallery, the V&A Museum, Peterborough Museum, London Jewish Museum,
 the Scottish National Gallery, Edinburgh; the Merchant Adventurers’ Hall, York; the Captain
 Cook Museum Whitby; and Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Society. Highlights include
 Talbot’s public lectures on Indian Partition at the Ashmolean Museum Oxford, the National
 Archives, the Pakistan Society (2017-18), and the Cheltenham Literature Festival (2014); and
 Conlin’s wide-ranging work with the Charles Kingsley Society in June 2019 to commemorate the
 200th anniversary of the author’s birth, including a study day with Odiham U3A, a reading group,
 choral performances, ‘Town Hall’-style events and a pageant involving the entire student body of
 the local Charles Kingsley School.
 International
 Colleagues have also communicated their research to audiences at many overseas public
 venues, including: The Yiddish Centre in Paris; the Duitsland Institut Amsterdam; Goethe-
 Institute Prague; the French Embassy in Belarus; the United World College of South East Asia,
 Singapore; the North Carolina Museum of Art; the Canadian Centre for Architecture, Montréal.
 We continue to explore ways in which the digital transformation can enhance this public
 outreach. Lambert’s www.medievalandtudorships.org (launched 2017) has generated over
 31,000 unique hits. Riley’s co-hosted ‘Tomorrow Never Knows’ podcast on feminism and history
 has achieved over 15,000 downloads. Alongside Karen Robson in Special Collections, Woolgar
 has co-created the YouTube Channel ‘People, Papers and Pasts’, featuring material from our
 archive and manuscript collections. In the circumstances of Covid-19, the department was quick
 to experiment with holding online research and impact-related events, such as a three-week-
 long workshop on the ethics of teaching the Holocaust and difficult histories, which affirmed the
 sustainability of its broader mission by attracting over 70 educators from across the world.




                                                                                           Page 19
