Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Imperial College London

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 9 (Physics)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview
 The aim of the Department of Physics at Imperial College London is to inspire world class
 science in fundamental theory, experimentation, leadership of large international projects,
 applications in advanced technology and development of specialist infrastructure and facilities.
 We are one of the largest Physics Departments in the UK and in Europe, which enables us to
 create groups of international standing, and with sufficient scale and critical mass, that they
 influence the research agenda and attract the world’s top researchers. Our research portfolio
 covers the full range of theoretical and experimental physics, allowing us to respond rapidly to
 opportunities and initiatives, from research into ‘Massive Gravity’ to our recent expansion into
 Quantum Technology.

 The Department has four overarching collaborative themes through which new research directions
 are driven: Fundamental Physics; Space, Plasma & Climate; Condensed Matter Physics; and
 Photon Science. We are structured into nine research groups: Astrophysics (ASTR), Condensed
 Matter Theory (CMTH), Experimental Solid State Physics (EXSS), High Energy Physics (HEPH),
 Plasma Physics (PLAS), Photonics (PHOT), Quantum Optics & Laser Science (QOLS), Space &
 Atmospheric Physics (SPAT), and Theoretical Physics (THEO). Research is not siloed in these
 formal groups and staff are encouraged to collaborate and interact via the themes. Staff associate
 with multiple themes, providing the flexibility needed to tackle multidisciplinary challenges.

 This flexible and nimble thematic approach has created vibrant collaborations and new research
 directions, e.g. combined laboratory fusion plasma modelling with planetary magnetospheres, to
 enable space weather prediction (SPAT, PLAS); Quantum Technology and Quantum Information
 Science (QOLS, CMTH, EXSS with participation in the Strategic Advisory Board (Knight-Chair)
 and three UK Hubs with leadership from Kim(M), Hinds, Walmsley); generated activities in
 Fundamental Physics such as cosmology (ASTR, THEO), dark matter (ASTR, HEPH),
 phenomenology (HEPH, THEO) and emerging activities in advanced statistics, AI and machine
 learning (all groups). Space Plasma & Climate provides a natural forum for our work on exoplanets
 (ASTR, SPAT) and in Condensed Matter Physics techniques are brought together from
 metamaterials and nanophotonics (EXSS, CMTH).

 We attract substantial funding, with an annual research turnover of ~£25M. Over the REF2021
 period, we received grant income totalling: UKRI & related (£122.5M), EU (£27.3M), UK
 Government and others (£18.6M including tax credits), Non-EU (£8.5M) and UK Charities (£6.3M).

 We are returning 146 academic staff (including 23 independent fellows) to REF2021. Additionally,
 our community comprises 168 research staff; 5 teaching fellows; 93 technical and operational
 staff; 289 research students; 143 postgraduate masters students; and 874 undergraduate
 students. Since REF2014, we have recruited 18 academic staff members as part of our focus on
 supporting early career researchers into academic posts. We have invested over £4.5M in new
 laboratory facilities (e.g. Ultrafast Quantum Optics, Liquid Xenon Detectors and Atmospheric
 Trace Gas Measurement), over and above regular maintenance and upgrades to existing
 laboratories.

 Research Mission: With our capacity spanning theoretical concepts through to impactful
 translation, our research diversity is a driver for innovation. We invest strategically to maintain our
 strengths while expanding our research pipeline with agility to meet new and emerging national
 and international challenges. This is underpinned by an inclusive research culture for staff and
 students where all can flourish. The following aims drive the fundamentals of our strategy:

    •   Appoint and retain world class scientists (e.g. by hiring de Rham and Tolley)

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Enable independent inquiry and collaborative research (e.g. Imperial SpaceLab network)
    •   Play leadership roles in large international consortia (e.g. instrument leadership roles in
        spacecraft missions, Dougherty)
    •   Focus in areas where we have the biggest impact, balancing strength in existing areas
        with expansion into new areas (e.g. Quantum Sensors for Fundamental Science)
    •   Foster a stimulating, positive, inclusive and supportive environment enabling our staff and
        students to thrive (e.g. open staff meetings enabling exchange of ideas; termly discussions
        between the Head of Department (HoD) and post doc/fellow and student representatives;
        research-led education via UG projects and summer placements)
    •   Expand and diversify our research funding streams (e.g. USA funders including national
        labs and foundations >£2M)
    •   Expand industrial collaboration and translation (e.g. Samsung award for new Quantum
        materials, £1.6M)
    •   Develop specialist infrastructure, enabling our research (e.g. Quantum Measurement Lab,
        £1.45M)
    •   Train and enable future researchers and leaders of tomorrow (e.g. appointment of 2 UKRI
        Future Leaders in this REF period)
    •   Inject new ideas into our portfolio with a focus on appointments of early career scientists
        (e.g. exoplanet (Owen), quantum computing activity (Connolly))
    •   To capitalise on excellence throughout College and beyond by encouraging collaboration
        (e.g. new Physics Research Workshops)

 The HoD (Dougherty) heads an Executive Committee that enables a transparent environment to
 drive through strategic initiatives. Members include: Associate HoD (Weir), co-Directors of
 Research (Araujo and Chittenden), Faculty Vice-Dean for Education (Thompson) and
 Departmental Operations Manager (DOM, White) and they work closely with the Department’s
 Diversity (Wascko) and Industry Engagement (Oulton) champions. For REF2021, the Committee
 has included the Department REF lead (Heavens).

 Our Departmental strategy aligns with Imperial’s academic strategy (see REF5a - Institutional
 Environment Statement), with emphasis on working across disciplines, quantitative approaches
 to research, translating ideas into impact and collaborating with stakeholders locally, nationally
 and internationally (examples detailed below). Of our submitted outputs, 68% are collaborations
 with other UK institutions and 79% are collaborations with international institutions. These
 principles permeate our research culture and steer new research directions, along with regularly
 reviewing our internal research strategy whilst monitoring UKRI, industry and national and
 international strategic priorities.


 Some of our Major Highlights in REF2021
   • A key outcome of our strategy to lead the design and upgrade of particle physics
      experiments resulted in T2K's publication (Nature) of the first substantive indication of CP
      violation in neutrinos (Dunne, Uchida, Scott(M), Wascko, HEPH). This result could be the
      first indication of a solution to the Universe’s matter-antimatter asymmetry. This success
      will facilitate our continued leadership in the recently approved T2K-II upgrade and future
      experiments DUNE and Hyper-K (STFC funds ~£6.3M).
   • Our long-term strategy of focusing our international magnetometer instrument program to
      answer major science questions, led to the unexpected confirmation of Saturn’s extremely
      small dipole tilt. Published in Science (Dougherty, SPAT), this discovery, the culmination
      of analysis of 13 years of orbital data from Cassini, requires a rethink of the planetary
      dynamo process, which we are well-placed to address with international collaborators at
      Harvard, Caltech and Max Planck Institute.
   • Our strong links between theoretical and experimental physics are evidenced by the
      theoretical explanation of the first single-molecule strong coupling in ambient conditions,
      paving the way for high-impact photonic quantum technologies at room temperature and
      quantum immunoassay sensing (Hess, CMTH). Immunoassay sensing will profit from this


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        technology (with 1500% increase in sensitivity) and collaboration with the University of
        Cambridge, Physics has begun (EPSRC funds £1M).
    •   The impact of our diverse research strategy can be evidenced by a new development in
        novel ultrafast lasers to realise universal all-fibre-integrated picosecond and femtosecond
        pulse sources in the visible spectrum for the first time (Taylor, PHOT) – developed in
        collaboration with a commercial company (Gooch and Housego). These compact, efficient,
        hands-free versatile sources of wavelength, repetition rate and pulse width are highly
        applicable to many imaging platforms.
    •   The strategic decision to pursue mid-IR laser development has enabled participation in the
        large US-led MURI project (QOLS with PLAS, £4.6M) resulting in a world-record coherent
        x-ray generation in the important “water-window” (Marangos, Tisch, QOLS). This new light
        source is ideal for time-resolved x-ray absorption and x-ray microscopy measurements.
        The findings inform the design of a roadmap for developing future attosecond x-ray
        sources. This led to a £1.3M EPSRC grant jointly held with Chemistry, to study with 100x
        the previous time resolution fundamental processes in physics, e.g. exciton formation and
        charge migration, and key processes in chemistry, e.g. electron transfer and bond-
        breaking/making.
    •   The impact of our leadership of large international collaborations is evidenced by the first
        reporting of the radiation reaction process, following the announcement of the highest
        energy ever reported from an all-optical inverse Compton scattering scheme, with laser-
        wakefield accelerators, in Physical Reviews (Mangles, PLAS). Understanding this result
        will be crucial to experiments using the next generation of multi-petawatt laser pulse under
        construction worldwide. The breakthrough was supported with grants from STFC and
        ESPRC (£1.3M) and ERC (£1.4M).
    •   Our excellence in string theory is highlighted by the ERC Advanced Grant funded work of
        Gauntlett (THEO); using string theory dualities to find remarkable relationships between
        the physics of black holes and transport properties in conventional strongly-coupled field
        theories, with important implications for understanding potentially novel classes of metals
        and insulators seen in the context of strongly correlated electrons. A pivotal new
        connection between geometry and string theory (Waldram, THEO), explains part of the
        underlying symmetries and provides new natural stringy generalisations of General
        Relativity.
    •   We place importance on impactful research that can directly benefit community systems.
        One example is the energy system design underpinning the successful application of solar
        power in minigrids in Rwandan refugee camps (Nelson, EXSS). In collaboration with
        MeshPower Ltd. (Rwanda) and Strathmore University (Kenya), energy system modelling
        was applied to reveal that solar generation and battery storage installed in a minigrid
        system can reduce diesel usage and emissions. MeshPower are utilising this as the
        blueprint for implementation in two further refugee camps (see B9-7, Nelson). The
        translation of this research has been recognised by initial grants from the Strategic
        Priorities Fund (UN, ~ £140k).
    •   Investment in new laboratory facilities is crucial to enable expansion in response to new
        opportunities. Creation of the state-of-the-art Quantum Measurement Laboratory (of
        200m2) has been built in response to the UK Quantum Technology programme, exploring
        fundamental quantum physics, and with technology applications involving several
        commercial partners (supported by a £1.6M FLF award (Vanner, QOLS) and £1.67M
        EPSRC strategic equipment grant). A second major capital investment project, funded
        through College (£2.1M), has increased our physical experimental footprint by 196m2. The
        new laboratory houses state-of-the-art facilities such as superconducting transition-edge
        sensors that can resolve up to 15 photons each, unique in the UK (Walmsley, QOLS), to
        enable quantum technologies such as light-based quantum computers and simulators,
        communications, and sensors.


 Summary of Achievements
 Three of our research groups collaborate in the Fundamental Physics theme:


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 High Energy Physics (22.8FTE, 74 grants, total £43.6M)
 Our strategy for leadership in designing, constructing, and exploiting scientifically the leading
 experiments in particle physics sustains our high international profile. We have been at the core
 of major advances in the Higgs sector and searches for new physics and CP violation at CERN’s
 Large Hadron Collider (LHC), in neutrino physics at the long-baseline experiments, and
 pursuing dark matter detection through a variety of techniques. In addition to major project-
 specific awards, exploitation activities were supported by STFC Consolidated Grants (£18.1M).
 We have leading roles in scientific discovery at the LHC and in detector and accelerator
 development, with former spokespersons of CMS and LHCb experiments (Virdee, Golutvin). We
 continue to lead the highest profile measurements in the search for new physics, including lepton
 flavour violation and characterising the Higgs boson (Patel, Wardle). In parallel, we drive the LHC
 upgrades (Dauncey, Hall, Tapper, Virdee), strengthened by a new appointment (McCann), with
 grants from UKRI, ERC (£6.5M); all underpinned by our GridPP-computing group (Colling),
 (£5.2M in grants).

 The neutrino sector is another international priority and Wascko was international Co-
 Spokesperson of T2K in Japan (2015-19), when the experiment won the Fundamental Physics
 Breakthrough prize (2016). The group has leading roles in both next-generation experiments –
 DUNE (USA) and Hyper-K (Japan) – that will characterize the recent hints of CP violation observed
 in the neutrino sector (Nature front-cover). Recent awards showcasing this research include two
 UKRI FLFs (Dunne, Scott(M), >£3M). A new hire (Vacheret) is spokesperson of the
 complementary short-baseline neutrino experiment SoLiD (Belgium), with ERC and STFC funds
 of £1.4M. We have substantially expanded research into the dark sector and are a founding
 member of the flagship US LUX-ZEPLIN (LZ) experiment, with Araujo as UK spokesperson
 (£2.6M). We initiated and led (Golutvin) the SHiP collaboration, numbering 250+ physicists from
 nearly 20 countries pursuing a different solution to the dark matter problem. At the interface of
 EPSRC and STFC, we lead the Atom Interferometer Observatory and Network (AION)
 collaboration (Buchmueller), which was recently awarded £8.6M nationally to probe fundamental
 physics with quantum technologies, heralding a new research avenue in the search for ultra-light
 dark matter and gravitational waves in the mid-frequency band. In accelerator physics, we
 recently demonstrated muon ionisation cooling in the MICE experiment (Nature front-cover) and
 this R&D is paving the way to future colliders and medical applications (>£2.3M).

 Our future strategy will: continue exploitation of LHC science leadership; elucidate evidence for
 leptonic CP violation, in parallel to our non-accelerator neutrino programme; focus work on SHiP;
 concentrate on Dark Matter searches; open a new window on fundamental physics with AION;
 and pursue future collider opportunities along with our impact agenda through the application of
 HEP technologies.

 Theoretical Physics (16.2FTE, 20 grants, total £9.1M)
 Our research focuses on areas at the forefront of theoretical physics with significant funding from
 STFC Consolidated Grants (£4.3M) and 6 personal fellowships (RS and Leverhulme Trust). We
 made significant strategic investment in cosmology through high-profile hires (de Rham and
 Tolley, 2016), with RS Wolfson Merit Awards (£200k) and de Rham’s ERC Consolidator Grant,
 appointment as Blavatnik Laureate (£1.7M) and upcoming Simons Investigator award ($660K).
 Their ongoing work in massive gravity, Gallileons and UV completions is a major highlight of our
 output. Another highlight in cosmology is studying the effects of spacetime curvature on Higgs
 stability during inflation which shapes our understanding of the very early Universe (Rajantie).

 In string theory, major new developments include the study of deformed superstring sigma
 models (Tseytlin) and the study of holographic lattices and their thermoelectric properties
 (Gauntlett, ERC funds £1.4M). Building on our strong links to mathematics, we uncovered an
 important new string-generalisation of Riemannian geometry (Waldram) and found new relations
 between brane physics and hyper-Kahler geometry (Hanany); initiating new avenues of research,
 with implications for the fundamental structure of the theory and its symmetries, for mathematics,
 and for generic properties of strongly coupled systems. Our significant investment in teaching


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the Quantum Fields and Fundamental Forces postgraduate master’s degree trains highly
 qualified theoretical physics graduates (225 during the REF2021 period).

 Our strategic research plan will: enhance our formal theory effort by focusing on new emerging
 areas at the intersection of string theory, QFT and mathematics; and developing expanded focus
 on gravitational wave physics; and enhancing ASTRO links by exploiting our expertise
 in gravitational physics and effective field theory.

 Astrophysics (12.6FTE, 34 grants total £9.4M)
 Following our strategic decision to expand into astrostatistics and exoplanets, we have formed
 world-leading expertise in these areas, supported by STFC Consolidated Grants (£4.3M). A key
 stake in exoplanets was consolidated when our RS URF was appointed as a lecturer (Owen) with
 RS and ERC funding (£1.9M). His seminal work explains physically the ‘evaporation valley’ and
 completes an expert group of critical mass (Mohanty, Unruh). Further growth is in the epoch of
 Cosmic Dawn (Pritchard, ERC Starting Grant £1.1M, and new RS Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow,
 Chapman, £1M).

 Our strategic move into astrobiology yielded the first tentative presence of phosphine in the Venus
 atmosphere (Clements). The interdisciplinary Imperial Centre for Inference and Cosmology
 (ICIC; dir. Heavens), has 23 members spanning Physics and Mathematics, attracting RS URF
 (Leistedt, £0.7M). Its specialisation is in Bayesian cosmological and astrophysical data analysis,
 especially in cosmic shear analysis, with the ICIC hierarchical model adopted in a Euclid key
 project (Heavens, Jaffe). Our long-standing expertise in CMB beams (Jaffe) underpins the
 seminal cosmological results from Planck. The broader applicability of our Bayesian expertise is
 exemplified by our evidence for the continuous decline of stratospheric ozone in mid-latitude
 atmospheres (Mortlock). Role in international projects include: the Euclid spacecraft Legacy
 Science programme (Warren); and various groups preparing SKA and JWST.

 Our strategic aims are: to capitalise on our expertise in Bayesian methods to analyse Euclid and
 LSST data; prepare for analysis of 21cm data from SKA; and develop further leading theories of
 exoplanet formation and properties, including habitability.

 Together with ASTR, two other groups link via the Space, Plasma & Climate theme:

 Plasma Physics (11.4FTE, 66 grants, total £19.5M)
 Our experimental and theoretical work ranges from extreme materials science through high
 energy density plasmas (HEDP) to magnetic and inertial confinement fusion (ICF). Our
 strategy to develop a leading role in HEDP science has led to major roles in ICF (Rose,
 Chittenden), laser plasma acceleration (Najmudin, Mangles), mid-infrared high-power lasers
 (Smith), and laboratory astrophysics (Lebedev). On-site facilities include the world’s largest
 university-based pulsed power generator (Lebedev) and the UK’s largest university-based laser
 (Smith). Breakthrough achievements have been made in the study of magnetic reconnection
 (Lebedev), the two-photon Breit-Wheeler process (Mangles, Rose), magnetising igniting plasmas
 on the National Ignition Facility (Chittenden) and the Richtmyer-Meshkov instability in the warm-
 dense matter using the ESRF synchrotron (Bland).

 The group hosts the Centre for Inertial Fusion Studies (Rose, Chittenden) providing leadership
 in engaging UK universities with AWE and US national laboratories in ICF and HEDP (£3.1M). We
 are part of the STFC John Adams Institute (with Oxford and RHUL, £2.1M), leading work
 (Najmudin, Mangles) on laser acceleration to advance fundamental science (ERC grant, £1.4M),
 medical hadron therapy and advanced light sources A new major project (Smith, with QOLS) on
 the development and exploitation of new ultra-high brightness mid-IR light sources with
 applications in particle acceleration, high-field physics and fundamental optical science. Strong
 collaborations (Chittenden, Bland, Smith) have been developed with a UK company, First Light
 Fusion, which developed a 10MA pulsed power facility, the biggest in Europe, providing PhD
 studentships (6). In a cross-disciplinary success story, the group’s MHD simulation code has been


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 adapted to simulate solar-terrestrial interaction (Chittenden, Eastwood (SPAT)) ensuring the UK
 has strategic independence in real-time space weather prediction capability.

 We will continue to lead on the development of ICF and HEDP studies; grow the pioneering role
 in pulsed power facilities for laboratory astrophysics; strengthen our work in fundamental studies
 at the crossover between plasma physics, material science, astrophysics and nuclear physics;
 and consolidate our position as world leaders in laser driven particle acceleration.

 Space & Atmospheric Physics (17.9FTE, 89 grants, total £33.9M)
 In Space Physics we continue successful exploitation (supported by STFC Consolidated Grants -
 £4M) of magnetometry space mission involvement. Recent successes include ESA’s Rosetta
 cometary mission (2016) which discovered auroral emissions, in the far ultraviolet,
 demonstrating their relevance for space weather application (Galand) and the 2017 finale of
 NASA’s Cassini mission to Saturn, confirming the surprising lack of dipole tilt at Saturn
 (Dougherty, £1.43M). Upcoming mission involvement includes ESA’s Solar Orbiter (Horbury,
 £2M), JUICE (Dougherty, £4.96M) and Comet Interceptor (Galand). Two new appointments
 (Masters, Matteini) are associated with this success. Novel miniature magnetometer
 development has led to selection for an ESA space weather mission RADCUBE. Recent ventures
 include work in magnetospheric modelling and simulation with PLAS for space science and
 operational use by the Met Office for extreme space weather events. Space is now seen as a
 critical national infrastructure. Through Imperial’s SpaceLab (dir. Eastwood), we have
 collaborated with the Institute for Space Policy and Law, on a report on UK Space Safety policy
 recently delivered to UK Government and other key stakeholders.

 Evidence-based policy is also important in the Atmospheric Physics section where we have inter-
 disciplinary expertise in Climate science, Carbon Cycle, Atmospheric Composition and Earth
 Observation from space. We provided evidence for the report impacting the first National Strategy
 for the Adaptation to Climate Change introduced by the Government of Cyprus (B9-8,
 Voulgarakis). We founded (with Life Sciences) the Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires,
 Environment and Society (Voulgarakis, £0.6M) and lead (Brindley) ESA’s FORUM mission
 (£0.5M). Graven continues to expand work in greenhouse gas emission detection and
 attribution and ocean heat uptake (ERC funds, £1.75M), as well as influence and inform the
 climate change policy (see B9-4, Graven). Building on Grantham Institute support, we steer the
 agenda worldwide via the US CLIVAR working group (Czaja) on "Frontal-Scale Ocean-
 Atmosphere Interactions and Influence on Large-Scale Climate", and have strengthened our
 fundamental climate research, appointing in Climate Sensitivity (Ceppi).

 Our future strategic aims include: exploitation of our scientific leadership in Solar Orbiter and
 development of science for JUICE; deepen our work on societal impacts and prediction of space
 weather; and lead FORUM. With the GI: enhance greenhouse gas detection and attribution;
 pursue ocean-atmosphere connection; and strengthen fundamental climate research.

 Two groups are closely linked via the Condensed Matter Physics theme:

 Condensed Matter Theory (6.85FTE, 31 grants, total £5.1M)
 Plasmonics and metamaterials (Pendry & Hess) remains a high-profile area following the
 invention of metamaterials and transformation optics (Pendry). With more than 70 patents,
 Pendry’s innovative discoveries underpin many spin-off products commercialised in the optical,
 medical, aerospace, and communication industries, with revenues at the multibillion-dollar level
 (see B9-9, Pendry). Interdisciplinary ground-breaking work (Hess) created, for the first time,
 single-molecule strong coupling in ambient conditions, paving the way for photonic quantum
 technologies at room temperature and quantum immunoassay sensing. In strongly correlated
 materials, our research was much enhanced by the strategic hiring of Knolle, with leading
 theoretical work on quantum magnetism and collaborations with Manchester experimental groups,
 and initiation of a new area of simulating correlated materials with newly available quantum
 computers (grants of £2.5M, with QOLS, Materials and Computing).


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 CMTH was pivotal for the Thomas Young Centre (TYC) (Sutton, Mostofi), a prime example of
 interdisciplinary collaboration, and nationally leads the UK’s Materials and Molecular Modelling
 Hub. We will develop and extend our expansion into condensed matter theory for quantum
 technologies in line with the strategic research direction of Quantum Simulation/Computation and
 Quantum Materials (EPSRC). A collaboration established with DeepMind Ltd (Foulkes), uses
 neural networks to learn the wavefunctions of systems of many interacting electrons. This
 interdisciplinary work, linking physics with computer science and machine learning, develops new
 techniques that will advance the fields of quantum chemistry and physics. It also led to the
 development of ONETEP software which is used in the simulation of the properties of materials
 and molecular systems, with commercial sales exceeding $6M and widely used in the
 semiconductor and biomedical industries (B9-5, Mostofi). We are well positioned with a globally
 competitive team in the expanding topics of time-dependent metamaterials and topological
 materials (Hess, Knolle, Lee, Mostofi, Pendry, Vvedensky). The CDT in Theory & Simulations
 of Materials (TSM) (dir. Mostofi, £4.4M) has created a new generation of scientists in materials
 physics spanning traditional disciplinary boundaries.

 Our future strategic aims include: expanding theoretical condensed matter physics into quantum
 technologies simulation and materials; exploring machine and deep learning of wavefunctions;
 and enhancing investigations into time-dependent metamaterials and topological materials.

 Experimental Solid State Physics (13.2FTE, 110 grants, total £26.2M)
 The group has strengthened and broadened its research profile through strategic hiring (Sapienza,
 Connolly) and attracting high calibre research fellows (Frost). Our world-leading activities in
 structure-activity relationships in solution processable solar cells (Nelson, Kim (J-S)) has been
 amplified by new staff working on perovskite photovoltaics (Barnes, Frost) and photocatalytic
 hydrogen evolution from water (Guilbert) (£13M). The already internationally established group
 in plasmonics and nonlinear nanophotonics, driving light matter interactions with sub-
 picovolume sensitivity and at the single photon limit (Maier, Oulton, Phillips) has been enhanced
 by new staff (Sapienza) with grants of £7.7M.

 A common theme in our future strategy is development of neuromorphic computing hardware
 building on strengths in nanomagnetism (Branford, Cohen), perovskites (Barnes, Kim(J-S)), and
 nano/random lasing (Oulton, Sapienza) (£0.7M). A second strand is work at the interface with life
 sciences building on unique IR bio-imaging (Phillips) and complemented by innovation in device
 materials and design in electrochemical biosensing (Kim(J-S), Campbell) (£0.7M). Work on
 quantum optics highlighted by single photon source sculpting with dielectrics (Maier, Sapienza)
 is strengthened by activities linking to the Quantum imaging hub on correlated photonics for
 bioimaging (Phillips, Oulton) (£3.7M). Our new staff member (Connolly) brings new strengths in
 ultralow temperature capability with £1.7M new capital investment, complementing established
 magnetism/superconductivity activities and a new direction in device design and characterization
 in topological and superconducting/ semiconducting Qubits (£0.6M). Research into greenhouse
 gas mitigation via low carbon energy solar-cell technologies has led to our development of models
 of community-scaled electrical power systems, impacting refugee communities in Africa where in
 collaboration with industry and refugee organisations this has led to the installation of solar
 powered minigrids (B9-7, Nelson).

 Our future strategic aims include: furthering development, from fundamentals to application, of
 energy efficient solution processable photovoltaics; energy conversion and storage; hybrid
 optoelectronics; plasmonics; bioimaging; nanomagnetism; topological qubits; and the
 underpinning materials physics.

 Two groups collaborate in the Photon Science theme:

 Photonics (13FTE, 56 grants, total £10.2M)
 Activities span laser and fibre laser technology, fundamental electromagnetic theory and imaging
 science and biophotonics. Our biophotonics work has extensive interaction at the life sciences
 and medical interface (Dunsby, joint with Medicine), with developments enabling translation to in-

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 vivo imaging and clinical diagnosis and leveraging our expertise in photonics technology to create
 new tools for molecular cell biology and drug discovery. Collaborating with industrial partners,
 clinicians and scientists across Imperial, UK Institutes (French, Crick Institute, ICR, CRUK
 Edinburgh) and internationally, has enabled us to secure key funding (£5.8M) from a wide range
 of sources (including CRUK, EPSRC, BBSRC, BHF). We lead (French) an exciting new,
 collaborative multi-discipline flagship project (CRUK, EU partners, £2.7M) to improve imaging
 technologies for cancer drug discovery as part of a new CRUK Convergence Science Centre.

 Two new appointments were made (Murray, Runcorn) to maintain excellence in fibre laser
 research (Taylor). Developments in ultrafast laser technology have realised unique, all-fibre-
 integrated picosecond and femtosecond pulse sources in the visible spectrum. In collaboration
 with commercial company (Gooch and Housego), supported by EPSRC (£0.5M); the temporally
 and spectrally versatile compact systems have been applied to FLIM and STED microscopy, and
 are widely applicable in other imaging platforms. Research on developing lasers for satellite-
 based remote sensing has flourished (ESA, £0.8M), we are sole developers of a wavelength
 tuneable diode-pumped Alexandrite laser with world-record performance (including record pulse
 energy, efficiency, and wavelength tuning range). Operating in the “red-edge” band of vegetation
 (700-750nm) and enabling remote sensing of vegetation and the atmosphere with industrial
 partners (Cosine BV), opens the way to single-photon counting vegetation lidar.

 Photonic devices underpin diverse industries. Our fully fibre integrated supercontinuum source
 has been exploited in combination with gated image intensifiers in fluorescence lifetime imaging
 configurations, commercially developed in collaboration with two UK companies (NKT, Kentech)
 generating >£12M income (B9-3, French).

 Future strategy will build on: vibrant biophotonics activities to develop techniques with improved
 resolution and contrast; grow applied research activities and resources in lasers and optical
 technologies for satellite-based lidar and other industrial applications; and establish new
 opportunities and potential for growth in nanoscale photonics.

 Quantum Optics & Laser Science (16.3FTE, 73 grants, total £39.6M)
 Our portfolio has grown and diversified in response to a rapidly changing landscape, stimulated
 by UK National Quantum Technologies Programme (with major roles (Knight, Walmsley, Kim(M),
 Hinds) and progress in x-ray free electron lasers (XFELS). There are four overarching activities,
 which we describe in turn.

 In Quantum Photonics and Measurement, two strategic appointments (Vanner and
 Kolthammer) and targeted investment to provide state-of-the-art laboratories (£1.5M) has provided
 opportunities for rapid growth. Investment (£1.6M, EPSRC) in a dilution refrigerator facility was
 further strengthened by Walmsley’s move from Oxford. Our portfolio has grown and diversified in
 response to a rapidly changing landscape, stimulated by the UK National Quantum Technologies
 Programme (funding >£1B) with leadership from Knight, Kim(M), Hinds, Walmsley (B9-6, Knight).
 Employing photonic architectures, we developed and using fusion gates based on silicon
 photonics, has led to venture capital investment (>$250M) in the company PsiQuantum, with 10%
 of employees Imperial alumni, to develop a quantum computer (B9-1, Rudolph).

 Activity in Quantum Theory (Kim(M), Mintert) continues to pursue fundamental research and
 support experimental activities, as part of EPSRC’s Quantum Hub in computing and simulation
 (£1.5M, Kim(M), Walmsley). Successful international collaborations have been developed,
 securing industry funding (£1.6M Samsung, Kim(M)). The Centre for Cold Matter (Sauer, Tarbutt)
 remains at the vanguard of AMO physics at low temperatures, activities have broadened to include
 ultracold molecules (and atoms) achieving world-record cooling of molecules (5μK) (EPSRC
 awards £4.8M). New activities in quantum nanophotonics with organic molecules (Clark, RSURF)
 have links to EXSS. Table-top tests of fundamental physics (Fitch, RSURF) address questions in
 high energy physics and cosmology. Investment in laboratory refurbishment enabled a major new
 programme on atom interferometry for inertial navigation (Tarbutt, Cotter) with funding from DSTL
 UK (£3.9M), Innovate UK (£200k with M-Squared lasers) and the EPSRC Quantum Hub in

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sensing and Timing (£1.5M, Hinds). Together with M-Squared we have established an industrial
 development lab where we translate our research into high-TRL technologies for
 commercialisation.

 The Extreme Light Consortium (Marangos, Tisch) has broadened to cover coherent light of
 extreme properties (attoseconds, X-rays, ultrahigh intensity) from traditional lasers, but also from
 the new generation of XFELS which have seen rapid global development. Staff (Marangos,
 Frasinski) have been involved/lead in 10 XFEL beamtimes (LCLS, Fermi, Sacla, Soleil). The
 strategic decision to pursue mid-IR laser development and their use in light-matter interactions
 has enabled participation in a large US-led MURI project (£4.6M, Marangos with PLAS) leading
 to world-record coherent x-ray generation in the important “water-window” (Marangos, Tisch). A
 new area is mass-spectrometry of proteins and other biomolecules (Averbukh) growing from co-
 variance methods initially developed to study light-matter interactions (Frasinski), to uncover
 correlations between different molecular fragments. A new appointment (Matthews) has
 strengthened the group’s activities in solid-state laser-matter interactions (with EXSS). State-of-
 the-art laser technology for temporally compressing femtosecond laser pulses was developed
 (Tisch) and transferred to more than 20 international laser laboratories.

 Our strategic aims include: expansion in quantum computation, simulation and metrology; apply
 ultrafast laser technology and attosecond techniques to new applications; use interferometry with
 cold atoms and molecules to develop commercial quantum devices and test fundamental physics
 (e.g. AION); and continue to champion new science from XFELs.


 Physics Leadership in Imperial’s Multi-disciplinary Research
 Our many collaborations are the lifeblood of our research ethos. We hold grants jointly with all
 departments in the Faculty of Natural Sciences (FoNS) and all faculties at Imperial. We enable
 and promote interdisciplinary work through college-wide Global Challenge Institutes and Centres
 of Excellence (see REF5a) across FoNS (with French being Vice-Dean for Research) and the
 Faculties of Engineering and Medicine. We are at the heart of the College’s Quantitative capability,
 with Eastwood being the Theme Champion of the FoNS strategic research theme Quantitative
 Technologies, which pulls together instrumentation research which underpins our scientific
 endeavours. Physics staff have more than 180 affiliations with 25 of the 56 Centres and Networks
 at Imperial.

 The College set up 7 Global Institutes to address some of the most important challenges facing
 the world today from health inequalities and action on climate change, to molecular engineering
 and cyber security. These Institutes bring together researchers, policymakers, and businesses to
 provide independent scientific advice. Physics staff are active in 5 of these with a lead role in the
 Grantham Institute (GI), which was established in 2007 (Knight) to focus on climate, thanks to a
 Grantham Foundation donation (£12.8M). Expanded in 2014 to include broader environmental
 issues (support increased to £24.1M), Physics staff play central roles (co-Directors: Haigh 2014-
 2019, Toumi 2020-) in driving College's activities in this area. GI is a gateway into inter-disciplinary
 research and an important avenue to impact through policy and guidance to Government (see B9-
 2, van Sebille and B9-8, Voulgarakis). A recent policy success (Haigh) is the UK's commitment
 (June 2019) to net zero carbon emissions by 2050. We have influenced new UK and EU plastic
 pollution policy with a RS Summer Science Exhibition and gave evidence to parliament (van
 Sebille). This evidence and expert witness together with quantification of the scale, extent, and
 dynamics of marine plastic pollution (see B9-2, van Sebille) led to the UK government ban on
 micro-beads and single use plastics. Six staff are formally affiliated with the GI via joint
 appointments (Haigh, Toumi, Nelson, Ceppi, van Sebille, Graven). Our NERC funded DTP and
 the GI has funded 15 Physics PhDs. We will continue to engage with the GI, focusing on climate
 change adaptation.


 In this REF period staff have developed and led three new college-wide Centres/Networks:


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   CCAP (Centre for Clinical Applications of Particles, Dir: Long) with members spanning
        fundamental physics to clinicians, from Physics, Faculty of Medicine, Imperial Academic
        Health Centre, Imperial CRUK Cancer Centre, Institute for Cancer Research and Oxford
        Institute for Radiation Oncology.
    •   QuEST (Centre for Quantum Engineering, Science and Technology, Dir: Kim(M), (6
        Departments) has provided a natural channel for collaboration with Samsung (£1.6M).
    •   SpaceLab (Network of Excellence, Dir: Eastwood,14 Departments) collaborates with
        London Institute of Space Policy and Law contributing to evidence-based policy for space
        safety.

 Centres established earlier continue to achieve:
    • Centre for Processable Electronics (CPE), (4 Departments, Kim(J-S), Nelson) provides the
        conduit for $1M grant from South Korea.
    • Centre for Plasmonics and Metamaterials (CPM), (Dir: Sapienza, 3 Departments) recently
        contributed to £2.5M EPSRC Programme Grant (PI, Craster, Mathematics).
    • ICIC (Dir: Heavens, 2 Departments) has led to pioneering work in Bayesian analysis of
        cosmic shear.
    • TYC (co-Dir: Mostofi, 8 Departments and 3 London colleges) leads UK’s national Materials
        and Molecular Modelling Hub (£4.5M).


 Effective Cross-Disciplinary Research
 The Department maintains cross-departmental research appointments both internally with
 Materials (Finnis, Haynes, Mostofi, Tangney), Mathematics (Mortlock), and Medicine (Dunsby),
 and externally with RAL (Long, Paternak, Pozimski), as well as hosting 28 Case studentships,
 including with RAL, AWE, and NPL. We retain connections with Physics alumni in the form of
 visiting academic status/joint positions in the UK or overseas (Berlin, Munich, Crete).

 The Faculty Research Strategy team supports the development and coordination of research
 strategy, particularly for multidisciplinary science, through a range of activities, including
 discussions of national, grand, and societal challenges in science, aiming to generate ‘Big Ideas’,
 theme champions (e.g. Eastwood for Quantitative Technologies), workshops designed to bring
 researchers together from diverse groups. The team also engages with funders via the College
 Research Office, allocating devolved funding and providing seed funding for multidisciplinary
 research and interactions with SME and other external stakeholders. The focus on interdisciplinary
 research has been manifest in the success of Physics staff with innovative schemes such as the
 Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires, Environment and Society, DUNE, MURI, and AION.

 In addition to direct industrial collaboration, we encourage engagement with other departments,
 including Medicine, Life Sciences, Environmental Science, Materials, and Bioengineering, to
 further enhance our understanding of the relationship between cross-disciplinary research and
 transformative scientific outcomes. We host workshops accessible to researchers from various
 disciplines, for example the Physics of Life Network which uses biological physics to gain insights
 into fundamental biological problems for future (bio)technology, biomedicine, climate protection,
 food security, and national defence. The Department is also a regular contributor to the AI Network
 and encourages staff to participate in the centrally organised “Fast Track Impact” workshop, an
 international training programme for researchers.

 Successful inter-group collaboration within the Department has been developed by Chittenden
 promoting wider use of MHD simulation tools for modelling laboratory fusion plasmas. Eastwood
 adapted these for the study of planetary magnetospheres, building a new UK capability for real-
 time space weather prediction. This led to a successful bid to UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund that
 seeded successful collaboration with the Met Office, and further interdisciplinary impact through
 joint work with the British Antarctic Survey and British Geological Survey (£0.6M).




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Strategy
 We believe in, and are committed to, delivering on the importance of the impact of our diverse
 research portfolio; from scientific discoveries and their impact on society and technological
 development leading to commercialisation and input into government policymaking. Our 9 impact
 case studies reflect this diversity and emphasise delivering positive outcomes in healthcare, the
 environment, and the economy.

    •   The discovery of theoretical photonic architectures (B9-1, Rudolph) has resulted in the
        formation and commercial investment in a quantum computing company.
    •   The quantification of the scale and dynamics of marine plastic pollution (B9-2, van Sebille)
        led to the UK ban on micro-beads and single use plastics (along with the EU).
    •   Commercial impact has resulted from fluorescence lifetime imaging technology (B9-3,
        French).
    •   Informing and influencing policy arose from validation of CO2 emissions which have
        informed climate change mitigation (B9-4, Graven).
    •   Commercial impact has resulted from the ONETEP materials modelling software (B9-5,
        Mostofi).
    •   Fundamental quantum optics research has directly influenced UK Government policy and
        investment (B9-6, Knight).
    •   Solar minigrids for productive energy are being used in a Rwandan refugee camp (B9-7,
        Nelson).
    •   Climate change risk assessment (B9-8, Voulgarakis) directly informed the Cyprus
        Government.
    •   The original invention of metamaterials (B9-9, Pendry) has led to new industrial markets
        (optical, medical, aerospace, military and communications) as well as commercial
        exploitation in these areas (with over 70 patents).

 Planning for impact is considered at all levels, from focused group interactions, to coordination
 and direction-setting by the Department’s Research Committee, to intellectual property and
 entrepreneurship via Imperial’s Industry Partnership and Commercialisation team (see REF5a).
 Our impact strategy adapts to requirements, spans multi-disciplinary projects, engages with
 specific partners (companies, government agencies and charities), and enables patenting and
 licensing of technologies across whole industrial sectors. During the REF2021 period, there were
 75 IP Disclosures and 20 Patents filed, 3 are published and 6 are pending.

 Our strategy’s success is reflected in our partnerships with international agencies such as CERN
 and ESA, and government agencies such as AWE, DSTL, RAL and NPL, charitable foundations
 such as Leverhulme, Royce, Sloan, and the Wellcome Trust, as well as conventional industries
 such as Samsung, and NKT Photonics.

 Industry: We have appointed an Industry Engagement (Enterprise) Champion (Oulton) to foster
 closer engagement with industry and develop strong strategic alliances as our research income
 from industry continues to grow. Oulton acts as the conduit for interaction across all-levels and
 manages the Departmental Impact Acceleration Programme. The Department won £2.4M from
 the BBSRC, EPSRC, NERC and STFC impact acceleration awards devolved to Imperial to
 support business engagement and knowledge exchange and to accelerate the commercialisation
 and impact of our research, including 16 EPSRC Knowledge Transfer Secondments. A
 collaboration with Samsung has led to an investment of £1.6M in our quantum computing,
 recognising the expertise available at QuEST.

 Consultancies & Directorships: Over 30% of our staff are engaged in commercialisation and
 consultancy. The establishment and management of external consultancies are facilitated by
 Imperial Consultants (ICON) which, during the REF2021 period, supported 35 members of staff
 on 116 projects with 82 companies with an estimated value of £3.2M. A further 8 company
 directorships and 7 commercial deals were established independently of ICON. Until 2020, our
 research commercialisation was advanced through Imperial Innovations, a publicly listed venture

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capital investor that focuses on technology, and Faculty Industry Partnership and
 Commercialisation. Since then, College has separated from Innovations and taken this function
 in-house.


 Research Integrity
 As a signatory of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity, College is committed to
 “maintaining the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of research” (see REF5a).
 Principles of Universal Ethical Code for Scientists are adopted, ensuring research is conducted
 according to appropriate ethical, legal, and professional standards, and robust processes to deal
 with allegations of research misconduct are in place. The Department actively promotes training
 opportunities to research staff and students in areas including research integrity and online
 plagiarism. College is committed to sharing its world-class research and scholarship as widely as
 possible, supporting the principles of open access to research. Spiral is the College’s free open
 access research repository and holds over 68,000 items, with authors uploading journal articles,
 monographs, or research not intended for journal publication. There is an Open Access Fund to
 pay the open access publication costs for articles in fully open access journals.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Employee Development
 We attract and retain staff of the highest international calibre and provide them with support and
 training to develop their skillsets and careers. We are continually injecting new ideas and vigour
 into the Department through our strategy, with 18 new academic appointments during the REF
 period (14 Lecturers, 3 Readers, 1 Professor).

 Academic Recruitment: Our recruitment strategy is driven by a combination of group/theme
 ambitions, staffing profile and interdisciplinary research opportunities. Our Strategy Committee
 considers these factors in recommending new appointments to the HoD.

 Advertisements for posts are framed broadly to attract applicants from a wide talent pool. We form
 search committees to target the best candidates from across cultures and circumstances. We
 continually strive to increase diversity of our staff (gender, race, religion or belief, disability, and
 sexual orientation with support from the Juno Committee (JUNO-C, see EDI). Each proposed
 interview shortlist is submitted with a Search Committee Report for approval by the HoD.

 In 2015, we initiated new hiring procedures to expand the pool of female candidates, with a revised
 policy reflecting JUNO-C activities and College’s diversity policies. This resulted in interview pools
 with more gender-balanced representation (the number of women on shortlists increased from
 12% to 27%).


 Development and Support for Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 New academic staff: New lecturers benefit from 50% reduced teaching load in year 1 and 25%
 reduction in year 2. They benefit from start-up funds, relocation expenses and preferential access
 to PhD students. Newly appointed lecturers are guided though their three-year probation period
 by academic mentors (a senior staff member in their research area) to review progress in teaching,
 training, and research grant applications. For a broader perspective, probationary lecturers are
 also appointed teaching buddies to provide constructive feedback on teaching performance, as
 well as independent mentors from outside their research areas who offer mentoring on all career
 aspects. New lecturers are expected to complete a Learning and Teaching programme within the
 first two years of appointment.

 Development Support: The Postdoc and Fellows Development Centre (PFDC) has provided
 support to research staff since 2009 and offers multiple opportunities, including bespoke courses,
 funder showcases, one-to-one support and mock interviews, developing their skills, and applying
 them in the workplace. ECRs have 10 days of skills training per year written into their contracts to

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ensure access to these services. Most provisions provided by the PFDC are delivered face-to-
 face, however, since COVID-19, this support programme is online. Furthermore, staff with
 contracts ending between March-December 2020 had their access to PFDC services extended
 for 3 months (12 staff). During the REF2021 period, our ECRs received 132 one-to-one meetings,
 72 mock interviews and 137 courses, including residential courses, were attended.

 Research Fellows benefit from all the support mentioned above, including a tailored programme
 provided by the PFDC. During the REF2021 period, 11 existing researchers transitioned to
 Independent Fellowships in the Department: (Clark, Fitch, Guilbert, Kelleher, Kerridge-Johns,
 Malik, Masters, Matthews, Murray, Rakovich, Suzuki Vidal), with 3 progressing from their first to
 their second (Chapman, Chen, Gryspeerdt). We welcomed back researchers with Independent
 Fellowships (Frost, Hietala, Wardle), and saw previous researchers/fellows appointed to the staff
 (McCann, Matteini, Barnes, Giannini, Patel, Scott(P)). Four Fellows (Masters, Matthews, Murray,
 Owen) were appointed to proleptic positions.

 Postdoctoral Research Associates: We are dedicated to supporting our fixed-term research
 staff members through implementing the Concordat principles. We offer research staff career
 advice and support through direct mentoring, including the annual Personal Review and
 Development Plan (PRDP), the College PFDC, and the RA Committee founded in 2009 to
 enhance RAs professional experience and career development. The RA Committee offers a
 comprehensive discussion forum to distribute information and identify training needs for RAs,
 hosting regular social events, organising meetings on topics relevant to their career stage with
 reps engaging in Group meetings. The chair meets monthly with the HoD, and is a member of
 JUNO-C, providing a direct link from RAs to the Department’s EDI and wellbeing efforts.

 During the REF2021 period, more than 430 RAs completed their post in the Department and 91
 competitively awarded Fellowships began: 15 RS URF, 3 STFC ERF, 1 RS DH, 1 NERC, 5 RS
 Newton, 1 RAEng, 1 RAS, 1 RSEdinburgh/STFC Enterprise, 1 EPSRC PDF, 22 CEC MSCA, 21
 EPSRC Doctoral Prize Fellowships, and 19 Imperial Research Fellowships (£20M, with £3.2M
 additional PI funding). We will welcome 11 new Fellowship holders this year.


 General Professional Support
 The College is dedicated to the ongoing support and development of all its research staff (see
 REF5a).

 Training: College offers a wide range of training and development opportunities for all staff,
 irrespective of working hours or contract type. The Learning and Development Centre (LDC) offers
 various training courses to enable staff to learn skills relevant to their current role or to advance
 their career. During the REF2021 period, academic staff attended 191 courses and researchers
 attended 134. The Leadership and Management courses are particularly beneficial for staff looking
 to further their academic careers.

 PRDPs: The Department supports staff in meeting the needs and goals identified in their Personal
 Review and Development Plan (PRDP). All staff are expected to undertake an annual PRDP with
 an appraiser (usually their line manager). This exercise is designed to help staff realise their goals
 within a confidential environment. Following advice from JUNO-C, the PRDP form was redesigned
 in 2014 to emphasize defining future goals instead of focusing on past achievements. A further
 iteration (2019) added a new, separate section allowing direct feedback to the HoD (e.g. personal
 achievements, improving department processes etc.).

 Promotions: Promotions and suitable development opportunities are typically discussed at PRDP
 meetings with the individual’s line manager or Head of Group (HoG). All academic staff are also
 invited annually to submit a 2-page summary of their achievements to the HoD, including a request
 to be considered for promotion. HoGs proactively support academic colleagues to work towards
 promotion and to prepare their application when staff are ready. Recommendations for promotion
 to Professor level are discussed at a meeting with all professors where supported cases are then

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 considered by the Wisepeople panel (comprised of senior staff members). Recommendations for
 promotion to Senior Lecturer (SL) and Reader (R) are discussed at a closed HoGs meeting with
 supported cases considered by the SL/R panel. Both panels assess the promotion cases and
 provide constructive feedback. The HoG reports back to each staff member on whether their
 promotion is supported or how their case can be strengthened in the future. During the REF2021
 period, 68 staff were nominated for promotion and 100% of these were successful: 22 L-SL, 27
 SL-R, 1 L-R and 18 R-P. In 2019, a new salary structure was introduced for the Research job
 family with the addition of an Advanced Research Fellow grade to recognise research
 independence. Two researchers have since been promoted to ARF.


 Personal Support
 College provides a supportive and inclusive environment for all staff, so that they may do their
 best work. Policies are designed (e.g. flexible working, support for working parents) to support a
 positive work-life balance, promote welfare and good mental health. The Department is fully
 committed to ensuring a positive work experience, well balanced with personal life and wellbeing
 (see REF5a).

 Staff with Children: The Elsie Widdowson Fellowship Award provides funding for 50% of salary
 costs for 12 months to relieve the returning academic of any teaching or administration duties.
 Two staff benefited from this during the REF2021 period.

 Sabbaticals: Our scheme enables staff to continue their professional development and enhance
 their knowledge and connections. During the REF2021 period, 20 sabbaticals have been awarded,
 including: Taking leadership roles in major collaborations (Buchmueller, Convener of EXOTICA
 search Group, CERN); Strengthening international links as projects grow (Araujo, engaging a
 large UK team in the international LZ Project); and initiating collaborations in new areas, (e.g. with
 DeepMind Ltd on Machine learning, Foulkes).

 Academic Fellowships: During REF 2021, 17 staff received support to hold fellowships: 2 RS
 Professorships (Dougherty, Hinds); 1 RS Industry Fellowship (Ekins-Daukes); 2 FLFs (Scott(M),
 Vanner); 5 Leverhulme Research Fellowships (Schwartz, Magueijo, Jaffe, Rudolph, Warren); 3
 Leverhulme Emeritus Fellowships (Duff, Leader, Sumner); 1 Leverhulme Trust Senior Research
 Fellowship (Hull); 1 STFC Public Engagement Fellowship (Trotta); and 2 new appointments
 brought Fellowships with them 1 EPSRC CAF (Connolly) and 1 STFC ERF (Vacheret).


 Research Students
 Postgraduate Research (PGR) Students: Our strong research activities provide an excellent
 training ground for the next generation of researchers and innovators through our doctoral
 programme. We attract outstanding students from the UK and internationally. During the REF2021
 period, 421 students enrolled, with almost three quarters of them holding a UG first or PG
 distinction, emphasising the quality of our applicant pool. Admission is very competitive, with 3339
 applications, of which woman are 20% of applicants and 18% of enrolments.

 Training and Development: We have a comprehensive monitoring and support system for PGR
 students. At three months, student and supervisor prepare an initial research plan setting out the
 PhD goals. The Early Stage Review (ESR) at nine months is followed by a Late Stage Assessment
 (LSA) at 18 months. These assessments, via written reports and oral viva, are key steps in which
 the student demonstrates knowledge of their field and ability to perform research. The ESR
 includes a literature review, helping the student reflect, placing their work into context, practicing
 scientific writing, and to experience a viva-like situation. A further review occurs at 24 months (and
 36 and 42 if necessary) to ensure their thesis is on track. This system is highly effective, with over
 90% of students completing within 48 months.

 Imperial College's Graduate School provides professional training via online courses, seminars,
 and residential courses. All students are required to attend a minimum number of these courses

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for e.g. Research Impact, Research Integrity and Ethics, Societal Engagement, and Computing
 Skills. During the REF2021 period, over 1500 places on 155 courses were taken up by our
 students and training must be completed by the LSA. This training also provides an excellent
 opportunity for students to network and collaborate with students from different departments and
 faculties. Over the same period, 41 Physics staff completed the Educational Development Unit
 (EDU) training course “Introduction to PhD Supervision”.

 Support: We have multiple layers of mentoring and wellbeing support, with PGR students either
 assigned a co-supervisor or an independent academic advisor. Each research group has a
 dedicated welfare mentor, which is overseen by our senior PG tutor and a disabilities officer. To
 maintain and enhance engagement, we hold Staff and Student Committee meetings to consult on
 student matters and share information collectively.

 Our PGR students are supported from a variety of sources. The largest is via UKRI, which funds
 77% of our studentships. Imperial College devotes significant internal resources towards PGR
 studentships, with 9% having fee waivers. This support aids diversity, since UKRI funding shows
 preference for home students. Physics students have won 44 President’s Scholarships over the
 REF2021 period, and we host more than 10% of the President’s Scholars.

 Awards: Our postgraduate students have won numerous awards for contributions at conferences
 (e.g. Complexity Science, BritGrave). This demonstrates the high level of research achieved and
 the effectiveness of our training in presentation skills. Nineteen students have won EPSRC
 Doctoral Prize Fellowships and 5 students an STFC student enhancement programme award.


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 We are committed to improving EDI and taking active steps to ensure individuals are treated
 equally and have access to the same opportunities. The Department has two advocates
 (Chapman, Richards) on the College EDI Forum which serves as a listening platform to capture
 and discuss EDI (see REF5a). Our “Have Your Say” hotline provides a safe and confidential route
 for staff to speak anonymously about issues of concern.

 JUNO-C: The Departmental Juno Transparency and Opportunity Committee was set up in 2007
 to address the under representation of women and minorities, e.g. founding our Networking for
 Female Researchers and implementing new recruitment guidelines. JUNO-C supports the
 implementation of the Institute of Physics' Juno Code of Practice and is also guided by the Athena
 Swan Charter. We hold Juno Practitioner status (2020) and the Athena Silver Swan award (since
 2009, renewed in 2012, 2015 and 2019). JUNO-C has 21 members (12 female, 9 male) with
 representation drawn from across the Department and College. The HoD and HoGs have
 endorsed an ongoing action plan to remain committed to the inclusion of underrepresented
 minorities.

 EDI within Recruitment: Staff involved with the recruitment and selection process undertake a
 recruitment and selection training course, as well as attending unconscious bias training to ensure
 an unbiased and inclusive recruitment process. Upon the recommendation of JUNO-C, all job
 adverts now include the statement “The Department of Physics is an IoP Juno Practitioner and an
 Athena Silver SWAN Award winner reflecting our commitment to building a supportive, inclusive
 and highly motivated community”.

 It has become mandatory for all staff to attend an unconscious bias training workshop (provided
 by an external provider) that focuses on increasing self-awareness and identifying actions to foster
 equal opportunity and tackle all forms of discrimination. The success of this effort led to College
 launching its own unconscious bias training course, now offered to all new undergraduate and
 postgraduate students.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We offer an LGBT+ Awareness course to ensure staff understand intersectionality and what it
 means to be an effective ally to the LGBTQ+ community. Since 2018, we host the LGBT+ Allies
 Network consisting of trained members to provide support and offer advice for related issues.

 EDI and REF: Each staff member was invited to submit up to six outputs, and output selection
 was based principally on quality assessments made by internal and in some cases external
 reviewers. Attributed authors were anonymised and papers treated on an equal basis. A panel of
 nine staff members with representatives from all research groups made the final selection. The
 average number of outputs selected per FTE was 2.56 for women and 2.49 for men. All HoGs
 identified potential impact cases, and 31 members of staff were interviewed, with 9 cases selected
 based on maturity, potential for development within 24 months, and supporting evidence (2 cases
 are led by women).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our research funding and investment strategy is underpinned by the Research Committee whose
 purpose is to discuss research strategies, identify new opportunities to extend and diversify our
 portfolio of funders and enhance our research dedicated infrastructure.


 Research Income
 The Co-Directors of Research present potential funding opportunities to the Committee and these
 are actively discussed and communicated to all staff. Recent examples have included
 opportunities arising through the Air Force Office of Scientific Research and mechanisms for
 engaging with US research foundations. This results in research income that is >£25M annually.

 The Committee hosts workshops to discuss and plan new major research activities. A recent
 workshop in “Artificial Intelligence in Physics” led to the development of an AI forum to explore
 cross-physics project opportunities. The Committee also supports staff in all aspects of the
 application process for funding proposals by coordinating expert and non-expert review before
 submission. In terms of Industrial Engagement, the Co-Directors of Research and the
 Department’s Industry Engagement Champion liaise with the Industrial Partnership and
 Commercialisation team to help develop and maintain relationships with major companies such
 as AWE and Samsung.

 Annual Spend (see REF4): During the REF2021 period, we maintained an average research
 spend of £25.5M per year (£24.6M over the last REF). The funding sources (excluding UK
 government tax credits) were: 68.6% UKRI Research Councils & related bodies; 15.3% EU; 7.9%
 UK government, Industry and other sources; 4.8% Non-EU; and 3.5% UK-based charities.
 Compared with the last REF our EU funding has increased (was 8.7%).

 Grants Announced & Awarded (during REF2021 period): Research grants totalling £196.6M
 were awarded, made up of 553 new awards from 58 funders. Most of our funding from UKRI was
 STFC (£69M) and EPSRC (£49.5M) reflecting the fundamental physics base that is core to our
 activities, as well as funding from other UKRI bodies such as NERC (£3.9M), MRC (£3.5M) and
 BBSRC (£0.9M) as well as RS (£16.4M). These included 46 large grants (>£1M), with a total value
 of £101.8M, most notably from: EPSRC Programme Grant Quantum Science with Ultracold
 Molecules £3.1M (Tarbutt co-I, lead Durham); EPSRC Programme Grant Reactive Plasmonics
 £2.5M (Maier co-I, lead KCL); EPSRC mid-infrared laser MURI £4.6M (Marangos, Smith); STFC
 projects for CMS upgrade £3.6M (Davies); LZ £2.6M (Araujo); JUICE build phase £4.1M
 (Dougherty); CEC Marie Curie Innovative Doctoral Programme Frontiers in Quantum Technology
 (£2.7M) (Kim(M)); and DSTL £3.9M Navigation accelerometer (Hinds). STFC provides support for
 fundamental physics research through consolidated grants (renewed twice, total £31M): £4.5M
 (ASTR), £18.2M (HEPH), £4M (SPAT), £4.3M (THEO).

 The ERC supports many crucial research projects and was an important part of increasing
 European funding. The Co-Directors of Research work in close partnership with College’s

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Office to help staff identify funding opportunities through the ERC and plan their
 proposals. During the REF2021 period, staff gained 8 new awards: 3 Standard £3.2M, 2
 Consolidator £2.8M, and 3 Advanced £5.4M. Additionally, 3 staff brought ERC awards with them
 on appointment (value £11.7M).

 Other examples of major awards outside usual key funders included: Samsung £1.6M for New
 Quantum Materials (Kim(M)); CRUK Accelerator Award (£2.7M, French), Gordon and Betty Moore
 Foundation £740k (Pendry) and £555k (Tarbutt); Alfred P. Sloan Foundation £555k (Tarbutt); and
 Templeton Foundation £889k (Hinds), £270k (Magueijo). Significant funding across several
 awards came from Leverhulme £3M, US Department of Energy and US National Laboratories
 £2.7M, and AWE £1.6M.

 During the REF period, our philanthropy funding was £2.9M, providing a new source of support
 for both research and teaching (e.g. studentships and equipment for Fourier Transform
 Spectroscopy research and teaching laboratory equipment).

 Since the last REF, we have successfully diversified our funding profile with the Research
 Committee and the Department’s Industry Engagement Champion support. We will continue to
 collaborate internationally and target EU, US funding opportunities as part of our diversification
 strategy. We are dedicated to creating and strengthening industrial connections to increase
 external funding opportunities.


 Research Infrastructure and Equipment
 The Department occupies 14,840m2 on Imperial’s South Kensington Campus, the majority in the
 Blackett Laboratory. We have 70 laboratories covering an area of 6028m2. Each year, research
 groups review their infrastructure and facilities, outlining priority areas for future investment. This
 exercise, combined with internal consultations, provides a complete overview which informs our
 future capital development plans. Working in consultation with the College’s Disability Advisory
 Service, we ensure that all new and refurbished laboratories and facilities comply with the
 Disability Discrimination Act. Through building adaptations, our DOM coordinates individual plans
 to help disabled staff access research facilities and all communal spaces safely.

 Our next College approved projects include: upgrading our HEPH digital electronics labs and
 workshops (210m2, £735k) to maintain leading contributions to the next generation LHC, long-
 baseline neutrino detectors and AI-on-Chip; the construction of the AION lab (92m2), opening a
 new research avenue in the search for ultra-light dark matter and gravitational waves (STFC,
 ~£8.6M funding).

 Investment in Facilities: During the REF2021 period, building and infrastructure spend totalled
 £10.3M (£5.9M on research operations, £4.4M on general maintenance). This included investment
 in new state-of-the-art laboratories identified as key priorities: a new suite of laboratories for
 quantum science and technologies research (490m2, £3.6M); a quantum inertial navigation
 laboratory (£484k); a Xenon laboratory which is central to LUX-ZEPLIN and UK dark matter R&D
 effort (£431k); and an Atmospheric Trace Gas measurement (£71k). In addition to strategic
 investments, there is ongoing maintenance and upgrade to the laboratories, office accommodation
 and fabric of the building. This included a £3.4M project to rewire Blackett, £1.1M for the general
 fabric of the building and £1.1M on projects directly related to the research infrastructure (e.g.
 laser cooling upgrades, cleanroom fume extract upgrade).

 In addition to investment in laboratory space and improving existing facilities, we support new
 appointments with start-up funds of £377k (£267k towards equipment and £110k for consumables)
 to ensure staff have access to necessary resources.

 We support our experimental groups to secure state-of-the-art equipment, and during the
 REF2021 period, spent £2.2M on equipment (over that funded by grants), including contributions
 of £300k from EPSRC’s Strategic Equipment Process.

                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 To support our research students, part of the Campus Library Building underwent an extensive
 £5M reconfiguration (432m2) to provide accommodation for the EPSRC Centres for Doctoral
 Training (CDTs) which began in 2014. The Centres span the Faculties of Engineering, Natural
 Sciences and Medicine, occupying a total area of 432m2 of which 58m2 was for Physics led CDTs
 - Controlled Quantum Dynamics, Plastic Electronics and TSM.

 Specialist Equipment and Facilities: We currently host three specialist facilities that we charge
 out:
     - The Raith e-line electron beam lithography facility (EXSS) provides sample nanofabrication
       and inspection by Scanning Electron Microscopy.
     - The Glovebox (CPE) contains two thermal evaporators for top electrode evaporation and
       a spin coater unit for spin coating air and water sensitive small molecule and polymer
       materials.
     - The EXSS Cleanroom performs semiconductor, nanotechnology, and polymer processing.

 Examples of other facilities include: two other cleanrooms (ISO 6 and ISO 7) for radiation detector
 assembly and testing; the Mega Ampere Generator for Plasma Implosion Experiments (MAGPIE)
 which delivers an electrical current pulse of ~1.4M amperes in ~250 nanoseconds.

 The Mechanical Instrumentation Workshop (678m2) houses 15 FTE technicians and is crucial to
 facilitating our research through the design and manufacture of bespoke scientific apparatus.
 There are conventional machine tools and modern capabilities such as CNC machining Centres,
 mill/turn, laser cutting, EDM wire machining, welding, fabrication and 3D printing. We have
 additional specialist workshops (246m2) in HEPH, PLAS and PHOT. We invested £290K in
 workshop equipment during the REF2021 period. We continue to play a lead role in the College
 Technician Apprentice Scheme (4-year programme), training the next generation of technicians
 with 10 graduates since inception in 2011 and 5 gaining employment within Imperial.

 Our specialist electronics workshops (70m2) undertake a range of modern electronic design and
 manufacture, including ASIC design and wafer-scale testing, specialised PCB manufacture and
 wire-bonding or bump-bonding of the circuits. We maintain a UK capability to make low-field,
 science-grade, space-borne fluxgates, and a unique capability for low magnetic field testing at
 very low cryogenic temperatures.

 Since the last REF, we have benefited from three EPSRC Strategic Equipment awards which have
 enabled us to expand our portfolio of equipment:
 • We collaborated with Materials (£2M, 2017) to develop a core SPIN lab to characterize isolated
    and coupled spins, contributing to our nanomagnetism and photovoltaic work.
 • We lead (Vanner and Connolly) a collaboration with Chemistry, Materials and Electrical
    Engineering (£1.7M) to develop a Quantum Science and Device Facility (QSDF) which caters
    for users interested in performing scanning probe microscopy, transport, circuit quantum
    electrodynamics, and quantum optics experiments at very low temperatures. Currently being
    commissioned this will establish a UK-first facility.
 • We are collaborating with Chemistry (£2M) to develop a Pulse Electron Paramagnetic
    Resonance Facility (currently being commissioned) which will be used in molecular
    electronics, magnetic materials and attosecond science.

 Research Computing Services (RCS): College continues to invest >£4M annually in RCS, to
 support the community's diverse computing needs. Physics staff constitute the largest proportion
 of RCS users (combined usage of 55.8M CPU hours (FEC £372k pa) and 2.5 million jobs). Physics
 engage strongly with the new Research Software Engineering team on projects such as
 maintaining public access to the Cassini magnetometer data, porting space weather forecast
 capabilities to the Met Office Space Weather Operations Centre.

 We are members of several national and international computing collaborations, providing one of
 five large Tier 2 centres for the GridPP Collaboration project, a community of particle physicists

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and computer scientists. This supports a system of 11k computer cores and 11PB of disk storage
 used by scientists at Imperial and worldwide. Through GridPP, Imperial is a member of the
 Worldwide LHC Computing Grid and hosts one of the largest Tier 2 centres for CMS and LHCb
 experiments in the world. Part of this centre forms the UK Data Centre for the LZ collaboration
 and is linked with the US Data Centre providing the processing and analysis requirements for the
 LZ Dark Matter Experiment throughout Europe. Imperial is also a member of the IRIS collaboration
 which provides an extensive range of ICT infrastructure to a wide variety of STFC projects; and
 provides an OpenStack Cloud resource consisting of ~2000 compute cores for IRIS. STFC have
 provided £5.2M for Grid and Iris hardware and personnel.

 Use of Major Facilities: Through extensive international collaborations, staff have access to
 facilities, labs and subscriptions across the world (in-kind value £101.8M). Most notably the
 Central Laser Facility, Diamond, ILL, NEF and CERN. Specific examples include:
 • QOLS utilise X-Ray FEL labs in the USA (LCLS – 300 hours), Italy (FERMI – 140 hours), and
     Japan (SACLA – 60 hours); estimated total in-kind value of £4M.
 • PLAS and QOLS utilise specialist facilities: Orion Laser (AWE UK, 6 weeks); OMEGA
     (Rochester, USA, 3 shot-days); NIF (LLNL, USA, 1 shot-day), SGII (Shanghai); FORTH
     (Greece); and SOLEIL Synchrotron (France).
 • Staff access high performance computers through the IBM Quantum Experience (>10,000
     hours, Kim(M)) and the Swiss National Computing Centre (Foulkes).
 • Major collaborations in HEPH provide access to Modane Underground Laboratory (France),
     Fermilab (USA), Sanford Underground Research Facility (USA), J-PARC and Kamioka
     Observatory (Japan).
 • Collaborations in ASTR provide access to facilities including Planck, Herschel, and NERSC at
     Lawrence Berkeley Lab, USA.
 • Successful bids for access to ground-based telescopes include Keck (40 nights), JVLA (195
     hours), IRAM (879 hours), HST (21 orbits), Spitzer (1380 hours). Operational cost of ground-
     based observations are typically estimated at £18,000 per observing night.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Leadership in Research
 A key research area for the Department involves working with other groups across the College,
 particularly Medicine, Biological Physics and Life Sciences:
     - Long is the Director of CCAP and PI of the Laser-hybrid Accelerator for Radiobiological
         Applications (LhARA).
     - French is PI of a £4.5M Cancer Research UK Accelerator multidisciplinary collaboration,
         employing photonics expertise in Physics to work with cancer biologists at the Francis Crick
         Institute, Institute of Cancer Research, Cancer Research UK Edinburgh Centre and
         Institute for Research in Biomedicine Barcelona. French also serves on the management
         committees of the ICR/Imperial CRUK Convergence Science Centre and CRUK Imperial
         Centre, helping to co-ordinate multidisciplinary research to develop innovative ways to
         address cancer research challenges.

 Leadership roles in multi-disciplinary, multi-institution collaborations, include:
    - TYC (Mostofi, co-director) brings together over 100 research groups and 500 researchers
       at all career stages at the four London universities of Imperial, UCL, King's College London
       and QMUL.
    - CPE (Nelson and Kim(J-S)) brings together more than 40 academics from different
       disciplines across Imperial, QMUL and Oxford, and industrial partners including Samsung
       Electronics, CSEM Brazil, KP-Tech, CDT Ltd. and NPL.
    - Leverhulme Centre for Wildfires, Environment and Society, founded by Voulgarakis in
       2019 with £10M from the Leverhulme Trust, a highly multi-disciplinary collaboration
       combining social, ecological, and physical sciences and involving departments from five
       institutions.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Furthermore, teams from across College (10 academics and 15 postdocs/fellows) are working
 together on the CMS and LHCb experiments at the LHC, leveraging £64M of in-kind support from
 CERN. These bring several leadership roles in project delivery, including CMS HGCAL Project
 Manager (Virdee) and CMS L1-Trigger Project Manager (Tapper).


 Leadership Roles & Specialisms
 We are a globally minded Department and value national and international partnerships as a core
 part of our research and learning communities. We believe this international collaboration is
 synonymous with enhancing global knowledge and research excellence. Within Europe, our
 research collaborations have been developed through FP7 and H2020 Networks which extends
 across 21 EU countries, 6 partners from outside the EU, and involves 164 research institutions
 and 38 industrial/other partners. We are engaged in over 50 international collaborations
 worldwide.

 Our staff hold/have held important leadership roles, both national and international. Knight has
 played a pivotal role in conceiving, designing and delivering the UK National Quantum
 Technologies Programme from 2014-2019 (B9-6, Knight). Marangos is the Science Lead on a
 science case for a UK XFEL, carried out on behalf of STFC, engaging with a broad range of
 potential user communities via 6 workshops, with 120 experts from wide-ranging disciplines
 including Structural Biology, Catalysis, Additive Manufacturing, Engineering and Quantum
 Materials, High Energy Density Physics, Chemical Science and Physics.

 Another recent example is leadership of the AION project, to harness cold atom technologies to
 address key issues in fundamental physics, astrophysics, and cosmology. This project is a
 uniquely interdisciplinary mission involving 7 UK institutions and has received £8.6M of initial
 funding from EPSRC and STFC via the Quantum Technology for Fundamental Science and is in
 partnership with UK National Quantum Technology Hub in Sensors and Timing, and the MAGIS
 Collaboration in the USA.

 Further highlights over the REF period are given below:

 Plasma Physics: We are the first UK university to receive a US-UK Multidisciplinary University
 Research Initiative (MURI) award from the US Department of Defense, exploiting new ultra-high
 brightness mid-infrared light sources. During REF2021:
     • Contributed to the NNSA Review of Inertial Confinement Fusion and High Energy Physics
        (Chittenden).
     • Served on the National Implosion Stagnation Physics (NISP) Working Group (Chittenden).
     • Deputy leader for Plasma Targetry in the EUPRAXIA project which is now on the EU ESFRI
        roadmap (Najmudin).
     • PI of the UK Inertial Fusion Energy Network (Smith).

 High Energy Physics: During REF2021, we held major leadership positions in global
 experiments. Major highlights include elected international spokespersons:
    • Co-spokesperson for T2K in Japan, comprising 70 institutes from 12 countries (Wascko).
    • UK spokesperson for CERN-based CMS experiment (Davies).
    • Spokesperson for the MICE experiment was hosted at RAL, comprising 33 institutes from
        12 countries (Long).
    • Spokesperson for the developing SHiP experiment at CERN, comprising 57 institutes from
        18 countries (Golutvin).
    • Spokesperson for the SoLiD experiment at the SCK/CEN reactor complex in Belgium,
        comprising 14 institutes from 5 countries (Vacheret).

 Space Research: We hold international leadership positions, especially in magnetometry:
    • Rosetta mission (in orbit around Comet 67P Churumov Gerasimenko in 2014-16). Carr
       (PI) led the Plasma Consortium (one of 11 experiments) which coordinated a suite of 5
       instruments from 5 nations measuring the comet’s plasma interaction with its environment.

                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Solar Orbiter launched February 2020. Horbury (PI) leads the magnetometer (one of 10
        instruments) with a science team from 12 countries. Orbiter is the flagship European Space
        Agency (ESA) mission to explore the Sun and solar wind.
    •   Cassini, in orbit from 2004, with its ‘Grand Finale’ of polar orbits ending by burning up in
        Saturn’s atmosphere in 2016. Dougherty (PI) led the magnetometer which was the
        scientific focus of this phase of the mission, to determine the true nature of Saturn’s
        magnetic field.
    •   Cluster, ESA’s mission reached 20 years in orbit, exploring the Earth’s magnetosphere.
        Imperial is PI institute and provided several PIs (most recently Carr) for the magnetometers
        on the four Cluster spacecraft which have worked flawlessly since launch. As of October
        2020, 2,897 Cluster papers have been published, the vast majority using magnetic field
        data in their analyses.
    •   ESA’s first large-class mission in the Cosmic Vision 2015-2025 programme - JUICE
        (Dougherty, PI).

 Cosmology: We have established an international consortium, with Imperial academics holding
 leading roles in some of the largest ESA and NASA missions in this research area:
     • Lead of “Geometry and Topology” programme in Planck (Jaffe).
     • Legacy Science Coordinator and joint lead of “Local Universe” science working group in
        Euclid (Warren).
     • Square Kilometre Array Chair of SKA-EoR Science Working Group and Vice-Chair of SKA-
        EoR Science Team (Pritchard).

 Physics leadership contributions in major consortia, many involving the delivery of large
 experimental programmes, include:
    • ASTR: Chair of the STFC UK-SKA science committee (Pritchard). Planck Consortium
        Editorial Board (Jaffe); Joint lead of Euclid “Local Universe” science working group
        (Warren); Lead of Euclid Magnification WP (Heavens); UK Project Scientist, SPICA
        (Clements); JWST Advisory Board, Trappist-1 (Owen); Co-chair foreground mitigation
        focus group (Chapman).
    • HEPH: UK PI for the CERN-based CMS experiment and its upgrade (Davies, Tapper); UK
        PI for the US-based LUX-ZEPLIN experiment (Araujo); PI for the AION project
        (Buchmueller); and LZ Xenon Detector co-Manager (Araujo). Level-2 manager roles
        include: CMS Computing (Colling); HGCAL (Dauncey, Seez); LHCb (McCann, Patel);
        SuperNEMO (Sedgbeer); and DUNE, T2K/Hyper-K (Tapper, Uchida, Scott(M)).
    • SPAT: Comet inceptor (Galand, PI, magnetometer); Radcube (Eastwood, PI,
        magnetometer); FORUM (Brindley, Science Lead, MAG); Space Lab (Eastwood –
        Director).
    • THEO: The group is the UK lead partner in CNRS International Research Network on
        Quantum Fields and Strings (with other 80 international institutions, one of eight lead
        organisations).


 Recognition: Awards & Honours
 Our staff have received a wide range of prestigious awards and honours for their scholarship and
 outstanding contributions to the national and international science community. The following
 awards reflect the breadth of their work and efforts.

 Our staff have been awarded over 50 prizes from learned and related societies during the
 REF2021 period, including:
    • Institute of Physics: Isaac Newton Medal (Kibble); Honorary Fellow (Knight, Pendry);
        Paul Dirac (Duff); Michael Faraday Medal/Prize (Taylor, Nelson); Holweck IoP-SFP
        Medal/Prize (Galand); Glazebrook Medal/Prize (Dougherty, Virdee); Joule Medal/Prize
        (French); Paterson Medal (Maier, Kelleher); John William Strutt, Lord Rayleigh Medal/Prize
        (Stelle); Cecilia Payne-Gaposchkin Medal/Prize (Schwartz); James Chadwick Medal/Prize



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (Hall); Nevil Mott Medal/Prize (Finnis); David Tabor Medal/Prize (Sutton); Bell Burnell and
        Daphne Jackson Medal/Prizes (Wade [RA]).
    •   Royal Society: Bakerian Medal and Lecture (Hinds); Rumford Medal (Walmsley [at
        Oxford], Hess); Athena Prize (Chapman DHRF); RS Wolfson Fellowship (Merit Awards)
        (Kim(M), Graven, de Rham, Tolley).
    •   Royal Astronomical Society: Gold Medal (Dougherty); Fowler Award (Pritchard, Owen);
        Annie Maunder Medal (Trotta); Winton Geophysics Award (Stawarz [RA]); Michael
        Penston thesis prize (Alsing).

 The breadth and significance of our work is evidenced in the receipt of awards from a wider range
 of bodies: Blaise Pascal Medal (Virdee); EPS HEPP Award (Davies); EPS Quantum Electronics
 and Optics Prize for Fundamental Aspects (Pendry); IEEE Quantum Electronic Award (Taylor);
 Fellowship of IAA (Heavens, Jaffe, Mortlock, Trotta); Kavli Prize in nanoscience (Pendry); Institute
 of Measurement and Control Oxburgh Medal (Taylor); NASA Reid and Lawrence awards
 (Brindley); National Measurement Institute Prize, Australia (Vanner); Simons Foundation Award
 (de Rham); Blavatnik National Laureate (de Rham); Young Scientists (de Rham); U of Cambridge
 Adams Prize (de Rham); APS Panofsky Prize (Virdee); Outstanding Young Scientist Award of
 EGU Ocean Sciences Division (van Sebille); HO-Am prize in science, S Korea (Kim(M)); NNSA
 Defence Programs Award of Excellence (Chittenden); Philip Leverhulme Prize (Graven); Optical
 Society Herbert Walther Award (Knight).

 National Honours: During REF2021, two staff received knighthoods: Kibble for services to
 physics, and Virdee for services to science. Southwood was awarded the CBE for services to
 space science and industry, Dougherty was awarded the CBE for services to UK Physical Science
 Research, Wade was awarded the BEM for services to gender diversity in science, and Brown
 (Mechanical Instrumentation Workshop Manager), was awarded an MBE for services to science.

 Group Prizes: Our contributions to outstanding international collaborations are recognised with
 the following group achievement awards: Gruber Prize (Planck Team, Clements, Heavens, Jaffe,
 Mortlock); Giuseppe and Vanna Cocconi Medal (Planck: Jaffe, Mortlock, Clements); RAS Group
 Award (2018 Planck Team); Royal Astronomical Society Group Achievement Award (Herschel-
 SPIRE Consortium: Mortlock, Clements, Gryspeerdt); Group Achievement Award in Geophysics,
 awarded by the Royal Astronomical Society (Magnetometer Team on the Cassini Spacecraft:
 Dougherty); NASA Group Achievement Award (Dougherty, Masters, Southwood); International
 Breakthrough Prize in Fundamental Physics (Fundamental Physics Prize Foundation, Members
 of HEPH); NMI Award for Prestigious Research Collaboration of the Year, sponsored by STFC
 (Ultra Electronics, Carr).

 Named Lectures: During REF 2021, staff have delivered many prestigious lectures. UK lectures
 include: The Royal Institution Discourse (Dougherty); Bakerian Lecture (Hinds); Isaac Newton
 Medal Lecture (Stelle – in honour of Kibble); Sir Neville Mott Lecture at Loughborough (Pendry);
 Rochester Lecture, Durham (Knight); annual Imperial Schroedinger Lecture (Dougherty).
 International lectures at institutions around the world include: Distinguished Lecture GIST
 (Kim(M)); Abdus Salam Lecture (Duff); O’Raifeartaigh Lecture (Duff); Distinguished Lecture NTU
 (Hess); Trotter Prize Lecture (Duff).

 Honorary Awards: Several honorary awards have been made to Physics staff including:
 Honorary Causa (Pendry x3, Knight x5); Honorary Fellow (Melbourne University, Hinds); and
 Honorary Doctorate (Virdee x2).

 Serving the Community, Economy, and Society
 Our staff are internationally recognised for their expertise and are in demand to serve on national
 and international science, advisory and policy committees, and as international reviewers for
 national funding agencies, institutional and faculty reviews.

 UKRI and Research Council Committees: Physics staff provide significant support to UK
 Research Council activities:

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   28 of our staff have served on 25 STFC Boards, panels, advisory groups, strategic reviews
        and committees, including: 6 members of the highest-level Science committee (Science
        Board); Chairs of the Central Laser Facility (CLF) Board, CLF Access Panel, SWIMMR
        SAB, UK SKA Science Committee and Baseline Neutrino Experiment Strategic review;
        Science lead for the UK XFEL Project (Marangos).
    •   For EPSRC, staff have served on: EPSRC Council (Cohen, Walmsley); Strategic Advisory
        Board (Cohen, Gauntlett, Kim(J-S)); College of Mathematics, Science Engineering and
        Technology Board (French).
    •   For the UK Space Agency; Advisory Committees for Programmes (Dougherty as Chair;
        Heavens), Earth Observations (1) and Space Science (2).
    •   Divisional director for NERC National Centre for Earth Observation (Brindley).
    •   For UKRI: UKRI National Quantum Technology SAB (Kim(M), Knight, Walmsley); UKRI
        National Quantum Computing Centre SAC (Knight); Interim Challenge Director for
        Innovate UK and UKRI for the Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund in Quantum Technology
        (Knight).

 Committees Influencing Policy: Physics academics have served society more generally in
 policy committees including:
     • UK Space Agency steering board (Southwood)
     • Space Expert Advisory Group European Union (Southwood)
     • Science Environment Impact Group (Eastwood)
     • BEIS Quantum Expert Group Road-mapping Committee (Knight, Walmsley)
     • HMG Cabinet Office Strategy Group on Position, Navigation and Timing (Knight)
     • Triennial Review of NRAC and DNSC for MoD and Cabinet Office (Knight)
     • Government Office of Science Review (Knight)
     • All-party Parliamentary Group on Fusion Energy (Smith)
     • Expert Advisory Group on Energetic Materials (Proud)

 Besides formal committee work, our staff present at Parliamentary Select Committees (Walmsley,
 Knight) and influence climate policy through joint positions with the GI. Examples include Prime
 Minister Theresa May’s decision to announce the UK’s commitment of net zero emissions by 2050
 at Imperial College. This followed a letter from leading UK climate scientists, written and
 coordinated by Haigh in May 2019. Haigh also gave the first expert talk on Climate Science at the
 Citizens’ Climate Assembly which was requested by six committees of the House of Commons
 and has since been referenced widely by politicians.

 Fellowship of Learned Societies: Our staff support their specialist areas through membership
 and fellowships of over 130 learned societies, including 12 FRS. During the REF period: 3 Fellows
 were elected to the Royal Society (Nelson, Taylor, Cowley); 8 to the Institute of Physics; 2 to the
 Royal Microscope Society; 1 to the RAEng; 1 to the RAS; and 1 Fellow of the Norwegian Academy
 of Science and Letters. Internationally, there were new Fellows of the: Optical Society (4);
 American Physical Society; American Geophysics Union; Royal Society of SA; and Institution of
 Engineering Technology.

 Supporting Societies: During REF2021, staff have supported our learned societies by serving
 on IoP Council (Cohen) and Group committees (4). Our FRSs have supported 20 of the RS
 Committees and Panels, with other staff active on the RS URF Selection Panel (Davies, Jaffe,
 Heavens), and RS Grants Committee (Rajantie, Stelle). We have a member of the council of the
 Royal Microscopial Society (French), the Optical Society Meetings Council (French), and a Chair
 of the Optical Society (Walmsley).

 Reviewing: In addition to reviewing UKRI and ERC proposals, staff reviewed proposals for
 national funding agencies in over 30 countries. Our staff have been active in at least 33
 departmental, institution and facility reviews, with 27 of these being outside of the UK.
 Internationally, our staff have served on ESA Council, advisory councils/boards/groups (43), and
 ad hoc panels and steering committees (23). These include chairing SABs at Max Planck Institute


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Structural Dynamics, LCLS (Stanford), Quantum Matter Institute UBC (Canada), NanoGUNE,
 San Sabastian, NTT Basic Research Laboratory Atsugi (Japan).

 PhD Examining: Over half the population of our staff (67) examined a total of 247 research
 degrees at 94 different institutions during the REF2021 period, 74 of these were outside the UK.

 Support Through Training: We accept approximately 250 students per year on the MSci and
 BSc undergraduate physics courses and 125-170 students per year on Master level programmes,
 including the high-level MSc Quantum Fields and Fundamental Forces. Research groups take on
 typically 70-80 students for doctoral degrees in our research areas annually. We run training
 workshops and summer schools for PhD students, including: ICIC’s biennial Bayesian Data
 Analysis Workshop, supported by STFC and Winton Capital (80-90 students); HEPH’s Machine
 Learning & Deep Learning Course in association with Yandex; an annual Plastic Electronics CDT
 Winter School; and an annual Quantum Information Computing and Control Summer School (50-
 60 students).

 Editorships: Nine staff have served as editors for international journals including: Journal of
 Physics A (Tseytlin); Applied Physics Letters (Cohen, Editor-in-Chief); High Energy Physics
 (Gauntlett); Modern Optics (Marangos); Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society
 (Marangos); Optics Communications and Progress in Quantum Electronics (Kim(M));
 Contemporary Physics (Knight); and High Energy Density Physics (Rose). We have 9 associate
 editors (3 at Physical Review Letters), and 22 members of editorial boards.

 Conferences, Invited Reviews, and Visitors: During the REF2021 period, we organised over
 120 national and international conferences, of which 35 of our staff have acted as chair, co-chair
 or served on the Advisory Board. We have hosted more than 91 academic visitors from over 25
 countries and our staff have written over 19 review papers.


 Public Engagement
 We make it a priority to inform and inspire the public through our extensive outreach and public
 engagement activities, supported by a full-time departmental Outreach Officer and Outreach
 Coordinator. This dedicated staff resource is in recognition of the importance we place on inspiring
 the next generation of physicists but also contributing to the diversity and quality of the future
 Physics research community.

 Recognition: Richards was recognised by the US State Department for his innovative outreach
 and engagement, and toured the USA studying initiatives that supported minority students. Both
 Richards and Wade (RA) were selected for the US International Visitor Leadership Programme,
 the latter for engaging women in science. In 2019, Richards was formally elected a Fellow of the
 City & Guilds Institute of London in recognition of “unwavering support to education and training
 of young people”.

 Trotta, through his STFC Public Engagement Fellowship developed “The Hands-On Universe:
 Making Sense of the Cosmos with All your Senses”, a programme to reinterpret and understand
 big questions in cosmology and astrophysics in terms of everyday experiences. He expanded his
 work to reach non-traditional audiences, e, g with G-Astronomy: The Taste of the Cosmos for
 People with Visual Impairment and was awarded the RAS 2020 Annie Maunder Medal for his
 work.

 Schools Outreach
 The Department introduced the Insights Work Experience programme in 2012 which has
 supported 250 students from 2000 applications, with a 50:50 gender balance. Almost half of our
 Insights students apply to Imperial for further study. Insights has been replicated in other
 departments across the College and been adopted by the Universities of York and Nottingham.




                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department Women in Physics Open Day: Over 2000 female students have attended since
 inception in 2013. We also run an annual Physics Easter School with 60-80 places available to
 Year 12 pupils from a diverse range of backgrounds in West London. We developed a six-week
 structured Tutored Maths Programme in 2015 for Year 12 and 13 students supported by the Amos
 Bursary, set up to support students of African and Caribbean heritage. This has now evolved into
 the AiMS (Accelerate into Maths and Science) programme, administered by the College Centrally
 with Richards and Tymms as academic leads.

 Blackett Academy: The COVID-19 pandemic has affected educational systems worldwide. We
 recognised the impact this would have on young students and in response setup the ‘Blackett
 Academy’ – an online tutoring scheme designed to support Year 10-13 state school pupils in South
 Kensington and White City with their learning. We approached 50 schools in the local area that
 had indicators of high numbers of widening participation students which led to 100 students from
 15 schools participating. Based on the positive feedback received from teachers and students, we
 aim to expand the scheme.


 Community Outreach & STEM Initiatives
 As part of our commitment to widening participation and improving access to our research and
 teaching activities, the Department delivers talks and workshops to a variety of community groups
 and a wide range of audiences including young people, their parents, carers and wider families to
 help build their science capital. Some of these groups include:
     • NOVA: a charity based in North Kensington that provides skills and employment training
        for local disadvantaged families. We conducted events, such as ‘Discovery Days’, at the
        Invention Rooms in White City where a full day of events was organised around a research
        topic such as ‘Climate Change’ or ‘Quantum Physics’. We have continued to engage online
        with events such as ‘Solar’ and ‘Rocket’ discovery days through the pandemic.
     • STEM the Violence: an organisation that uses STEM engagement to inspire young people
        to develop their interests and set them on a path away from knife and gang crime and back
        into education and the workplace.
     • Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea and Hammersmith and Fulham Council
        work with us on activities to engage with young people in the community, such as the Youth
        Takeover Challenge Day 2019, held at Stamford Bridge stadium, where 130 young people
        from the community shared views on crucial issues such as mental health, knife crime and
        employability. Eastwood and Foster represented the Department and College, discussing
        the latest Space Science research and education and employment opportunities.
     • Phoenix Space: a non-profit organisation focused on providing STEM education based
        around the topic of Space Science to refugee and disadvantaged students in the Middle
        East to help improve their life outcomes.
     • Accelerate Mentoring: a student-led initiative setup by Physics Masters student Jasneet
        Kaur which aims to support students from BAME backgrounds and other underrepresented
        groups who wish to pursue a STEM-based degree and career, by providing mentors, role
        models and resources to help the students achieve their potential and improve diversity in
        education and the workplace.

 Quantum City: In partnership with the UK Quantum Technologies Programme, QOLS assisted in
 the development of the ‘Welcome to the Quantum City’ aimed at helping students and the public
 understand current and future quantum technologies. In 2018 and 2019, the Department toured
 the activity nationwide, e.g. Cheltenham Science Festival and New Scientist Live. This culminated
 in the ‘Quantum in the City’ event at the Royal Institution, co-organised by Foster.

 Exhibitions: The Great Exhibition Road Festival has steadily grown since its inception in 2012 to
 an audience in 2018 of over 20,000. The Department has been heavily involved by delivering
 talks, workshops, pop-up stands, and planning and development. Foster gave the opening
 address at the 2014 Festival.



                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Department frequently gives talks at local societies and is a regular contributor to the RS
 Summer Exhibition (participating between 2015-2019), the Science Museum Lates, and the White
 City W12 Festival in 2016 and 2017. The Department also appointed an artist-in-residence,
 Geraldine Cox, who won the American Institute of Physics (AIP) Gemant Award in 2020 for her
 depiction of complex scientific concepts through a variety of artistic media.




                                                                                        Page 26
