Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: King’s College London

 Unit of Assessment: 23

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Context and Strategy

 Education research at King’s, which is predominantly located in the School of Education,
 Communication and Society (ECS) in the Faculty of Social Science and Public Policy, works for
 the public good by addressing the social, cultural, linguistic, political and pedagogic dimensions
 of education, professional practice and social change. ECS has 71 academic, research- and
 education-focused staff and registers over 660 new students annually across its undergraduate,
 Masters and doctoral programmes.

 The School has a longstanding commitment to approaching education through an expansive
 lens, analysing education policies and processes within wider policy and social processes, and
 deploying multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary perspectives to understand and help shape
 learning, identity formation and participation in diverse global and local contexts. Its key strategic
 aims formulated in 2014 and achieved in this assessment period were to:

    1. Extend, develop and deploy our expertise in education, professional practice and social
       change, and advance theory and methodology in feeder disciplines such as sociology,
       linguistics and applied philosophy.

    2. Increase our capacity to address major contemporary processes affecting education and
       professional life by enhancing the interactions and synergies between ECS’ Research
       Centres.

    3. Connect with policymakers and practitioners, informing and challenging existing policy
       and practice, and supporting institutions, professionals and others in more critical
       reflection and effective engagement with policy, practice and social change.

 ECS has achieved these aims by continuing to support its successful Research Centres, while at
 the same time pursuing greater synergies through developing a shared framework of
 overarching Research Themes alongside School-wide policies and practices to support
 collegiality, inclusivity, sustainability, scholarly development and exchange. The Centres are the
 units through which staff are mentored, developed and challenged, and the Themes support
 cross-School collaboration and strategic coherence.


 Organisational Structure and Achievements

 The organisational structure provided by the Centres and Themes enables interdisciplinary
 working and a vibrant culture of grassroots collegiality and formal and informal mentoring; e.g.,
 there are regular meetings in which colleagues share and comment on draft papers, funding
 bids, and research and impact plans. Scholarly exchange is also supported by an extensive set
 of seminar series and workshops (see Section 2). School level activities have been extended in
 this period by the creation of: the Centre for Innovation in Teacher Education and
 Development in collaboration with Teachers College, Columbia University; a new cross-College
 Computing Education Research Centre; and the King’s International Education Research
 Network.




                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ECS’ Research Centres

 The Centre for Research in Education in Science, Technology, Engineering and
 Mathematics (CRESTEM) (Lead: Healy) undertakes research on teaching, learning and
 engagement with STEM. This includes large-scale quantitative studies examining the effects of
 pedagogical interventions, critical sociological analyses of trends in STEM participation,
 experimental research on effective pedagogies in Western and Confucian heritage classrooms,
 and micro-genetic analyses of learners’ STEM trajectories. The creation of a new Maker Space
 within ECS during this period has enabled researchers to study emerging pedagogies around
 making and tinkering. The Centre has also continued to build on its long-held interest in
 pedagogy and participation in museums, outdoor settings and HE environments. CRESTEM
 members work with teachers and informal educators as co-researchers and support the UK
 STEM community by taking leading roles in subject associations, museum advisory boards and
 wildlife trusts. They also share research findings and encourage the adoption of new practices
 through ECS’ PGCE and MA programmes and work closely with policy makers (the Royal
 Societies, teaching associations, advocacy groups, NGOs and examination boards).

 The Centre for Language, Discourse and Communication (LDC) (Leads: Georgakopoulou,
 Szczepek Reed) conducts research in language education, sociolinguistics and discourse
 studies. It provides empirically informed, conceptual accounts of the global implications of
 mobility and migration for language learning, citizenship and social inclusion, as well as for
 changes in (multi)lingual identity construction in everyday, professional and online settings.
 Since 2014, the Centre has strengthened its capacity in linguistic theory and knowledge
 exchange in relation to urban multi-ethnic communities, first and second language acquisition,
 discourse and conversation analysis in global and diverse settings, and international health and
 risk communication. In addition, longstanding programmes of work have been strengthened,
 including in school English pedagogy, language education in linguistically diverse societies,
 genre-based academic literacy instruction, linguistic ethnography and urban multilingualism. The
 impact of LDC research is underpinned by partnerships with a range of third-sector
 organisations such as the Bell Foundation, Causeway Education, English for Action and the
 Water Research Foundation.

 The Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR) (Leads: Cribb, Gewirtz) is an interdisciplinary
 research centre committed to supporting professional practice and informing national and
 international public policy debate. With particular strengths in sociology and applied philosophy,
 its scholarship critically illuminates policy processes and effects in a range of global and local
 contexts and policy and practice settings. As well as making interdisciplinary contributions to the
 analysis of curriculum, pedagogy and assessment practices in formal education contexts, its
 research encompasses work-related policies and practices in health and social care, youth work
 and the cultural sector. The Centre has longstanding interests in the study of equality and social
 justice, public service restructuring, and knowledge, values and ethics in the workplace. Its
 research is designed and conducted in collaboration with a diverse range of policy and practice
 partners (e.g., Department for Education, NHS England, the National Education Union, Plan
 International, Terre des Hommes, TPO Uganda and UNESCO).


 Research Themes, Scholarly Contributions and Impact

 The School’s expansive approach to education was crystallised in its new title, Education,
 Communication and Society, when the Department became a School of the College in 2016,
 further cementing the importance and influence of education research at King’s. This title and
 the architecture of the School’s aims and interests were co-produced by School members and
 are embodied in its four cross-cutting Research Themes: Curriculum, Pedagogy &
 Assessment; Professionalism & Workplace Practice; Globalisation & Identity; and
 Diversity, Inclusion & Social Justice. These mobilise the breadth of disciplinary and
 professional expertise within and across Research Centres.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Curriculum, Pedagogy & Assessment

 Work in this theme has interrogated and contributed constructively to curriculum and
 assessment policy in the UK and internationally, probing and illuminating the relationship
 between epistemological and practical questions. For example:

       Research on assessment validation has problematised the validity of PISA assessments
        and demonstrated more robust approaches to validity (Pepper: ESRC PhD 2010-14).

       Mixed methods research, funded by the National Union of Teachers to inform their policy
        advice to government, has critically illuminated diverse effects of recent key stage 4
        reforms on school subject hierarchies, resource allocation, conceptions of student worth
        and young people’s mental health (Gewirtz, Maguire, Towers: NUT award £12K 2016).

       Research highlighting the shortcomings of existing tools for assessing English as an
        Additional Language (EAL) proficiency has fed into the construction of a new assessment
        framework, which is being recommended by governments and used in classrooms
        around the world (Leung: Bell Foundation award £40K 2018-20).

       Research critiquing the technicist framing of, and proposing new principles for,
        environmental education has informed the policies of examination boards and grassroots
        organisations (Glackin, King: British Academy award £10K 2017-19).

       Research on the challenges of crossing subject boundaries has developed new cross-
        disciplinary approaches for increasing the permeability of the science-religion boundary
        for students (Brock) and research-based resources for supporting science and
        mathematics teachers to work across subjects (Glackin: AstraZeneca award £10K 2012-
        14).

       Collaborative research with the informal learning sector has illuminated how the
        pedagogy of making can support new ways of engaging with and learning STEM-related
        knowledge in both the formal sector and museum contexts (Greer, King, Rushton: EU
        Horizon 2020 award £218K 2018-21; Fondazione Rocca award £12K 2019-22).


 Professionalism & Workplace Practice

 Research on this theme has built on ECS’ long-standing interest in undertaking inter-sectoral
 research on the roles, identities, values and practices of public service professionals to
 strengthen workplace professionalism. For example:

       A substantial programme of research on health communication and risk has used
        linguistic analysis to optimise the effectiveness of professional communication about
        water safety, feeding directly into the guidelines of water and health authorities around
        the world (Rundblad, Tang: Water Research Foundation awards £118K 2011-13, £61K
        2015-19).

       Projects conducted in partnership with agencies engaged in patient and professional
        education have integrated applied philosophy, literature-based and qualitative methods
        to propose novel conceptualisations of person-centred care and support for self-
        management (Cribb, Owens: Health Foundation awards £66K 2013-15, £202K 2013-
        18).

       Two ESRC-funded studies have explicated the damaging impact of dominant evaluation
        and monitoring practices in youth work and mobilised youth participatory research to


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        propose more equitable and nuanced approaches to accountability that have informed
        UK policy and national and international youth work practice (de St Croix, Doherty:
        ESRC award £218K 2018-21; de St Croix: ESRC PhD 2011-14).

       Ethnographic research has challenged understandings of school gentrification as a
        hegemonic process, illuminating its diverse effects on leadership, teachers’ work and
        staff-community relationships, and producing new theorisations of the reproduction of
        classed and racialised inequalities in urban education (Mansaray).

       A suite of international projects on assessing inquiry and practical skills in STEM subjects
        have elucidated the value of formative assessment for students and teachers and
        strategies for effectively embedding it in practice (Harrison: EU Horizon 2020 awards
        £264K 2012-16, £395K 2013-16; SSHRC award £14K 2017-21; Wellcome award £127K
        2018-21).

       Pedagogical research in modern language and English teaching has harnessed historical
        perspectives on language learning as a tool for teacher development and compared the
        constraints and affordances shaping the professional practice of English teachers in
        different countries (Coffey, Gibbons, Marshall).

       A family of projects strengthening professional pedagogies for writing include research
        on collaborative web-based writing in English as a Foreign Language (Jones), writing in
        English subject classrooms (Gibbons), assignment writing at university (Wingate: UniSA
        award £7K 2018-20), and promoting undergraduates’ critical thinking (O’Halloran).


 Globalisation & Identity

 Work in this theme advances understandings of the global dimensions of education
 policymaking and the implications for education of mobility, migration, and shifting notions of
 personhood and citizenship. For example:

       Historical research on the role of UNESCO and the OECD in global education
        governance has analysed the ideological struggles between emancipatory and
        technocratic world views, shedding new light on contemporary policy settlements (Elfert:
        National Academy of Education/Spencer Foundation award $70K 2019-21).

       Work on the edu-business market has developed and applied a network ethnography
        approach to chart the dynamics and evolution of a global education policy community
        and the role of venture capitalism in education reform (Santori).

       A methodologically innovative, large-scale study of educational, occupational and other
        outcomes of migration for three generations of Turkish migrants has produced a new
        model for assessing the ‘costs’ and ‘benefits’ of migration (Bayrakdar).

       The application of a critical ‘small stories’ perspective and corpus linguistics to better
        understand how modes of social media self-presentation amongst young people
        construct social relationships has illuminated the tensions between the rhetoric of global
        social media corporations and the affordances offered to users to story their identity
        (Georgakopoulou: EU Horizon 2020 £101K 2014-19).

       A series of projects on language learning have contributed new understandings of
        citizenship, territoriality and belonging. This work includes: analyses of the construction
        of British identity and citizenship in Arabic heritage language schools (Szczepek Reed,
        Bengsch); ethnographic research on adult language socialisation in the Sri Lankan
        diaspora (Rampton, Sankaran: Leverhulme award £228K 2015-18) and on the fragile


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        informal pedagogies of language learning in transcultural community encounters
        involving migrants (Dawes); and work on ESOL as a medium for activist citizenship
        (Cooke). This research is linked to the creation of a Hub for Education and Language
        Diversity that works with third-sector organisations to serve TESOL teachers and
        language learners across London (Cooke, Leung, Rampton).

       A programme of comparative research relevant to understanding children’s conceptual
        development has revealed unexpected cross-linguistic similarities and differences in the
        relationship between language and thought, and in the use of language for interactional
        politeness and structure (Hohenstein, Ogiermann, Szczepek Reed).


 Diversity, Inclusion & Social Justice

 Work in this theme seeks to analytically capture and respond to inequalities in access to and
 experiences of learning, personal development and social participation. For example:

       A major programme of research on science capital, diversity and inclusion in science
        education has elucidated and tackled structural inequalities in access to science learning
        and careers, with substantial impact on PISA, governments’ STEM participation
        strategies and public science engagement. This work combines sociology, feminist
        theory and science pedagogy to deconstruct the discourses that reproduce legitimate
        performance in science as white and masculine and develop more inclusive pedagogic
        approaches for use in schools and informal settings (Archer, deWitt, King: BP award
        £1.6M 2012-17; ESRC award £842K 2014-17; King: Primary Science Teachers
        Trust/Ogden Trust award £13K 2019-21).

       Research on access to STEM subjects includes: work with blind students that shows how
        using tangible digital and/or physical objects can encourage valid and unconventional
        expressions of mathematics and computing concepts (Healy, Finesilver: Microsoft
        award £31K 2017-21); and the use of haptic feedback and drawing to teach concepts in
        biology (Webb: Leverhulme award £92K 2015-18; Hay).

       An EEF-funded study combining large-scale survey and qualitative data has elucidated
        the role of setting in the reproduction of classed and racialised power relations within
        schools, using a Bourdieusian lens to foreground the perspectives of those most
        disadvantaged by the practice (Archer, Pepper: EEF award £1.1M 2014-16).

       Research in applied linguistics has been used to underpin cultural inclusion in the
        construction of risk messages, providing insights into how to frame severe weather
        warnings that are effective for minoritized populations (Tang: ESRC PhD 2013-17).

       A suite of qualitative studies aimed at developing culturally sensitive understandings of
        how to better support marginalised and vulnerable children and young people have been
        conducted in the UK and the global South. These comprise analyses of the educational
        attainment of looked after young people, child protection, child marriage and young
        motherhood, which have strengthened the professional development of social workers
        and NGO and INGO policy development (Driscoll: Leverhulme award £10K 2016-18;
        ESRC £72K 2017-19; Hutchinson: British Academy award £16K 2020 [delayed by
        COVID]).

       Mixed methods research on opportunity structures in Chinese higher education has
        illuminated the effects of policy change on regional and gender inequalities and how
        these are sustained by discourses of meritocracy (Liu: SRHE award 3K).




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Governance

 ECS’ Research and Impact Strategy is steered by the School Research Committee, which
 comprises the School Research Lead, Head of School, Head of School Administration, Faculty
 Research Development Manager, School Research Manager, Leads for Impact, Peer Review,
 and Ethics & Research Integrity, Research Centre Leads and representatives of early career,
 research and education staff. The School Research Committee acts as a hub for School-wide
 planning centred on the four Research Themes, ensures compliance with research ethics and
 governance procedures, provides its own seed funding, and supports the development of grant
 applications (see Section 3).




 Figure 1. Governance structure


 Supporting Impact

 During this period, ECS has further embedded structures and processes to support impact. The
 School Impact Lead (King) is linked to the impact infrastructure of the College (see REF5a) and
 supports colleagues seeking to develop impact and/or optimise the impact of their research.
 Working alongside mentors and proposal peer reviewers, she provides advice on ensuring that
 impact is integrated into research planning and design and helps devise tailored approaches to
 impact for specific projects. Additional support on devising pathways to impact and impact
 evaluation approaches is provided by the College’s Research Engagement Manager and the
 King’s Engaged Researcher Network, which offers peer support and access to public
 engagement networks and resources. A new School Communications Officer role was created in
 2016 as part of a Faculty Comms Network to strengthen professional services support for
 knowledge exchange and public and professional engagement. Since 2014, the impact-related
 expertise of staff has also been strengthened through staff development and the salience given
 in new appointments to strong and international impact track records (see Section 2).

 The School’s overarching approach to impact has been to embed partnership working with
 policy and practice stakeholders as a School norm. This approach, which means that attention to
 wider social purposes is embedded in every stage of the work, is evidenced in ECS’ impact case
 studies. Such partnership working is underpinned by a number of practical mechanisms,
 including access to impact funds, encouragement (and advice on how) to co-design research
 with stakeholders, inclusion of stakeholders in advisory groups and the life of the school, and the
 hosting of knowledge exchange and dissemination events (see Sections 3 and 4).


 Future Strategy and Plans

 ECS’ future research and impact strategy, as elaborated in its 2019 strategic plan, aims to:



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Produce world-leading education research by strengthening and sharing ECS’
       disciplinary and interdisciplinary expertise in social science theory and methodology.

    2. Increase influence and impact on societal agendas by undertaking research that
       supports professional practice and development and informs policy responses to the
       emerging (post-COVID) social and economic landscape.

    3. Promote new collaborations across disciplines, sectors and national boundaries to
       underpin the quality and impact of research in ECS and to extend its international
       relevance and reach.

 The School’s research planning is based on continuity of organisational structure (i.e., the three
 Research Centres and four Research Themes), maintaining a collegiate and inclusive working
 environment, continued recruitment of outstanding researchers, and robust and meaningful
 structures of support and development (see Section 2). Examples of ongoing and planned work,
 in many cases with funding already secured, include:


 Curriculum, Pedagogy & Assessment

       Theoretical and applied contributions to the construction of inclusive STEM disciplines
        and assessments based on analyses of STEM learning and knowledge as embodied,
        affective and aesthetic.

       A Nuffield Foundation-funded exploration of female participation and performance in
        computer science.

       An extension project with the Bell Foundation to further strengthen EAL assessment in
        schools.


 Professionalism & Workplace Practice

       ESRC-funded research on mitigating the impact of COVID-19 disruption on the quality
        and retention of trainee and newly qualified secondary teachers and teacher wellbeing.

       ESRC and Wellcome-funded work on the theorisation of quality in education, healthcare
        and youth work that conceptualises and applies more user-led evaluations of what
        counts as success in these professional fields.

       Philosophical analyses of the phenomenology of moral decision-making and the role/rule
        structural characteristics of professional ethics.


 Globalisation & Identity

       Work on the history of educational planning in developing countries and the globalisation
        of lifelong learning as an educational vision and strategy.

       Sociological analyses of political struggles around socialisation and identity formation
        seen through an affective lens on borders and migration.

       EU-funded comparative research on the cultural logic of resistance to neoliberal
        education policies in Russia, Sweden and the UK.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Diversity, Inclusion & Social Justice

       An ESRC-funded mapping and analysis of the landscape of opportunity for young people
        not on a university path, applying a new methodological approach integrating critical
        sociology, policy analysis and philosophical debates about justice.

       ESRC-funded research to address social learning about the COVID-19 crisis in ethnic
        minority communities with oral traditions.

       A history of dyslexia illuminating contests about its existence, construction and policy
        responses.

 2. People

 Our submission comprises 51 ECS-affiliated staff including four from other units: International
 Development (Liu, Sukarieh); Defence Studies (Hay); and the Policy Institute (Cook). ECS also
 has 27 non-eligible research and education staff who are fully integrated into the research
 culture of the School.


 Staffing Strategy and Recruitment

 ECS’ staffing strategy is guided by the philosophy that a vibrant research culture based on
 collegiality, inclusion, equality and empowerment is the best foundation for excellence in
 teaching, research and impact. Robust staff support mechanisms, clear governance processes,
 and a commitment to transparency, dialogue and collective reflexivity are the hallmarks of this
 culture. Our strategy, formulated in 2014 and refreshed in 2019, aims to:

    1. Recruit outstanding international scholars to uphold and enhance the quality, impact and
       reach of our research.

    2. Embed and extend our research capacity-building infrastructure to support the
       development of our staff and students.

    3. Create an inclusive, diverse and supportive research environment that ensures equality
       in career progression, provides expansive opportunities for staff to flourish, and helps to
       sustain employment longevity.

 The creation of ECS as a School in 2016 followed a College review of the former Department of
 Education and Professional Studies, resulting in increased investment around ECS’ three core
 areas of strength - STEM education; language education and communication; policy and social
 justice - with its Theology research and teaching relocated to the Theology and Religious
 Studies Department.

 Since 2014, ECS has appointed 24 staff on academic (teaching+research) contracts (including
 14 new posts). These posts evidence King’s commitment to invest in and steadily expand
 education research within the College and have also enabled the School to diversify its staffing.
 In addition, 27 research staff have been appointed during this period (including with funding from
 EEFx4, EUx7, ESRCx4, Leverhulmex2, and Wellcomex3).

 Eight of these appointments were senior staff, strengthening leadership in the Research Centres
 and Research Themes. Healy (Professor) and Danielsson (Reader) joined CRESTEM, bringing
 additional expertise in Diversity, Inclusion & Social Justice with particular interests in inclusive
 mathematics and science pedagogies. Kutnick (Professor) and King (Reader) also
 strengthened CRESTEM, bringing expertise in Curriculum, Pedagogy & Assessment, particularly
 engineering education and informal science learning. Szczepek Reed (Professor) and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Georgakopoulou (Professor) joined LDC, strengthening research capability in Globalisation &
 Identity, and bringing new expertise in phonology and conversation analysis, and narrative
 analysis and social media, respectively. Ellis (Professor) and Coate (Reader) joined CPPR,
 strengthening ECS’ profile in Professionalism & Workplace Practice, specifically in HE policy and
 practice, and teacher education and development. These appointments extended capacity for
 mentoring and helped strengthen cross-School activity and School leadership, most notably in
 the case of Szczepek Reed who was appointed as Head of School.

 These appointments also included 5 mid-career academics of international standing and 14
 outstanding ECRs, underpinned by a new consolidated MA Education, new Masters routes in
 International Education and STEM Education, the expansion of ECS’ language-oriented MA
 programmes, and a new BA Social Sciences. These appointments enriched expertise in
 Curriculum, Pedagogy & Assessment (Brock, Gibbons, King, Pepper), Professionalism &
 Workplace Practice (de St Croix, Knapton, Mansaray, Mitchell, Tang), Globalisation & Identity
 (Ancarno, Elfert, Hutchinson, Puig-Mayenco, Santori) and Diversity, Inclusion & Social
 Justice (Bayrakdar, Dawes, Finesilver, Gurney, Meloni).

 Together, these new colleagues have broadened ECS’ methodological repertoire, bringing
 strengths in quantitative methods, corpus linguistics, network analysis, micro-genetic methods,
 participatory research, and socio-cognitive discourse analysis. A large proportion have
 experience of research and impact-related activities in national and international systems and
 organisations beyond the UK, including in the Global South.

 Targeting ECRs, who make up 28% of our submission, has allowed us to re-balance the
 School’s age profile, with the majority of new staff aged under 40. With the appointment of
 significantly more women than men, the staff composition is now majority women, with more
 women than men occupying senior posts. When recruiting staff, formal and informal efforts are
 made to encourage applications from under-represented groups, e.g., through advertising, use
 of search panels and circulating invitations and job details through relevant networks.
 Consequently, ECS has seen a shift in the ethnic composition and national diversity of staff, with
 an increase from 9.8% to 13.2% in colleagues identifying as BAME and in non-UK nationals
 from 23.4 to 28.2%, with 15 different nationalities now represented. Efforts to increase the
 diversity of staff continue (see below).

 Also during this period, 11 ECS staff (including 5 researchers) previously on temporary contracts
 have gained permanent contracts. In total, 88.2% of UoA23 staff submitted are on permanent
 contracts (Table 2.1), compared to 83.5% in the previous assessment.

  Contract                           Teaching+research staff                 Research staff
  Permanent                                 36.5FTE                              1FTE
  Fixed-term                                 3FTE                                2FTE

 Table 2.1. Permanent vs fixed-term contracts in UoA23


 Staff Development and Support

 Appraisals, Mentoring and Personal Development

 Staff development and support are core components of the School’s ethos and pervade its
 practices. All new staff participate in a process of School and College induction and are
 assigned an appraiser (or probation mentor for staff on probation) with whom they work in a
 developmental spirit, meeting at least once a year to set and review objectives, and identify
 training and support needs. The Faculty Academic Performance Framework, which summarises
 indicative expectations for staff, informs these conversations. The Framework, which is regularly
 reviewed, excludes criteria that may disadvantage some groups (e.g., travel for conferences and
 networking may be difficult for staff with caring responsibilities and/or mobility issues). Appraisal

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 meeting records are reviewed by the Head of School with a view to planning training, reviewing
 workloads and encouraging promotion applications.

 In addition, ECS has its own complementary mentoring policy, which covers both formalised and
 structured mentoring (separate to appraisal) and the on-going, organic and more open-ended
 mentoring typical of School life. This reflexive balancing of formal and informal support and
 development is a key feature of ECS’ democratic culture. All staff – including Professors if they
 wish and ECS-affiliated staff in other departments – are provided with a mentor. Mentors are
 usually a senior colleague within the same Research Centre. Staff whose research is
 predominantly interdisciplinary can have two mentors, and staff with protected characteristics
 can access additional mentoring through College mentoring schemes (see REF5a). Mentoring is
 mentee-centred, encompasses support for all aspects of work, and is confidential.

 Staff regularly access the extensive professional development opportunities offered by the
 College including training on: EDI (required for many roles, e.g., participation in appointment
 panels and REF output selection, and compulsory for staff seeking promotion); research
 proposal development; mentoring and leadership. College sponsored leadership programmes
 accessed by ECS staff in the period include the Aurora Women’s Leadership Programme, and
 King’s own programmes: Headstart (for new Heads of Department), Leading Researchers, and
 Emerging Leaders (see REF5a). ECS staff have also benefited from impact training provided by
 the School and the Policy Institute.

 In addition to termly cross-School seminars and biennial School Research Away Days, ECS
 Research Centres organise a diverse range of research seminars on themes including STEM
 learning, language education, policy and professional practice, multilingual contexts and
 identities, and social justice. The School Research Lead (Rundblad) routinely canvasses staff
 for their research training needs and organises regular Research Methods Workshops (e.g.,
 online experimental data collection, participatory action research) that are open to all staff and
 research students, while Centres offer additional specialist theory and methods workshops.

 All staff have an annual personal budget, currently £1,100, to support discretionary research
 expenditure. This is complemented by a £15,000 annual fund maintained by the School
 Executive with a priority to strategically promote participation in international conferences and
 open access publication. Those with active grants are given a proportion of research overheads
 of up to £3,000 annually to support related research activities. For those with caring
 responsibilities, King’s Carers’ Career Development Fund supports conference attendance (with
 a total of £3,000 available to staff and postgraduates per annum) and King’s Parents’ and
 Carer’s Fund provides up to £10K to support return to research after periods of family/caring
 leave.


 Working Patterns, Workloads and Sabbaticals

 ECS welcomes part-time and flexible working. Seven staff opted to change to part-time during
 this period, resulting in a total of 22 staff (31%) being part-time. The School is sensitive to the
 extra demands that can arise from not being full-time and other personal circumstances such as
 caring responsibilities, e.g., not expecting staff to attend all meetings, while ensuring they are
 kept up to date.

 A key aspect of King’s strategy for promoting a research environment with a high level of
 participation is giving teaching+research staff a basic allocation of 40% of their time for research.
 The Faculty has a Workload Allocation Model that places equal value on the different elements
 of academic work (research, education, impact and service) and enables monitoring of EDI
 progress. Workload allocations are formally reviewed annually, but also adjusted on an ongoing
 basis to address inequities and any obstacles preventing staff from realising their research and
 impact plans. All staff receive a 20% education workload reduction while on probation, and those


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with substantial grant funding (covering 20% of contracted hours) have additional time
 allocated to research. Male and female staff have equal average teaching loads.

 Permanent and fixed-term staff are eligible to apply for a one-term sabbatical after three years of
 qualifying service. The School professors (who meet bi-annually as an advisory staffing
 committee) proactively encourage sabbaticals with a particular focus on staff who are
 constrained by duties that can make sabbaticals difficult. During the period, 24 staff have taken
 sabbaticals for periods of between one and three terms, supported by funding for teaching cover
 whenever needed, with gender and full-time/part-time ratios proportionate to those in the whole
 staff population.


 Promotions

 There is a clear and transparent promotions process, and staff are proactively encouraged to
 discuss promotion plans with their mentor, appraiser and Head of School. The Faculty holds
 annual promotion workshops where recently successful applicants share insights and examples.
 King’s has systematic, respectful and confidential processes to ensure that staff with protected
 characteristics and other personal circumstances are encouraged to seek promotion and
 supported in doing so. In addition, ECS has an established system of hands-on support for
 promotion applications, with formal feedback and informal guidance and editing suggestions
 provided by the Head of School and the advisory staffing committee. This close engagement
 with individual applications has resulted in all promotion applications in the period being
 successful: one to Professor, five to Reader, six to Senior Lecturer, one to Senior Teaching
 Fellow, and one to Research Fellow. The 2020 promotions round and two further successful
 applications (one to Professor and one to Senior Lecturer) were delayed by COVID beyond the
 REF census date. The School’s active work towards equitable career progression has resulted
 in a high proportion of women achieving promotion (10 women and 3 men from an overall staff
 population of 45 women and 26 men). These efforts, combined with the introduction of gender
 balanced recruitment panels, have successfully addressed past gender inequalities within the
 school, with gender no longer a significant predictor of contract type and grade.


 ECR Staff

 As well as bespoke induction events and training, mentoring for ECRs pays particular attention
 to supporting their scholarly plans and publications and the crafting of research bids. There is
 also a regular writing workshop for ECRs run by Visiting Professor Pat Mahony. In addition,
 ECRs are given opportunities to take on leadership roles while being shielded from excessive
 pressures, e.g., by senior staff acting as co-leads in programme and committee leadership.
 ECRs can and do take advantage of the leadership and other training opportunities described
 above. As well as fully participating in every aspect of School business and governance, ECRs
 as a group are supported to review their needs and the School and College provision offered to
 them, and to help shape School policies by reporting and making recommendations at School
 away days and meetings, and through their formal representation on the School Research
 Committee.


 Research Staff

 In line with the principles of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 staff holding postdoctoral fellowships and staff funded by research grants are fully integrated into
 the school and given opportunities to undertake training and gain experience in teaching,
 administration, and other activities that support their career progression. Teaching hours either
 form part of their personal development time allocation or are paid pro-rata. Researchers are
 encouraged to take advantage of the training provided by the Centre for Research Staff
 Development (CRSD; see REF5a), including on leadership, career progression, research skills,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact, media training, and personal wellbeing, and CRSD staff regularly hold drop-in sessions
 in ECS. As well as serving on School committees and working groups as individuals, research
 staff meet as a Research Staff Group both for peer support and to ensure their voice is active on
 the School Research Committee and at School meetings where they are formally represented.
 Research staff who are not yet research independent are supported to pursue independent
 scholarship, for example, through participation in academic networks, sole or lead authoring
 publications, and initiating research proposals. Wherever possible, bridging funds are made
 available to enable employment continuity.


 Education Staff

 Education staff benefit from exactly the same processes of inclusion, staff support, and
 development as presented above, including the right to apply for sabbaticals. They have 20%
 protected time for scholarship, are members of one of more of the Research Centres, and are
 formally represented on the School Research Committee.


 Research Students

 Recruitment and Student Profile

 This period saw a strategic realignment of our doctoral provision and the introduction of a new
 recruitment policy. In order to improve the student experience and completion rates, we made
 the difficult decision to phase out our professional doctorate programmes and limit recruitment to
 the three PhD routes that represent our core strengths (Education Research; Language,
 Discourse & Communication; and Interdisciplinary Policy Studies). This policy has enabled us to
 better integrate research students into the day-to-day activities of the School and pay increased
 attention in recruitment both to outstanding academic and, where relevant, professional track
 records and to broader concerns, such as student diversity and inclusion. Recruitment is based
 on at least one interview and typically a series of exchanges to elicit candidates’ interests,
 existing capabilities, training needs, and any special circumstances or support needs. We have a
 diverse cohort of students, comprising in 2019/20: 70% female; 33% BAME; 49% non-UK
 nationals representing 23 different nationalities; with 55% part-time (N=81).


 Funding

 Over the period, more than 40 research students have benefited from studentships, including 24
 ESRC, 5 AHRC, 1 EPSRC/Microsoft, 2 Leverhulme (project-linked), and 13 ECS/King’s
 studentships. Several other students have been funded through sources such as Google, The
 Brilliant Club, the Edge Foundation, and the Department for International Development, along
 with 22 funded by overseas governments.


 Supervision

 Each research student has at least two academic supervisors who benefit from professional
 development offered by King’s Centre for Doctoral Studies (CDS), which acts as a hub for
 supervisor support, resources and training, including compulsory new supervisor and refresher
 workshops. Within ECS, new supervisors are mentored by more experienced supervisors until
 they have seen at least one doctorate to completion. Three ECS colleagues’ have been awarded
 King’s Supervisory Excellence Awards: Maguire (2017), Jones (2018), and King (2020).

 Student progress is monitored bi-annually, providing a formal opportunity to review
 achievements, set goals, and identify and discuss training needs and career development plans.
 This process is overseen by ECS’ Research Student Programme Team and monitored by the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Faculty Associate Dean and Registry Services. On average, within the period, completion rates
 are the same irrespective of students’ gender, ethnicity, nationality, and whether they are full-
 time or part-time; and, since the new recruitment policy took effect, all research students have
 submitted their theses on time, i.e., within 4 years if FT and within 8 years if PT.

      Year               Professional Doctorates                PhDs                Total
     2013/14                      6.50                          23.50               30.00
     2014/15                      5.50                          18.00               23.50
     2015/16                      5.25                          23.50               28.75
     2016/17                      3.00                          22.00               25.00
     2017/18                      7.00                          27.25               34.25
     2018/19                      6.00                          24.25               30.25
     2019/20                      8.00                          10.00               18.00

 Table 2.2. Doctoral degrees awarded (with fractions reflecting students co-supervised with other
 UoAs)


 Training and Support

 ECS provides a rich training and support environment for students, including structured training,
 Research Centre membership, and participation in and leadership of research meetings,
 activities and events. The MPhil/PhD training programme includes a dedicated ECS foundation
 programme, complemented by training provided by the London Interdisciplinary Social
 Sciences Doctoral Training Partnership (LISS-DTP), a collaboration between King’s, Imperial
 and Queen Mary University; and CDS. LISS-DTP provides the full range of ESRC-approved
 core and advanced methods training covering qualitative, quantitative and mixed approaches,
 epistemology and knowledge exchange. All students are affiliated to at least one ECS Research
 Centre and to one of two LISS-DTP training pathways that ECS co-hosts: Education, Mind and
 Society and Linguistics, Media and Culture. This means students are embedded within
 vibrant research communities, co-producing, and in many cases leading, both internal and
 outward-facing staff-student seminars and workshops supported by dedicated and
 collaboratively managed pathway budgets (£6,000 per annum per pathway). Examples include
 regular research student conferences, the student-led Radical Education Group, a Creative
 Academic Writing Group, and workshops on decolonising methodologies, facilitation skills and
 social interaction analysis. Research students are also supported to take up paid teaching
 opportunities as graduate teaching assistants (GTAs) in their specialist areas, including through
 a dedicated Learning Together programme in which research students support Masters
 students’ learning. Other examples include research students supporting undergraduate
 research development, recently including co-producing a book with undergraduates. LISS-DTP
 has supported work placements at, e.g., Comprehensive Future and the NEU, and a significant
 proportion of students have been employed part-time on funded projects. The College provides
 training for GTAs via its GTA Development Programme and supports GTAs applying for HEA
 recognition.

 ECS’ commitment to ensuring inclusion is reflected in many activities, e.g., mental wellbeing
 workshops, workshops preparing students for attending academic conferences, and School-
 subsidised membership of professional associations (e.g., BERA). The School’s EDI Lead
 contributes to research training, using an anonymous feedback form to identify disabilities,
 special needs and any accessibility issues ECS could better address, and provides mentoring to
 students, e.g., on managing research with an impairing chronic illness, and disability disclosure
 dilemmas.

 Research students who completed in the period have published over 125 academic and
 professional papers, appearing in journals such as British Journal of Sociology of Education, The

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lancet and English Today. 83 (44%) are now in academic posts and many occupy senior
 professional positions.


 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 EDI considerations are embedded into all School practices. As detailed above, school policies
 proactively support equity in relation to recruitment, working patterns, workload, sabbaticals,
 promotion and student support. This approach has been invaluable in the COVID period, during
 which we have been able to make very substantial and highly responsive adjustments to working
 patterns and expectations, so as to reflect the diverse circumstances of, and pressures on, staff.
 EDI also forms a major and regular component of staff development activities; e.g., during this
 period, workshops have been held on unconscious bias, trans awareness, inclusive teaching,
 decolonising the curriculum, white privilege, and Black Lives Matter.

 This period has seen the appointment of an EDI Lead (Finesilver) whose input guides all School
 activities, e.g., through advising School committees and providing, and linking staff into, training
 and resources to support inclusive teaching and research. ECS’ Staff Forum is another
 important innovation since REF2014, providing a self-organised forum for mutual support and
 collegial deliberation. Its agenda is open-ended but takes a particular interest in staff wellbeing
 and inclusion and regularly contributes to, or picks up issues from, School meetings and the
 School Executive where it is represented by one of its facilitators.

 These structures and processes have been critical in underpinning high levels of staff
 engagement and staff satisfaction. King’s 2017 Staff Survey showed that ECS staff (N=48) feel:
 respected and valued (95%), recognised for their work (95%), and satisfied and supported by
 the School (96%).

 Although we are continuously striving to strengthen our EDI achievements, we are also
 conscious of the need to do more. ECS is fully involved in a cluster of funded and active Faculty
 EDI workstreams, including on: inclusive culture; disability and inclusion; recruitment and
 progression. Despite efforts in this area, the School has recognised the relatively poor
 representation of Black academics among our staffing (compared to the more representative
 composition of our student body and our location in urban London) as a particular concern, and
 has recently established a working group, networked within the College, to address this.

 ECS has enthusiastically adhered to King’s REF Code of Practice, including in relation to EDI.
 Staff returned in UoA23 include a relatively high number choosing to declare Applicable
 Circumstances (including disabilities [3 staff], illness/injury [3 staff], caring responsibilities [4
 staff] and family-related leave [4 staff]).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 Compared to the REF2014 period, and despite a markedly more competitive funding
 environment, our research grant income has increased from £4.9M to £5.3M through a
 substantial diversification of income streams (Figure 3.1). By strategically seeking out and
 forging alliances with new or previously underutilised funders, our income from UK Charities has
 more than tripled, while UK Industry funding rose from £154K to £1.2M. This diversification
 makes our income more sustainable and forms a crucial part of our future income plans.




                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                                              UKRI (23%)
                                                              UK Charities (31%)
                        £889,624          £1,232,678
                                                              UK Government (3%)
                                                              UK Industry (22%)
                                                              EU Government (17%)
                      £1,163,087             £1,654,582
                                                              EU Charities (<1%)
                                                              EU Industry (<1%)
                                                              Other (4%)


 Figure 3.1. Income streams for UoA23 King’s College London. Total income: £5,346,432

 The creation of ECS in 2016 coincided with noticeable demographic changes in the School, the
 departure of two key grant winners (Archer, Francis), and a temporary fall in applications, new
 awards and income. In this period, ECS has emphasised and supported broader engagement
 with grant acquisition as part of its strategic drive to maintain an inclusive working community
 while extending the diversity of its staffing (see Section 2). In particular, we have strengthened
 mechanisms of research support to make them both more proactive and tailored to the range of
 individual staffing needs.

 As demonstrated in Figure 3.2, this policy has resulted in a restoration of our research income
 over the period and, since 2018, a sharp rising trend in grant income, with income doubling to
 £675,257 in 2019/20 as compared to the previous year and projected to almost double again in
 2020/21 to £1,270,000 based on grants already awarded. This rise in income has been
 accompanied by a marked increase in the number of PIs. Examples of recent awards include an
 ESRC Large Grant (£2.1M, Gewirtz), ESRC COVID-19 (£225K, Gibbons) and New Investigator
 (£218K, de St Croix) awards, and grants from Wellcome (£504K, Cribb), the Nuffield
 Foundation (£242K, Kemp), and Leverhulme (£228K, Rampton).

                                                                                            20
    £1,200,000
                                                                                            18
    £1,000,000                                                                              16
                                                                                            14
      £800,000
                                                                                            12
      £600,000                                                                              10
                                                                                            8
      £400,000                                                                              6
                                                                                            4
      £200,000
                                                                                            2
            £0                                                                              0
                 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 2018/19 2019/20 *2020/21

              Total Income    Income excluding leavers    Number of new awards      Total Pls

 Figure 3.2. Research income for UoA23, highlighting income with and without staff who left
 during the REF period. (*Income projected for 2020/21 based on currently known awards)

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Support Infrastructure

 In tandem with mentoring and training provided by the three Research Centres, the College’s
 multi-level research support infrastructure (Figure 3.3) provides comprehensive support and
 guidance, both proactive and responsive. This is led by dedicated College and Faculty staff
 teams who: engage with funding agencies and broker between agencies and staff; oversee a
 range of seed- and impact-funding schemes; support bid development and capacity building;
 organise Faculty and cross-College selection, peer-review and mock interview panels; and
 provide tailored advice on suitable funding sources and approaches for individuals interested in
 making grant applications. Intelligence sharing is one key component of this support nexus, with
 funding horizon sessions and ‘meet the funder’ events run by the University Research
 Development Team and the School Research Manager (SRM), along with grant development
 sessions designed around different career stages, regular drop-in sessions, and peer-
 presentations on first-hand grant winning experience to help inspire others. The SRM post is full-
 time since 2018/19, which has enabled more intensive support for staff and research students
 developing bids.




 Figure 3.3. Research support structure for UoA23

 The College’s King’s Together (KT) interdisciplinary strategic research fund of £1M per year
 fosters cross-College working and research innovation (see REF5a). ECS has a good success
 track record with KT funding (total £140K since its 2016 inception), with the Computing
 Education Research Centre (a collaboration with Informatics and Digital Humanities and
 external partners) growing out of a KT award. Other recent examples include research on the
 BAME attainment gap with King’s Health Schools (Mansaray), sexual exploitation in the
 humanitarian aid industry with Forensic Sciences, Security Studies and Global Affairs (Driscoll),
 child safeguarding during the COVID-19 lock-down with IoPPN and Law (Driscoll, Hutchinson),
 and public understanding and activism around air pollution with Political Economy and
 Geography (Rundblad).

 King’s organises a range of other seed funds, including its ODA Research Partnership Fund,
 which recently enabled the start-up of the Multilingualism and Lower Basic Education in The
 Gambia project (Ancarno). A collaborative scheme with Hebrew University of Jerusalem is
 funding a joint research programme on the structure and prosody of urban Arabic dialects
 (Szczepek Reed); and, as part of the PLuS Alliance (see REF5a) with Arizona State University
 and University of New South Wales, two pilot projects on the science and teaching of the
 transmission and health implications of nanoparticles in humans have been supported
 (Rundblad). The King’s Cultural Community team brokers and facilitates collaborative
 relationships with cultural partners and has seed-funded several ECS partnerships with the
                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 informal learning sector in this period, including one which informed the conception of the
 Museum of Homelessness (Tlili).

 King’s holds an ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA; £1million for the period 2019-2023),
 which in 2020 funded three impact-related projects in ECS: enabling stakeholder engagement to
 enhance child marriage programmes for Syrian refugees (Hutchinson); strengthening multi-
 agency child safeguarding practice (Driscoll, Hutchinson); and preventing COVID-related
 illness in ethnic minority communities with a strong oral tradition (Rundblad, Tang).

 The Faculty also seed funds research initiatives via its Faculty Research Fund (~£150k
 available per year). In this period, this has supported a 6-month Postdoctoral Fellowship to help
 develop a subsequently successful ESRC large grant on youth transitions in collaboration with
 King’s Business School (Gewirtz). More recent successful ECS bids to this fund have supported
 a collaboration with Security Studies (Rampton), comparative research on test-based
 accountability with Deakin University and the University of Helsinki (Santori) and a study of
 mathematics engagement (Skilling, Healy), with the latter already leading to a successful
 Erasmus+ project.

 School-based funding to support research includes colleagues’ personal research budgets and
 the research fund maintained by the School Executive (see Section 2). In addition, the School
 Research Committee has a £40,000 annual budget comprising £16,000 for impact generation
 and evaluation, £10,000 for internal seed funding to support proposal development, pilot studies
 and network building, £9,000 for research training, seminars and events, £4,000 for specialist
 reviewing and feedback on manuscripts where external expertise is required, and £1,000 for
 research management development.

 Grant development support, focused both on academic substance and impact development, is
 provided for the whole lifecycle of an application. Ideas are matured through mentoring and
 grant pitch presentations to peers, after which a Bid Authorisation Request form is completed,
 which asks staff to specify the kinds of support they would like, such as design, writing, costings,
 ethics and research integrity, GDPR, risk assessment and impact. This enables the School
 Research Team (Figure 3.3) to organise responsive support and the Head of School to monitor
 potential grant income and consider requests for matched funding. Where required, dedicated
 grant-writing mentors are assigned. Peer-reviewers are engaged from across all three Research
 Centres and, for strategically important bids, additional peer-review is provided by a Faculty
 Peer-Review College and the Faculty Research Development Manager.


 Research Facilities

 The School is located in the Waterloo Bridge Wing of the Franklin-Wilkins Building at King’s
 Waterloo Campus, with access to specialised labs and creative, social and library spaces for
 staff and students. This period has seen investment and modernisation of ECS’ specialised
 facilities, including the installation of a new cognition lab equipped with (e.g., eye tracker)
 hardware and software to support research in educational assessment and psychology, and a
 maker space (with a top of the range 3D printer and FormBox). Researchers in science
 education also have access to physics, chemistry and biology laboratories, two of which have
 been refurbished in this period (with the biology laboratory’s refitting postponed due to COVID).

 Since 2014, 75% of staff offices within ECS have been redecorated and equipped to
 accommodate individual colleagues’ needs. In 2015, ECS refurbished its research student
 offices, comprising a suite of three adjoining rooms: two with 20 workstations, the third a social
 area with its own kitchen facility. Research students also have dedicated, free of charge printing,
 scanning and photocopying facilities, and have the same access to booking rooms and other
 facilities as staff. In 2018 the School refurbished the visiting staff rooms, installing 7 new
 workstations and personal lockers. A large social space for ECS was created in 2015 to provide
 more opportunities and a comfortable environment for informal staff and student socialising and

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for organised social events. The Franklin-Wilkins Building has a restaurant, cafés, a gym,
 gendered and gender-neutral toilets, prayer rooms, and wellbeing spaces.

 The building also houses the Franklin-Wilkins Library (open 24/7), which contains the
 College’s education collection, group study rooms, computing and assistive technology rooms,
 and quiet zones, and which is part of a network of College library facilities, providing access to
 >1.25 million books, >280,000 eBooks, >60,000 journals, >600 databases and other online
 resources. King’s staff and students can also access and borrow from Senate House Library,
 which is one of the UK’s largest humanities and social science focused research libraries. In
 addition, the University of London Access Agreement provides reference access to institutional
 libraries within the University of London. King’s Library Services offer training and one-to-one
 support for staff and research students on information retrieval, bibliographic software and data
 management, literature (including systematic) reviews, research dissemination and evaluation
 using bibliometrics. Library services also support Open Access via the institutional repository,
 give advice on paid open access publishing, and administer the central open access publishing
 fund.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations

 ECS supports effective engagement with policy, practice and social change through a wide
 range of partnerships. In addition to collaborative research projects, staff work with and advise
 international organisations, national and local governments, and a range of public, private and
 third-sector agencies. Partnership working is hardwired into ECS and underpinned by five key
 mechanisms:

    1. School, Faculty and College seed funding and ESRC IAA funds are geared towards
       encouraging and generating impact from research and practice collaborations, often
       linked to national and international priorities, e.g., the UK Industrial Strategy, COVID and
       children’s rights.

    2. Research support encourages co-design of proposals with stakeholders and their
       inclusion in project advisory panels.

    3. Outside partners and stakeholders play an active part in ECS’ research culture, e.g.,
       giving and attending seminars and workshops.

    4. ECS hosts national and international meetings and a rich stream of visiting academics,
       funds conference attendance, and supports staff to take up visiting posts elsewhere.

    5. Media engagement and training is facilitated by King’s Communications Team and ECS’
       Communications Officer.

 In many cases, policy and practice engagement is strengthened by colleagues’ long-standing
 membership of stakeholder communities, e.g., within teaching, youth work and social work.
 King’s is well embedded in the London policy community and supports networking, e.g., through
 the Policy Institute and King’s Cultural Community, while international collaborations are
 supported by King’s Global Engagement Team. Since 2014, ECS has established a School
 Advisory Board to help steer its impact strategy, consisting of education-oriented professionals
 from a range of sectors, including schools, science, arts and museum outreach, journalism,
 international schools, the Greater London Authority, and the National Education Union.

 Selected examples of collaborations are given below (organised by ECS’ cross-cutting Research
 Themes), illustrating impact, engagement with diverse policy and practice communities, and
 interdisciplinary and interprofessional working.


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Curriculum, Pedagogy & Assessment

 National research collaborations under this theme include Wellcome-funded research on
 assessing practical science skills with the University of York (Harrison); a project developing
 new primary school science approaches with UCL and the Science Museum Group (King); the
 development of an assessment framework for EAL learners with Cambridge University and the
 Bell Foundation (Leung).

 National advisory work includes Glackin and King’s two reports (2018) on environmental
 education in English secondary schools, which informed the National Association for
 Environmental Education’s policy positioning. King advised the Science Museum London on
 equitable access regarding the design of the interactive Wonderlab Gallery, and Hohenstein
 advised the Science Museum Group and other museums on the implications of learning theories
 for the use of objects. Kemp advised the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Diversity and
 Inclusion in STEM about computing education (2020). Cooke is a member of the Bell
 Foundation ESOL policy group, which advises the government on post-16 education. Winch is a
 member of the Education and Training Foundation’s Expert Advisory Group monitoring the
 implementation of T-levels.

 International research collaborations include: the ERC Com ‘n’ Play project on creative science
 learning (King) with partners including University of Oulu, Finland, Foundation for Research and
 Technology, Greece, Eindhoven University of Technology, and Technical University Munich,
 Germany; work on museum education with the Leonardo da Vinci Museum funded by
 Fondazione Rocca (King); a British Council-funded comparative project on public and private
 school education with the Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai (Winch); an Association
 Internationale de Linguistique Appliquée Research Network on Emotion and Creativity in
 Language Education (Coffey); and an Australian government-funded project on academic
 writing for those transitioning to university with the University of South Australia (Wingate).

 International advisory work includes King and Harrison’s advice to the OECD’s Strategic Vision
 for PISA 2024 Science Framework Expert Group and Pepper and Glackin’s advice to the
 OECD’s Directorate for Education on the incorporation of new assessment validation
 methods. Curriculum-related advisory roles include Lum’s contribution as International Expert
 on Ireland's post-16 education review and advice to Ofqual on vocational and professional
 assessment grading, and Gibbons’ and Marshall’s participation in Ireland’s Junior Cycle
 English curriculum review.


 Professionalism & Workplace Practice

 National research collaborations include: Wellcome-funded research combining philosophical
 and empirical approaches to healthcare improvement with Aberdeen University, NHS England,
 NHS Education for Scotland and others (Cribb); an ESRC project on impact, evaluation and
 accountability in youth work with partners including the Centre for Youth Impact, National Youth
 Agency, London Youth, Youth Focus North East and Space (Devon) (de St Croix); a joint
 project with Tate supporting museum professionals’ reflective practice on gallery learning (Tlili);
 and professional development scholarship on language teaching with Nottingham University
 (AHRC, Coffey).

 National advisory work includes Rundblad and Tang’s contribution to developing the Beat the
 Heat resources (2016) and advice on a new early warning system for extreme temperature with
 Public Health England’s Extreme Events team. They are currently also advising Asian Resource
 Croydon, BritBanglaCOVID and GPs working with ethnic minority communities in and outside
 London. Glackin is a Trustee of London Wildlife Trust and advised Natural England’s Strategic
 Research Network for People and the Natural, and King is a regular contributor to the Science
 Museum Group’s Academy of Science Engagement. King and Rushton co-created science

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capital informed facilitator training with informal science educators at the Institute of Imagination
 and the Rochester Bridge Trust. Kemp advised and produced a report (2019) on the UK
 computing teacher workforce for the Royal Society, and Kutnick served as co-evaluator of the
 Royal Academy of Engineering's country-wide Connecting STEM Teachers programme (2014-
 2019). Khan-Evans advised Education Minister Elizabeth Truss on Classics Education in 2014
 and contributed to the Carter Review of Initial Teacher Training (2015).

 International research collaborations include an SSHRC-funded project on assessment
 education for teachers with Queensland University of Technology, the University of Waikato,
 Queen’s University, and University of New Brunswick (Harrison); and a British Academy-funded
 collaboration on academic writing for publication with Griffith University and the Rajiv Gandhi
 National Institute of Youth Development (Hutchinson).

 International advisory work includes Rundblad’s contributions to: new and improved best
 practice guides and procedures on health and risk communication by Public Health England,
 Health Canada, New South Wales Health and the US Environmental Protection Agency; new
 communication on water contamination toolboxes distributed internationally by the US Centers
 for Disease Control and Prevention and the Water Research Foundation; and WHO’s water
 safety plans.


 Globalisation & Identity

 National research collaborations include: ESRC research on third language acquisition with the
 University of Southampton (Puig-Mayenco); a collaboration with English for Action and Tower
 Hamlets College, translating ECS’ research on diasporic identities into community-responsive
 pedagogies (Cooke); and the newly established King’s International Education Research
 Network fostering collaborations on education policy and practice in a global context (Szczepek
 Reed).

 National advisory work includes advice on EAL learners. Puig-Mayenco advised on the
 founding of the Spanish school for bilingual children, Hispanolandia, in Reading (2018-19). ECS
 also hosts the Hub for Education and Linguistic Diversity, which provides support and advice
 to multiple agencies to improve English language learning in multilingual contexts (Cooke,
 Leung, Rampton).

 International research collaborations include a longstanding partnership on linguistic citizenship
 and multilingualism with the Universities of Western Cape and Pennsylvania (Cooke,
 Georgakopoulou, Leung, Rampton); internally funded work on language planning and
 multilingualism with the University of The Gambia and the Ministry of Secondary and Basic
 Education, The Gambia (Ancarno); and internally funded work on conversational Arabic with the
 Hebrew University of Jerusalem (Szczepek Reed). Georgakopoulou is part of an international
 research network on language variation in digital contexts with Hamburg University, and a
 UKRI/GCRF-funded hub: Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents with the
 Universities of Oxford and Cape Town. Research with Queen’s University, Canada, the
 University of Birmingham and The Ministry of Justice, Nigeria on the scale and impact of sexual
 exploitation of women and children in international development settings has brought together
 perspectives from forensic science, law and history (Driscoll).

 International advisory work includes Ancarno’s role as advisor to the Ministry of Basic and
 Secondary Education, The Gambia, the West African Examinations Council and the NGO,
 Effective Intervention, on literacy education for primary school children. Elfert is a consultant to
 UNESCO, including advising on its 2015 report, Rethinking education: Towards a global
 common good? and its SDG4 (lifelong learning) policy initiatives. Georgakopoulou has advised
 on the social media applications of her storytelling research for the contextual advertising
 platform, Video Intelligence, and the educational voice feedback platform, Mote.


                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Diversity, Inclusion & Social Justice

 National research collaborations include a study of inequalities in post-16 transitions involving a
 wide range of partners, including the Edge Foundation, the DfE, CBI, TUC, Disability Rights UK,
 Stonewall and Youth Employment UK, responding to the UK Industrial Strategy and combining
 sociology, philosophy and labour economics (Bayrakdar, Gewirtz, Maguire, Winch). An
 internally funded collaboration with the University of Bedford, Metropolitan Police, and London-
 based Children’s Services investigated the implications of COVID for child protection, with
 follow-on ESRC IAA funding used to build relationships with national agencies to create
 professional development and advocacy materials (Driscoll, Hutchinson).

 National advisory work focuses, e.g., on children and young people in the UK. De St Croix
 advised DCMS on youth services evaluation, and her research was used in an All-Party
 Parliamentary Group on Youth Affairs report to evidence the need for youth services; Driscoll
 served as reviewer for the Home Office Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse (2019); and
 Mansaray advised and produced a report for the London Borough of Hackney on their ten-year
 Improving Outcomes for Young Black Men strategy (2015-2016).

 International research collaborations include Leverhulme-funded work on the impact of crises on
 child protection services with Makerere University and TPO Uganda (Driscoll) and British
 Academy-funded research on child marriage with the UNICEF MENA regional office, the
 Lebanon Ministry of Social Affairs, the Jordan National Council for Family Affairs, Al-Balqa
 Applied University and the Lebanese University (Hutchinson).

 International advisory work includes Hutchinson’s ESRC IAA-funded work with Terre des
 Hommes Jordan and Lebanon to develop a model of internal knowledge exchange and
 participatory programme development with frontline staff. Hutchinson also contributed to the
 development of the Regional Accountability Framework of Action on Ending Child Marriage in
 the MENA region (2018) and its review (2020). Driscoll advised the NGO ‘shadow’ submission
 to the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child (2015), which significantly contributed to
 changes to Relationships and Sex Education through the Children and Social Work Act 2017.


 Wider contributions to the research and practitioner base

 ECS researchers advance and support their research fields through wider professional activities,
 such as editorships, refereeing, and contributions to national and international societies. They
 advance practitioner expertise through CPD and leadership contributions to a range of
 professional organisations. Selected examples of editorial contributions are Wingate’s and
 Coffey’s co-editorships of Language Learning Journal (2011-2015; 2015-2019). Dewey is the
 editor of the Journal of English as a Lingua Franca (2018-present). Elfert is co-editor of the
 Journal of Contemporary Issues in Education and submissions and book review editor of
 UNESCO’s academic journal, International Review of Education. Georgakopoulou is co-editor
 of the book series, Routledge Research in Narrative, Interaction, and Discourse (2018-present).
 Leung is co-editor of Language Assessment Quarterly (2017-present). Maguire is deputy editor
 of Journal of Education Policy (1993 -present). De St Croix is co-editor of Youth and Policy
 (2010-present). Ogiermann was associate editor of the Journal of Pragmatics (2014-2018).
 Rampton was co-editor of the book series, Encounters (Multilingual Matters, 2005-2020).
 Richardson is editor of the National Association for Language Development in the
 Curriculum’s EAL Journal (2019-present). Selected examples of refereeing work include Ellis
 and Leung’s membership of the Hong Kong RAE Education Panel (2014 and 2020) and
 Santori’s membership of the UKRI GCRF Global Engagement Networks panel (2019). Driscoll
 served as reviewer for British Academy/GCRF’s Education & Learning in Crises Programme
 (2020). Cribb served on the Health Foundation’s COVID Research Grant Committee (2020).
 Rampton was an ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership Commissioning Panel member (2016).
 Georgakopoulou chaired the Academy of Finland’s Linguistics panel in 2020.

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Colleagues’ wide-ranging contributions to CPD include regular workshops and seminars on
 teacher development organised by the Centre for Innovation in Teacher Education and
 Development, a collaboration with Teachers College, Columbia University (Ellis, Harrison).
 Coffey has collaborated with Lambeth Teaching Alliance on a series of CPD events using
 language autobiographies to develop plurilingual awareness (2014) and using literary texts and
 translation to promote multilingual creativity (2017). Coffey has also run an annual CPD day in
 London for UK foreign language assistants and teachers (last hosted at the British Council in
 2020). Gibbons has provided teacher education professional development for OCR (2017), the
 English and Media Centre (2017), Harris Academies (2017), and NATE (2016-2017). Harrison
 has delivered CPD on formative assessment domestically and internationally through MOOC
 courses for the National STEM Learning Centre (2017-present). Jones organised CPD events
 on Assessment for Learning for Icelandic teachers at King’s funded by the Icelandic Government
 (2018). Kemp provided teacher CPD in 3D animation for TechPathways London (2020). Khan-
 Evans organised national CPD events for Latin and Greek teachers in London and Manchester
 (2018-2019). The Hub for Education and Linguistic Diversity provides half-day ESOL CPD
 events with English for Action and the Bell Foundation (Rampton, Cooke and Leung).
 Rundblad presented at two specialised water industry CPD workshops on communication in
 Salt Lake City (2015) and San Diego (2016).

 Contributions to national and international societies include Harrison’s role as Chair of the
 Association for Science Education (2014-15) and its International Group. Hay is a Society for
 Research into Higher Education Governing Council member. Elfert is Co-Chair of the
 Globalisation & Education SIG of the Comparative and International Education Society. Healy is
 Coordinator of the National Working Group on Inclusion, Difference and Mathematics Education
 for the Brazilian Society of Mathematics Education, and Cribb is a Board member of the Faculty
 of Pharmaceutical Medicine, Royal College of Physicians. The following are Fellows of the
 Academy of Social Sciences: Gewirtz, Leung, Rampton, Brown (Emeritus), and Cook
 (Emeritus).




                                                                                         Page 22
