Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: 25: Area Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Research in Area Studies has broadly followed the strategy that we described in the 2014 REF5b.
 Over this period London Metropolitan University’s structure has moved from a Faculty system
 to a School system aligned to our reframed undergraduate and taught postgraduate teaching. Our
 Area Studies researchers submitted in the current REF are thus spread across five of the
 University’s six schools, as follows (Senior Professors designated**, Professors*, Readers‡, Early
 Career researchers [ECRs]¶).
 School of Social Sciences (SSS) (52%): Chryssogelos, Efthymiou¶, Kelly*, Knight‡, López‡,
     Mato Bouzas, Moran, Nyby¶, Öztürk¶ , Ross**, Stephenson**, Ulzelac, Wheeler*,
     MacRaild**
 School of Social Professions (SSP) (22%): Elster¶, Eraso, Stirbu*, Ryan C‡, Ryan L**, Zervoulis
 School of Computing and Digital Media (SCDM) (15%): Harding*, Lewis*, McNally, Wimmer
 Guildhall School of Business and Law (GSBL) (4%): Fischer**
 School of Art, Architecture and Design (SAAD) (7%): Karpf*, Singh*
 This division does not impact on the coherence of the strength and consistency of our
 research effort and application. All these Schools are now located on a single campus.
 The strength of our research in Area Studies has increased in both qualitative and quantitative
 terms. We are now consolidating Area Studies as a distinct and coherent group, which we plan
 will continue, over the next quinquennium, and grow in research strength, impact and in the
 numbers of active researchers.
 Our geographical areas of concern have broadened from Europe to include the Americas, the
 Middle East and South Asia. Our disciplines are: History, International Relations, Languages,
 Media Studies, Philosophy, Political Science, Public Health, Sociology, the Social Professions and
 Television and Film Studies in our concerns with contemporary diversities in cosmopolitan
 societies, identities and communities in social, cultural and political spheres.
 Most of our research interests focus on how contemporary societies respond to the diversities
 arising from migration and the movement of refugees, involving identities of class, gender,
 sexualities, faith/philosophic groups and the construction of political identities. Some of us focus
 on specific diasporas; others analyse changes in broader contexts. The relationship between
 communities and political and other cultures has ranged from the global to the more specific, while
 others addressed the contextualisation of migration and identity through a wide range of
 disciplinary lenses, including cultural studies and creative writing.
 Within this overall context smaller groups have more specific foci, including:
 Policy analysis at various levels: (Chryssogelos, Efthymiou, Eraso, Kelly, Lewis, Moran, Nyby,
 Ryan L, Stirbu and Wheeler): members examine policies across a range of social entities, at local
 government, national and state level, while others use an historical lens, for example examining
 policies towards Irish migration, or health policies in South America.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Media and communication: (Harding, Fischer, Karpf, Lewis, López, Singh, Wheeler, Wimmer,
 McNally): media in a variety of locations: literature (Cuba), film (France/USA), local radio
 (UK/Europe) and television and social media (US).
 Violence and conflict resolution: (Mato Bouzas, Efthymiou, Kelly, Knight, López, Moran, Öztürk,
 Stephenson): from community domestic violence against women and children in the UK and
 Mexico; state violence towards diasporic minorities, the working class, and criminal gangs in
 Russia; inter-state conflicts and foreign policy (Greece, the Middle East, Kashmir, USA).
 Culture and its manifestations: (Elster, Fischer, Harding, Karpf, Lewis, McNally, MacRaild,
 Nyby, Ross, Ryan C, Ryan L, Singh, Wheeler, Wimmer, Uzelac, Zervoulis): research on the
 relationship between popular and high culture, celebrity cultures and modernity, the use of radio
 in social culture, homosexual cultures, and creative writing around the use of cultural lenses.
 Nationalism and populism: Chryssogelos, Efthymiou, Knight, MacRaild, Öztürk, Ross, Uzelac,
 Zervoulis): The relationship between these in Greece, Cyprus, Turkey, Kashmir and more
 generally in Europe; the history of populism in the USA.
 Four research centres have provided locations for much of this work to be shared specifically
 between UoA members. CWASU has a long history, while two have been established more
 recently:
 The Children and Women’s Abuse Studies Unit (CWASU), led by Kelly, has completed over
 100 research and evaluation projects, and is recognised for making connections between forms
 of gender violence as well as between violence against women and child protection, using
 innovative methodologies to explore issues. CWASU has undertaken international programmes
 for the British Council in Africa, Asia, Europe and South America, providing consultancy and
 training on research and policy. CWASU’s strategy combines large pure research projects with
 smaller policy-relevant studies, a combination setting them at the cutting edge. They are frequently
 consulted by international bodies (EU, CoE, UN).
 The Centre for Life Writing and Oral History (CLiOH), co-led by Harding and Karpf, explores
 how people document and narrate their lives. With significant expertise in these areas, the
 research involves a range of communities, with meetings, seminars and screenings for scholars
 and the public, building on a commitment to social justice, widening participating and diversity. It
 hosts a regular national/European oral history PhD research training course. It has close links with
 the UK Oral History Society (Harding: trustee and editorial board) and the British Library.
 The Global Development and Inequalities Research Centre (GDIR), led by Louise Ryan, is the
 intellectual and organisational hub of the UoA, coordinating activities to support the research of
 migration, diasporas, nations, regions and localities through lenses of diversity and inequality. The
 global focus embraces work on North, South and Central America, across Europe and Asia. We
 explore this both as a mosaic of peoples connected through shared cultures, and through the
 structural inequalities of differentiation based on intersecting marks of identity. Activities include
 regular thematic series of seminars; support for funding bids and impact development;
 coordinating support for ECRs; and liaison with the University’s programmes for PGR Training and
 staff development. The Centre plans to expand its global coverage, and to work with international
 associate members in partnerships and co-research.
 The Media, Culture and Creative Technologies Research Group (Harding, Lewis) promotes
 interdisciplinary research in community media, life histories, American film and television, popular
 culture, cultural history, digital culture and journalism.


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA members also contribute substantially to interdisciplinary research activities across the
 University, such as the Interdisciplinary Research Forum, regularly contributing to sessions that
 bring together a range of disciplines to explore a have continued to promote inter/cross-disciplinary
 approaches, broadened this further by bringing together researchers from other disciplines,
 generating more collaborative research, embedding research more deeply in the university. We
 have greater formal and informal partnerships, nationally and internationally around our core
 research areas, as shown in the following sections. We have maintained funding from Research
 Councils, the EU, and have developed a stronger PhD culture. Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 have been supported, and we have sustained significant volumes of quality outputs. Over the
 period our staff have changed through promotions and retirement, as described below in section
 2.
 Our impact strategies are developed to meet the particular character and needs of each research
 activity, and are contingent on the particular context and direction of the study: e.g. Stirbu’s study
 of the development of inclusion strategies in Senedd Cymru has been followed by a £25,000
 impact grant from the Mayor of London/GLA to develop a learning network on social integration
 and regeneration. We have established a small UoA Impact Support Group, comprised of those
 with successful impact experience and the University’s Impact Research manager and a member
 of the Communications team: this oversees strategy and training seminars. Our impact studies
 represent the more prominent examples of a wide range of activities by researchers, that include
 press and broadcasting, consultations by European and state organisations, including political
 parties in the UK and abroad, working with NGOs and community groups, described in more detail
 in Section 4.
 Much of our work is interdisciplinary, either through small groups that range across disciplines,
 or individuals working across disciplinary boundaries. Our principal research centre, GDIR, is
 structured to develop and support work that transcends traditional disciplinary boundaries, either
 through collaboration with other institutions in the UK and abroad or between colleagues in the
 University.
 The UoA is moving towards working within and creating an open research environment. All our
 members published work is now deposited in our University Depository, in a system that has been
 made more transparent to use over the past five years, with dedicated staff who check deposits
 are made correctly.
 We have also moved to augment our research data archives, and to increase their availability to
 researchers. Thus, the two major national archives we have developed over the past twenty years
 have been made more accessible. The Archive of the Irish in Britain is undergoing a digitisation
 programme and made available to researchers over the past three years (with Irish Embassy
 support): this unique collection of documents, audio and video recordings, books, photographs
 and ephemera is now regularly consulted by researchers, students, academics and journalists
 from Britain, Ireland, Europe and North America. The TUC Library is a major resource for
 researching trade unions, collective bargaining and labour history: its emphasis is on Britain, but
 Europe and the Commonwealth are also represented. The core comprises TUC publications from
 1868, historical works on the labour movement, documents on working conditions and industrial
 relations in various industries, and material from campaigns and policy areas such as education,
 unemployment and social security. We have large holdings of pamphlets from the 19th century
 onwards from unions, pressure groups and campaign movements. Substantial digitisation has
 taken place over the past five years, including all TUC Congress Reports from 1868 to1968,



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 material on the TUC’s role in the second world war, equal pay campaigns, and on changes in
 working conditions from 1945. In 2020 the digitalisation of the card catalogue was completed.
 Our archival collections continue to grow with recent deposits for UoA members. For example, the
 Community Media Collection will soon be available, consisting of the research papers of Lewis
 from 1964 relating to studies of community radio and television in the UK and worldwide;
 community radio magazines; papers of the Community Communications Group (COMCOM);
 material on radio broadcasting including reports, research and correspondence with government,
 IBA and independent broadcasters. One of our former doctoral students has recently deposited
 papers of the charity Grandparents Plus, which was founded with Michael Young (Jean Stogdon
 Archive). We host the international database transnational radio created with support from HERA
 and AHRC, which includes the Radio Garden outcome of the Transnational Radio Encounters
 project (a HERA case study in transnational public engagement).
 While our ethical policies fall within the University’s general policies, within the UoA, depending
 on context, our policies have particular forms and expressions appropriately tailored to fit fieldwork
 practice. Our Research Ethics Review Panels review all proposals involving human and animal
 subjects, to protect the individual rights of participants, including ensuring the principles of
 informed consent, anonymity and the right to withdraw. For example, in the area of researching
 victims of family abuse, CWASU research is often carried out in conjunction with NGO support
 groups who may have commissioned the work: in such cases, the NGO may often be present to
 offer welfare and legal support services. Such co-design of specific ethical approaches offers a
 particular respect and ‘listening quality’ that is a distinctive feature of their work. Similarly, when
 Ross’s fieldwork with young people is located in former conflict zones, he provides specific local
 support provision in case the subjects are distressed by recollections of events.
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and staff development
 Most of our Area Studies researchers are on teaching and research contracts, rather than wholly
 research contracts. Nevertheless, the broad principles of the Concordat, and our staff
 development strategy, apply for all who carry out research in Area Studies, irrespective of their
 contractual status.
 Probation and appraisal arrangements for all staff at the University formally form part of the line
 management process through our Schools. There is active liaison at School management level
 to ensure that UoA staffing strategy and development are coordinated to ensure our research and
 impact policies are implemented. Our UoA coordinator and the GDIR leader annually revise the
 UoA's research strategy, in consultation with the other professors in the UoA, and this is
 communicated to the managers of the five schools (SSS, SSP, SCDM, SAAD and GBSL) prior to
 the annual round of staff appraisal and career development meetings, which also discuss
 individual staff annual targets. This ensures that our developing strategies for research and impact
 are considered in these processes. Our researchers all have research and impact targets set on
 an annual basis, mutually agreed with line managers. In addition, we have a research mentoring
 system, whereby each researcher has a mentor, usually a more experienced researcher, whom
 they meet on a regular basis, and more frequently when the mentee feels it supportive.

 Mentoring, annual targets and appraisals all cover both research/impact activity, career
 development, and where appropriate PGR supervision activity: mentoring tends to consider longer
 term research goals and the development of career identities, while the appraisal process is a

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research-led retrospective analysis of how the year’s targets are being realised, linked to the
 development of future targets for the coming year.

 Over the period since the last REF in 2014 our staff has undergone considerable change: of
 the 11 staff returned in 2014, retirement and promotion to other institutions have led to only Fischer
 remaining. Partly as a consequence of this, we have over this period reconfigured our staffing
 arrangements. The UoA has been joined firstly by ten members previously returned in other UoAs
 (Knight, Stirbu and Wheeler from Politics; Harding, Karpf, Lewis and McNally from
 Communications and Culture; Kelly and Stephenson from Social Policy, and Ross from Education,
 and also by eight members of staff in 2014 who have since been supported to successfully become
 more active researchers (Eraso, Lòpez, Moran, Chris Ryan, Singh, Ulzelac, Wimmer and
 Zervoulis), all of whom have demonstrated a research focus that is encompassed within our
 understanding of the Area Studies remit.
 We have also appointed nine new members of staff over the period, following the University’s well-
 established principles of transparency, openness and being merit-based. Broadly, we have
 recruited two groups through this process:
 •   established researchers with a track record in gaining substantial research grants and
     managing collaborative and interdisciplinary research projects (Chryssogelos, MacRaild, Mato
     Bouzas, Louise Ryan);
 •   mindful of the need for a balanced age-profile and the need for career and succession
     planning, a number of ECRs (Efthymiou, Elster, Nyby, Öztűrk).
 We have made a number of research promotions over the period, following an established and
 transparent annual process of rewarding research and impact success (with clearly defined criteria
 for each level):
 •   to Reader: Chris Ryan, Knight and Lòpez
 •   to Professor: Harding, Karpf, Lewis, Singh, Stirbu, Wheeler
 •   from Professor to Senior Professor: Fischer, Ross, Stephenson
 •   two appointments were made at Senior Professor level: MacRaild and Louise Ryan.
 Most of the research work carried out by members of the UoA does not require the recruitment of
 research assistants and fellows. When it does need such support – for example, in many of the
 projects of CWASU - our policy is to recruit project staff following the processes described above,
 trying as far as possible to use bridging funds to roll staff over from project to project so that they
 become permanent staff, should they so wish. This flexible use of research staff is welcomed by
 staff as a way of diversifying and supporting their portfolio of research experience. Such staff are
 also encouraged to attend and present at conferences (including giving keynote addresses, and
 representing their project), and to co-author research reports and journal articles. Our policy and
 practice is for more experienced research fellows to be encouraged and supported in writing
 research bids, and becoming PIs for research projects, as a way of developing their research
 identity. This enables staff to move on to work for other research institutions when they wish to,
 or in one case in 2018 to found their own independent research unit on Family Economic Abuse
 (which will formally join the University/UoA in the near future). These practices also form part of
 our policy for succession planning.

 Our age distribution is currently somewhat older that the UK academic profile: we have a similar
 proportion of staff aged 36-55 (55%, UK 52%), but are under-represented in the under 25 category
 (11%; UK 29%).

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 ECRs are supported in develop their experience to become PIs and managers of research. We
 had one such ECR in 2014, Stirbu, whose career development has been supported so that she
 now is a professor and author of one of our Impact studies. We now have five ECRs, three of
 whom have are already established research careers and are developing impact-related
 strategies, two of whom are at the beginning of such development. All are actively engaged in
 research publications.
 •   Efthymiou: joined us after a short post-doctoral policy research period with the Government of
     Cyprus/ the Centre for Sustainable Peace and Democratic Development.
 •   Elster: PhD completed 2019.
 •   Nyby: PhD completed in 2020; now actively being mentored to broaden her
     Finnish/Scandinavian research to include the UK context, and to develop her informal network
     with German and UK scholars.
 •   Öztűrk: obtained Postdoctoral Fellowship at Notre Dame Indiana and a Swedish Institute
     fellowship at Linkoping; has a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship wef 2021. We will hold open
     his post at London Met.
 All staff are encouraged to participate in professional researcher development, through particular
 elements of the University’s Research Staff Development programme that are relevant to research
 in our UoA disciplines. A series of appropriate sessions are targeted at UoA researchers: some
 are of particular relevance to ECRs (on career progression, for example), others concern social
 science research methodologies, particular funding opportunity programmes, and Research
 degree supervision and examination. Six of our more senior or experienced staff are involved in
 delivering this programme.
 We have also used QR funding from the 2014 REF to support staff at early, mid and later stages
 of research careers, through funding attendance at conferences and supporting field work
 expenses and visits to archives.
 This support extends to awarding Research Leave to UoA members with research plans that
 require such leave, on the expected basis of one semester’s leave every three years (a
 ‘sabbatical’). These are contingent on the successful presentation of research plans, and
 subsequent funding on the successful completion and publication of earlier work funded this way.
 In the current year, for example, five such awards were made. Staff are also encouraged to apply
 for other forms of research support, appropriate to their particular research activities: these may
 include transcription costs, travel grants, secretarial and administrative support, and the supply of
 research equipment such as cameras, recorders, etc.
 While not all of our current portfolio of research provides opportunities to develop exchanges with
 public bodies, etc, we do so wherever possible: for example, in the case of CWASU we often
 utilise such possibilities. Our work on family abuse with minority ethnic communities has led us to
 recruit two members from BME victim support groups as researchers: not only has this brought
 particular and valuable qualities to the nature of our research, but has led to further research briefs
 for work with such communities.
 We have also formed an Impact Development group within the UoA, to encourage, support and
 review potential impact activities around all of our research work. It included the three authors of
 our current Impact statements, the University’s Impact Manager, a member of the University’s
 Press and Communications team and the GDIR lead. Impact activities vary across different kinds


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of research: for example, the CWASU approach has developed engagement with NGOs and
 policy makers, so that younger staff accompany senior staff to strategic meetings and are
 supported to think about how best to present ideas, especially when they might challenge current
 orthodoxies. Our impact also extends to the creative field: Singh established and directs the
 annual Jhalak Book Prize in 2016 for a writer of colour, and in 2019 restructured and leads the
 annual Richard Schlagman Art Book Awards. CWASU’s strategy is to be useful to policy makers,
 providing them with data and access to current thinking - exploring implications, rather than just
 making recommendations – and this often produces further research engagement.
 2.2 Research Students
 Over the period of review, 17 of the 23 staff who are not ECRs returned in this REF have
 supervised Research degree students. Because there have been changes in UoAs since 2014,
 and new staff appointed, not all of these have been returned under Area Studies in HEFCE
 returns, and in order to show the experience of our staff, the numbers below also include
 supervision experience in the 2014-20 period from other institutions prior to appointment at
 London Metropolitan. All the data below thus relates specifically to the activities of the staff in the
 UoA who are currently in post.
 Collectively, we have supervised 74 PhDs, 1 MPhil and 14 Professional Doctoral students over
 this period.
 Of these, there have been 48 completions and awards: 28 PhDs and 4 Professional Doctorate
 were awarded by London Metropolitan, and 15 PhDs by other Universities (Austin Texas,
 Brussels, Middlesex [6], Northumbria, Sheffield, Roehampton, South Wales, Ulster [2], University
 of the Arts) and a Professional Doctorate from Middlesex.
 We are currently supervising 31 PhDs, 1 MPhil and 9 Professional Doctorates (of which 6 are
 continuing supervisions at other Universities (Leuven, Middlesex, Oxford, Sheffield[3]). These are
 supervised by 16 members of staff. We plan to prepare many of the staff who are not currently
 supervising to do so over the next quinquennium.
 London Metropolitan University has a long tradition of supporting ‘non-traditional’ students at
 all levels, including PGR students, and much of this has been led and sustained by members of
 the UoA. The University was one of the pioneers of access courses, and in the early 2000s was
 closely involved in researching the processes of the original Athena Swan programme. This is
 widely known in local communities, and our largely part-time PGR body reflects this in our
 recruitment.
 We also take active steps to support the particular barriers that their protected characteristic
 qualities may lead to difficulties in progressions and completion: examples are given in section 2.3
 below.
 As a less-intensive research university, we do not have ESRC or AHRC recognition for the
 general training of PhD students. However, we have specifically been able to recruit a PGR
 student as part of the Mirabel project, which was funded by the ESRC (and our partner University
 in the project, Durham University, recruited another). We hope to apply to join consortia of
 Universities to get both ESRC and AHRC recognition over the next five years. PGRS are able to
 access appropriate research conference funds.
 The progress and development of our PGR students is carried out through specific Research
 Student Progress Groups RSPG. Though these are organised on a School basis, each RSPG
 operates operates on a subject basis, so that a specific sub-group in each school monitors the

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Area Studies students in the School as a discrete group. In the case of the School with most
 students (SSS), this is chaired by the Area Studies lead (Wheeler). These RSPGs meet twice
 yearly to consider monitoring reports from the student, the supervisors and an independent UoA
 reader of a sample of the student’s writing. Students get extensive feedback from the RSPG when
 necessary, and the Groups also consider if there are patterns in progress issues that need to be
 addressed by additional support.
 The UoA Research Student Training Programme (a subsub-set of the University programme,
 targets UoA25 PGRS) includes specific sessions on preparing for this monitoring process, which
 most students attend in the early stages of their research. This is led by a member of the UoA.
 The Training Programme also supports:
 •   progression through the thesis: sessions on starting and planning research in October of each
     year, followed by sessions on transferring from MPhil to PhD, ethics approval processes, viva
     preparation; and research grant opportunities (all led by UoA members);
 •   skills development support with an academic writing workshop, sessions on qualitative and
     quantitative methods, fieldwork, working with social media, and on achieving impact (led by
     UoA members and other specialist University staff);
 •   career development, including gaining teaching experience while a doctoral student, career
     opportunities and employability, networking, and publishing research (all led by UoA
     members);
 •   sessions on research student well-being.
 Specifically discipline-relevant modules are targeted at UoA students.
 We also encourage peer support groups for our doctoral students. For example, CWASU doctoral
 students have created their own peer support group. There is also a one-day University-wide
 Research Student conference every June. Some PGRS share a room, which is reported to help
 develop a positive group ethos.
 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 Our staffing profile reflects our commitments to equality and diversity. With respect to gender, we
 have 13 female and 14 male members; 2 male and 1 female readers; 5 female and 2 male
 professors; 2 female and 3 male senior professors. Our gender distribution of senior staff is
 considerably more balanced that the UK as a whole (HESA). Although our ethnic distribution is
 largely white (93%), 56% of our members are on non-UK origin, or partly so. We also have a wider
 distribution of staff in non-hetero gender orientation than the rest of the University (17% of those
 declaring sexual orientation), and probably than in the UK academic population as a whole.
 Sabbatical leave and other research support is advertised to research staff, with a reminder
 that if any particular additional support is required because of particular special needs this should
 be included in the bid, and that doing so will not disadvantage the request. This policy is also
 implemented with respect for conference support, covering both travel and subsistence
 requirements
 Pre-COVID, we had developed arrangements for both remote and flexible working, for example
 as part of our policies for supporting research assistants and fellows in CWASU, who are often
 parents with dependents. We always tried to make their work sufficiently flexible for them to meet
 such commitments. Following the Spring/Summer 2020 lockdown, such policies are common for
 all staff.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Both part time and full time Research-only staff are supported in their career development.
 Where we have a series of substantial research contracts, for example in CWASU, we use bridging
 funds when possible to allow our researchers to continue in post, and thus achieve permanent
 employee status.
 The arrangements for research expenses (including conference support) for research staff with
 particular health needs and caring duties also apply to our research students.
 The University policies of equality of opportunities for our staff apply for appointment, promotion
 and access to internal funding and support.
 Diversity among PGRS
 Our PGRS reflect the University’s commitment to the development of diversity. 42% of our UoA’s
 current research students are registered in the part-time mode: they are predominantly female
 (72%; UK 50%), and significantly older than the UK average (62% over 30, UK 55%; 40% over
 40). We recruit particularly from the BAME community: 18% are Black (UK 4%) and 11% Asian
 (UK 8%). 17% have a disability (UK 14%). These figures reflect both the research expertise of
 our staff and our institutional commitment and reputation for diversity.
 A PGRS undergoing gender re-assignment requires to travel abroad frequently for medical
 appointments: targets and supervision meetings are adjusted to help this, and support comes from
 the University’s services and the Students’ Union LBGTQ group. Other students with dyslexia are
 supported with specialist advice. A student with kidney disease was supported to transfer to a
 university closer to where she lived. Another student with epilepsy, who had two hip replacements
 and two knee replacements in the course of her research, had special examination arrangements
 made to allow her to have a viva broken into short sessions, if necessary, with special support
 arrangements outside the room of the viva.
 Staff and student well-being is critical, and the University makes provision and support for this.
 Our two training support programmes (for research staff and for PGR students) include sessions
 on well-being.
 Our REF submission has also respected diversity and equality issues in its construction,
 following the University Code of Practice. All staff have been fully involved in suggesting their own
 outputs for selection, and submitting details of their activities and contributions to research and to
 impact. Staff selected for the UoA were invited to list their activities, contributions to research and
 markers of esteem, and these have been used in this environment statement to illustrate the
 practice of the policies described here. An iterative process has been used, in which all staff have
 been asked to comment on and add to successive drafts of the statement. The selection of outputs
 and impact statements has been made following the Code of Practice, conducted by the UoA
 Panel, overseen by the REF Advisory Panel and the outcome considered as part of the EIA.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 We have variously participated in collaborative research consortia within the UK and in Europe
 over the past six years. The narrative in this section brings together the collective experience of
 the current membership of the UoA since 2014, whether in other (previous) University/research
 settings or at London Metropolitan, and included our members funded research in collaborative
 partnerships with other institutions who were the project fund holders. It thus reflects our recent
 and current experience of research funding: this is set in the context of our research infrastructure,


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilities and policies to develop our research income over the next quinquennium. As we have
 indicated in section 2, our appointments strategy has been designed to strengthen our expertise
 in winning competitive major research grants.
 Particular individuals and groups have been successful in attracting major collaborative grants
 on a competitive basis:
 Kelly (and CWASU) have won or participated in over 30 successful grant awards over the period,
 including
 •   Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA): Cultural Encounters in Interventions
     against Violence (led by the University of Osnabrück). 2013-6 (€179,000);
 •   ESRC/Northern Rock Foundation: Project Mirabel, researching domestic violence perpetrator
     programmes, 2009-16 (£946,000), with Durham University.
 Lewis received funding for community radio activist research from
 •   HERA: Transnational Radio Encounters. 2013-16 (€59,500);
 •   Council of Europe’s Media in Europe for Diversity Inclusiveness (MEDIANE) programme, and
     its European Exchanges of Media Practices.
 MacRaild has won two substantial awards:
 •   Leverhulme Foundation: The Irish and British Famine: Comparing Lives Lost and Lives Saved
     (PI 2016-19) (£235,000, held at Ulster and Roehampton);
 •   AHRC: Locating the Hidden Diaspora: The English in North America in Transatlantic
     Perspective, 1760-1950 (PI 2011-14) (£286,000, held at Northumbria and Ulster).
 Louise Ryan, appointed recently to develop our capacity for developing grant applications,
 was co-director/leader of four major research grants:
 •   Horizon2020: Migration, Integration and Governance Research Centre, 2019-2022;
     (€800,000);
 •   Horizon 2020: EMpowerment through liquid Integration of Migrant Youth in vulnerable
     conditions, 2020-2023 (€2,900,000) [[relocated to London Metropolitan];
 •   ESRC: Sustainable Care: connecting people and systems, 2017-2021 (£2,400,000); and
 •   FP7: Researching Early School Leaving in the EU (Lead UK partner and lead largest work
     package) (£2,400,000).
 Other colleagues have led or participated in smaller research consortium for smaller competitive
 grants. These include:
 •   Mato Bouzas: German Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) - Crossroads Asia (2014-
     16): salary; fieldwork and workshop costs;
 •   Eraso: Argentinian National Agency of Science and Technology: Science, Medicine and
     Gender: Knowledge production and medical application of sex hormones in Argentina. (with
     National University of Mar del Plata, 2017). (c £ 8,000);
 •   Harding: National Lottery Heritage Fund: The Latin sounds of Pueblito Paisa: Preserving our
     history and memories (with the IARS Institute, £4000) (2018-19);
 •   Kelly: LB Waltham Forest: Links between radicalisation and violence against women, 2019-
     20 (£40,000); Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse, 2016-17 (£41,000);
 •   Kelly: Rape Crisis E&W, 2017-18 (£60,000); Centre of Expertise on Child Sexual Abuse, 2017
     (39,000);


                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Louise Ryan: Noble Foundation (Poland) Modern Poland: migrations and transformations
     (2017-2019, with University of Warsaw) (£30,000);
 •   Stirbu: National Housing Federation (with Snook Design, £70,000) (2019) to lead Research
     and Evaluation;
 •   Stirbu: Senned Cymru (National Assembly for Wales) Remuneration Board (2017) £30,000
     (Co PI);
 •   Uzelac: Ireland Health Research Board (with UCDublin £165,000) (2010) (study of nationalism
     and responses to Covid.
 Individual research grants include:
 Louise Ryan: London Boroughs of Barnet and Ealing: Opportunities for Young People: Pilot
      evaluation (2016-2017) (£40,000); Emmaus [Charity]: The History of Emmaus in the UK,
      (£45,000); Irish Dept of Foreign Affairs and Trade/Irish in Britain: Analysis of RTÉ
      Listenership among Irish community in Britain (£20,000);
 Stephenson: Khamovniki Foundation (Russia) (2016-7) (£24,000); and
 Mato Bouzas: Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft [DFG]: Migrants and Patrons between North-
     eastern Pakistan and Kuwait: Shia Networks and Transnational Spaces (2017- 20)
     (€303,000).
 Our future strategy is to spread our current expertise in winning research grants amongst more of
 the UoA members, identifying appropriate funders; at scales ranging from the larger competitive
 awards to those supporting individual research projects, as appropriate.
 As indicated in Section 1, we have begun to develop an organisational infrastructure to support
 the processes and mechanisms to accomplish research and impact. The development of our
 research centres—CWASU, CLiOH and particularly GDIR—and the identification of strands within
 them will build groups that will focus on different areas/forms of policy, media, conflict and
 resolution, cultures, and nationalism and populism. Activities range from opening up mutual
 support groupings to the planning of collaborative research programmes, with external partners
 where appropriate. Our more experienced and successful holders of competitive grants provide
 mentoring support and guidance to those of our members with less experience in this field, and
 particularly to our ECRs. We will support strategies that will both support the individual researcher
 and groups working together on a particular issue: we recognise and value the diversities of
 approaches our members bring. To all of them, our Impact Support Group offers an active
 programme of supporting individuals and groups consider strategies to maximise social and
 cultural impact of all our research, and a training programme that supports this.
 The staff research training programme described in Section2 includes substantial elements that
 are designed to build our income and infrastructure capacity. They include regular updating
 and review sessions on developments and trends in the policies of the major grant-awarding
 institutions and on developing and maximising research impact. There is also a specific series of
 activities to support our ECRs.
 Our five ECRs are at various stages of developing their research careers, and some are
 already making successful grant applications to develop their careers:
 Nyby participated (while completing her PhD) in a four-country family policy research project,
 with a research grant of €30,000 from Aktiastiftelsen.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Öztürk has just been awarded a European Commission Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual
 Fellowship, as part of Horizon2020; earlier, he had obtained two research grants from the Swedish
 Institute as part of its Swedish-Turkish programme and a field work Travel Grant from the
 University of Strasbourg.
 When technical support for our research and impact is necessary, we draw largely on the
 University’s provision of services. Where appropriate, larger research bids include the
 identification of specific technical support services and equipment; but we recognise that as a
 small area we do not yet have the resources to have a dedicated permanent technical support
 team. We do have a growing collection of archival collections (identified in Section 1 and in the
 Institutional environment statement Ref 5a), and hope to develop the greater use of these, by our
 own staff and PGRS and others, over the quinquennium, partly through further extending digital
 access.
 Our university-wide mechanisms for research funding include asking those with protected
 characteristics to consider what additional support they might need when requesting research
 support, for conferences, fieldwork travel and accessing materials. We similarly encourage those
 applying for external research grants to identify and itemise the costs of such support in making
 grant applications.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Members of our group have been involved in a variety of successful networks and
 partnerships over the 2014-20 period. In some we have taken the initiative in establishing
 and managing the collaboration, and in others as members of the group. The University
 Research Office has supported and advised on applications. Our knowledge of networking
 and grant opportunities come from either our members involvement as members of academic
 associations and groups (below), their awareness of funding calls from UK and European
 bodies, or from colleagues working in related disciplines. Collectively we have substantial
 personal networks which we use to inform each other of possibilities. The Schools in which
 we are located support the preparation of bids for collaborative projects and initiatives,
 through the provision of time and facilities.
 We are alert to national and international issues around our research disciplines, and to
 encourage interdisciplinary research. Our responses to initiatives and priorities include
 contributions to the organisation and management of learned societies; through papers,
 round tables, and keynotes at research association conferences, and through acting as
 external PhD examiners.
 Our members play active roles in research networks, for example:
 •   Chryssogelos heads the international relations team of Team Populism (SSRC[USA] and
     Brigham Young University-led];
 •   Kelly’s collaboration with Durham University in Project Mirabel on the perpetrators of
     domestic violence (ESRC and Northern Rock Foundation) (and 12?? other similar
     academic collaborations;
 •   López is an active member of the Europe-Latin America Violence, Security and Peace
     Network (LSE).
 •   Stephenson is a member of the Gangs, Gangsters, and Ganglands: Towards a Global
     Comparative Ethnography project (European Research Council).



                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Twenty-one of our members are active members of 52 Research Associations related to
 our particular fields of study. Five are members of the Political Studies Association, in which
 we are active members of six special interest groups. Nine of our members have
 organisational roles in: British Sociological Association (Louise Ryan, Vice-Chair, Chair from
 2021); Oral History Society (Harding, Trustee and HE lead); Philological Society (Fischer,
 Secretary, organises joint conference series with the British Academy and the Royal Society);
 International Society for MacIntyrean Enquiry (Knight, General Secretary); British Society for
 Slavonic and East European Studies (Stephenson, National Committee, lead on geography and
 sociology conference section); Institut fűr Deutsche Sprache (Fischer; member of International
 Advisory Board); International Studies Association (Öztűrk: Secretary of Religion and Politics
 SIG); Political Studies Association (Wheeler, founder of Media and Politics SIG; Knight, founder
 and Chair of Contemporary Aristotelean Studies SIG); and Community Media Forum for Europe
 (Lewis, Expert group).
 We are also involved in non-academic networks and partnerships that have a substantial
 community/civic/user base, both to supporting and influence their activities and to access data
 for collaborative research activity. For example:
    •   Singh has been over the period Chair of the Authors’ Club, one of the UK’s oldest
        literary institutions; and is trustee and project innovator with the Pop Up Projects
        Community Interest Company (one of the Arts Council England’s National Portfolio of
        “some of the best arts practice in the world’);
    •   Harding’s work with the Oral History Society includes Lottery funded work with older
        migrants and AgeUK working on the Lost Trades of Islington, and (with Karpf) with
        Freedom from Torture and Verbatim Theatre on migrant’s accounts of understandings
        of home;
    •   Lewis was a member of the HERA-funded Transitional Radio Encounters project
        (2013-16), a six-country research into how radio encounters are structured by aesthetic,
        infrastructural and archival factors, and how they support cultural identities and
        interactions. An international database of content related to transnational radio was
        created (now hosted by London Met; and
    •   Kelly’s Children and Women’s Abuse Unit is a member of the Cultural Encounters in
        Interventions Against Violence network project, which links academic and civil society
        groups in four European countries researching the voices of victims and intervention
        professionals in three forms of violence (HERA); and
    •   Ross is active in East European Citizenship Education Network (which is supported by the
        Bundeszentrale für Politische Bildung), which has largely civil society group members:
        through this he is forming a research partnership with East European civil society
        organisations to examine political socialisation in the former USSR states.
 We are all actively involved, in appropriate ways, with the audiences for our research
 beyond academia. These involvements include speaking at public events, media
 appearances and contributions to general and professional publications, and particular
 examples are given in the three Impact Case Studies that are part of our submission. Our
 members are also actively involved in a variety of civil society organisations and associations,
 as members and contributors to particular projects and events. Some of those that are
 particularly linked with academic networks (above). We have participated in many non-
 academic fora to present and discuss our research with policy-makers and other users: for
 example, Chatham House (Chryssolgelos), Cumberland Lodge (Kelly, Wheeler), various

                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 parliaments (UK: Kelly, Stirbu, Singh; European: Kelly, Öztürk; Senned Cymru : Stirbu; British
 Youth Parliament debate (Ross), and the International Centre for Parliamentary studies
 (López).
 Our participation in such engagements is an important way to both support our research and
 to explore new opportunities to participate and connect with the some of the beneficiaries of
 our research.
 We have described in Section 1 the groupings into which our work is organised into
 interlocked themes. Such academic foci naturally relate to, interact and engage with many
 aspects of societies and economies, both in the UK and in international areas. This can be
 difficult to quantify – and even to fully capture, but some examples of this are listed below.
 •   Fischer’s publications have had a noteworthy influence on English ↔ German translation;
 •   Karpf has chaired events at the Freud Museum and the Wellcome Trust, broadcasts on
     the BBC and writes regularly for The Guardian;
 •   Knight gave a public lectures series at the University of Muğla;
 •   McNally has introduced films and given lectures at the BFI, and broadcast on film and
     television on More4 and BBC Radio
 •   MacRaild gave the Cumman Staire public lecture on ‘No Irish Need Apply’ myths and
     realities at Galway in 2019, and the Irish Protestant Benevolent Society lecture on ‘Class,
     Ethnicity and Financial Confraternity in the British and Irish Worlds before 1914’ in Concordia,
     Canada in 2016;
 •   Ross gave public lectures on his research into European political identities: in 2015 Hanoi,
     to the ASEAN-Vietnamese conference on the ASEAN Socio-Cultural Community and a
     common identity, also to the Diplomatic Academy of Hanoi; and
 •   Ryan gave an invited presentation to policy and analytic staff at the Home Office in 2018
     on her research into contemporary immigration 'Using the life course lens and longitudinal
     methods to understand migrants’ responses to Brexit'.
 Such activities will continue to develop naturally out of the research that we do, but over the
 2021-25 period we intend to develop more comprehensive and accurate ways of recording
 our contributions of this nature.
 Working with diverse communities is one of the University’s long-established core
 commitments, both in our teaching and in our research. Our UoA is particularly engaged with
 diversity, and works with a wide range of communities both in the UK and internationally, as
 an intrinsic element of our activity, often as partners and participants, not merely as subjects
 of research.
 •   Kelly was one of the four shortlisted nominees for the National Diversity Awards’ Lifetime
     Achievement Award in 2015, and evaluated the partnership between Shpresa Programme
     and Solace Women’s Aid to develop a specialist service for Albanian Speaking Women
     experiencing violence in London (2016: Henry Smith Charity and Tust for London).
 •   López’s research illuminates the position of socially marginal homosexuals, transsexuals,
     and transgender individuals in contemporary Cuba, and the construction of homophobia as
     central to the design of Cuban national identity.
 •   Lewis’s research on migrant and diasporic communities (not served by either public service
     or commercial institutions) who use local community radio to foster new forms of participation
     and give voice to transnational communities and cultures.


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Singh established the Jhalak Prize for writers of colour in 2016: this has become a significant
     major prize in the national literary calendar and globally.
 •   Stirbu’s research on the barriers to standing for election to the Senned Cymru identified the
     levels of representation of diversity (inter alia of age, class, and the ability to speak Welsh),
     and made recommendations to address this.
 •   Ross’s research identified anti-racism as a significant political values of young Europeans,
     suggesting it was more marked in diverse and mixed localities; his sample included 23%
     of different/partially different descent to the country in which they were living.
 •   Ryan’s ESRC study worked with older migrants to the UK.
 We will continue in the coming years to work with and for the many pluralistic communities
 that comprise our field of study with energy and a commitment to social justice.
 Contribution to sustainability of disciplines
 Our contribution to the examination of PhD students has grown greatly in the 2014-20 period,
 during which period 15 of our members have been external examiners, examining 54 PhDs and
 5 Professional Doctorates in this period. 37 of these were in the UK, the others in Australia (3),
 Belgium (2), France, Ireland (3), Italy, Lithuania (3), the Netherlands, Norway, Singapore,
 Slovakia, Spain (2), Sweden, Switzerland and the USA.
 We anticipate intensifying our contribution to the growth and reach of the various disciplines within
 Area Studies, and the interaction between them, over the coming period.
 Other indicators of our influence and contribution
 Editorships and peer reviewing
 Our research continues to strengthen the foundations of our disciplinary interests, and we
 believe that this is increasingly recognized by the research community: we list a selection of
 the various potential indicators of this appreciation.
 Over the period 2014-20 we have been increasingly engaged in the editing and management of
 research publications, both journals and book series. Our members edited the research journals
 Journal of Gender Based Violence (Kelly); Immigrants & Minorities (MacRaild); International
 Journal of Religion (co-editor); International Journal of Religion (Öztűrk, launch and co-editor); and
 Sociology (Louise Ryan, Editorial Board Chair). We have edited special issues of another eleven
 journals: International Political Science Review (Chryssogelos); International Critical Thought
 (Knight); Journal of Southeast European and Black Sea Studies (+3 other journals, Öztűrk,)
 Citizenship Teaching and Learning (Ross); Gender, Place and Culture (+2 others, Ryan); and
 Journal of International Television (Wheeler).

 Our members sit on the editorial boards of Clinical Medicine: Case Reports (Eraso); Studies in
 Language and Literature (Gent) (Fischer); Youth Voice Journal (Harding); Oral History (Harding);
 Arkhe-logos (Knight); Centre de Recherche sur L’Enfance et l’Education (Montpellier) (Ross);
 Citizenship Teaching and Learning (Ross); Il Nodo (Rome) (Ross); Phrasis: Europe Asia Studies
 (Stephenson) European Journal of Homelessness (Stephenson); Nations and nationalism
 (Uzelac); Socijaina Ekologija (Zagreb) (Uzelac);and Journal of International Television (Wheeler).
 Members also act as series editors for monographs: Global Populisms (Brill: Chryssogeleos);
 Macula (Mimesis Edizioni: Harding); Theory and History (Palgrave-Macmillan: MacRaild);
 Edinburgh Studies on Modern Turkey (Edinburgh U Press: Öztürk); and Sociological Futures
 (Routledge: Ryan). Others sit on the editorial boards of monograph series: Latin American Social

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Science Studies (Tamesis: López); and Education Science, Evidence, and the Public Good
 (Springer/World Educational Research Association: Ross).
 26 of our members act as peer reviewers for academic journals (92 different Journals over the
 period); 14 of us also review research book proposals/manuscripts for 23 academic presses:
 Palgrave Macmillan (7 of us review for them); Routledge (5); Oxford UP (4); Bloomsbury (2);
 Cambridge UP (2); the University Presses of Kansas, Liverpool, Manchester, Notre Dame, Penn
 State and Yale; and Boydell and Brewer, Continuum; DeGruyter; Emerald, Four Courts; IB Tauris;
 Macmillan International; Narr Francke Attempto; Policy (2); Polity; Springer, and Wallflower.
 Participation in grant committees
 Louise Ryan was a member of the ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (2016-18); is an
 international expert for the Polish National Science centre, and a member of the ESRC
 Review College.
 MacRaild was a Peer Review College member (general and strategic) for the AHRC, 2010-
 2019; Doctoral Training Programme Assessor for AHRC 2020-25; Project Grant Assessor
 for Leverhulme (2015, 2016); an assessor for the Australian Research Council, and a member
 of the International PhD awards board of the Irish Research Council for over a decade till
 2019.
 Fischer was Assessor for the Czech Science Foundation; Kelly for an ESRC grant award;
 Knight for the National Science Centre Poland; Kelly and Ross for the Hong Kong Social
 Science Research Council; Ross the British Academy and a fellowship application for the
 Leverhulme Foundation; Eraso and Karpf for the Wellcome Trust Collaborative Awards.
 Participation on other bodies
 Singh is Convenor of the 80th Anniversary of the Lahore Declaration and the Jinnah Portrait
 Project (delayed to 2022 because of Covid-19). She is also a regular jury member on the UK
 Best first Novel Award, and on the Mslexia Women’s Fiction Short Story Awards (2018) and
 the Historical Writers Association Prize for debut fiction jury (2017).
 Fellowships and other research positions of merit
 Two members have been elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences (Ross; Louise Ryan).
 Kelly has been appointed to the Ruddick Chair on Violence against Women. Ross has an ad
 personam Jean Monnet Chair.
 Chryssogelos was Stavros Niarchos Senior Fellow at Chatham House; Research Fellow at the
 Weatherhead Centre, Harvard; a Fulbright-Schuman Scholar at SAIS John Hopkins and has a
 Jean Monnet Fellowship at the Robert Schuman Centre of the European University Institute.
 Öztürk was a Swedish Institute Fellow Linkoping; a Postdoctoral Fellow at Notre Dame; and has
 a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship.
 Visiting Research Fellows include Knight (Mykolas Romeris University); López (Instituto
 Tecnologica and the Institute of Latin American Studies); MacRaild (ANU Humanities Research
 Centre); Wheeler (LSE Visiting Fellow); and Stephenson (U Indiana; New York U, Jordan Centre).
 Prizes and awards
 •   Chryssogelos: The EU's Crisis of Governance and European Foreign Policy (Chatham
     House) was listed in the 2016 Best Policy Study-Report produced by a Think Tank, by the
     University of Pennsylvania Think Tanks and Civil Society Programme; it was one of the

                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     two Chatham House reports ranked that year, in which Chatham House rated ranked the
     ‘Top Think Tank in the World’)
 •   Kelly: International Collaboration Award, 2014, Stígamót [Icelandic Education and
     Counselling Centre for Survivors of Sexual Abuse and Violence]
 •   Stephenson: Gangs of Russia: from the Streets to the Corridors of Power (2015) was awarded
     the Alex Nove Prize 2016 by the British Association for Slavonic and East European Studies;
     it was also THES Book of the Week in January 2016; and she was Current Sociology’s
     Sociologist of the Month in 2018.
 •   Louise Ryan: was awarded the IMISCOE book prize for her co-edited book Revisiting
     ‘strong’ and ‘weak’ ties: migrants and their children in the labour market (2019)
 •   Ross: Finding Political Identities was awarded the Children’s Identity and Citizenship
     Association Research publication of the year award (2019).
 Invited Keynote speeches (selection) at major conferences and meetings
 •   Chryssogelos: Keynote to the 2019 party congress of New Democracy, Greece’s ruling
     party.
 •   Kelly: Iceland MeToo: Moving Forward conference (2019); Women’s Aid Conference (2019);
     British Sociological Association Conference (2014); Crown Prosecution Service National Rape
     Conference (2015); European Parliament Equal Opportunities Committee (2017);
 •   Ross: Swedish Academy of Sciences: invited presentation at Global symposium on policy
     in education (2016); invited to deliver keynote at the World Education Research
     Association conference 2022;
 •   Louise Ryan: Royal Irish Academy, Dublin, keynote on women’s suffrage (2017); Polish
     Embassy/Trinity College Dublin, keynote on Suffrage in Italy and Ireland (2018);
     University of Cork, keynote, 2018.
 •   Singh: Runnymede Trust; Lobby presentation t the House of Lords; public lecture on Sufi
     poetry (all 2018); presentation to the FCO on inclusion and foreign policy (2017);
 •   Stirbu: Cymorth Cymru Conference (2016); and
 •   Öztürk: German Foreign Office South European conference, on Turkey’s soft power
     (2019).
 We also make many contributions to conference organisation and chairing, for example
 Chryssogeleos (EISA; ECPR; ISA panel chairs); Eraso (Symposia at International Congress of
 Science and Technology, Rio de Janeiro); Knight (Ethics and Culture Conference, Notre Dame);
 MacRaild (Canadian Association for Irish Studies); Stirbu (Centre for Public Scrutiny
 Conferences); Mato Bouzas (Migration in the Gulf conference, Leinitz ZMO); Moran (PSA
 panel chair).
 Involvement in PGR training
 Five members have been active in post graduate research training outside of the University.
 Eraso was a visiting professor on n the Doctoral Training Programme (Programa de Pós-
 Graduação em História das Ciências e da Saúde) Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Brazil.
 Harding has for several years coordinated the annual Oral History Society advanced school for
 research students as a joint venture with the British Library, initially with the Institute for Historical
 Research, then the British Library: she is now working with Nottingham Trent University to launch
 a national programme of such training.


                                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Knight regularly help lead and organise the one-day research students’ workshop/conferences
 that precede the International Society for MacIntirean Enquiry conference, each having 10 -20
 international students; he was also post-doctoral mentor for Dr Beata Sirowy, SRF at Norwegian
 University of Life Sciences and addressed their postdoctoral programme.
 Louise Ryan organised the one week PhD workshop for the Centre for Migration Research in
 Warsaw, Nobel Foundation-funded (2018); she has given workshop sessions/schools at the
 Universities of AU Barcelona, Huddersfeld, Uppsala (2017); Neuchatel, Cork (2018); Malmo
 (2019) and Gronigen and Belgrade (2020/postponed).
 Ross gave the opening keynote at the Research Student Summer School for the Children’s
 Identity and Citizenship Association in Olsztyn, Poland, in 2014; he has given postgraduate
 research seminars in the Universities of Turku, Lillehammer and Basilicata (2015) and supports
 PhD students through the Centre for European Studies (CUNY) Digital Hub.




                                                                                       Page 18
