Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 16 Economics and Econometrics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Context

 The Department of Economics at Sussex is a medium-sized unit within the University of Sussex
 Business School, which enjoys an international reputation for outstanding applied research at
 the frontiers of knowledge and analysis, particularly in the fields of development economics,
 labour and behavioural economics, and international trade. We are distinct in offering deep
 knowledge of and solutions to real world global policy challenges in these areas. Our research is
 well grounded in academic rigour drawing on state-of-the-art advances in applied economics,
 experimental methods, and economic theory. The quality of our output submissions - with over
 12% in top five journals (Econometrica, Quarterly Journal of Economics, Journal of Political
 Economy and Review of Economic Studies) and a vast majority of the others in the American
 Economic Journals, Review of Economics and Statistics, Economic Journal and top field
 journals (Journal of Economic Theory, Journal of International Economics, Journal of
 Development Economics, and Journal of Economic History) - manifests commitment to method
 and rigour. Our long-standing expertise in applied economics allows us to adapt to current policy
 agendas and external demands to provide rigorous, creative research and analysis in times of
 major change or need. For example, our research has contributed to debates on national
 minimum wages, post-Brexit trade policy, wellbeing and happiness, the Ofsted inspection regime
 for schools, pensions and total rewards, legal fees and police reforms, and the Mahatma Gandhi
 National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). Our success in establishing a
 sustainable and influential department full of vitality was showcased in successful hosting of the
 Royal Economic Society (RES) annual conferences of 2016 and 2018.

 In addition to our success with output quality, the department has exploited its core strengths
 and developed a highly active impact strategy, as reflected in the impact case studies on the
 minimum wage and international trade. On the former, Dickens’ research has paved the way to
 the introduction of the National Living Wage (NLW) in 2016, raising the earnings of over 1.6
 million workers in the UK, around 7% of all workers. As an independent member of the Low Pay
 Commission, Dickens’ research has directly influenced the body’s recommendations to the
 government, resulting in policy commitments to lowering age eligibility for the NLW to 21 and
 faster NLW increases for 220,000 people aged 21-24 from April 2020. Dickens’ research also
 informed a report published by HM Treasury, which influenced the government decision in 2020
 to increase the NLW from 60% to two-thirds of median pay by 2024, affecting 4.7 million
 workers. Dickens’ research also influenced South Africa’s introduction of a national minimum
 wage.

 In trade, our strength is evidenced through two impact case studies. First, the UK Trade Policy
 Observatory (UKTPO), created in June 2016 and led by Winters (2016-20) and Gasiorek (2020-
 ), has rapidly become a leading independent interdisciplinary research group analysing
 international trade and investment. Its research-based insights have helped to ground the
 debate around UK trade policy after Brexit in robust data and realistic scenarios. This has
 influenced discussions in Parliament and the work of government departments. Several policy
 approaches have been either guided or subsequently modified following UKTPO analysis and its
 research has directly influenced government, devolved administration, and opposition trade
 policy. Second, through a university spin-off (InterAnalysis) led by Gasiorek, faculty have
 developed software tools for diagnostic data analysis and simulation modelling of trade policy in
 multiple nations and regional associations, notably in Pakistan, India, Ukraine, the Economic
 Community of the West African States (ECOWAS), the UK and Northern Ireland.

 b. Structure of the unit


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The department experienced rapid expansion in the period leading up to REF2014, which
 enabled it to attain the critical mass required to achieve the strategic objectives at that time (see
 below on REF2014 Strategy & Performance, p. 5). Over the REF2021 census period, average
 category A faculty headcount and FTE in the department have been stable at approximately 26
 and 26.5 respectively. To respond to usual departures and retirements, we have implemented a
 strategic programme of targeted recruitment aimed at intensifying the quality and depth of our
 established research strengths in development economics, international trade, labour and
 education and quantitative economic history and also established new research clusters in
 economic theory, behavioural and experimental economics, and environment and energy. In
 doing so we have re-invigorated the department with some of the brightest and best early career
 economists, a dynamic group of mid-career economists and a strong core of experienced and
 respected senior academics providing research experience, leadership and improved research
 output.

 Our recruitment strategy has been actively supported by the university’s retention and growth
 plan, which recognised the department’s research strengths and international reputation in
 applied economics. The support is in the form of significant central investment, including the
 establishment of the new University of Sussex Business School (UoSBS) in 2018. The financial
 strength of the school underpins continued support for our recruitment plans with a vision to
 place Sussex among the top economics departments in the UK. Covid-19 temporarily disrupted
 the execution of the department’s expansion plans but the university and the business school
 remain committed to sustainable growth of the department once the pandemic subsides.

 Over the REF2021 period, Category A faculty numbers in the clusters have been: Trade (4);
 Development (12); Labour and Education (10); Quantitative Economic History (6); Economic
 Theory (4); Behavioural and Experimental (5); and Environment and Energy (3). Note that there
 is no exclusive allocation of a Category A faculty to a cluster and some of them have departed
 Sussex. The clusters are led by at least one senior professor and consist of a varying mix of
 early and mid-career researchers and more established faculty. The clusters are flexible with a
 collaborative culture that stimulates new and sustainable research ventures and the joint
 supervision of PGR students. Structurally, it is the development of a critical mass of academics,
 who engage with each other through seminars, research programmes and more broadly with
 Research Mobilisation Groups (see below), that enables innovative high-quality research output
 and deep and extensive impact and engagement activity. For example, the Trade cluster
 regularly holds seminars and interdisciplinary discussion groups with colleagues from Law,
 International Relations and Business Studies. Similar activities are also held by the Development
 and Behavioural and Experimental clusters.

 The research clusters are aided by Research Mobilisation Groups organised around research
 themes such as conflict and development, sustainability and energy policy, migration and
 development, international trade, and economic behaviour and social wellbeing at the business
 school level to facilitate interdisciplinary research, grant capture, collaboration, and other
 activities. Any faculty member could become a member of a Research Mobilisation Group and
 participate in its meetings, workshops, seminars and other activities. This strategy has delivered
 results with higher grant income, new interdisciplinary research and international recognition of
 research quality in the areas of our strength. For instance, development economics’ work along
 with the School of Global Studies and the Institute of Development Studies (IDS) contributed
 strongly to Sussex’s topping the Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) World University Rankings in
 international development in 2015, 2017, and 2018.

 The international trade cluster is the heart of the UK Trade Policy Observatory (UKTPO),
 established in 2016 with colleagues in Law, International Relations and Business Studies as an
 interdisciplinary research centre to address the UK’s post-Brexit trade policy challenges. It has
 been a story of outstanding success in producing high-impact research and generating research
 income. Sections 3 and 4 offer more details.

 c. Research and impact strategy

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research strategy
 During the REF2021 period, we have generated a substantial cultural and reputational shift
 towards becoming an internationally excellent, research-prevalent economics department with a
 clear sense of our research strengths and priorities and a focus on our impact on policy and
 people. We delivered a three-part strategy for achieving a culture of sustainable research
 excellence and impact in our seven research clusters. First, through the maintenance and in
 some cases expansion of a critical mass of research faculty in each of the research clusters.
 Second, through the development of a supportive and academically challenging organisational
 environment that rewards excellence. This includes appropriate recognition of research, impact
 and outreach activities in the staff workload model and rewarding excellence through
 discretionary pay awards. Third, through creating a dynamic organisational structure to
 encourage industry engagement in order to deliver economic and social impact. This includes
 establishing the interdisciplinary research centre UKTPO within the international trade research
 cluster. In addition, allowing faculty flexible contractual arrangements to engage with non-
 academic institutions. Dickens’ engagement with the LPC, Hussain’s engagement with Ofsted,
 Dolton’s with the National Institute of Economic and Social Research (NIESR) and Office of
 Manpower Economics have produced high-impact research.

 In particular, the following Research and Impact (R&I) Strategy has been adopted by the
 department as part of the R&I Strategy of the UoSBS.

 1. Rewarding excellence in publications, grant capture, and impact activities through promotion
    and financial rewards.
 2. Supporting R&I activities through the workload allocation model.
 3. Establishing UKTPO to generate high-impact research on trade policy issues (see below).
 4. Establishing the UoSBS Research Impact, Communications and Engagement (RICE) team
    to provide administrative support for impact generation.

 The R&I Strategy and the RICE team supported our three impact case studies and other impact
 activities (see section 4). It also demonstrated the ability to respond promptly to urgent national
 concerns such as Brexit through the establishment of UKTPO in 2016. The UoSBS and other
 parts of the university supported the effort with funds and staff (outreach specialists, the Press
 Office, an administrative assistant).

 Overall, the department and the UoSBS recognise that the promotion of research to a wide and
 diverse non-academic audience is an important component of external engagement and is a
 step on the pathway to impact. It has made strategic investments in UKTPO and RICE to that
 end. Furthermore, faculty regularly contribute columns to VoxEU and The Conversation,
 participate in UK parliamentary briefings, and advise other governments as they are a strong
 pathway to wider impact for economists. These activities not only empower research to influence
 debates, policy and practice, they also encourage collaboration, recruitment and the creation of
 new funding and income opportunities. The UKTPO epitomises the success of this approach
 and is a best practice example of using deep academic expertise to contribute to debates that
 are crucial for the UK.

 The departmental strategic aims are in line with the university’s research strategy including the
 initiative on open research and the Sussex 2025 Strategic Framework. In particular, they align
 with the Sussex 2025 Strategic Framework ‘research with impact’ and ‘engage for change’. For
 example, we can confidently claim that Dickens’ research on UK minimum wages, UKTPO and
 TradeSift’s research on trade policy, and Hussain’s research on Ofsted inspection regime has
 fulfilled the strategic aims of the department and brought about tangible social change. The
 department’s strategic aims also speak to the UKRI Strategy and Vision document May 2018 of
 ‘fostering world-leading research that delivers economic impact and enhances productivity
 through partnership and collaboration between academia, industry and other stakeholders’. Our
 three impact case studies and other research projects (see section 4) demonstrate the
 department’s success in that direction.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (i) Creating and maintaining a critical mass of research faculty
 We implemented a targeted recruitment drive aimed at combining promising early career
 economists with a strong core of experienced senior academics. At the junior level, we have
 exploited our close links with academic economists in London, Oxford and Cambridge to recruit
 talented researchers (see below). As we have built an increasingly research-focused
 department, our ability to attract high calibre researchers has gone from strength to strength and
 we have been successful in recruiting excellent researchers from the North American market
 (Chari, PhD Yale; Pathania, PhD Berkley; Maertens, PhD Cornell; and Embrey, PhD NYU).

 At the senior level, changes have included the recruitment of Manzini, to build the economic
 theory cluster; and the recruitment of Mion, to strengthen the international trade cluster. We
 have also secured part-time appointments of Disney, Hayes and Crafts (though Hayes departed
 in 2020). The senior part time appointments arrived with a strong track record in policy advice,
 which provided additional research leadership to the core areas of labour and education,
 environment, and quantitative economic history respectively. This expansion has allowed senior
 faculty to take on additional leadership roles in the guidance and mentoring of junior faculty and
 PGR students. The prior existence of a strong team spirit within the department facilitated the
 integration of new staff into a cohesive research group.

                        Junior and senior faculty recruited 2014 to 2020
  Our junior recruitment began prior to REF2014 with the appointments of Masella in labour,
  Bhattacharyya, Pathania, Chari, Fagernas and Maertens in development economics, Borchert
  in international trade, MacKerron in environment and energy, and Moradi in quantitative
  economic history. This trend has continued during the REF2021 period with the appointments
  of Walther and Marden in development, Embrey and Potoms in behavioural and experimental,
  and Dziewulski in theory. The significant senior appointments of Manzini in theory, Mion in
  trade, Crafts in economic history and Hayes in environment reinforced the junior appointments.
  Hayes departed in 2020 but we will be looking to replace him.

 In addition, we have been very mindful of the need to promote talented and research-active staff
 in order to maintain critical mass in all the clusters. Timely promotion facilitates retention in a
 highly competitive labour market of professional economists and retention is a key component of
 our strategy of sustaining critical mass in the research clusters. In order to reduce process time,
 the business school and the university have implemented substantial reforms and
 decentralisation to address the challenge of talent retention. The process also recognises the
 role of market supplement in attracting and retaining talents. See below for a summary of faculty
 promotion during the REF2021 period. Also, see p. 5 on publication quality.

                              Faculty promotions 2014 to 2020
  Masella’s outstanding publication performance was recognised by his promotion to a
  Readership in 2015. This was followed by Bhattacharyya’s promotion to Readership in 2016
  and Moradi, Pathania, Chari and Telhaj’s promotion to Readerships in 2017. Fagernas,
  Maertens, Borchert, MacKerron, and Embrey were also promoted to Senior Lecturer during
  the REF2021 period. Newell was promoted to a Professorship during the REF2021 period.
  Gasiorek was promoted to a Professorship in 2019 in recognition of his leadership of UKTPO,
  high-impact research and learning.

 (ii) Developing a supportive and academically challenging environment
 The successful recruitment drive has been complemented by the creation of a supportive
 environment and organisation to foster research excellence. We have invested heavily in a new
 experimental lab. We have also created an attractive working environment through closer
 proximity and greater visibility in the Jubilee Building, which has been instrumental in facilitating
 greater research interactions among faculty and PhD students, and more attractive space for
 seminars and social exchanges. The department is able to offer faculty competitive teaching
 commitments, regular study leave opportunities, generous financial support for research and a
 strong team ethos to which all faculty contribute. Alongside this, we have strengthened provision

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for our PGR students including the introduction of a coursework requirement and sizeable
 studentships.

 The success of our research strategy
 These changes have been positive for the department in terms of its research activity,
 publication quality and knowledge exchange and have been instrumental in attracting the high
 calibre faculty and PGR students to Sussex who will maintain and enhance our vision of
 research excellence (See below for examples of output quality).

                                       Publication quality
  Indicators of quality include outputs in Econometrica (ECMA; Manzini), Quarterly Journal of
  Economics (QJE; Embrey, Mion), Journal of Political Economy (JPE; Mion), Review of
  Economic Studies (REStud; Chari, Embrey, Pathania), Review of Economics and Statistics
  (REStat; Masella, Moradi), Economic Journal (EJ; Crafts, Manzini, Marden, Moradi,
  MacKerron), American Economic Journal: Applied Economics (AEJ: Applied; Hayes, Masella),
  American Economic Journal: Economic Policy (AEJ: Policy; Moradi), Journal of Economic
  Theory (JET; Dziewulski, Manzini, Potoms), Journal of Development Economics (JDE;
  Bhattacharyya, Chari, Maertens, Moradi, Walther), Journal of International Economics (JIE:
  Mion), Journal of Economic History (JEH; Crafts, Moradi, Newell), European Economic Review
  (EER; Borchert, Winters), Journal of Human Resources (JHR; Pelkonen, Fagernas, Winters).

 The strategy in REF2014 and subsequent performance
 In 2014 the department set out a research strategy governing the subsequent five years. We
 believe we have exceeded all these objectives and make our case below:

                                 The earlier section on recruitment points to our successful
                                 recruitment of staff at all levels. Although inevitably there
                                 have been some departures, we have managed to promote
                                 and retain over 80% of our junior recruits (See the above on
                                 promotions and Table 1 on retentions). In addition, we have
  Develop a mature,              managed to maintain and improve on our success in
  influential and sustainable    publications, grant capture, PhD student numbers,
  research environment           completion rates, and employment (See Tables 1, 2 and
                                 REF4b/c for details). We have secured approximately £5
                                 million plus in research grant and consultancy funding. Our
                                 success in creating a sustainable and influential department
                                 was showcased in successful hosting of the RES annual
                                 conferences of 2016 and 2018.
                                 We have fully delivered on this commitment through strategic
                                 hiring in the complementary research areas of economic
                                 theory and behavioural and experimental economics. We
                                 have hired Manzini (Professor), Dziewulski (Lecturer) and
                                 Potoms (Lecturer) to build the theory group. We have also
  Investment in
                                 hired Embrey (Lecturer) to start the complementary
  complementary research
                                 behavioural and experimental group. This has led to very
  skills
                                 high dividends in terms of high quality publications in
                                 Econometrica, QJE, REStud, and JET. Embrey was
                                 subsequently promoted to a Senior Lectureship. See above
                                 on ‘recruitment and promotions’ and ‘publication quality’ for
                                 details.

 Strategic aims for the next five years
 An emphasis on economic theory and applied policy is the driving force underpinning our
 research strategy for the future and the changes implemented so far place Economics at Sussex
 at the frontier of such research. Our aim is to become one of the leading economics departments
 in the UK over the next five years. Building on our rapid expansion since RAE2008 and
 consolidation since REF2014, we shall continue to invest in our research capability. Our key
                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aims will be: (i) to add new research clusters while maintaining our core strengths in applied
 economics, and (ii) to continue to invest in areas where we have performed well in terms of
 delivering high-impact research.

 The aims are fully in line with the UKRI Strategy of investing in research wisely in a challenging
 environment. We will foster high quality research in partnership with academia, industry and
 other stakeholders that delivers economic impact and productivity growth.

 (i) Maintain a mature and sustainable research environment
 We will seek to achieve this with a further strengthening of leadership through recruitment in our
 core areas and the continued investment in talented early career researchers. This plan is fully
 supported by the university’s growth ambitions. While our medium-term objective is for further
 modest recruitment, our most immediate objective is to make appointments of two to three junior
 posts in 2021/22. In the medium term, senior positions will provide further research leadership in
 our existing fields of expertise and accelerate the development of our early career faculty into
 more mature researchers, while the recruitment of promising early career researchers will
 provide even more opportunities for interaction, innovation and collaboration, offering an
 increasingly attractive research environment within the department. See section 2 under ‘A
 Research Excellence Culture’ for examples of new areas of collaborative work that have already
 emerged among faculty as a result of the above-mentioned strategy.

 We continue the consolidation of our research-led culture through an active promotion strategy
 that rewards success and provides strong incentives for excellence in research. We have
 implemented a proactive staffing strategy, supported at the university level, whereby faculty are
 assisted by a managed transition into greater leadership roles. For example, Gasiorek and
 Borchert have transitioned into leadership roles in UKTPO while Bhattacharyya and Fagernas
 have taken leadership roles within the department in the form of research directorship and PhD
 convenorship. Given that a number of our junior faculty had attained significant research
 achievements prior to joining Sussex, we anticipate swift promotion as they develop leadership
 skills that support other faculty and PGR students. The real possibility to move into senior
 positions within the department creates a progressive and aspirational environment where junior
 faculty identify with more advanced role models and see clear paths for career progression.

 (ii) Continue investment in complementary research skills
 While we currently have very clear strengths in applied policy analysis, we are aiming to evolve
 into a department with a broader range and enhanced balance of complementary research skills.
 As a first priority, we intend to build on the appointments of Manzini, Dziewulski and Potoms and
 appoint further expertise in economic theory. The appointment of Embrey and the establishment
 of the experimental lab will be reinforced further by appointments in experimental economics.
 We will also seek to make appointments in the areas of macroeconomics and development
 macroeconomics to complement the earlier appointment of Bhattacharyya in these areas. We
 have made a 0.3FTE professorial appointment in quantitative economic history in the form of
 Crafts during the current REF cycle. We would seek to strengthen this cluster through further
 junior appointments to join Fagernas and Crafts. We will strengthen new areas of applied
 research techniques in the form of machine learning and econometrics and as a priority will seek
 to appoint additional expertise in micro-econometrics and trade.

 (iii) Continue investment in high-impact research
 Given our very clear strengths in applied policy analysis, especially in the fields of development
 economics, international trade and labour economics, research impact is central to our strategic
 aims. University, school and department level investments in UKTPO have already delivered
 outstanding results in terms of increasing research income and shaping policy. We will continue
 our investments in this direction by further strengthening UKTPO. UKTPO brings together a
 healthy mix of early career research fellows working closely with established faculty from the
 department. The department and the school would be looking to support these externally funded
 fixed-term appointments with competitive matched funding. Currently the department and the
 school are supporting UKTPO’s ESRC Centre for Excellence bid.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Monitoring research strategy
 The senior academics and the Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange oversee research
 strategy within the department but the identification of new avenues of research originates from
 the ground up. Senior faculty meet every month to monitor progress both overall and within the
 core research clusters and scrutinise progress of strategy through a number of processes such
 as active mentoring, a business school-level evaluation of research plans and oversight of
 income targets and PGR progress, and a business school-level Research Committee. More
 details of these processes are shown below.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Recruitment strategy
 We have been very successful in achieving our objective of attracting high quality research-
 active faculty at both the junior and senior levels. We have accomplished this through a judicious
 use of recruitment networks such as the RES job market meetings and current personal
 research contacts, an intensive and rigorous appointment process, and, perhaps most
 importantly, through being able to offer potential candidates an exciting vision of continuing
 growth and excellence. This is evidenced by our high staff retention rates (see Table 1) although
 there is a drop in 2020-21 FTE due to retirement, Covid–19 induced reduced hours and
 departures.

 A culture of research excellence
 Through professional development and staff management practices we are continuing to
 generate a strong team ethos which fosters collaboration and supports research performance.
 For example, there is a clear expectation that faculty should be present in the department a
 majority of the time and they are actively encouraged to provide discussion and critique of each
 other’s outputs and funding applications. Weekly internal and external seminars as well as a
 weekly PhD seminar are very well supported. Seminar speakers ranged from high profile
 international scholars to promising early career researchers. The department website presents a
 full list of seminar speakers. The head of department leads an annual research ‘away-day’
 designed to catalyse research linkages and to facilitate knowledge exchange among faculty. In
 addition, faculty interact in interdisciplinary platforms such as the research mobilisation groups
 and the UKTPO. The collaborations between Bhattacharyya and Moradi on natural resources
 and development (JDE publication); Dolton and Pathania on the NHS (JHE publication); and
 Borchert, Gasiorek, and Winters on Brexit and trade policy are success stories emerging out of
 these interactions (ESRC grant and impact cases).

 Professional development
 The department offers support for professional development in a variety of ways, with an
 emphasis on early career researchers. For example, we provide generous financial support for
 attendance at high quality conferences (see below). We encourage research collaborations
 within and outside Sussex through a mixture of financial support and relief from other contractual
 arrangements such as teaching and administration. In addition, the Department and the
 Business School offers paid study leave after 3 continuous years of service and contribution to
 citizenship. We also support attendance at specialist training courses to boost skills, for example
 econometrics, software, data usage. Departmental funds are used to attract a regular flow of
 high class visitors who are encouraged to interact with faculty and PGR students, e.g. Mark
 Rosenzweig (Brown), Asim Khwaja (Harvard) and Dan Hamermesh (UT Austin), Guillaume
 Frechette (NYU), Bram de Rock (ECARES, Brussels).

                                     Conference support
  Sussex has been well represented by faculty at high profile conferences throughout the
  REF2021 period particularly in the areas of our core strength. Faculty presented their work
  every year at the AEA conferences, Econometric Society meetings, EEA meetings, NBER

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  summer workshops, Society of Labor Economists meetings, IZA/World Bank workshops, G-
  TAP meetings, NEUDC meetings, and Royal Economic Society (RES) conferences.

 Mentoring
 We have an active mentoring process whereby faculty are assigned to a senior member of staff
 who oversees progress and supports each mentee in setting and achieving high personal
 research goals. Regular meetings establish agreed research targets across a range of outputs
 including publications, research income and PGR supervision. Concerns raised by faculty are
 dealt with quickly so as to remove any obstacles to research productivity. This is reinforced at
 the department level by faculty completing an annual research plan that is discussed with a
 senior professor. Junior faculty also have frequent probation meetings with the Heads of
 Department. In addition, mentoring also takes place through the UKTPO and the research
 mobilisation groups especially with regards to research grant writing and impact. For example,
 the successful mentoring relationship between mid-career and senior faculty is demonstrated by
 our research income success in section 3 and the impact case studies.

 Leadership and involvement
 A regular flow of information between junior faculty and senior professoriate occurs through a
 range of formal and informal channels including department meetings, informal lunch meetings,
 research mobilisation groups, UKTPO and regular seminars. The senior leadership meet
 frequently to assemble the ideas that arise from these interactions and to ensure that the overall
 research strategy remains responsive and capitalises on the energy of the early career
 researchers.

 Equality and diversity
 Backed by the university, the department is active in working towards equality and diversity in
 both recruitment and staff management. We do so not only in recognition of individual staff
 needs but also in accordance with our long-term aims, which support the diversity that we want
 to achieve. We recognise that equality and diversity increases people’s commitment to the
 university and contributes to the longer-term productivity and success of the department. To
 address equality and diversity related issues, the department operates a ‘Diversity in Economics’
 committee. The committee aims to make the department more inclusive with regard to race,
 gender, sexual orientation, ability and religion. The committee focuses on issues related to the
 treatment of academics, students, professional services staff and prospective students. It also
 aims to make teaching and research in economics more inclusive. Note that the university and
 the school have formal procedures and mechanisms in place to combat discrimination and
 promote diversity. This departmental committee restricts itself to informal solutions to subtler
 forms of discrimination. Faculty have recently taken periods of leave for maternity (three cases),
 paternity (two cases) and parental leave (one case), and to cover periods of long-term illness
 (two cases). Through a competitive, transparent and merit-based recruitment process we have
 managed to improve diversity among faculty especially in the dimensions of gender and
 ethnicity. Currently among category A faculty,
     • 22.2% FTEs are female (all full time)
     • 14.8% FTEs are BAME (all full time)
     • 74.1% FTEs are Full Time
     • 96.3% FTEs are Permanent
     • 55.6% FTEs are of the age group 30-50
     • 44.4% FTEs are of the age group 50+
     • 3.6% FTEs are of the age group <30
 We have also taken equality and diversity into account in our REF output selection process. All
 eligible outputs were reviewed by a committee of six faculty members of which three are of
 BAME background.

 This diversity has delivered results not just in terms of improved research quality but also in
 terms of research power (see table 1 for a summary of research outputs). Our aim is to continue
 improvements in this direction and make the Department even more diverse.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research students

 We provide a first-rate doctoral training programme focused on providing high quality
 supervision, facilities and training to nurture excellent research economists. As a result, we have
 a strong track record in our PhD employment and completion rates (see Tables 1 and 2). Our
 programme is governed by the university’s document ‘Principles to Govern Doctoral Studies’,
 which aims to train and develop diverse, pioneering and courageous doctoral researchers who
 will have a lasting impact within and outside the academy. The key governing principles are: to
 celebrate the nature of doctoral research, promote excellence and quality, enhance doctoral
 researcher experience, promote research integrity, enhance employability and researcher
 development, facilitate connectivity, deliver world leading supervision, provide world leading
 doctoral research environment.

 The doctoral programme is supported by excellent department and business school level
 support structure. Students are required to attend the Advanced Research Methods in
 Economics (ARME) programme during the first year of their candidacy. ARME includes a series
 of workshops on non-parametric econometrics, Stata, Advanced Stata, impact evaluation
 methods, discontinuity regressions, spatial econometrics, field experiments, Latex, Matlab,
 journal refereeing, survey design, and PhD job market strategy. By the end of their first year the
 doctoral students are required to present their thesis outline, which is evaluated by the outline
 committee. The outline committee comprises four faculty members including the two
 supervisors. The expectation is quite high at this stage as the students are expected to submit a
 complete manuscript of professional quality. The outline committee offers advice on the
 submitted draft. In addition, the students are subject to annual reviews of their candidacy. This is
 typically based on their research presentation in internal seminars in front of other students and
 the faculty. Students are also required to meet their doctoral supervisors at least once a month.

 The award to Sussex of the ESRC-DTC in 2010 and the introduction of generous PhD
 studentships has been instrumental in attracting outstanding PGR students over the REF2021
 census period (see Table 1). The programme is attractive to students, enabling high entry
 standards to be set. In addition to ESRC funding (e.g. Mamo, Schmidt) many students bring
 prestigious scholarships (Currently three Commonwealth scholarships, one EU scholarship).
 Candidates originate from a wide range of countries across Europe, Africa, Asia and
 Central/South/North America, to form a lively, mutually supportive and diverse community that is
 an integral part of the Department.

 Despite this wide-ranging support, Table 1 shows a recent decline in our doctoral student
 numbers. This reflects the current funding challenges faced by the UK HE sector as a whole and
 has restricted our ability to offer funding to students. Our response has been to focus even more
 heavily on quality, as reflected in student completion rate and employment. We have put forward
 a robust long-term strategy which should be able to take us beyond the current challenges.
 Academic staff are now actively encouraged to assist prospective students with their external
 PhD funding applications. We also run a rigorous doctoral recruitment process based on
 applications and interviews. We believe that these steps will place us in a good position to
 expand further in future while maintaining quality.

                 Excellence in publications and employment of PGR students
  A number of our former PGR students are in academic positions (e.g., University of Chicago,
  J-PAL (MIT), CEP (LSE); See tables 1 and 2 for details). Others hold posts in national and
  international organizations (e.g. World Bank, IFAD, FAO, UNICEF, UK TREASURY etc.). Our
  PhD students also publish in leading journals (eg., Journal of Development Economics,
  Economic Development and Cultural Change, Labour Economics, Journal of Law and
  Economics, WBER, AER P&P, World Development, Journal of Development Studies). Overall,
  our PGR students have published 45 journal articles over the REF2021 period.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to formal supervision arrangements, which generally comprise a senior and junior
 faculty member, PGR students are also assigned a mentor, often an advanced PGR candidate.
 A taught component in year 1 focuses on advanced econometrics and research skills and
 includes generic academic and employability skills (e.g. presentation techniques, refereeing
 process). This is delivered by current research faculty and occasionally supplemented with
 external expertise. Additionally, PhD students also receive support to attend specialist training,
 e.g., CEMMAP (Xaio, Sandi), EUI Summer Schools (Keller), IZA Summer Schools (Salardi,
 Leone), Barcelona GSE Summer School (Egger, Salardi). The PGR convenor arranges a
 regular forum for PGR students to voice concerns and PGR representatives provide formal input
 through department meetings.

                           Conference support for doctoral students
  Examples of conference support are as follows. Abouaziza and Tafesse have been supported
  to present at the Annual Conference of the European Society for Population Economics, 2016,
  Mazutti at SOLE and NEUDC in 2015, Egger at 28th Annual Conference of the European
  Association of Labour Economists, Sandi and Schoch at CesIfo conference on Political
  Economy, 2015, Keller, Mamo and Sam at CSAE (Oxford), Poggi and Hambrados at DIAL
  2015 and 2017 respectively.

 We fund attendance for PGR students to present their work at a minimum of one national and
 one international conference and provide support for fieldwork activities. Students nearing
 completion present at our annual PhD conference, supported by all faculty, PGR students and
 an external academic (Recent examples include Guy Michaels (LSE), and Jan Willem Gunning
 (Amsterdam)). For those entering the job market this provides excellent preparation for the next
 phase of their career. The PhD convenor acts as placement officer in a number of ways;
 students appear on Department web pages and the PGR alumni network assists current
 students’ career planning and research visits to other institutions.

                            Table 1: Performance Summary: People
                          2014-    2015-     2016-   2017-    2018-           2019-      Total
                            15       16        17      18       19             21      (2014-20)
                             Panel A: Teaching and Research Staff
     Teaching and          26.2     28.9      27.7    26.9      26             22.6         -
     Research FTE
   (Category A Staff)
     Staff FTE as a       98.8%    109.1%     104.5%     101.5%     98.1%     85.3%         -
  share of the census
  period average 26.5
   Publication (Books       4          5         7          5         2         7          30
     and Chapters)
  Publication (Journal      48        39         42        39         41        68         277
        Articles)
                                     Panel B: PGR Students
   PGR Applications        115       172        150       105      103         129         774
       PGR Offers           22        27         21        20       22          27         139
     PGR Student            53        52         52        51       38          35          -
       Headcount
   % Submitted within      40%       38%        46%       83%      83%         84%          -
      4 years Max
   PGR Employment           3          5         2         4         8          5          27
       (Academic)
   PGR Employment           3          -         4         6         7          10         30
  (Policy/Government)
   PGR Employment            -         1          -        1         -          1           3
    (Private Sector)
 Note: 2019-21 figure for publications include published and accepted.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                Table 2: PGR Student Employers and Position Type by Sectors
            Academic                 Policy/Government            Private Sector
                                         Employers
  Centre for Health            National Planning            Jadwa Investment Bank,
  Economics, University of     Department (DNP),            Saudi Arabia
  York;                        Government of Colombia;      Macroconsult.
  Urban Labs, University of    Centre for Global
  Chicago;                     Development (CGD);
  J-PAL, MIT;                  FAO;
  Queens University, Belfast;  The World Bank (Washington
  LSE (Department of Social    DC, Vietnam, Development
  Policy, CEP);                Research Group, Poverty
  University of Sterling;      and Equity Global Practice);
  Arkansas State University    IFAD;
  (Mexico);                    UNICEF (Innocenti);
  Queen Mary University of     UK Treasury;
  London (QMUL);               IFPRI;
  Imperial College London;     ODI;
  University of Sussex (Global Ethiopian Development
  Studies, Economics,          Research Institute;
  Finance and Accounting);     Agence Française de
  ESRI (Dublin);               Développement (AFD);
  American University in       Central Bank of Sri Lanka;
  Cairo;                       Inter-American Development
  El Colegio de la Frontera    Bank;
  Norte (Mexico);              NIESR;
  IDS;                         Turing Institute
  University of Brighton;
  Universiti Brunei
  Darussalam
                                     Position Type/ Title
  Research Fellow,             Economist,                   Economist
  Postdoctoral Research        Senior Research Associate,
  Fellow,                      Postdoctoral Fellow,
  Professor of Economics,      Consultant,
  Lecturer in Economics,       Research Economist,
  Teaching Fellow,             Senior Assistant Director,
  Lecturer in Business         Senior Research Fellow
  Administration


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 (i) Research income

 The department has an impressive record of research income generation over the REF2021
 census period that has enabled it to produce high quality outputs, generate research impact and
 contribute to the wider research base. Since 2014, total external research grant and consultancy
 award accruing to the department is £4.8 million plus. A REF document (REF4b/c) submitted by
 the University provides detailed data on the grant income of each submitting unit including UoA
 16. The research income is spread over a number of different research projects and sources and
 has facilitated high quality research outputs, non-academic impact and PGR support. Trade
 related research projects have been led by faculty who are UKTPO Fellows while faculty has
 also received substantial grants in development, labour, economic theory, economic history, and
 climate change. Some notable examples are:

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Borchert, Di Ubaldo, Gasiorek and Winters’ ESRC-ICSSR-funded ‘potential for future
        India-UK trade and development’
    •   Chari, Telhaj and Winters’ ESRC-funded ‘privatisation and productivity growth’
    •   Chari, Disney, Hussain and McKay’s ESRC-funded ‘female labour supply and poverty’
    •   Dickens’ ESRC-funded ‘Digital Futures at Work’
    •   Gasiorek, Di Ubaldo and Reilly’s ESRC-funded ‘the consequences of Brexit uncertainty
        and the Northern Ireland Protocol on the Northern Irish firms’
    •   Newell’s ESRC-funded ‘global inequality’
    •   Bhattacharyya and Tol’s EU FP7-funded ‘climate mitigation systems for a low carbon
        economy’
    •   Manzini’s Leverhulme Trust-funded ‘Economic Choices and Cognitive Diversity’
    •   Borchert and Winters’ ESRC, FCO and DIT-funded ‘UK trade policy’.
    •   Bhattacharyya, Di Ubaldo, and Konara’s ‘Foreign Direct Disinvestment’

 We fully expect research income to increase further with more successful bids from our faculty.
 For example, UKTPO has submitted a large ESRC Centre for Excellence bid and other
 individual bids are also under review with the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, British Council
 and others.
 The Department and the School actively encourage faculty to generate research income. Senior
 faculty provide guidance and support to the ECRs at various stages of a research grant
 application. In addition, an expert from within ‘Research and Contracts’ sits within the School to
 provide on-hand support. Income generation is encouraged through the creation of Research
 Incentive accounts for faculty, which provide an annual contribution of £2,000 plus 10% of any
 research overheads to be used for personal research expenses. Faculty also have the facility to
 use research income to replace teaching and administrative duties.

 (ii) Infrastructure and facilities

 As outlined above, the University’s investment in the Department in terms of new faculty has
 been complemented with an associated investment in infrastructure and facilities. Faculty are
 provided with modern offices and PGR students with individual workspace. Both are largely co-
 located on one corridor with the goal of promoting interaction among faculty and PGR students.
 Faculty and PGR students are all provided with high quality facilities: pc/laptop, excellent IT and
 printing facilities, the requisite software packages and electronic subscriptions to all mainstream
 economics journals. The state of equipment such as laptops or PCs is reviewed every three
 years and replaced if there is a request from the staff. This investment in new infrastructure has
 made Sussex an attractive and supportive place to work which is invaluable in enabling us to
 attract and retain highly motivated researchers.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration and contribution to the research base

 Through strategic recruitment and encouragement of external projects we have been able to
 extend our collaborative links with academic economists in top national and international
 institutions and contribute to the global research base. We have particularly strong external links
 with London. For example:
     • Pathania has collaboration with Paravisini (LSE) leading to output in the REStud;
     • Manzini has long standing collaborations with Mariotti (QMUL) leading to outputs in
          Econometrica, EJ and JET;
     • Disney and Telhaj has long standing collaborations with academics from IFS and CEP;

 Faculty also have significant international collaborations:
    • Bhattacharyya with Williamson (Harvard), Arezki (IMF) and Resosudarmo (ANU);
    • Borchert with Anderson (Boston);
    • Embrey with Fréchette (NYU);

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Moradi with Jedwab (Georgetown);
    •   Mion with Behrens (Montreal);
    •   Pathania with Dobbie (Harvard Kennedy School) and Liberman (NYU);
    •   Potoms with de Rock (Leuven);
    •   and Winters with Busch (Georgetown) and Hoekman (EUI)

 These have led to top quality outputs in the QJE, JPE, REStud, REStat, AEJ: Economic Policy,
 JET, EJ, JDE, EER, and others.

 Mion’s contribution to research base in international trade was recognised by the Brazilian
 Association of Graduate Programs in Economics (ANPEC) Prêmio Haralambos Simeonidis
 award in 2016 for the article “Institutions and Export Dynamics”.

 The developing research culture has enabled a greater contribution to the wider research base
 than ever before. Newell’s ESRC project will deposit three previously misplaced expenditure
 surveys along with a host of other historical data from Europe and Asia with the UK Data Archive
 (UKDA). Moradi deposited unique historical data collected on colonial army recruits in Africa with
 the UKDA. Borchert contributed to the development of the Global Services Trade Restrictions
 Database, which has become an important tool for trade researchers.

 Faculty also make contributions to the research base through journal editorship; e.g. Journal of
 the European Economic Association (Manzini), The World Trade Review (Winters), Energy
 Economics (Tol), Economics Systems (Newell); through editorial boards; e.g. Journal of
 Economic Theory (Manzini), Journal of Economic Behavior and Organization (Maertens);
 Environmental Science and Policy (Tol), Climate Change Economics (Tol), Journal of
 Mathematical Economics (Manzini), Review of Development Economics (Bhattacharyya), World
 Development (Winters), The World Economy (Winters), Cliometrica (Crafts), European Review of
 Economic History (Crafts), Economic History Review (Crafts).

 Contribution to economy and society

 The department has made important contributions to the economy and society, often through
 close links with policymakers. Faculty have acted as advisors; e.g. Low Pay Commission
 (Dickens – see Impact Case), NHS Pay Review Body (Disney), Senior Salary Review Body
 (Disney), Winsor's Review of the Police (Disney), Armed Forces Pay Review Body (Dolton),
 Ofsted (Hussain), Department for International Trade (DIT) (Borchert, Gasiorek, Winters – see
 impact cases), Ministry of Education of the Government of Albania (Telhaj) and the US
 Environmental Protection Agency (Tol).

                                    Evidence of high esteem
  Crafts received a CBE in the Queen’s Birthday Honours list in 2014 for services to economics.
  He has been a Fellow of the British Academy throughout the REF2021 period. He was also
  elected a Fellow of the Cliometric Society in 2015 and a Fellow of the Economic History
  Association in 2020. He is the President-Elect of the Royal Economic Society for 2022/23. He
  received an Honorary Degree from University Carlos III in Madrid in 2020. He was appointed
  as the Chair of the Council of Management of the National Institute of Economic and Social
  Research (NIESR) in 2020.
  Dickens was appointed an independent Low Pay Commissioner of the UK on 1 May 2014 for
  a term ending 31 May 2021.
  Disney was appointed a member of the Council of Economic Advisers to the UK Chancellor of
  the Exchequer 2018-2019.
  Dolton received the ONS Peer Excellence Award in 2019 for his innovative use of data for the
  public good. He also received a special commendation for the Future Impact of his research
  paper ‘Total Reward and Pension Evaluation by Occupation in the Public Sector’.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Winters was appointed a member and Research Committee Chair of the Council of the UK’s
  Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) 2015-18 and a member of the UKRI’s Global
  Challenges Research Fund’s Strategic Advisory Group, 2016-18 and the DIT’s Trade and
  Economy Panel and Expert Trade Advisory Group on Trade and Development.

 The department has made important contributions to the economic sciences and the
 professional community by hosting the prestigious RES annual conference twice over the
 REF2021 census period. The meetings were successfully held at the University of Sussex
 campus in 2016 and 2018. The department played a pivotal role in the successful organisation
 of the Programme Committee and the event overall.

 Research on minimum wage by Dickens and his appointment as an independent member of the
 UK Low Pay Commission in 2014 continues to influence NMW and NLW policy in the UK (see
 Dickens Impact Case). His policy influence is backed by quality outputs in Economica and the
 Journal of the Royal Statistical Society. This has directly affected the wages of two to three
 million workers in the country. In addition, his research has informed the decision to introduce a
 NMW in South Africa.

 Trade economists in the department and UKTPO led by Winters have made important
 contributions to the economy, society, and public policy. Contributions range from shaping
 attitudes, raising awareness and increasing understanding of trade policy issues. Research also
 guided and modified several UK government policy approaches, notably on Covid-19-related
 export restrictions, free ports and developing countries. Opposition policies on the need for a
 transition period and customs union have been directly influenced by UKTPO’s research. Impact
 is evidenced by at least 25 parliamentary citations, notably on discussions related to the Trade
 Bill and customs arrangements (see Winters Impact Case).

 Gasiorek’s research on trade policy using TradeSift and TAPES software has made important
 contributions to policy effectiveness, capacity-building and the economy in Pakistan; India;
 Ukraine; ECOWAS; and the Scottish, Northern Irish and UK governments (see Gasiorek Impact
 Case).

 MacKerron’s research on happiness and wellbeing published in the Economic Journal in 2014
 led to the development of Mappiness and me@mybest apps, which have contributed to the UK
 economy and society. The apps measure, analyse and intelligently provide tools to improve
 happiness, productivity, engagement, stress levels and corporate culture. The apps and
 associated research led by MacKerron have led to an increased understanding of wellbeing in
 public policy and enterprise. They have informed HR policy in the UK National Ecosystem
 Assessment, Arts Council England and the Airport Commission. A major commercial initiative,
 PSYT Ltd (founded by MacKerron and colleagues), emerged out of the two apps and related
 academic research. PSYT Ltd contributed to workplace wellbeing in six large commercial
 organisations including the Leeds Building Society and PwC. The other four commercial
 organisations operate within financial and construction sectors. PSYT Ltd raised over £1 million
 in investment and £500,000 in revenue. In the UK, PSYT has so far worked with 4,000
 employees of the six large commercial organisations to identify ways to increase productivity.

 Dolton’s research on ‘Pensions and Total Reward in the UK Public Sector’ made the following
 contributions to the economy and society. The research involved proposing new methods of
 calculating the value of pay and pensions over a worker’s lifetime and introducing the notion of
 Total Reward into the pension discourse. In subsequent ESRC and Office of Manpower
 Economics (OME) funded research, these methods were applied to appraise impact of the move
 from Final Salary (FS) to Career Average (CARE) pensions in the UK public sector. Dolton and
 co-authors calculated the precise financial impact of the FS to CARE move for each key public
 sector occupations. Dolton’s contribution was recognised by the ‘ONS Research Excellence
 Peer Award’, which he received in 2019. He also received a ‘Special Commendation’ from the
 ONS for research impact in this area. The key research papers appeared in the journals Labour


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Economics and the National Institute Economic Review in 2012 and 2016 respectively and an
 OME Report in 2019.

 Dolton and Pathania’s research on seven-day GP openings and its impact on A&E visits and
 ambulance calls contributed to the public policy debate on NHS reforms. Evaluating the UK
 government’s pilot programme of seven-day GP openings, they found that the programme
 reduces weekend A&E visits by nearly 18% and ambulance calls by nearly 20%. It also delivers
 the best patient outcome, as GPs are far more experienced relative to A&E doctors who are
 typically junior. The study was published in the Journal of Health Economics. The findings were
 widely covered in the media including the Daily Mail and Guardian. It enriched the public policy
 debate between the then Health Secretary Jeremy Hunt and the BMA. The results supported the
 minister’s plan to enable all patients to see their GPs seven days a week by 2020. The BMA,
 however, believed the plan to be unworkable due to funding cuts and chronic staff shortages.

 Hussain contributed to the economy and society through his research on socio-economic
 implications of Ofsted policy. He is one of the very few UK economists to study Ofsted. He is
 also a member of the Ofsted Expert Panel on Inspection Methodology since 2015. In three
 separate studies published in the Economic Journal, Economica and the Journal of Human
 Resources, he established how the Ofsted inspection regime (especially its punitive elements)
 affects school performance, parent’s school choice decisions and house prices. Hussain’s
 membership of the Ofsted Expert Panel allows him to influence Ofsted policy in this area
 directly.

 Disney’s research on police funding reforms, legal fees reform, housing and pensions
 contributed to the UK economy and society. He served on several HMG review committees as
 an expert researcher on the abovementioned issues. In particular, Disney served as a member
 of Home Office’s Senior Sector Review of Police Funding (2016-17); member of Lord Chief
 Justice’s (LCJ) Fixed Cost Assessors Group examining legal fees under the chair of Lord Justice
 Jackson (2017). He also served as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers to the
 Chancellor of the Exchequer Phillip Hammond (February 2018 to August 2019) and informed
 HM Treasury policy particularly with regards to pensions and housing.

 The contribution of the department’s research on the economy and society is not limited to the
 UK. Bhattacharyya’s research on the MGNREGA, agricultural wages, and infant mortality in
 India contributed to the economy and society in India. It shaped several chapters of the Ministry
 of Rural Development, Government of India report entitled “MGNREGA Sameeksha” and it was
 mentioned in the then Prime Minister of India Dr Manmohan Singh’s parliamentary speech. It
 was also widely covered in the media including in the Hindu, Hindu Business Line, Indian
 Express and Business Standard. Bhattacharyya’s research quantified the positive impact of the
 scheme on agricultural wages and demonstrated how the scheme could be used in boosting
 agricultural productivity through rural asset creation. The “Sameeksha” subsequently contributed
 to the development of the 2014 and 2016 MGNREGA Operational Guidelines. The Guidelines
 introduce a list of permissible projects in order to boost agricultural productivity. His research
 was published in the journals World Development and Journal of Asian Economics in 2009,
 2011 and 2018.

 Altmetric data on the department’s research (restricted to 25.6 FTE Category A submitted staff
 only) over the REF2021 census period reveal 105 policy document mentions, 678 news
 mentions, 155 blog mentions, 4,511 social media (Twitter, Facebook, Reddit and Google+)
 mentions, and ten Wikipedia mentions across a wide range of countries. For example, the top
 ten countries with news mentions of the department’s research are the United States, UK, India,
 Australia, Canada, France, Switzerland, Spain, Germany, and Russia. Figures 1a, b, and c
 present heat maps for the policy, news and social media mentions respectively. Note that the
 Altmetric data may not be exhaustive. Nevertheless, it offers useful information on the
 geographical reach of our research. It also offers indicative evidence that the department’s
 research contributed to the economy and civil society of the countries concerned.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                       Figure 1a: Policy Document Mention Heat Map




                              Figure 1b: News Mention Heat Map




                           Figure 1c: Social Media Mention Heat Map




 Source: Altmetric, 2020

                                                                      Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Concluding remarks

 The Department of Economics at Sussex has come a long way since REF2014. It underwent a
 remarkable transformation into a research-intensive department able to deliver high quality and
 high-impact research. In spite of the short-term challenges related to the pandemic, which are
 affecting the entire sector, the department expects to embark on expansion with a sense of
 purpose over the medium to long run. Notwithstanding the short-term financial challenges,
 Sussex is in a stronger financial position relative to its peers as is demonstrated by the IFS
 Briefing Note BN283 entitled ‘Drop in International Students would Imperil University Finances’
 and the Parliamentary Briefing Paper 8893 entitled ‘Coronavirus: Implications for the Higher and
 Further Education Sectors in England’. Therefore, the department expects to receive strong
 backing from the university and the University of Sussex Business School for further expansion.
 We are confident that the continued momentum would place Sussex among one of the leading
 economics departments in the UK.




                                                                                          Page 17
