Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bangor University (10007857)

 Unit of Assessment: Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research strategy
 Building on the success of Bangor’s UoA03 submission in REF2014, we integrated our medical
 and health-related research activities through the establishment in 2016 of the Bangor Institute
 for Health and Medical Research (BIHMR). BIHMR’s remit includes: building on methodological
 excellence; expanding interdisciplinarity (reflected in grant-winning); prioritising research to
 enhance patient outcomes (embedding coproduction and participatory methods); prioritising
 engagement with governmental, regulatory, NHS, local authority, and 3rd sector partners to
 enhance policy research; and expanding and promoting postgraduate research (PGR).

 Our research reflects five principal methodologies: pharmacoeconomics and public health
 economics; trial design and the evaluation of complex interventions; novel secondary research;
 implementation science with participatory research; and cellular biology. All of these enable
 interlinking programmes to address psychosocial interventions for dementia, oral health, primary
 and palliative care research, novel secondary research, and cellular mechanisms of cancer. An
 important feature of health research in Wales is the Health & Care Research Wales (HCRW)-
 funded research centres organised around particular policy areas. Bangor’s strategy in this REF
 period has been to build on our strengths, and retain focus on areas of research excellence. This
 has led to the consolidation of external structural funding from HCRW and our participation in
 national centres; in turn helping us to drive funding applications and expand our research
 activities with national and international academic and service partners. This strategy and the
 cohesion of BIHMR has provided a resilient structure for the prompt production of high-quality
 research outputs, engagement and impact, and have allowed us to more than double our total
 research expenditure from GBP14,069,122 in REF2014 to GBP32,189,553 for this REF period.

 Natural staff turnover and retirements have meant the departure of some senior researchers. In
 response, we have taken an agile approach to capacity building in areas identified in REF2014,
 but also exploited new opportunities. Implementation science, realist synthesis and evaluation
 methods are now firmly embedded across BIHMR’s portfolio. These areas have attracted
 increased National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) funding oriented towards participatory
 research in trial design, ageing and dementia research, and medical and health economics. Our
 dementia research group (supported by external funding worth GBP4,401,000) has intensified
 the development of psychosocial interventions to make improvements in quality of life as
 illustrated in one of our Impact Case Studies. Similarly, our primary and palliative care research
 group has focused on the challenges of early cancer diagnosis, leading, for example, to the
 Wales Interventions and Cancer Knowledge about Early Diagnosis programme (GBP1,111,000),
 and the NIHR Health Technology Assessment (HTA)-funded trial of carer-administered sub-
 cutaneous medication in the dying (GBP435,000).

 Methodological rigour is a cornerstone of Bangor’s health and medical research. Our UKCRC-
 registered clinical trials unit (CTU) has markedly expanded its portfolio and range of trials. Our
 pharmaco- and health- economics group has focused on applied and methodological research
 into the economics of medicines, health and social care interventions. This has included making
 vital contributions to the evaluation of adalimumab for paediatric uveitis across 70 countries,
 facilitating its approval by NHS England and the treatment of over 10,000 children with uveitis.
 Further, the group has led on the development of methods for the economic evaluation of public
 health interventions and has, for example, evidenced the need for “shifting the curve” from cure
 to prevention and the importance of social value in the consideration of public health and social
 care interventions. We also bring expertise to the evaluation of complex interventions, leading on
 policy-based research to determine the benefits of the policy switch to a ‘soft opt-out’ for organ
 donation in Wales. This resulted in a new media campaign commissioned by Welsh
 Government, with lessons learned incorporated into English and Scottish legislation.

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An expanding portfolio of dental and oral service-based research has resulted in policy changes
 and strategic investment in North Wales to support role-substitution and ‘skill-mix’ in NHS
 dentistry -- a first of its kind in the UK. Finally, our cancer research group has demonstrated an
 expanding range of bench and translational research, with current foci including MRC-funded
 and charity-funded investigations of novel mechanisms in genome stability and repair, and the
 clinical utility of novel antigens for early diagnosis and patient stratification.

 Structure of research across the submitted unit
 Bangor’s health and medical researchers submitted to UoA03 comprise the membership of
 BIHMR and are drawn from two Schools within Bangor University’s College of Human Sciences:
 the School of Health Sciences and the School of Medical Sciences. Our researchers are located
 on the main university site in Bangor and at the University’s Health Science campus on the
 Wrexham Maelor Hospital site. The latter facilitates collaborations involving some clinical
 services and with Public Health Wales’ North Wales office. BIHMR is led by a senior Research
 Director (Brocklehurst, then Wilkinson during this REF period). Our research groups include
 North Wales Organisation for Randomised Trials in Health (Brocklehurst, Hoare); the Centre
 for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation (Hughes, Edwards); Dementia Services
 Development Centre (Windle, Seddon); North Wales Centre for Primary Care Research
 (Wilkinson, Lewis, Hiscock); and Centre for Mental Health and Society (Poole). BIHMR also
 benefits from a long history of implementation research (Rycroft-Malone), and also hosts
 Bangor’s Public Health Collaborating Unit, funded by Public Health Wales, with a remit to
 address national or emerging community health challenges. Bangor’s cancer research group
 operates as the North Wales Cancer Research Institute (McFarlane, Staples, Cha, Hartsuiker)
 connected to a strong research network including the HCRW-funded Wales Cancer Research
 Centre, North West Cancer Research, the Wales Gene Park and the Wales Cancer Bank.

 A Research Leads group, including an Impact Lead (Hughes), coordinates these activities and
 is collectively responsible for the development of BIHMR’s portfolio, working with a group of
 engaged early career researchers (ECRs) as a strategic priority. BIHMR also provides the
 research backdrop to support Bangor University's expanding provision of medical education for
 North Wales – the C21 programme, working with Cardiff University – alongside existing
 excellence in nursing, dentistry, pharmacology, and allied health professions.

 Research strategy over the next five years
 ln addition to strengthening and developing partnerships with researchers across the University
 (e.g. Bangor’s psychologists, sports & exercise scientists, engineers, and environmental
 scientists), our future objectives include: developing our portfolio to address the COVID-19
 pandemic; maintaining and expanding research presence in policy critical areas; continuing to
 prioritise methodological excellence in research (e.g. statistical treatment of compound outcome
 measures, implementation frameworks for clinical trials, assessment of high cost medicines,
 pharmacogenetics, public health economics, methods of measuring social return on investment,
 co-production and palliative and end-of-life research); expanding further Patient and Public
 Involvement; facilitating the development of clinician participation in research (see Section 2);
 and realising commercialisation of research in, for example, cancer drug development.

 Enabling and facilitating the achievement of impact
 BIHMR’s Impact Lead (Hughes) coordinates our impact activities, and the interactions between
 Research Leads and staff facilitate the identification of opportunities to promote benefits in
 practice and policy. Most of our projects, particularly trials and evaluations, are developed with
 external partners and stakeholders and this ensures a significant contribution from outside
 academia. Through established networks of national and international policymakers (from Welsh
 Government to WHO), impact is intrinsic to our research. Working productively with partners and
 stakeholders over time, we can proactively identify emerging priority areas to patients, services
 and policymakers, supporting impact at every point from study conception to delivery and
 dissemination. All Research Leads have strong links with policymakers in critical areas and
 opportunities for impact are reviewed regularly. Funding applications are internally reviewed by
 expert senior colleagues for their practice and policy relevance, and to identify pathways to

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact. In addition, as most of our large-scale projects comprise large multidisciplinary and
 interdisciplinary teams, perspectives can be shared across disciplines, to aid identifying likely
 audiences and end users. Opportunities for achieving impact are identified by regular BIHMR
 group and Research Lead meetings. Funding for impact has been supported by Bangor’s ESRC
 Impact Acceleration Award fund, with a spend this REF period of GBP55,000. All three of our
 Impact Case Studies demonstrate the above processes in actual outcomes.

 Evidence of close-working with research end-users is exemplified in our Innovation in Dementia
 Care Impact Case Study, where Windle and colleagues’ AHRC-funded research has
 demonstrated the value of a visual arts-based intervention to the quality of life of dementia
 sufferers. This case study involved working closely with Age Cymru and regional care homes,
 and through team appointments to the Welsh Government taskforce for Implementation of the
 Dementia Action Plan and Cross-Party Group for Arts and Health. This established programme
 has now informed national care policy and dementia service delivery, and has highlighted the
 wider potential for the use of arts to improve health and well-being in social care settings.

 Another Impact Case Study provides a further example of close working relationships with policy
 makers; in this instance, the Chief Dental Officer in Wales. Brocklehurst and colleagues’ work
 on NHS dentistry contract reform and role-substitution has significantly influenced policy,
 workforce development and practice. This work has led to the establishment of the new All-
 Wales Faculty for Dental Care Professionals (launched in 2020 by the Minister for Health in
 Wales). These activities address key elements of the Chief Dental Officer’s policy document
 (‘The Oral Health and Dental Services Response to A Healthier Wales’) and have led to two
 further projects, both funded by the Welsh Government, to evaluate the reformed NHS dental
 contract programme in Wales. Since then, Brocklehurst has been appointed as Deputy Chief
 Dental Officer in 2020 in a part-time role that promotes research impact and implementation of
 evidence-based practice across Wales.

 Finally, BIHMR’s interactive and collaborative culture along with our established and enduring
 partnerships with stakeholders and end-users sustains the vitality of future research impacts.
 One example of emerging impact is seen in Wilkinson and Hiscock’s CARiAD (CARer-
 ADministration of as-needed sub-cutaneous medication for breakthrough symptoms in home-
 based dying patients project. This NIHR pilot trial, completed in late 2019, has demonstrated the
 acceptability of carer administered as-needed end-of-life subcutaneous medication. With the
 emergence of COVID-19, the monograph on this work was published early in response to a
 specific intervention from Wales Government and English Palliative Care Networks, followed by
 rapid passage into urgent NICE guidelines for palliative care in response to COVID-19.

 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 One strategic purpose of BIHMR is to act as an interface to promote interdisciplinarity across our
 research groups and the University. BIHMR hosts a large range of disciplines, from fundamental
 laboratory-based research through to clinical, health and social care activity. Our portfolio brings
 together specialists with critical methodologies (e.g. trials, medicines and health economics, and
 implementation science) and researchers in key clinical domains with international policy
 relevance (e.g. ageing and dementia research, primary and palliative care research). Therefore,
 the environment is naturally multidisciplinary. However, BIHMR staff also include medical
 sociologists (Seddon, Hiscock) and anthropologists who, working in collaboration with other
 experts, have driven the creation of innovative projects to inform new health and care practices.

 One example of BIHMR’s interdisciplinary health research is the integration of clinical medicine,
 genetics, and health economics in discrete-choice investigations of neurologist and patient
 thresholds for serious adverse drug reactions in decisions about genetic testing in the context of
 ‘personalised medicine’ (Hughes). Other interdisciplinary projects have integrated our
 capabilities in medicine (dementia care) to provide insights into methods of data collection and
 better ways to measure outcomes in this field (Windle). Social care researchers have integrated
 expertise in criminal justice, mental health services and social care practice and policy, in order
 to understand risks of anti-social behaviour and to generate policy for carers (Seddon). We have

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also combined health economics, public health epidemiology and theoretical economics to
 evaluate exercise physiology interventions and the Wales National Exercise Referral scheme,
 with an impact on NICE guidelines. The same group (Edwards) has developed cross-over
 methodological work on Cost Benefit Analysis and Social Return on Investment Analysis (SROI)
 in the context of diverse projects relating to: music in schools, community health promotion,
 social prescribing, woodland mental health promotion programmes, and librarians in intensive
 care wards. Finally, interdisciplinary cancer drug discovery projects supported by Cancer
 Research Wales and the Life Sciences Research Network Wales have involved collaboration
 with the Cardiff School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences. All of this means that BIHMR
 has markedly increased interdisciplinary and collaborative activity in Bangor’s medical and
 health research, something also evidenced by the fact that 54% of the research outputs
 submitted to this REF have been co-authored with external organisations.

 Progressing towards an open research environment
 We encourage open access publishing through Bangor's institutional policies and the UKRI
 block grant. Our research is strictly compliant with funders’ requirements. For example, our
 UKCRC-registered CTU adopts the principles outlined in the Medical Research Council’s ‘Good
 practice principles for sharing individual participant data from publicly funded clinical trials’.
 These provide standards that describe how Individual Patient Data are made available for
 secondary research. This is particularly relevant for Bangor’s triallists, who have overseen 25
 trials during this REF period with internal policy and Standard Operating Procedures for the
 management of research data during the trial and at archive. These procedures operate in the
 way required for the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and are
 regularly audited. All UKRI- funded studies require the implementation of UKRI guidance on the
 best practice in data management and all data are deposited with the UK Data Service. For
 example, the data from our longitudinal study – the Cognitive Function and Ageing Studies
 Wales – are now publicly available to the wider research community.

 How are we supporting a culture of research integrity?
 Bangor University complies with the Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity,
 and has established structures to support effective research governance and ethics. BIHMR’s
 research involves patients with physical or mental health issues, health professionals, individuals
 drawn from the local community, and other vulnerable groups at elevated risk of harm.
 Consistent with best practice, we seek to protect all research participants and researchers by
 mitigating risks appropriately while continuously seeking to enhance ethical and scientific quality.
 All of BIHMR’s practices are fully aligned with Health Research Authority guidelines and
 requirements. We have developed a research Quality Management System in this REF period,
 providing a comprehensive series of Standard Operating Procedures that are audited on a
 regular basis. BIHMR links effectively with R&D functions and research ethics service in our
 local health board (Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board). Each Schools’ research ethics
 committee also reports to the University Ethics Committee, and evaluates researcher plans
 against all other relevant frameworks as set out by the UKRI and appropriate legislation (e.g.
 data protection). All funding applications submitted by our researchers are scrutinised by expert
 research support officers in Bangor’s Research, Innovation and Impact Office.

 Section 2. People

 Staffing strategy, staff development and ECRs
 Bangor’s staffing strategy remains to recruit, retain and develop excellent researchers in all of
 our teams, building on core strengths to achieve long term structural resilience and growth. Most
 of our University-funded staff submitted to UoA3 are at least partially supported by HCRW
 infrastructure funding, and/or project funding. Our research community spans the full range of
 seniority, offering a vital mix of experience, skills and development opportunities for more junior
 colleagues: 7 Professors, 7 Readers/Senior Lecturers, 2 Lecturers, 1 Senior Research Fellow, 6
 Research Fellows, and 1 Research Officer. In line with University policy, all BIHMR researchers
 complete a yearly Professional Development Review. The review provides an opportunity to
 acknowledge achievements and to discuss future plans and ways to address difficulties.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Reflecting the principles within the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Researchers, we are committed to the support of research-active staff and the development of
 early career researchers (4 out of our 24 submitted Category A staff are ECRs). In 2019, we
 launched the BIHMR ECR Mentorship scheme, based on the OSCAR model from the Academy
 of Medical Sciences. It provides the platform for reflective discussion between ECRs and
 mentors to shape and guide career trajectories. The scheme provides: ‘formal mentoring’
 mechanisms that augment informal or ‘spot mentoring’; a focus on developmental action
 planning; open gateways for PGRs nearing completion and post-doctoral students to access the
 scheme; and opportunities for Research Leads to support, reflect, encourage and signpost.
 Mentorship is augmented by the School of Health Sciences Director of Postgraduate Research
 who, as an additional aspect of the role, facilitates augmented training as required.

 We have also enacted an ECR-led ‘BIHMR ECR network' that features group meetings and
 peer-support, often through social media (Facebook and Twitter). This network also links to the
 wider Bangor University Researcher Development and Research Concordat Group, which
 includes BIHMR representatives. The ECR network has developed its own strategic aims and
 held its first annual ECR conference in 2019, with 32 attendees, 10 speakers and a separate
 poster session. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the BIHMR ECR network has hosted peer
 support virtual meetings to discuss home working and provide peer support.

 Our ECRs are offered support to develop into research leaders. This includes the provision of
 opportunities for personal development through CPD, conference attendance, and internal
 research networking opportunities such as research meetings, grant writing groups, journal
 clubs, and shared thematic workshop series. All ECRs are supported to present their research in
 posters and seminars to national and international audiences, and to contribute to Masters-level
 teaching as further training for academic research careers. Nine BIHMR members received
 promotions in this REF period, including Windle’s appointment to a Chair from original ECR
 status with the dementia research group, illustrating the potential for success. Two ECRs have
 gone on to permanent positions at Bangor (MacLeod, Orrell) and four others have secured
 HCRW funded 3-year Fellowships (Bray, Jones, Holmes, MacLeod). Staples, in the cancer
 biology group, has won a 5-year prestigious UKRI/MRC Future Leaders Fellowship.

 Bangor’s health researchers have implemented two further staff development processes:

 First, we established the Clinical Academic Pathway in 2018. Embedded in BIHMR, this
 programme seeks to increase the interdisciplinarity of the PGR community to involve health
 professionals from medicine, dietetics, nursing, paramedicine (linked to a collaboration with
 Wales Clinical Academic Track) and dentistry. This ‘rolling’ programme is set within a
 collaborative framework with two NHS hospitals across the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health
 Board. The pathway provides scaffolding to allow clinicians to complete MRes, PhD, or
 Doctorate in Healthcare degrees. Clinicians select an appropriate entry point based on their
 existing research experience, and progress from either Innovator or First into Research level to
 Fellowship (MRes) or Senior Fellowship (PhD / Doctorate in Healthcare) level. Academic, clinical
 and supervisory support are delivered through monthly multidisciplinary seminars and research
 methods seminars. The Pathway has also generated a peer-based cluster of F2 and F3
 clinicians focused on research projects in respiratory medicine, dermatology and trauma.

 Second, Bangor health researchers have been instrumental in establishing a Community of
 Scholars with the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board. The Community is based on the
 Research Capacity Building Collaboration (RCBC) Wales Community of Scholars model
 designed to facilitate interaction and collaboration. It is currently in a pilot phase (with 28
 clinicians to date), following co-production meetings facilitated by design engineers from
 ‘Lab4Living’ that identified a need for this network, its potential purpose, and inherent values.
 The Community is organised on a co-operative basis, where all members are equal, to promote
 equity in the collaborative provision of research knowledge, skills, and attitudes, which can be
 shared across both organisations. The Community is intended to provide resources around key


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 themes including research knowledge, skills, leadership and funding in applied health settings;
 and to foster a broader and enriched network of clinicians, clinical academics and scientific staff.

 PGR community, training and support mechanisms
 BIHMR acts as an effective catalyst for excellence in PGR research practice, enhancing PGR
 experience by sharing innovation, best-practice and governance across research groups. The
 allocation of PGR awards is strategically aligned with BIHMR areas of ageing and dementia;
 health economics and social care; implementation and service research; cancer cellular biology;
 and primary and palliative care. The development, sustainability and growth of the PGR
 community is supported by a range of structures and mechanisms that are described below. The
 number of PhD completions has increased 6-fold to 86 in this REF cycle compared to REF2014
 and the number of degrees awarded per staff head count is now 3.58 (or 3.88 per staff FTE).

 Our PGR programme is supported by diverse funding sources. Over this REF period,
 studentships have included: 6 Cancer Research Wales awards; 2 HCRW; 1 Tenovus award; 1
 MRC and 1 ESRC DTP studentship; 1 Motor Neurone Disease Association award; and 1 North
 West Cancer Association award. In addition, 17 studentships have been funded by the
 government of Saudi Arabia and 1 from Iraq. Our engagement in the European Social Fund-
 supported Knowledge Economy Skills Scholarships (KESS) scheme, which connects academic
 research capabilities to health and 3rd sector organisations to realise health and societal
 benefits, has brought support for 15 postgraduate researchers in this REF cycle. Project
 partners have included Mencap Cymru, Awyr Las (a local umbrella charity to support NHS
 provision across North Wales), Tenovus Cancer Care and North West Cancer Research. Total
 expenditure for PGR using KESS studentships in this REF period comes to GBP695,000.

 First-time supervisors are mentored by the Director of PGR. Additional supervisory training is
 provided on a cyclical basis by the University’s Doctoral School workshops. A supervisory
 network involves monthly meetings to discuss relevant issues (progress, international
 admissions, preparing for submission, and viva examination). The network also provides a peer-
 support mechanism for supervisors that draws on expertise from outside of their research group.
 A sense of cohesion is supported through social media with 3 PGR representatives representing
 different constituencies across the PGR community and having an active role in taking BIHMR’s
 health and medical research – outputs, conferences - to social media audiences. This includes
 an annual Summer School focused on methodology masterclasses and workshops for PGRs
 with online resources, and a monthly ‘Virtual Study Room @School of Health Sciences’ focused
 on applied research methods, academic writing, theoretical frameworks, viva preparation,
 transitioning as an ECR, and a range of thematic areas generated by PGRs. This is augmented
 by peer support including the monthly PGR ‘Morning Quick Coffee @School of Health Sciences’.

 Bangor’s PGR training is underpinned by open, subject-specific seminar series sessions within
 each research group. These include the provision of external as well as internal sessions on
 methodology and subject-specific issues and debates. There are dedicated training programmes
 linked to particular funding programmes such as KESS and the Research Capacity Building
 Collaboration (RCBC) Wales. The latter provides a high quality and bespoke training scheme for
 fellows funded by the programme, with additional Bangor events in the RCBC annual
 programme. These have focused on masterclasses in realist approaches, dementia and social
 prescribing. Since 2017, we have run an annual ‘Bangor University Health Services Research
 Summer School’ with instruction from international experts on complex interventions and
 evaluation, realist synthesis and evaluation, health economics, implementation science, ageing
 and dementia and primary care. The Summer School includes sessions on engagement with
 creative methods in the design of research that explores the service-user perspective.

 Finally, our PGR community includes Bangor’s professional doctorate programme (Doctorate in
 Healthcare) that has been developed from the initial D Healthcare in Implementation to an
 extended programme in 2019/2020 centred on Public Health, and also Ageing and Dementia. A
 further D Healthcare in Social Care Practice/Social Work is scheduled to commence in
 2021/2022. The new D Healthcare programmes provide an international reach, based on an e-

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 learning scaffolding, exploring diverse research areas from examining stigma aligned to
 HIV/AIDS in the hill tribe communities in Thailand, to exploring the challenges for LGBT
 communities as part of entry into care in Canada. These measures will enrich our PGR
 environment over the next cycle.

 Supporting and promoting equality and diversity
 Bangor University has held an Athena Swan Bronze award since 2011 (valid until 2022). BIHMR
 provides an environment which respects and values the positive contribution of all its members,
 enabling them to achieve their full potential and to gain benefit and enjoyment from their
 involvement in the life of the University. BIHMR’s research groups comply with the relevant
 legislation and good practice, and will not tolerate any individual receiving less favourable
 treatment on grounds of religious or political beliefs, gender, sexual orientation, family
 circumstance, race or ethnic origin, nationality, age, social or economic class, or disability, nor
 be disadvantaged by any other condition or requirement which is not relevant to good practice
 and cannot be shown to be justifiable. Responsibility to ensure staff are aware of and comply
 with Bangor University policies involving equal opportunities, harassment and bullying, and the
 Welsh language is cascaded from the Heads of Schools, through Research Leads to all staff
 and student levels. In addition, and as importantly, we seek to promote a broader "nurturing"
 culture in which staff are encouraged to identify opportunities to improve how we meet equality
 and diversity challenges. This is supported by a College Equality & Diversity “champion” who
 has the responsibility to promote engagement across academic Schools and service
 departments, and liaise with leaders to facilitate continuous improvement. Other specific steps
 include ensuring, as far as possible, gender balance in all staff and PGR recruitment processes;
 increased involvement and visibility of under-represented groups at School Open Days;
 meetings and seminars scheduled within core business hours (10:00-16:00); and adopting
 sensitive staff and PGR allocation to office space. While it has been established procedure for
 standing committees to comprise a mixture of under-represented groups, we ensure that short-
 term interview panels, selection committees, and task-and-end groups represent this diversity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income to UoA3 during the REF period
 Overall, Bangor’s research spend in UoA3 has more than doubled since REF2014
 (GBP32,189,553 from GBP14,069,122), with an average of GBP194,620 per headcount (or
 GBP179,700 per FTE). Our strategy has been to secure infrastructure monies and larger awards
 from health funders (e.g. NIHR Evaluation, HTA, PHR; PGfAR; HS&DR), cancer charities and
 other equivalent sources. We can evidence particular increases in expenditure from health-
 research bodies: GBP15,867,571 compared with just GBP5,392,350 in REF2014. Reflecting our
 engagement with external partners for health, care and societal benefits, spend was
 GBP4,855,982 from (competitive) UK-based charities (compared with GBP1,566,635 in
 REF2014) and GBP5,325,343 from UK central government bodies, local authorities,
 health/hospital authorities (compared with GBP4,071,887). Finally, in this REF period, we have
 increased our UKRI spend to GBP3,385,468 from GBP1,205,509 in REF2014.

 All funding figures quoted here reflect funded award values to Bangor unless stated otherwise.

 Our external income, combined with infrastructure funding from HCRW, has provided a vital,
 cohesive and impactful infrastructure for BIHMR. Investment is based on Wales’ current and
 emerging health challenges so matches our research themes. BIHMR is represented across all
 five infrastructure centres in Wales (dementia, primary care, population health and wellbeing,
 mental health, and cancer) and BIHMR researchers lead one of the three infrastructure support
 groups (in health economics). HCRW and other infrastructure awards in this REF period amount
 to GBP8,637000, of which GBP4,121,000 provide support for the next 3-5 years. This indicates
 sustainable infrastructure support in areas of immediate and future policy relevance. Breaking
 these figures down indicates noteworthy successes around our research central themes.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bangor’s Clinical Trials Unit is the North Wales Organisation for Randomised Trials in
 Health (NWORTH), led by Brocklehurst, is a UKCRC-accredited CTU working across the UK
 health research community, with 78% of researchers from outside of Wales, working in a diverse
 range of clinical areas from treating depression with self-compassion using virtual reality, to
 reducing race inequality with the Race Equality Commission, to living well with dementia. Over
 the REF period, NWORTH has hosted 25 trials. Many of these (14 of 25; 56%) were projects
 funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) valued at GBP18,147,000 with a
 total value to Bangor of GBP3,800,000. A further 12% of these trials were supported by UKRI.
 Of 76 outline applications during this REF period, NWORTH can show a success rate of 36%,
 almost double the national NETSCC average. NWORTH has been supported by HCRW
 (GBP1,833,000 for 2015-20 to Bangor University and now GBP1,101,000 for 2020-23), with a
 return on this investment during the REF period of 14:1. Two of the Bangor-led studies in
 NWORTH’s portfolio are further detailed in our Impact Case Studies.

 Bangor’s Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, co-directed by Edwards
 and Hughes, provides an integral element in clinical trials and health intervention research, with
 specialisms in public health and social care economics and in medicine and pharmaco-
 economics. The public health economics group, led by Edwards, received infrastructure funding
 from Welsh Government of GBP1,325,000. This group has undertaken policy research in
 conjunction with Public Health Wales (GBP271,000), and economic evaluation of trials in public
 health across the life-course (GBP885,000) in the areas of children and school-based
 interventions (6 trials), dementia (3 trials), and sight loss (4 trials). Of these, support for NIHR-
 funded trials comes to GBP788,000. The pharmacoeconomics group, led by Hughes, maintains
 a strong partnership with the University of Liverpool Clinical Trials Centre, which has helped to
 attract GBP302,000 of MRC funding to Bangor to support trial methodological research, and
 GBP165,000 through NIHR infrastructure to deliver trial-based economic evaluations in
 neurology (7 trials), antenatal and paediatrics (2 trials) and cancer (3 trials) (GBP1,123,000).
 Other awards include a Wellcome-funded study of community outbreaks of diarrhoeal infections
 (GBP272,000), and an NIHR PGfAR award with Oxford University on medication adherence in
 type 2 diabetes (GBP112,000). Collectively, through Hughes, Edwards and their groups’
 activities, our medicines and public health economics research has generated over
 GBP7,262,000 for Bangor University during the REF2021 period.

 Bangor’s Dementia Services Development Centre (DSDC), led by Windle, is part of the
 Wales Centre for Aging and Dementia Research funded by HCRW, attracting GBP772,000 and
 GBP938,000 to Bangor for 2015-2020 and 2020-25. This group has a strong track record of
 UKRI funding for dementia research involving clinical and third sector partners including, for
 example, an EU Joint Programme of Neurodegenerative Disease Research award to investigate
 timely access to care in dementia patients (GBP223,000). Recently, the group won an ESRC-
 NIHR Dementia Research Initiative grant investigating the impact of multicomponent support
 groups for those living with rare dementias, bringing together health psychology,
 neuropsychology, health economics, and intervention evaluation together with people living with
 dementia and their supporters (worth GBP4,400,000 with a value of GBP842,000 to Bangor). In
 addition, the dementia research group has secured Early Career Researcher awards for Algar-
 Skaife to investigate the use of arts in person-centred care (HCRW; GBP183,000) and for an
 Age Concern Torfaen-funded study of the use of arts in young onset dementia (GBP25,000). In
 total, this group has brought in GBP4,401,000 during the REF2021 period.

 Bangor’s North Wales Centre for Primary Care Research (Wilkinson, Hiscock) is a core
 member of Wales Centre for Primary and Emergency (including Unscheduled) Care. The Centre
 has won GBP3,971,854 for Bangor including infrastructure of GBP333,327 from HCRW for
 2015-20, and now GBP835,000 for 2020-25. Over the REF period, they have secured
 GBP5,500,000 for Bangor from a range of funders, including NIHR HTA, HS&DR, and Cancer
 Research Wales. This total also includes leadership in the FEMUR III trial for rehabilitation in the
 elderly (GBP377,000), and a novel network meta-analysis of treatments for sciatica
 (GBP559,423). A Clinical Research Time award from HCRW (GBP21,000) has allowed the
 palliative care research programme to grow. Addressing cancer diagnosis in primary care for

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cancer Research Wales (GBP1,111,000), the group has assembled a team including medical
 general practitioners, sociologists, and health psychologists, and benefits from membership of
 the Cancer Research in Primary Care International Network. Finally, as noted in Section 1, the
 group led the national CARiAD NIHR-funded CARer-ADministration trial of as-needed sub-
 cutaneous medication for breakthrough symptoms in home-based dying patients (GBP435,000)
 that has facilitated updated NICE guidelines during COVID-19.

 Bangor’s North West Cancer Research Institute (Cha, Hartsuiker, McFarlane, Staples) has
 secured infrastructure awards of GBP64,000 and GBP179,000 from the Wales Cancer Research
 Centre for 2012-2020. In 2019, Staples won a UKRI Future Leader Fellowship award to address
 the role of the replication fork protector, MRNIP, in DNA repair (GBP1,416,000). The Institute is
 uniquely associated with the strategic aims of a number of regional charities. These have funded
 projects that address, to take a few examples: the clinical utility of novel cancer/testis antigens
 (McFarlane, Cancer Research Wales; GBP240,000); a genome-wide analysis of topoisomerase
 removal pathways Hartsuiker, Cancer Research Wales; GBP183,000); a novel DNA repair
 factor in the DNA response to chemotherapy (Staples; North West Cancer Research;
 GBP184,000); signal transduction in mitochondrial DNA replication (Cha; North West Cancer
 Research; GBP200,000) and autophagy survival (Cha; North West Cancer Research;
 GBP196,000). Over this REF period, the group's funding awards come to GBP3,272,000.

 Noyes is chair of the National Centre for Public Health and Wellbeing Research and also leads
 the Welsh Kidney Research Unit at Bangor, both funded by HCRW (GBP653,000 and
 GBP359,000 to Bangor, respectively). Further Welsh Government awards have supported the
 evaluation of the Welsh Human Transplantation Act (GBP250,000) and treatment choices in
 patients with advanced kidney failure (GBP184,416). Finally, the Centre for Mental Health and
 Society has been supported, as part of the National Centre for Mental Health, by HCRW
 infrastructure funding of GBP81,000 for 2015-2020. Poole is co-investigator on the South Asia
 Self Harm Initiative (SASHI) funded by the Grand Challenges Research Fund with a value to
 Bangor of GBP1,459,000. One staff member from that centre, Krayer, secured GBP158,000 for
 a study of policing involving vulnerable individuals.

 Facilities
 BIHMR boasts well-equipped facilities in both its Bangor and Wrexham sites. These support
 collaborations with social care networks and the NHS (the Betsi Cadwaladr University Health
 Board similarly spans the breadth of North Wales). Hot desk facilities and distance technologies
 allow interactions between groups and enhance co-working, and have supported effective
 working during the COVID-19 emergency. As part of our PGR provision, Bangor University has
 made new investments in dedicated PGR work-spaces across the School’s locations. The
 cancer research group operates a suite of open-plan laboratories that supports multidisciplinary,
 interactive research, supported by state-of-the-art equipment including an interconnected cell
 analytical facility (comprising tissue culture facilities, confocal microscopes, laser microirradiator,
 X-ray irradiator, flow cytometer and fluorescence high-throughput tissue analytical technology).
 The group is embedded within the wider cancer and genomics research community of Wales
 and North West of England, allowing access to all-Wales multi 'omics' and stem cell
 technologies, a wide range of patient samples, trial activities and clinical partnerships through
 the Wales Gene Park and the Wales Cancer Research Centre.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations and partnerships
 HCRW infrastructure funding supports participation in large-scale collaborative networks across
 Wales and internationally. Noyes leads Bangor's participation in the Wales Kidney Research
 Unit and the National Centre for Population Health and Wellbeing Research. Our dementia
 research team form part of the Wales Centre for Ageing and Dementia Research (Windle is
 Associate Director). As co-director, Wilkinson's cancer studies form part of the Wales Centre
 for Primary and Emergency (including Unscheduled) Care Research, which networks four other
 Welsh Universities and relevant research groups. Our cancer group has access to the Wales

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cancer Bank and the North West Cancer Research-funded Liverpool Tissue Bank, both of which
 provide additional underpinning biological infrastructure. The group also has access to patient-
 derived in vivo models through various regional inter-connections in Wales and beyond (e.g., via
 an integrated collaboration with the European Cancer Stem Cell Institute, Cardiff University).
 BIHMR groups working across multiple themes collaborate extensively with our CTU team
 (NWORTH) and with external partners to conduct economic evaluations that have impacted
 clinical practice. International collaborations, such as via the International Society for Medication
 Adherence, have led to new paradigms in the definition and reporting of medication adherence.
 Several staff (Lewis, Noyes) are active in Cochrane CRGs and methods groups.

 Looking forward, we are also developing new academic networks to build vitality and
 sustainability. Noyes, with Public Health Wales, participates in the existing WHO
 Collaborating Centre focussing on contract reform and adverse childhood events.
 Brocklehurst has developed links with the WHO Collaborating Centre in Dental Public Health
 at University College London, linked to a NIHR Public Health Research-funded trial of a
 community led parenting programme and NIHR Public Health Research-funded and NIHR
 HS&DR-funded interventions for improving oral health in care residents. Hughes, in
 collaboration with Betsi Cadwaladr University Health Board, has hosted national conferences
 (Clinical Pharmacology Colloquia) and established the Welsh Medicines Research
 Symposium to promote this research focus at Bangor University. Hughes is
 Pharmacogenetics champion for the Royal Pharmaceutical Society to lead on a strategy to
 involve pharmacists in the delivery of pharmacogenetics services across the UK.

 Our methodology expertise has led to grant capture from a broad range of funders. The MRC
 North-West Hub in Trial Methodological Research (2009-2019), and the MRC-NIHR funded
 Trials Methodology Research Partnership (2019-24) are good examples. Hughes has led the
 health economic research activities of the former, and is a partner of the latter project, which
 aims to bring together a number of networks, institutions and partners to establish new
 collaborations to progress trial methodology, developing capacity and reducing research waste.
 The Public Health Collaborating Unit is embedded in BIHMR, and funded by Public Health
 Wales. Projects focus on Adverse Childhood Experiences, public engagement in public health
 issues (e.g. NHS dental contract reform), and health-harming behaviours (e.g. alcohol, gambling
 and physical inactivity). This group worked with the School of Psychology on a Public Health
 Wales-funded report on gambling harms across Wales, providing the first national geospatial
 map of risk factors with policy recommendations that have guided policy developments.

 Noyes’ methodological work on evidence synthesis with WHO has produced reports and
 successful collaboration with the US National Academies for Science, Engineering and
 Medicine, and the US Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality. BHIMR’s clinical trials team
 (Brocklehurst, Hoare) works with a broad range of academic partners in the UK and across the
 range of funding streams in the NETSCC portfolio (HTA, HS & DR and PHR), other NIHR
 funding boards (Invention for Innovation; i4i, Programme Grants for Applied Research, and
 Research for Patient Benefit), ESRC, MRC, charities and industry. NWORTH has produced joint
 grants and outputs with London groups based on continuing experience mental health research
 (i4i GBP1,600,000 and NIHR HTA CALMED GBP1,700,00) and King’s College London Clinical
 Trials Unit. BIHMR’s cancer group collaborates with Cardiff University, Lancaster University and
 the University of Liverpool. Wilkinson’s NIHR-funded CARiAD study on carer-supported end-of-
 life palliative medicine administration brings together palliative care physicians, primary care,
 specialist and community nursing and legal expertise, and shares grants and publications with
 University of Melbourne. Wales Government and England’s Helix Innovation Centre rolled the
 intervention tested in CARiAD into urgent policy for COVID-19.

 Public engagement and participation in research
 BIHMR brings service providers and stakeholders together to shape future research
 directions. Windle’s group host the Wales Dementia Network, a dementia-supportive practice
 community with over 500 members (people living with dementia, their supporters, service
 providers, university research staff, carers, health and social care staff). The network works to

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 increase understanding of challenges and future priorities, encouraging grass roots reforms
 and innovations at local and national levels. Windle is also part of the Welsh Government
 Dementia Action Oversight Implementation and Impact group to support advocacy on national
 and international platforms. To ensure we develop relevant, useful, and beneficial research,
 BIHMR engages with patients and the public at the outset of all its projects, to identify areas
 of concern that lead to priority areas for research development. Our local Population Advice
 for Research Committee (PARC-Bangor) consists of 15 female and 7 male patients and
 members of public (including Welsh speakers) who offer their experiences to shape new
 research. We have run regular ‘Have your Say’ events, and regularly audit our activities
 against the ‘National Standards for Public Involvement’ audit tool. CABAN (est. 2019) are a
 group of people living with dementia and their carers who, with our researchers, give voice to
 public priorities. CABAN members have also made significant contributions to the education
 of the current and future health and social care workforce through awareness sessions,
 consultations and presentations in small groups, training events and conferences. Co-
 production is core to BIHMR’s research. Stakeholders and end-users have helped to shape
 innovative ways to commission and deliver meaningful short breaks for carers that support
 inter-dependent caring relationships. Our clinical trials group has conducted a range of
 studies where interventions or services are complex or politically sensitive. These include
 evaluation of NHS Wales dental contract systems, an NIHR HS&DR-funded redesign of the
 Northern Ireland NHS dental contract, an NIHR PHR-funded trial of a community parenting
 intervention, and an intervention to improve oral health in care homes. The latter involved
 working with ENRICH-Cymru; a network linking care homes in Wales with researchers.

 Sustainability of the discipline and responsiveness to national and international priorities
 BIHMR staff contribute to the sustainability of the discipline in a variety of ways. Brocklehurst
 has recently been appointed Deputy Chief Dental Officer for Wales, was a NIHR HS&DR
 Board member (2015-2020) and is now a NIHR DF Panel member (2015-date) NIHR HTA
 Prioritisation Panel (2018-2020). Hughes is Executive Editor for the British Journal of Clinical
 Pharmacology; Editorial board member for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics and
 PharmacoEconomics; Fellow of Faculty of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society (FFRPS) 2014;
 Fellow of the British Pharmacological Society (FBPhS) 2013; Chair of the pharmacogenomics
 test evaluation working group for the Genomics Programme in NHS England and NHS
 Improvement; and is a member of the UK COVID-19 Therapeutics Taskforce.

 McFarlane is a member of the International Advisory Board for Elsevier Translational
 Oncology (2020-date). Windle is a member of UK Alzheimer’s Society taskforce (2017-date),
 has provided international or national key note lectures on dementia, and is a funding
 committee member for the UKRI Healthy Ageing Challenge Fund. Hughes and Edwards hold
 honorary chairs at Liverpool and Wilkinson at Cardiff. Noyes has given evidence to public
 hearings for US National Academies of Science, Engineering and Medicine regarding
 synthesised qualitative evidence and provides consultancy work with WHO. She is also a
 member of the US Committee on Evidence-Based Practices for Public Health Emergency
 Preparedness and Response (US CDC). Poole is a Project board member of the UK National
 Confidential Inquiry into Suicide and Safety in Mental Health and gave the RCPsych
 Prestigious Presidential Lecture 2020 on prescribed opioids. Wilkinson was Chair of HTA
 Commissioning Panel – Primary Care, Community, Preventive Interventions (2013-18). She
 was also a member of the NIHR Prioritisation Panel (2013-15). She serves on the Marie
 Curie Grants funding Committee member (2020-date).

 The interdisciplinary and cooperative aspect of BIHMR positions it to mobilise diverse teams to
 respond to calls and policy initiatives. Some of these have been described above. Examples
 include Brocklehurst’s work on NHS dentistry contract reform and role-substitution and
 Windle’s AHRC-funded work with Age Cymru, regional care homes, a Welsh Government
 taskforce and the Cross-Party Group (CPG) for Arts and Health to implement visual arts-based
 interventions in dementia sufferers. Algar-Skaife is the Wales national coordinator for Join
 Dementia Research, a service that enables people to register their interest in participating in
 dementia research and matches them to suitable studies. To date, over 1,000 people are

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 registered in Wales. Responding to the COVID-19 emergency, Hughes used experimental
 models to understand better the safety and risks associated with Hydroxychloroquine use, while
 Wilkinson’s extension of the CARiAD programme supported the updating of NICE guidelines
 for palliative care during COVID-19. Other BIHMR activities look to inform the formation of
 policy directly. In this REF period, and working with Public Health Wales and an advisory panel,
 Edwards and her team have produced a series of reports on the economic evaluations of
 interventions to support the health and wellbeing of the workforce within Wales, as well as on the
 health and economic benefits of investment in peoples’ early and later years. These reports –
 Wellness in Work (2019), Transforming Young Lives across Wales (2016) and ‘Living well for
 longer: The economic argument for investing in the health and wellbeing of older people in
 Wales (2018) – are intended to inform relevant stakeholders (Welsh Government, employers,
 NHS, members of the public, and higher education institutions) about the evidence-base in
 relation to educational, employment and prosperity policies. Other work from this group used
 social-return-on-investment methods to measure the different values derived from Codi’r To, a
 regeneration project that uses music in schools, for children and communities.




                                                                                           Page 12
