Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Institution:
University of Essex
Unit of Assessment:
27 – English Language and Literature
1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Research in UoA27 at the University of Essex is defined by a commitment to interdisciplinary
dialogue involving critical enquiry, theoretical analysis and creative practice with an international
and global focus. In the current REF cycle, UoA27, based in the Department of Literature, Film,
and Theatre Studies (LiFTS) in the Faculty of Humanities, has seen significant changes in staff, a
period of expansion, and further openness to multi-disciplinary research across five subject areas:
(i) literature; (ii) theatre; (iii) film; (iv) journalism and media studies; and (v) creative writing.
Research conversations and collaborations across our constituent subjects have resulted in our
REF2014 strategic plans to develop in innovative and exciting ways.

1.1 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

Our strategic aims in REF2014 have been vigorously pursued and met:

   (1) to enable high-quality research in literature, film, and theatre studies;
   (2) to expand creative writing;
   (3) to develop links between each of these sister pursuits; and
   (4) to enhance a distinctive international profile in comparative studies.

Our investment in 14 FTE new appointments to LiFTS has not only sustained the interdisciplinarity
and comparative enquiry at the heart of the Department but also strengthened it (section 2.1). New
appointments across the career stage from ECR to Professor, have acted as catalysts for
interdisciplinary innovations. Research outputs are diverse, ranging from critical and theoretical
enquiry to practice-as-research. They have made an impact on diverse and far-ranging public,
policy makers and cultural institutions and practices (section 1.3). Our research community has
undergone a period of dynamic change as a result of which the environment has enabled our new
staff, together with colleagues of longer standing, to extend the scope, quantity and high quality of
our research in accordance with Strategic Aim 1. This expansion has also been directed into the
new disciplines of journalism and media (two appointees) alongside literature and creative writing
(12 appointees) (Strategic Aim 2). New appointments with strengths in more than one of our
subject specialisms have been prioritised (Strategic Aim 3). We also note the day-to-day
collaborative enrichment of UoA27 made by the four appointments in Film and Drama in LiFTS
included in a separate submission to UoA33. The comparative study of literatures has defined the
Department since its earliest days and is reaffirmed in our Strategic Aim 4 ‘to enhance a
distinctive international profile in comparative studies.’ This aim is addressed in a literary, film, and
theatre studies context, demonstrated by the research expertise of staff outlined below
(section 2.1): its successful implementation has generated research impact in major funded project
(section 4).

1.2 Unit context and structure

The five subject groups (Literature, Creative Writing, Theatre, Film, and Journalism) constitute
organisational hubs in LiFTS for research planning and interdisciplinary collaborations.

Four key intersecting areas of research were identified in our REF2014 submission:

   (1) comparative literature and translation;
   (2) American literatures and cultures;
   (3) creative writing; and
   (4) world cinema and comparative media.

New priorities were planned and achieved in comparative media (to complement comparative

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
literature) and human rights issues. New areas of research have been created in: news media
practice and political change in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region; creative practice
in film and theatre; ecocriticism, green writing and literary geographies; and speculative
humanities. Consequently, UoA27 now has seven research clusters (Section 1.3).

Since 2018, the development of research in theatre, film and performance at our sister department,
the East 15 School of Acting (E15) has expanded opportunities for interdisciplinary, cross-campus
research projects. A further world cinema and comparative media cluster that forms part of Essex’s
UoA33 submission now includes senior LiFTS researchers (Geiger; Chaudhuri).

Research collaborations and clusters are actively fostered within the Faculty of Humanities. Our
researchers have contributed to the Essex Medical and Digital Humanities Hub, the Essex
Transitional Justice Network (Bahun, Research Chair for Arts and Transitional Justice) and the
Essex Human Rights Centre (el Issawi in Armed Conflict and Crisis Hub).

Researchers including postgraduate students and recent postdoctoral graduates in LiFTS have
taken part in the Cross University Research Events (CURE) on The Digital World (Jarvis);
Behavioural Social Sciences (Lax); the Environment (doctoral graduate and Visiting Fellow Ewart);
Brain and Mind (PGR Govia); and Sandpit Innovation events on AI and big data (de Abaitua).
Oliver gave a public lecture on pandemics and early vaccines in the Essex Explores Public
Lecture Webinar Series and recorded two podcasts on climate change and the Arts for the
Eastern Arc Public Podcast Series (Universities of Essex, East Anglia and Kent). The ‘Words
With…’ Public Lecture Series featured Lax and Cockin.

1.3 Development of Strategic Aims and Achievements for Research and Impact

A vision of radical border crossings underpins the strategic aims for our research in this UoA for
the future. Disciplinary boundaries in LiFTS, and in the Faculty of Humanities, are porous in
principle as well as practice to generate new critical and creative perspectives. Comparative
Literature, with a focus on American and Caribbean literatures and cultures, is a long-established
area of our research expertise. Translation continues to be one strand of research and practice
alongside intermedial studies involving film, creative writing, drama, the visual arts, histories of
film and theatre. With a strong ethically driven commitment to challenge convention and to
influence social change, our research and impact is understood as interdisciplinary, intermedial,
and always already located in a global context.

Research in the UoA is focused on movement of different kinds: translation (in language and
media, in metaphorical and literal forms); translocation (migration, home, exile);
transnationalism (World Literature, Postcolonialism, Englishes, Creole languages, empire, race,
diaspora, Transatlantic Studies); transgression (breaching borders and constraints); transition
(from war and disenfranchisement to democracy and peace).

The vitality of these experimental boundary crossings has been recognised by the award of a
major British Academy Sustainable Development Programme grant (el Issawi), a Leverhulme
Trust Major Research Fellowship (Fumagalli), several Leverhulme Trust Fellowships (Bahun,
Hulme, Lichtenstein) and an AHRC Global Challenges grant (Kuti/Lax). Hulme’s Leverhulme
Emeritus Fellowship contributed to his ongoing participation in our research environment. Our
research projects demonstrate intellectual risk, critical curiosity and the transcending of disciplinary
boundaries. Research impact has been considerable and is exemplified by projects led by
Fumagalli and el Issawi (Section 4).

Our Research clusters (RC1-7) are developing across and between our five subject areas to
include collaborative research with colleagues in other departments and faculties and have created
opportunities for transdisciplinary critical and creative collaboration:

   RC 1. Comparative Literature and Translation;
   RC 2. Literatures and Cultures of the Americas and the Caribbean;

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   RC 3. Creative Writing (testimony and memoir, scriptwriting and playwriting, experiments in
         poetry, fiction and translation);
   RC 4. Drama and Theatre;
   RC 5. Human Rights;
   RC 6. Speculative Humanities; and
   RC 7. Ecocriticism, green writing and literary geographies.

1.4 Future strategic aims and goals for research

(a) Global and local literature: research on global and local literary studies flourishes at Essex,
which is committed to social impact of research as a member of the new Young European
Research Universities Network (YERUN). Themes of home and migration (Mazzilli; Bahun;
McCully; Fumagalli) are urgent areas of interest and will be further addressed in relation to equality
and diversity in arts and literature. Research findings on the Chinese dramatist Gao have
generated global intercultural interactions (Mazzilli). New research developments in the context of
globalisation and transnationalism are planned by ECRs (Bundock, Williams, Smith, Rzepa). New
works on transnational book history and translation studies are forthcoming (Littau, Rzepa).

Transatlantic pan-Caribbean, and hemispheric connections will continue to inform new
comparative and interdisciplinary work in American and Caribbean studies with new works on New
Orleans (Robinson), Derek Walcott’s engagement with European and American art (Fumagalli),
New York/US/Caribbean networks of aesthetic and political radical movements (Peake, Hulme),
Transatlantic studies (Oliver), place-poetics (Savage), utopias/dystopias (Seeger).

Dislocation, war and trauma in the past and in recent times are the subject of several projects.
Notably ‘The Arab Spring and transition to democracy’ (el Issawi) exemplifies the UoA’s
engagement with human rights, media practices and democratisation challenges in non-Western
contexts. Literature, drama and political writings in regional contexts are being explored in relation
to Georgian theatre in the eastern counties of England (Kuti), women’s suffrage literature and
activism (Cockin), Hispaniola (Fumagalli). Creative writing engages with the global as well as the
regional and local, in individual creative works and direct participation in the Essex Book Festival
(Terry, McCully, Savage, Canton, Pester).

(b) Human Rights, citizenship and identity; home, nation and place: research strengths in
separate strands will converge in creative writing engaging with trauma, testimony and memory
(Lichtenstein), critical literary research on translating the Holocaust (Rzepa); home and migration
(Mazzilli, Bahun; McCully); sport and its intersection with cultural modes, political and regional
identities, anti-semitism and the media (Clavane); migration, statelessness, citizenship, and border
crossings on Hispaniola (Fumagalli); human rights and media, the Arab Spring and transition to
democracy (el Issawi).

(c) Environmental, nature and climate writing: in the context of a University-wide Climate
Emergency initiative and an Environmental Humanities Hub, further collaborations will be sought
with the Eastern Arc (Academic Research Consortium of the Universities of Essex, East Anglia and
Kent). Developments are planned by RC7 in literary studies, creative writing and the environment,
and creative non-fiction focusing on: green wellbeing and scientifically observable experience of
natural landscapes, cognitive ecologies, plant intelligence, plant neurobiology (Canton); a
lexicographical study focused on the intersections and regional variations of language and poetry
(McCully); imagined and reconstructed Ice Age poetry (Terry); Scottish literature, historical
ecologies and the transatlantic nineteenth-century environmental imagination (Oliver); climate
fiction (de Abaitua); and the environmental imagination in the Caribbean (Fumagalli).

(d) Embodiment and Literature and Visual Cultures: research on the materialities of the book
at the intersection of digital media and the visual arts (Littau); modernism and the arts (Bahun);
Derek Walcott and the visual arts (Fumagalli); and proto-cinematic poetry (Terry) will be further
developed alongside existing and future collaborations and engagements with Psychology and
Social Sciences (trauma and Holocaust studies: Rzepa; Lichtenstein) and the interdisciplinary

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Essex Medical and Digital Humanities Research Hub (Bundock; Cockin).

(e) Archival research is central to UoA27. Notable projects in literature, history and the visual and
performing arts include:

   1. The Sophie Gaudier-Brzeska archive, deposited soon after Essex was founded but only
      recently interpreted (Gillies, P.) is at the centre of a major new project locating this
      neglected poet in the context of radical modernism and includes the translation and
      transcription of her poetry notebooks and analysis of her Paris poems.
   2. A second stage of research is under way on regional theatre history in relation to the
      touring company the Norwich Comedians and the Theatre Royal Bury St Edmunds (Kuti).
   3. Research on a recently deposited archive, the papers of Roger Howard (1938-2019)
      political dramatist, author and theatre lecturer and founder of Theatre Underground at
      Essex, builds on the UoA research strengths in theatre histories, literature and politics
      (Cockin).
   4. Archival research in Europe and the Americas on Walcott, visual arts and the Caribbean
      (Fumagalli).

Digital exhibitions based on Albert Sloman Library Special Collections are planned across the
Eastern Arc.

1.5 Impact strategy: past, present and future

LiFTs has embedded impact planning at the heart of research projects and is supported by a
designated Departmental Director of Impact (DoI) with further advice available from the Research
and Enterprise Office (REO). The Impact Acceleration Account has facilitated the implementation
of this strategy by providing seedcorn funding for six projects in LiFTS (£41,534), including the
development of a manual for journalists on how to cover political conflicts in uncertain transitions
(el Issawi); and projects directly associated with three Impact Case studies submitted to UoA27,
entitled: 1) Reframing border relations between Haiti and the Dominican Republic (Fumagalli);
2) Innovations in creative interpretation at Hampton Court Palace (Kuti); and 3) Thinking Home:
Changing the Perception of Migrant Communities (Bahun; Mazzilli).

These three case-studies share a commitment to improving the public understanding of
marginalised and liminal experiences and support our equality and diversity agenda. Two (Kuti;
Mazzilli) use playwriting as a mode of research and of creating impact while also focusing on
regional realities and supporting local communities. Fumagalli’s research has been at the core of
cultural events which have reached marginalised sectors of the population of Hispaniola and
opened up opportunities of impact within the local, regional and international context.

Researchers in UoA27 are involved in theatre and creative writing practices that engage in public-
facing activities as ideal places to generate impact: e.g. as a writer of speculative fiction, de
Abaitua has been invited to contribute to future-looking policy discussions (Section 4). Research in
translation and comparative media plans to influence pedagogical approaches to intermediality and
to create new pathways to impact by changing public perception of other cultures and literatures.

Our future Impact strategy will continue to: 1) build on existing partnerships with non-HEI
organisations; 2) organise regular public workshops to foster new partnerships; 3) lead debates on
equality and diversity (involving testimonials by marginalised groups) with the aim to feed into
global change movements e.g. Black Lives Matter and ‘decolonise the curriculum’; and 4) shape
the direction of arts and humanities research in each of our five constituent subject areas.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy

In this REF period, the number of LiFTS staff on research contracts has almost doubled (from 17 in
2014 to 31) in line with Essex’s wider policy to increase research-intensity by hiring permanent
researchers rather than part-time, fixed-term, teaching staff; in LiFTS this larger research
community has in turn generated more collaborations, PGR supervisions and opportunities to
enhance and diversify our research clusters.

Of the 18 new appointments to LiFTS, 14 are part of the total submission of 25 to UoA27: seven
new appointments in literature (Bundock, Cockin, P. Gillies, Rzepa, Savage, Seeger, Williams);
two in drama or theatre-related studies (Mazzilli, Williams, as well as Lax, and Jarvis for UoA33);
three in film (Smyth for UoA27, and Blower and O’Brien for UoA33); three in creative writing
(Canton, de Abaitua, Mazzilli, Pester); and one in journalism (Clavane). Four of the 18 new
appointments (two in drama or theatre-related studies (Lax and Jarvis) and two in film (Blower and
O’Brien) are submitted to UoA33.

Research in comparative literature has been strengthened with appointments that consolidate and
develop the department’s long-standing commitment to the comparative and the global in literary
and theatre studies and intermediality and the comparative study of film and literature: Rzepa’s
prize-winning, early-career work in the area of translation, Modernism and Holocaust studies;
Seeger’s interest in twentieth-century and Caribbean literature, Modernism, Utopian studies and
Comparative and Cultural studies; Mazzilli’s specialism in Chinese theatre and comparative theatre
practices; Savage’s work on US literature, film, and translation, Patricia Gillies’ focus on Early
Modern and Modernist European literatures; Smyth’s work in British film, Cockin’s expertise in
theatre, history and gender, and Williams’ work on Shakespeare and adaptation.

In 2015 our first cohort of BA Journalism students began their degrees at a crucial moment of
expansion. The development of Journalism, both in education and research, reflects our 2014
commitment to ‘use our research to respond effectively to contemporary geo-political issues.’ El
Issawi contributes to the already existing research strengths in human rights, media, culture and
identity while further expanding the global reach of our research to non-Western contexts.
Clavane’s work on identity, community and belonging in a UK and European context and his
exploration of Northern, British and Jewish identity in the UK in the light of Brexit engages both
critical and creative practices in literary journalism, memoir and playwriting.

New research strengths and disciplines - media and political change in the MENA (el Issawi);
investigative journalism and creative non-fiction (Clavane); creative non-fiction (de Abaitua,
Canton, McCully, Lichtenstein); women’s authorship in film and television (Smyth) - have therefore
been developed in UoA27’s multi-disciplinary context while other areas of research have been
consolidated - US literature and film (Savage); Caribbean, the cultures of the Americas, and
comparative studies (Peake, Robinson, Fumagalli, Seeger); theatre history, nineteenth- and
twentieth century literature and archival studies (Cockin, Kuti); modernism, theatre, global and
comparative literature and translation (Bahun; Cockin; Gillies P.; Littau; Mazzilli; Rzepa; Terry;
Savage). Replacement in Romanticism and literature of the long nineteenth century (Bundock) for
staff seconded to Faculty- or University-level leadership and management roles preserve the
breadth of the interdisciplinary research base.

Staff development

The Department is committed to offer one non-teaching day for a continuous period of research
each week during the teaching periods. LiFTS supports staff to apply to the Research Leave
Scheme that entitles ASER (academic with research contract) staff to apply for one term’s leave
for six terms’ service.



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mentoring for research staff is organised within Essex with schemes such as the Peer Exchange
Network, and between institutions, for example the Eastern Arc Mentoring Initiative connects
academics across the three member universities, Kent, Essex and UEA. Research training is
available at Faculty level (workshops on research grant application writing, impact planning
and reporting) and as University-wide provision from the REO (biannual research training weeks
on e.g. data sharing, ethics, publication and open access or sessions oriented towards
‘Newcomers’). Supervisory Training is compulsory for all staff, supported by a MoodleX course, live
training opportunities and one-to-one coaching. ECR staff are supported as PGR supervisors by
working in a team with a more experienced PGR supervisor.

LiFTS implements the University’s Essential Training for all new staff to ensure that specific
training is completed within the first six months and includes strands relevant for researchers, such
as Information Security and Computer Essentials as well as Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, and
Unconscious Bias which foster a culture of respect for equality and diversity as well as the
systematic means of implementing this model of working in everyday practice and research.
Induction Training events held on a monthly basis and providing regular support and advice
include networking opportunities across departments and faculties as well as engagement with
research leaders.

During the first few years of employment, research staff are allocated an adviser who guides them
through their ‘Pathway to Permanency’ with reference to an agreement of goals including
research publications and grant applications. This system of support has proven to be so
successful that some staff achieve early permanency (Seeger) or even permanency with
simultaneous promotion to Senior Lecturer (de Abaitua). In the relevant REF period, seven more
staff have been awarded permanency (probation period completed) (Canton, el Issawi, Gillies, P.,
Mazzilli, Peake, Pester, Savage); five more have been promoted to Senior Lecturer (Canton,
Gillies, Mazzilli, Peake, Pester); one to Reader (el Issawi); and seven to Professor (Bahun,
Chaudhuri, Geiger, Kuti, Littau, McCully, Oliver). Aligned with the University’s Strategic Plan 2019-
25, promotion at Essex is designed to enable staff to realise their full potential and underpinned
by core values of ‘inclusion, partnership, and community’: applications are assessed in terms of
sustained and significant achievement against published criteria.

Essex’s commitment to continuing professional development and achieving equality, diversity and
inclusion throughout the institution underpins the strategic and future leadership programmes,
both of which address research, open up new goals and foster greater confidence for career
development including aspiration to act as Principal Investigator of a research project.
Conversations about research plans and development are embedded in our research clusters
both formally and informally. A Research Away-day three times each academic year provides a
space for blue-skies thinking as a community of researchers. Invited speakers offer guidance in
areas such as impact or grant application. Annual research meetings with the Director of
Research (DoR) provide more formal advice and support for staff at all levels. Research mentors
offer advice on publication drafts and help to identify appropriate places for publication. Advice on
identifying funding and feedback on grant applications is available from peer readers and mentors
in the UoA, the Faculty, and wider University community including the REO. International
networking opportunities are disseminated within the UoA by the DoR and other members of
subject associations and networks, resulting in a high number of conference papers and new inter-
institutional collaborations. Hosting of conferences at Essex, such as the 2015 Symbiosis
International Transatlantic Studies Conference (co-organised by Oliver) or the 2017 Society for
Caribbean Studies Conference (co-organised by Peake), foster further networking.

The University of Essex’s incentivisation framework of Excellence Awards has recognised high
achievements in the UoA; a number of staff have received awards for research excellence
(Bahun); impact excellence (Bahun & Mazzilli; Fumagalli; Oliver); and as PGR Supervisor of the
Year for the Faculty of Humanities (Kuti, Lax; Oliver).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.2 Research Students

The PGR community is thriving and fully integrated into the research culture of the UoA. PGR
representation features in the departmental committees and notably the Student-Staff Liaison
Committee (SSLC) from which actions are reported and followed up at Department Meetings and
the Research Committee.

The PGR community has attracted a large cohort that has progressed from the Essex UG and
PGT community, demonstrating the benefit of research-led pedagogy and connections with the
Research Clusters, notably RC1, (a research-led joint PGR degree in Digital Humanities:
Literature, Theatre, Film, Media is in the process of being established between UoA27 and the
University of Konstanz) and RC7 (MA in Wild Writing: Literature, Landscape and the Environment).
PGR students continuing from a LiFTs PGT programme included Literature (12), Creative Writing
(12), Film Studies (3), Wild Writing (1), Theatre Studies (2).

PGR completions have been excellent (70% 2017-18; 76% 2019-20), with 63 doctorates awarded
in the census period. The excellent quality of PGR research, supervision and integrated research
community is reflected in the numerous competitive scholarships won by our PGR students in the
census period when 121 registered PGR included scholarships from CHASE (12), China
Scholarship (1), Silberrad/Essex (2), the embassies of Algeria, Iraq, Saudi Arabia (3) and Qatar
University (1).

LiFTS’ commitment to innovation and support for the future of research is demonstrated by its
inauguration of the practice-as-research doctorates and established innovative mechanisms of
support and research development training for those degrees.

The co-supervision of PGR students between LiFTS and E15 has enabled PGR students to benefit
from both the research culture in LiFTS at the Colchester campus, and from the facilities at E15.

Progression monitoring and support: A rigorous system of supervisory support involves:
monthly supervisory meetings; regularly scheduled progress panels with independent chairs,
supervisors and two appointed members, reading and commenting on work in progress, monitoring
achievement of milestones and ensuring appropriate support is available. Supervisory Panel
reports are monitored by the Research Students’ Progress Board (Head of Department, Director of
Graduate Studies and another senior academic staff member).

Training and supervision of PGR students: All PGR students are invited to take part in Eastern
Arc and CHASE network events and have access to research training funding through Essex’s
unique Proficio scheme which allows participants to create their own bespoke training package.
Doctoral students are allocated £2,500 for internal and external courses, research events and
conferences. Researchers in UoA 27 have organised a CHASE training event on Humanities in
Human Rights (Bahun and Finburgh, 2014), and a Proficio training course on publishing in the
Humanities (Bahun and Pester, 2019). Training sessions prepare students to present and promote
their research and to succeed in the viva.

PGR Conferences and events: In 2019 the inaugural doctoral public lecture was given by a
LiFTS alumna (Dikova).

PGR students organise their own annual conference, supported by £600 departmental funding.
Regular ‘In Progress’ seminars are complemented by research reading groups and participation in
the ‘three-minute thesis’ competition extends and connects the postgraduate research
environment.

Postgraduate conferences for annual international research subject associations have been
organised at Essex by the UoA27 PGR community including the British Comparative Literature
Association Postgraduate Conference - Revolution and Evolution (2014) with a special theme
‘Revolution and Evolution’ and the British Association of American Studies Postgraduate

                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Conference - Post-truth and American Myths (2018) (match funded by the Dept with £500). The
British Comparative Literature Association Summer Graduate Reception on ‘Environments’ was
hosted at Essex (2016). PGRs have also co-organised the Flow n Flux event with the CHASE
Feminist Network (Richards; Lax supervisor).

PGR Support includes: peer mentoring of new PhD students at the start of the autumn and spring
term; departmental Research Promotion Funds; PGR community writing groups and dedicated
regular PGR discussion and networking sessions. The PG research community is encouraged to
organise research and reading groups (for PGR and PGT) and promotion of the culture of
research and research exchange is embedded in everyday informal practices, from celebrations of
PhD viva successes to public readings of creative work in the Art Exchange campus gallery.

Postgraduate achievements reflecting the vibrancy and sustainability of the PGR community, are
demonstrated by Essex awards, national or international prizes and publications from doctoral
research.

Awards include: Early Career Research Award 2019-20 for the planned first Colchester Fringe
Festival, 2021 (Abbott-Betts; Lax supervisor); Audience Award at the University 3-minute Thesis
Competition, 2018 (Ewart; Oliver supervisor); Writers Online poetry competition, 2018 and Jeremy
Mogford Short Story Prize 2017 (Winder; McCully supervisor); one MA research project has
resulted in a monologue performance at the Ubumuntu Arts Festival, Kigali, Rwanda, 2018,
(Durbin; Lax supervisor) Following a New Welsh Writing Award for Nature Writing (2015, second
prize) for her MA in Wild Writing dissertation, Ewart (Oliver supervisor) went on to give public talks
at the Sea Fever Literary Festival, Wells-next-the-Sea, Norfolk, published one of her PhD thesis
poems in Arc poetry magazine, and is Visiting Fellow in LiFTS.

Our PGRs have published journal articles and essays on topics ranging from the cultural impact of
contemporary videogames (Kuhn; Littau supervisor) to Virginia Woolf’s Everyday Feminism
(Dikova; Bahun supervisor) and to Derek Walcott’s plays (Woollard; Fumagalli supervisor); as well
as theses and monographs, including From Damascus to Beirut: Contested Cities in Arab Writing
(Faidel) and Non-linear Temporality in Joyce and Walcott (Seeger) (both supervised by Fumagalli).

PGR students subsequently appointed to academic posts: Seeger (Fumagalli supervisor) and
Savage (Hulme supervisor) Lecturers in LiFTS in 2016 and 2015; Hsiao-Hsien Hsu and Sawsan
Qashqari (Oliver supervisor) in Taiwan and Saudi Arabia; Muhramalnessa Turkistani in Saudia
Arabia, Lin Su and Stanislava Dikova (Bahun supervisor) in China and UK; Maysaa Al-Abas
(Peake supervisor) in Iraq; Mona Becker, Majeed Midhin and Judith Johnson in Germany, Iraq and
UK (Kuti supervisor); Penny Simpson in UK (Pester supervisor). Expertise acquired during doctoral
thesis on Dominican migrants in the US (Alshalabi; Fumagalli supervisor) has been applied in a
workplace setting in the support of refugees.

In creative writing, postgraduates have worked together to collect, edit and publish creative work in
a series of anthologies entitled Creel and organised their launch with a public reading event at Art
Exchange. Creative writing PGR achievements also include the publication of: first collections of
poetry (Everett; Terry supervisor; CHASE funded), epic verse (Solnick; McCully supervisor); short
stories (Eberle; Fumagalli supervisor); novel, forthcoming (Crane; Kuti supervisor); and the
founding of the Muscaliet Press (Everett; Terry supervisor).

2.3 Equality and diversity

Equality and diversity strategies guide all activities of the student and staff community at Essex
and in LiFTS. In line with our research interests and values which focus on comparative literature
and postcolonial perspectives, our research informs both our teaching and policies and LiFTS is
committed to supporting equality, diversity and inclusivity in access and participation of PGRs.
Role models and peer support are valued and acknowledged by the University’s Motivational,
Empowering and Inspirational Woman award (presented in 2017 to Oliver). Our commitment
underpins the implementation of recruitment and selection of staff in LiFTS and flexible working

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
arrangements. Although the academic staff gender balance profile in LiFTS during the REF period
has been approximately equal (women:men 47:53% in 2014 to 44:56% in 2021), further work is
planned to improve the balance in ethnicity (BAME 16% in 2014 to 8% in 2021). From 2021-22 the
LiFTS leadership team balance will be BAME 50%. The ECR profile has increased from 16% to
20% from 2014-21.

All staff are required to complete the University’s Unconscious Bias Training, and LiFTS is
committed to reviewing and ensuring rotation of leadership roles and positions as well as
monitoring gender balance on Departmental committees. LiFTS operates a Workload Allocation
Model to ensure transparency, equality and sufficient time available for research.

The allocation of Departmental research funding for caring support expenses to enable a
researcher to attend a conference or research visit is under discussion and our Open Research
seminar programme, which always features speakers representing diverse communities and
ethnicities, is scheduled at different times of day to ensure greater accessibility for staff with caring
responsibilities and has featured speakers representing diverse communities and ethnicities.

LiFTS is preparing an application for Athena SWAN Bronze Award: a process which has involved
detailed staff surveys and focus groups to canvas views from all colleagues on departmental
culture and policies, with considered action points taken to Department meetings and actioned.

An innovative training workshop, hosted for the entire research community in LiFTS on
‘Researching Black Britain: Culture, History, Identity, Politics’ led by Munira Mohamad from the
Black Cultural Archives, Brixton, London (2017), introduced a wealth of resources on the diverse
experiences of people of African descent in Britain to foster an inclusive approach to research
across the undergraduate and postgraduate community and provided role models and
employability relating to ‘pathways into the archives sector.’

3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Income

External Research Income

Since 2014 UoA27 research grant capture strategy has achieved considerable success in
attracting a total of £525,538 in external research income, funding notably two large Global
Challenges projects with extensive reach and impact:

British Academy Sustainable Development (Global Challenges) Fund 2018, ‘Media and Transitions
to Democracy: Journalistic Practices in Communicating Conflicts: The Arab Spring,’ £296,911 (el
Issawi).

AHRC Global Challenges (Translating Cultures and Care for the Future): Tales of Spring and
Winter: Gender, History and Intergenerational Exchange Fund 2016, £96, 910 (PI Kuti/co-I Lax).

The UoA 27 strategy to build research projects in relevant stages with the support of Smaller
grants has been successful and facilitated significant collaborative research projects and impact:

Symposium on metrics with contributors from UCLA, Berkeley, Bristol and Queen Mary’s 2015,
£2,750 (McCully).

British Academy small grants The Broken Token, new play about the Norwich Comedians circuit,
East Anglia 2014, £4,000 (Kuti); and Green Scott, 2015, £8,459 (Oliver).

Arts Council Funding Grant for the Arts, Priority Seating: A Semi-verbatim Play About Migration
and Inter-community Relations, 2017, £10,000 (Mazzilli).


                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Extended research time has been facilitated by the award of Research fellowships:

Leverhulme Fellowships: ‘The Journey in Reverse: A Work of Prose Fiction With Photographs’
£32,778 (Lichtenstein, 2016); ‘Home and Modernism’ £43,316 (Bahun, 2017-18).

Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship, Derek Walcott’s Painters, £165,297 (Fumagalli, 2016-19).

Shorter periods of research time have also been awarded: the McNeil Fellowship, Historical
Society of Pennsylvania, $2,000 (Oliver, 2014-15); A. Mellon Fellowship, Library Company of
Philadelphia (2014); one-month Fellowship, Armstrong Browning Library, Baylor University, $2,000
(Oliver, 2017). Fulbright-Elon Award teaching fellowship $20,000 (Peake, 2014-15) for research-
informed teaching.

Honorary Posts facilitate national and international networking and collaborations. e.g. el Issawi
has held posts as: Senior Research Fellow, LSE Centre for Africa; Senior Research Fellow,
Institute for Middle Eastern Studies, King’s College London; and Senior Policy Fellowship, School
of Transnational Governance, European University Institute (2019); Oliver as Honorary Fellow in
English, University of Wyoming (from 2013).

Internal Research Funding

Internal research funding strategically provides seedcorn support for innovative research in
relevant themes.

Department of LiFTS Research Promotion Fund (£500 annually available for each researcher)
supports research expenses, attendance at conferences or research visits. e.g Terry’s visit Les
Eyzies (November 2017) to research Ice Age art and signs for a new project entitled The Lascaux
Notebooks. Applications are open for further support from staff on research and also education
contracts for expenses relating to scholarship that contributes to the research environment.

The Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research) Strategic Fund has supported several research projects:

The Human Side of Migration: Unheard Stories From Migrant Communities in Colchester, £5,510
(Mazzilli and Bahun).

Reframing border relations between Haiti and the Dominican Republic; three ESRC/UoE Impact
Acceleration Account-Impact Fund £5578; £9424; £9833 and one ESRC/UOE Impact Acceleration
Account-Active Engagement Fund £2000 (Fumagalli).

Arab Media and Transitions to Democracy and Manual for Journalists on covering political
conflicts: two ESRC/Impact Acceleration Fund. £14,000; £9,792 (el Issawi).

3.2 Infrastructure

All academics on a research contract have exclusive use of an individual on-campus office, a
computer, printer and telephone. The Albert Sloman Library on Colchester campus holds over 1
million books and pamphlets, over 48,000 e-books and 40,840 journals and databases. It is open
24 hours in term-time with unlimited borrowing rights for researchers. A dedicated subject-librarian
supports researchers with new purchase requests or inter-library loans and the Academic and
Research Services Team provides advice and support for literature searching, copyright,
publishing (including open access publishing) and citations.

Special Collections holds over 34,000 printed works. Especially relevant for our research, are
those of nature writer J. A. Baker (Canton) and Sophie Gaudier-Brzeska (Gillies P.), holdings in
Caribbean and Latin American studies (Fumagalli); the William Blake collection and the Russell
Collection comprising a nineteenth-century country house library (Oliver). A new initiative to identify
a network of Special Collections research champions was launched in 2020 and plans are

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
underway to establish digital special collections links with our Eastern ARC partners. As Library
Special Collections Champion, Oliver has promoted and widened use of the collections within and
beyond the Department including with Visiting International Fellows based in LiFTS.

Research funding applications (internal and external) are supported in LiFTS by advice from peer
review and sample applications, by the DoR and DoI, members of the research committee and
staff with experience of grant capture. The REO has a dedicated team of Research Development
Managers and Research Impact Officers.

The departmental Research Promotion Fund supports conference attendance or other research
needs (£500 per researcher p.a). Larger applications to facilitate long-distance travel or more
expensive research trips may be spread over a two-year period.

Time for research is supported by a clear day each week during the teaching period where
possible. Applications for extended periods of research time (one term for every six terms’
teaching) are considered every year (Section 2.1).

Faculty and University-wide Research Workshops have supported the development of impact,
applying for research funding.

Research Away Days were introduced in LiFTS in 2015 to incubate and foster new research, to
provide training, support and advice, and to develop the focus of the research clusters on
geographies and methodologies rather than subjects. Outcomes include the emergence of several
new clusters; development of new research strategies and networks, on occasions with colleagues
from E15; and mentoring and sharing of grant application advice.

University Research Opportunity Placement (UROP) fund is available on a competitive basis for
researchers to work with a paid undergraduate research assistant on a fixed term project, providing
valuable practical assistance to enable larger projects to develop and valuable role modelling and
internship opportunities for undergraduates: American Writers and Radicals (Peake); Green Walter
Scott (Oliver); Ellen Terry Letters and Home Counties Suffragettes (Cockin).

Fortnightly Open Research seminars provide a regular forum for papers and readings, a means
of crossing subject areas to find common ground, and to involve students in the research
community. These seminars respond to politically urgent work in activism; documenting global
uprisings, wars, revolutions, and media cultures, innovative experimentations at the cutting edge of
theatre and creative writing; and world-leading scholarship in global literatures. Speakers include
invited guests from other institutions, visiting fellows, our own academics, ECRs and UoA27 PGR
students, bringing together cutting-edge research in critical studies and creative practice. For
example: Fellows of the British Academy and world-leading scholars met students and ECRS as
part of their visit (Nigel Leask, FBA Regius Professor University of Glasgow; Tilottama Rajan,
Canada Research Chair, Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada and Distinguished Professor at
Western University, Ontario; Caroline McCracken-Flesher, University of Wyoming; Jonathan
Skinner, Warwick; and Professor Keir Elam, University of Bologna). ECR speakers have included
Dr Nisrine Mansour, Arab Media Centre, University of Westminster and Dr Honor Gavin, University
of Manchester, Centre for New Writing, reading from their novel, Midland, shortlisted for the
Gordon Burn Prize.

The Professorial Inaugural Lectures series (PIL) of new professors usually held in Lakeside
Theatre and the ‘Words With…’ series with talks hosted in the Albert Sloman Library, complement
ad hoc research events such as women’s suffrage centenary, 2018 and International Women’s
Day.

Reading groups have been organised on topics like modernism, Black British Arts and the radical
1960s or speculative humanities, welcoming both staff and postgraduate researchers within and
beyond the UoA. The ‘Myth Reading Group’, active in REF2014 has continued in the Centre for
Myth Studies.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Visiting Researchers/visiting International fellows included:

Professor Alexa Joubin, George Washington University, Washington DC, USA (2018): her visit,
coinciding with Shakespeare/Tang Xianzu’s Death Quatercentenary, resulted in a monograph on
Shakespeare and East Asia (Oxford UP, 2021) and, with Mazzilli, in a Special Edition of Asian
Theatre Journal (2019).

Professor Debararti Bandyopadhyay, Visua-Bharati University, India (2018): a two-week visit to the
Albert Sloman Special Collections led to monograph on Rabindranath Tagore (2019), an Open
Seminar research paper and meetings with PGRs.

Professor Liam Semmler, Sydney University (2017-18): four-week visit to give papers for LiFTS
research seminar and contribute to a seminar at Kingston University on John Gillies’s paper, ‘The
Conversational Turn in Shakespeare’.

Professor Marinos Pourgouris, University of Cyprus (2018): collaboration with Bahun led to joint
international conference presentations, co-authorship of publications, and partnership between the
University of Cyprus and the University of Essex within YUFE (Young Universities for the Future of
Europe), Horizon 2020 funded.

Dr Sahar Khamis, Associate Professor in Communication, University of Maryland, US (2017):
resulted in the co-organisation, with el Issawi, of an event on gender and the Arab uprisings in
partnership with the Human Rights Centre and a collaborative edited volume.

Dr Chris Louttit, Radboud University (2016): contributed to a seminar on Adaptation during his two-
week research visit to Essex.

3.3 Facilities

The Albert Sloman Library and its Special Collections provide invaluable research resources and
support for research (Section 3.2). The LiFTS common room is a hub for research events and
post-research seminar discussions. The Art Exchange gallery is an ideal venue for poetry and
creative writing events, including public readings of new creative work. The Lakeside Theatre hosts
regular readings by a range of poets and writers under the auspices of the Library's ‘Words with...’
series as well as the weekly The Hook which showcases student poetry: both are open to public
audiences. The theatre's studio houses new experimental writing performances for BA
Independent Research Projects and MA and PhD practice-based theatre dissertations for a total
of, approximately, twenty original events a year.

Journalism facilities include newsrooms equipped with work stations in team-work layout with high
end computer facilities with Adobe Creative Suite software, TV and Radio studios with cameras,
autocue, green screen facility driven from the adjacent gallery, sound book and control room and
radio booths set up for solo news-reading and package making.

Pandemic Contingencies and Sustainability of the Research Community

During the 2020 pandemic a virtual common room was established online by zoom. The integration
of virtual learning environments as part of the Essex education strategy has meant that the
transition to blended and online learning was relatively straightforward. Research events took place
online: e.g. open research seminars brought national and international speakers and audiences
together.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1 Research Collaborations, Partnerships and Networks

Researchers in UoA27 have collaborated with academics and partners across the globe,
connecting with public audiences and research-users in society by means of non-academic routes.

Two research projects exemplify such engagement with academic/non-academic collaborators
across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) and the Caribbean.

   1. el Issawi (RC5) has engaged with journalists emerging in Egypt, Tunisia, Libya, Morocco
      and Algeria, collaborated with Laval University (Quebec), University of Oslo, University
      Mohamed V, Rabat, Morocco, and developed partnerships with civil society groups and
      media development agencies (Article 19 MENA; Syndicate for Tunisian Journalists).

       A new manual for journalists in transitional contexts was co-developed with International
       Media Support (Copenhagen); seven policy papers co-produced with think tanks including
       Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, LSE POLIS media, and LSE Middle East
       Centre; a large survey on media usages in MENA organised by Northwestern University in
       Qatar with contributions from academic sources and international consultants; a keynote by
       leading Algerian journalist, Omar Belhouchet, co-organised with King’s College Institute for
       Middle Eastern Studies. El Issawi’s work has received international media coverage by Al-
       Jazeera; The Independent; The Wall Street Journal; The New Yorker; Radio France
       Internationale; Le Monde; the Financial Times.

   2. Fumagalli (RC2) has established and sustained a research partnership with Observatorio
      Migrantes del Caribe Dominican Republic (OBMICA), a think-tank focused on migration,
      human rights and social development in the Caribbean. As Investigadora Asociada at
      OBMICA, Fumagalli has co-organised cultural activities in Hispaniola aimed at
      foregrounding an often-occluded history of collaborations between Haitians and
      Dominicans. She has also collaborated with state and non-state institutions in Cuba (e.g.
      Casa de las Americas and Ignatio de Loyola Social and Cultural Centre, Havana; Casa del
      Caribe, Santiago de Cuba) and the French Antilles (e.g. Festival International du Film des
      Droits de l’Homme de Guadeloupe) and has been interviewed by New Books in Caribbean
      Studies and World Politics Review.

       Book launches/public talks in French and Spanish (Haiti, Guadeloupe, Martinique, Cuba
       and Dominican Republic), a YouTube video in Spanish (co-producer OBMICA); non-
       academic publications (e.g. trilingual—Spanish/French/English—bulletin produced by
       OBMICA devoted to Fumagalli’s work), and radio and TV broadcasts in Haiti, Dominican
       Republic and Cuba, have brought the research to audiences with limited literacy and no
       access to English.

Other collaborations by UoA27 researchers include:

Cockin’s (RC4) membership of the Women’s Legal Landmarks network (100 members) led to an
invited public talk (Women’s Library, LSE, London, 2019) and newly developing Essex Law and
Literature strand.

P. Gillies’ work (RC1) has been disseminated through Cambridge University Research Seminar in
Medieval Literature, and Centre d’études Mediévales Université de Picardie-Jules Verne, France.

Lichtenstein’s (RC4) collaboration on the play Confessions of a Cockney Temple Dancer with
Complicité Associate, Shane Shambhu (UK theatre tour 2018-19, 35 venues; British Council tour
to India prevented by COVID).



                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Littau’s and Oliver’s collaboration with University of Konstanz (Essex’s Global Alliance Partner) for
international symposium, ‘Media in Motion’ (2014).

Savage co-organised the ‘Frank O’Hara and Friends’ symposium at ICA, London (2016) for
CHASE North American Poets Network, funded by BASS/CHASE, with an exhibition, performance,
and Anne Waldman, Jeff Hilson, Redell Olsen and Daniel Kane as speakers.

Seeger’s (RC6) collaboration with social theorist Daniel Davison-Vecchione (University of
Cambridge), resulted in the co-authored paper, ‘Dystopian Literature and the Sociological
Imagination,’ Thesis Eleven: Critical Theory and Historical Sociology (2019).


4.2 Non-academic Beneficiaries and the Cultural Heritage Sector

Researchers in UoA27 have collaborated extensively with non-academic partners and
beneficiaries across the globe including museums, theatres, art galleries, performing artists,
curators, human rights organisations, regional community groups, prisons, schools and colleges.
Examples include:

Bahun served as distinguished consultant in 2019 to TATE Modern and the Metropolitan
Museum of Art on their transatlantic exhibition on Global Surrealisms (opening 2021).

Littau has participated in invited knowledge-exchange workshops at Fridericianum, Kassel,
Germany, for exhibitions on ‘Speculations on Anonymous Materials’ (2014) and ‘Nature after
Nature’ (2014).

Historic Palaces commissioned Kuti to write plays including Time-Plays and Encounters with the
Past (2015-2016). Invited talks (Kuti and Cockin) at Theatre Royal Bury St Edmunds, 200th
anniversary and Theatre Royal Norwich, Heritage Week (2018).

Cockin gave public talks on family history, and women’s suffrage-related history at: Essex
Records Office (for Historical Association), Jaywick Martello Arts Centre, Hull History Centre
(AHRC Being Human Festival non-funded event, 2017); Hull Minster for Amnesty International;
Gibson Library Society, Saffron Walden; People’s History Museum. Her AHRC Searching for
Theatrical Ancestors resource (Cockin 2015-17), promoted by project partner, Federation of
Family History Societies, is on the curriculum of a MOOC family history course (University of
Dundee; 6,722 users in 2018).

McCully (as Chair of the Steering Group) organised the John Rylands University Library
Manchester, Modern Literary Archives public programme (2014-18). Canton collaborates with the
Centre for Place-Writing, Manchester Metropolitan University.

Fumagalli has given public lectures on Derek Walcott at British Library, London (2018) and
Biblioteca Classense, Ravenna (2015); she delivered the opening lecture for Nobel Laureate
Week at the Folk Research Centre and was invited to Government House to take part in Voices
Celebrating Derek Walcott (St Lucia 2016; 2017).

Collaborations with Essex Book Festival include Walking the Walls of Colchester (McCully, 2017);
literary weekend at Kelvedon Hatch Secret Nuclear Bunker (de Abaitua).

Bundock wrote programme notes for ‘Romantic Remnants: Music for Dance, Motion Graphics,
and Visual Art’ (Bloomsbury Festival 2020).

Book launches for McCully, Terry and Lichtenstein organised by ‘Carcanet Classics’ poetry book
series (British Library, London, 2018), Aldeburgh Poetry (2020), and Wivenhoe Bookshop (2020).
Lichtenstein was interviewed at Insiders/Outsiders festival (2020); and Kristeligt Dagblads Forlag
(Danish publisher 2021).

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

4.3 Research by members of UoA27 has had an impact on their disciplines, influenced policy
makers, received media attention, and reached a wide audience. For example:

Bahun co-organised the public symposium ‘Freedom and Expression,’ Free Word Centre, London
(2015) and chaired the ‘Moving Home’ symposium, Safe Ground (charity for the incarcerated)
(2016).

Bahun’s article ‘On transience, presence and anticipation’ was the subject of a seminar
(Northwestern University, 2018).

Jon Crane, (then PhD student; Kuti supervisor), ran writing workshops in prisons; published a book
of flash-fiction by inmates; and received a nomination for Essex Excellence in Impact (2018).

De Abaitua’s fictional treatments of AI and climate change have led to invited talks at Jerwood
Space; UK government’s Defence, Science and Technology Laboratory, Cross-Government
Futures Community Day on Science fiction (2017); Society for the Study of Artificial Intelligence
and Simulation of Behaviour (ASB) (2019). The Bluecoat Gallery (Liverpool) and artist-in-residence
Dennis McNally organised an event on de Abaitua’s science fiction and McNally’s art (2016).

Littau’s work on the materialities of reading was discussed at length in ‘A White Paper on
Undergraduate Literacy and the Future of Literary Studies’ (Teagle Foundation, 2014; UC
Berkeley, Santa Cruz, and Stanford University). A study on addiction behaviour commissioned by
the German Parliament drew on her research on electronic media (2016).

Littau’s work as a key impetus for the ‘materialist turn’ in translation was the subject of the
conference ‘Embodied Translations: Media and Technologies in Translation and Performance,’
San Pellegrino Foundation, Misano Adriatico, Italy (2019); her Position Paper, ‘Translation and the
Materialities of Communication’ (Translation Studies, 2016), elicited nine Response Papers and is
among the journal’s four top cited articles.

Mazzilli’s research on home/migration with Polish and Chinese communities in Essex led to a new
verbatim play, Priority Seating, Mercury Theatre, Colchester (Arts Council-funded, 2017),
development of a new community network (Essex Borough Council, Refugee Action Colchester,
and Colchester Chinese Community) and interviews with BBC Essex.

Pester has given public talks at the Frieze Academy, David Roberts Art Foundation, the ICA, and
Mile End Art Pavilion, London (2017; 2016).

Smyth collaborated on the report ‘We Need to Talk About Caring’ (2019) for charity Raising Film
which seeks to improve conditions for film-workers who are carers.

Terry’s Dante’s Inferno was the subject of a symposium (Department of Classics and Ancient
History, University of Bristol, 2014).

Print and broadcast media: The Essay: Minds at War (BBC R3, 2016); Reader I Mended Him
(BBC R4, 2016) and Photos from Krakow (BBC R4, 2019) (Kuti); The Verb (BBC R3 2019; 2015)
(Pester). Terry published ‘My Oulipo Year: On Editing The Penguin Book of Oulipo’ The Irish Times
(2021). Canton’s The Oak Papers was BBC R4’s Book of the Week (2020).

4.4 Contribution to the research base: leadership, refereeing, reviewing and consultancy,
conference keynotes

Research innovation and leadership is marked by literary awards and prizes including:

Martha Cheung 2020 Award for Best English Article in Translation Studies by Early Career Scholar
(Rzepa).

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Slightly Foxed First Biography: shortlisted (Lichtenstein, 2020)
BBC Audio Awards: Best Original Single Drama 2019-20 (Kuti).
Forward Prize: shortlisted for single poem (Pester, 2019).
New Angle Prize: shortlisted (de Abaitua, 2019); longlisted (Canton, 2016).
Mogford Prize: winner (Winder; McCully supervisor, 2017).
Society of Authors Travelling Scholarship Award (Terry, 2015).

McCully, adjudicator, Mere Literary Festival (2016).

In addition to serving as external examiners for PhDs in the UK, Australia and New Zealand, and
UG and MA programmes in the UK, UoA27 researchers have taken positions in UK and
international research councils: AHRC Peer Review College members (Fumagalli 2010-17;
Cockin 2010-13 and 2020-; Kuti 2020-); Peer Reviewer/Assessor for the Australian Research
Council (ARC) (Fumagalli 2013-); Expert Member for Review Panel, Research Council for Culture
and Society, Academy of Finland, Helsinki (Littau 2018-2019); Assessor for Research Project
Grant, Foundation for Baltic and East European Studies, Södertörn University, Sweden (2019).
Bahun is external evaluator for Postgraduate Research, Irish Research council, Ireland (2016).

Leading positions in subject associations and learned societies include:

Executive Committee member (from 2015) and secretary-treasurer (from 2017) in North American
Society for the Study of Romanticism (NASSR) and organiser of panel on behalf of NASSR for the
British Association for Romantic Studies (BARS) 2019 conference (Bundock).

NASSR Advisory Board Member and Chair (2016-2019), MLA International Bibliography Advisory
Committee (2015-18), Annual Convention major sessions organiser, and BARS Executive
Committee (2005-19) (Oliver);

Modernist Studies Association Book Prize Committee Chair (2018-19) and Judge (2016-17)
(Bahun);

Executive Committee Membership, British Association of Modernist Studies (2013-16) and
National Conference of University Professors, Council Member (2015-18) (Cockin);

Women, Film and Television Network, Steering Group member (2018-) (Smyth);

British Comparative Literature Association (BCLA), Executive Committee (1998-2019) and BCLA,
Editor of Newsletter (2014-16) (Littau);

British Shakespeare Association’s Media and Performance Committee (2019-) (Williams).

Cockin is an elected Fellow of the English Association since 2014.

Members of UoA27 have contributed to set agendas for their disciplines by serving as external
peer reviewer for staff promotion to Associate/Full Professors (e.g. University of California,
Berkeley; University of Delaware; Washington State University; Florida State University; University
of California Los Angeles; Vassar College; Durham University; Liverpool John Moores University;
Manchester Metropolitan University; Université de Paris-Sorbonne; Prince Sattam Bin Abdul Axis
University, Saudi Arabia; University of the West Indies, St Augustine, Trinidad; University of
Athens; University of Thessaloniki; University of Uppsala).

By fulfilling editorial positions for academic journals and publishers, UoA27 members have
facilitated the development of new knowledge:

Bahun: Associate editor, Feminist Modernist Studies; Bundock: co-editor, Romanticism on the Net;
Cockin: Consultant Editor, Gender, Identity and Social Change, Adam Matthews online resource.


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Cockin: editor of Dramatic Lives, book series, Routledge (formerly Pickering & Chatto); Fumagalli,
Robinson and Peake: co-editors, American Tropics: Towards a Literary Geography, book series,
Liverpool UP; Fumagalli: co-editor, Edinburgh Critical Studies in Atlantic Literatures and Cultures,
Edinburgh UP.

UoA27 staff serve on the editorial boards of Journal of Gender Studies; Modernism/Modernity;
Romanticism on the Net; Shakespeare Bulletin; The Wordsworth Circle; The Wenshan Review;
BARS Review; The Translator: studies in intercultural communication; have acted as book
proposals referees (Ashgate, Brill, Bloomsbury, Cambridge UP, Cork UP, Duke UP, Edinburgh
UP, U Minnesota Press, Oxford UP, Palgrave, Princeton UP, Routledge); and as peer reviewers
for academic journals including Digital Journalism and Journalism; European Romantic Review;
Feminist Media Studies; Hypatia; International Journal of Press/Politics; Journal of American
Studies; Journal of Dramatic Theory and Criticism; Journal of European Film; Journal of Gender
Studies; Journal of Information Policy; Journal of North African Studies; Journal of Postcolonial
Writing; Latin American Review; Literature Compass; Literature and Theology; Media and
Communication; Modern Chinese Literature and Culture; Modernist Cultures;
Modernism/Modernity; Mosaic; Open Information Science; PMLA; Revista Chilena de Estudios
Latinoamericanos; Studies in Romanticism; Theatre Research International; The Translator;
Translation Studies.

Collectively UoA27 researchers have given more than 100 Conference keynotes; for
instance:

RC1 Rzepa: University of London (2019); Littau: University of Leeds (2019).
RC2 Fumagalli: Casa de las Americas, Havana, Cuba (2017); Ludwig Maximilians Universität,
Munich, Germany (2015).
RC3 Terry: plenary readings at Mulhouse, University of Bangor, and Glasgow University (2017,
2018, 2019). Creative writers organised or participated in over 60 poetry readings, regionally
(Southend, Wivenhoe, Colchester); nationally (London, Manchester, Edinburgh, Glasgow) and
internationally (Palermo, Paris, Mulhouse, Barcelona, Dublin.
RC4 Kuti: inaugural Ros Dixon Memorial Lecture on Theatre, NUI Galway (2019); her play The
Broken Token was invited to William Clark Memorial Library, California, with seminars at UCLA
and USC (2014).
RC5 El Issawi: Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung, Berlin (2018); Peace Research Institute, Oslo (2017); Casa
Arabe and Friedrich Ebert Stiftung, Madrid (2015); Bahun: Edinburgh University (2017) and
University of Brighton (2016); Clavane: Leeds Beckett University (2019); speaker on anti-semitism
and sport, Global Symposium on Sports and Society, Fordham University, New York, USA (2019).
RC7 Oliver: British Academy plenary paper (2016), Boise State University, public lecture in NEH
series (2014).




                                                                                            Page 17
