Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 04 Psychology, Psychiatry & Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview and structure
 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience (PPN) at Southampton is configured to support our
 central aims: to understand brain and behaviour in health and disease across the lifespan, and
 to translate our interdisciplinary research into benefits that span mental and physical health and
 society. Our 49 staff (46 FTE) from across our Faculty of Environmental & Life Sciences (FELS),
 and Faculty of Medicine (FoM) work with research students and through established links with
 NHS Trust partners and service-providers that enrich our research and impact. Since REF2014
 we have created 4 research clusters to increase critical mass, alignment with PGR programmes,
 interdisciplinary collaboration and funding success. Our strategic alignment cuts across
 University structures (Schools/Faculties) to build for the first time a coherent strategy that unifies
 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience and a new PPN community that delivers a diverse,
 inclusive, interdisciplinary and integrated research environment at Southampton (Figure 1).




                       Figure 1: Psychology, Psychiatry & Neuroscience at UoS
 Our research is focussed around four clusters:
    •   Neuroscience and Mental Health (Centre for Innovation in Mental Health, Psychology;
        Academic Psychiatry and Paediatric Neuroscience).
    •   Health Psychology (Centre for Clinical and Community Applications of Health
        Psychology)
    •   Social and Personality Psychology (Centre for Research in Self and Identity)
    •   Perception and Cognition (Centre for Perception and Cognition)

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each cluster includes one or more Research Centres and hosts postgraduate research (PGR)
 students from seven research training programmes. The Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS)
 supports interdisciplinary collaborations across Psychology, Psychiatry, Biological Sciences
 (UoS), Southampton General Hospital (UHS Trust) and between UoA4 and 11 UoAs at
 Southampton.
 1.1.1 Achievement of Strategic Aims
 Our strategy targets priorities identified in REF2014 to deliver programmatic research that is
 excellent, impactful and sustainable, with a focus on interdisciplinarity and collaboration.
 We highlighted 6 strategic aims (SA):
    1. Recruit staff to grow critical mass in areas of strength and address priorities aligned with
       funders and government;
    2. Increase funding from diverse sources to enhance existing programs of research;
    3. Expand neuroscience capability with infrastructure investment;
    4. Develop and maintain links with non-academic partners and maximise our translational
       research;
    5. Maximise our international profile via international collaboration and PGR recruitment
       and workshops/conferences;
    6. Extend our professional practice training, and engagement with the ESRC Doctoral
       Training Centre, to increase research and training.
 Significant advances in our research environment from REF2014 to REF2021 are summarized
 in Table 1 and link to Institutional priorities (REF5a).




                           Table 1: Delivery against strategic priorities




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2 Research and impact strategy
 1.2.1 Thematic Priorities to deliver Excellence and Impact
 Central to our strategy is the development of programmatic research that i) asks the most
 important contemporary research questions to develop our models of understanding, ii) is
 sustained through grant funding and our large multi-disciplinary PGR community, iii) utilises the
 latest advanced methods and technologies, iv) develops clear pathways to impact through
 partnership and interdisciplinarity, and v) creates an environment and culture that embeds
 equality, diversity, inclusion and promotes well-being and success for our PGRs and staff.
 See 3.1 for funded programmatic research led by named UoA4 PIs.
 Neuroscience and Mental Health
 Since REF2014 we have combined excellence across PPN and made nine new appointments
 (Fig.1) to significantly increase our capacity for interdisciplinary translational mental health
 research (SA4) in line with Government mental health priorities (SA1) and increase our
 neuroscience methods expertise (SA3). Four new senior clinical-academic appointments
 translate research to shape clinical practice and deliver impact. Our psychologists, psychiatrists,
 neurologists and neuroscientists collaborate to deliver mental research across 3 themes:
 •   Developmental and Applied Psychopathology We use molecular, genetic, epigenetic,
     longitudinal, and experimental methods to identify mechanisms of risk and resilience and
     their relationships to social, emotional and educational outcomes in children. We research
     unique populations in collaboration with Solent NHS Trust (child and adolescent mental
     health services - CAMHS), MRC Lifecourse Epidemiology Unit, paediatric neurology (UHS
     Trust) and child/adolescent research registers developed in collaboration with
     pharmaceutical partners (ADHD–ShARE). Developmental research is conducted in
     collaboration with primary and secondary schools and specialist services (pupil-referral
     units), supported by our EdPsych doctoral programme (45 PGR trainees and 4 staff
     seconded from regional educational psychology services).
 •   Clinical and Affective Neuroscience combines neuroscience methods (i.e.,
     structural/functional neuroimaging) and psychopharmacology to identify systems that: (i)
     underlie dysfunction in cognition and emotion; (ii) increase risk/resilience to mental illness;
     and (iii) reveal novel therapeutic targets for pharmacological and non-pharmacological
     treatments, developed within the TIALS theme (below). Research involves populations who
     access paediatric neurology services (UHS Trust), CAMHS, adult populations who access
     Southern NHS clinical services and research clinics for mood and anxiety disorders,
     alcohol/addiction, severe mental health, and dementia.
 •   Therapeutic Innovation Across the Life Span (TIALS) translates findings from basic
     science to influence therapeutic interventions. This includes innovations in: (i) early
     identification/diagnosis and (ii) therapeutic interventions (behavioural, cognitive, parent-
     focused, and pharmacological) for conditions in infancy, childhood, adolescence, and
     adulthood, including persistent, complex and difficult-to-treat disorders. We evaluate health
     technologies to enhance the effectiveness of existing treatments. All phases of therapeutic
     development are evaluated, from experimental/proof-of-concept studies to large-scale multi-
     centre trials. TIALS delivers translational research in collaboration with staff and students on
     our DClin, MSc, CBT and IAPT programmes, and PGT placements in regional mental health
     services and research clinics.
 We are shaping evidence-based parenting programmes for ADHD, autism, anxiety, alcohol
 misuse and impulsivity. Our New Forest Parenting Programme (NFPP) has delivered significant


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 impact for children with ADHD and their families and complements high-profile meta-analytic
 evaluations of pharmacological and psychological treatments for ADHD and
 neurodevelopmental disorders (ICS-04-03-ADHD). Longitudinal developmental studies have
 profiled social, emotional, behavioural and cognitive outcomes in children following institutional
 deprivation (ICS-04-02-ERA) and in large Chinese and Indian cohorts. Colleagues have profiled
 brain structure and neurocognitive function following maltreatment, hearing impairment, and in
 children who were born at high risk and/or have suffered adverse neurological events in the
 peri/neonatal period. We lead large clinical trials in psychosis, alcohol use, Alzheimer’s
 Disease/dementia and anxiety. Our pre-clinical experimental evaluations of new treatment
 targets include neurostimulation in Tic disorders and OCD, neuroinflammatory mechanisms in
 anxiety, psychosis and dementia and cognitive-behavioural interventions in anxiety, psychosis,
 and vulnerable populations (e.g., homeless).
 Health Psychology
 Researchers and practitioners collaborate to develop, evaluate and disseminate evidence-based
 interventions that help individuals across the lifespan self-manage medical conditions and
 improve their health. Research is supported by strategic links with NHS Trusts, inpatient
 services, Applied Research Collaboration (ARC) Wessex facility, and the NIHR Biomedical
 Research Centre (Behavioural science theme) and is focussed within four themes:
 •   Digital interventions: We develop and evaluate web, phone, and clinic-based behavioural
     interventions for self-management of health conditions (e.g. hypertension, cancer-related
     symptoms, stroke, asthma, pain, dizziness); improved health (e.g. weight loss, delayed
     cognitive decline, preventing sexually transmitted infections, stopping smoking, physical
     activity); and training of Primary Care Healthcare Professionals.
 •   Understanding Pain: Experimental and translational research examines the cognitive and
     affective factors that shape pain perception to inform our development of interventions to
     manage acute and chronic pain in children and adults. We combine diverse methods,
     including behavioural tasks, eye movement recording, neuroimaging, quantitative sensory
     testing, neuropsychological tests and patient reported outcomes.
 •   Sexual and Reproductive Health: Translational research investigates the barriers to, and
     facilitators of, improved sexual health (e.g., sexual functioning, reduced HIV/STI infection,
     impacts of pornography use) and reproductive health, including unintended pregnancy and
     abortion (UK and abroad). We develop and evaluate interventions to improve uptake and
     experience of contraceptive methods.
 •   Contextual factors: Qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods research explores the role
     of contextual intra- and inter-personal factors in healthcare, in both naturalistic and clinical
     trials settings. This includes placebo effects, patients’ experiences of healthcare, treatment-
     seeking behaviours, and the patient-clinician relationship. We develop techniques to (a)
     augment contextual factors in clinical practice to improve patient adherence and outcomes
     and (b) inform clinical trial participants about placebos.
 Yardley and colleagues’ significant external funding has pioneered the ‘Person-Based
 Approach’ to develop interventions that are accessible and engaging. Impactful large-scale trials
 of numerous cost-effective digital health interventions, many of which are available in the public,
 private and third sectors, have been used by 10k+ patients and members of the public (ICS-04-
 01-LifeGuide, ICS-04-09-POWeR).
 Strategic partnership with NHS services support beneficiaries’ involvement in research and
 efficient evaluation of interventions and policy (SA4). These include Liossi’s honorary


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultant paediatric psychology post at Great Ormond Street Hospital and the joint appointment
 of Armstrong with the NHS and Morrison with UoS primary care research centre (2).

 Social & Personality Psychology
 At the individual level, we investigate self-concept, self-esteem, self-evaluation, narcissism, self-
 related emotions (e.g., nostalgia, shame, guilt), existentialism (e.g., meaning in life, death
 awareness), self-regulation and self-control and how these affect behaviour and wellbeing. At
 the relational level, we investigate how attachment influences close relationships. At the
 collective level, we investigate the interplay between self-interest and group interest, the
 discrepancy between person-to-person and group-to-group behaviour, the relevance of social
 identity, and the role of collective nostalgia.
 •   Self-enhancement, self-regard, and narcissism research explores the nature and effects
     of motives to enhance and protect views of the self. How do these motives operate in the
     context of narcissistic consumer behaviour? What are the limits to self-enhancement: is it
     constrained by a motive to verify one’s identity? At a biological level, we examine the social
     neuroscience of self-esteem. At a functional level, we investigate self-esteem and
     narcissism, i.e., whether they regulate behaviour according to social position.
 •   Self-control: We have developed and tested a model of self-control that proposes that
     exercising self-control is aversive, engenders negative mood and can cause individuals to
     subsequently increase reward-seeking behaviour. By shifting the focus of self-control
     research and theory toward reward responsivity, this model can shape public policy and
     interventions to tackle some of the costliest challenges facing the UK (e.g., problem
     gambling, drinking).
 •   Nostalgia: We probe the neural, physiological, and cognitive underpinnings of nostalgia,
     with a focus on its content, antecedents, and functions across the life span. We show that
     nostalgia affects many facets of psychological wellbeing, including empathy, meaning in life,
     self-continuity, and self-esteem.
 •   Attachment: We identify factors that create successful and satisfying personal relationships
     and promote wellbeing. We investigate how attachment experiences with parents and
     romantic partners influence models of the self, others, and relationships, and how, in turn,
     these models influence thoughts, emotions, and behaviours in romantic relationships. Finally,
     we explore ways of promoting people’s feelings of security in their relationships.
 Programmatic research supported by the ESRC, Templeton Foundation, and Daedalus Trust
 has uncovered processes underlying self-enhancement, delineated the conceptual map of
 intellectual arrogance and intellectual humility, and examined the social behaviour of narcissists.
 Work supported by Alzheimer’s charities and the NHS has addressed self-protective memory of
 persons living with Alzheimer’s disease. ESRC-supported research has applied relationship
 science to interventions that improve wellbeing. Our recent recruitment of Kelley, with EEG
 expertise and research in self-esteem and self-control, complements our existing themes and
 methods (SA3).

 Perception and Cognition
 We investigate perception, including sensory processes within vision, touch and audition, and
 higher-level cognitive processes, such as those involved in learning, search, memory,
 metacognition and reading.
 •   Perception: Methods including eye-tracking, EEG, and virtual reality (VR) presentation of
     vision and touch are used to understand basic and applied perception. We explore visual

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     search and attention in the lab, and in applied settings such as airport security screening. We
     ask how threatening information grabs attention and how and why threats are missed in
     societally important tasks. Our work on human visual perception of 3D scene structure is
     combined with computer vision approaches, working alongside colleagues in the Institute for
     Sound and Vibration Research to develop vibro-tactile sensory augmentation for cochlear
     implant users.
 •   Reading: We record and analyse eye movements to understand the visual and cognitive
     processes that enable reading. We specialise in individual differences, parafoveal processing
     and task effects during reading (e.g., reading for comprehension vs. skim reading).
     Alongside English, we also examine reading processes in Chinese, Dutch, Finnish, Arabic
     and Brazilian Portuguese, and in local Polish speaking communities.
 •   Learning, Memory and Metacognition research investigates how people acquire
     information, retain it, and self-assess their own cognition in laboratory and applied settings.
     Basic research in associative learning is translated into applications that include addiction
     and navigation. Other research investigates our ability to learn and retrieve information in the
     laboratory, the classroom, and social media, and how well we metacognitively understand
     those abilities. ESRC-funded research explores how learning and memory can be enhanced
     using spacing and retrieval practice, and applies these results to the classroom. Forensic
     applications of our memory and metacognition research include identity recognition from
     faces, voice, gait, or hands, as well as research into misinformation effects.
 Programmatic funding includes multiple EPSRC-funded interdisciplinary projects that combine
 human perception with advances in artificial intelligence e.g., development of deep neural
 network to achieve human-like, 3D interpretation of real-world scenes. Our behavioural
 experiments with machine learning to optimise human identity recognition inform forensic policy
 and practice. Building on work reported in REF2014, funding from DSTL and the UK Dept. for
 Transport have enabled us to determine how best to detect environmental threats. Our ERC-
 funded work on migration investigates the decision-making processes of “agents” to understand
 migrants’ psychological processes and characteristics (e.g., risk-taking vs. risk-aversion;
 subjective calibration). Other EU-funded work explores how we combine sensory information
 from vision and touch to understand and interact with novel objects (both real and in VR).
 The recruitment of Feldmann-Wüstefeld has increased neuroscience expertise (SA3). Witzel
 and Seabrooke maintain critical mass in lower-level aspects of perception (e.g., attention,
 search, colour perception) and in higher-level cognition (learning/memory).

 1.3 Research and Impact: Environment and Culture
 Colleagues work in a vibrant, supportive and cross-disciplinary environment that provides critical
 mass and leadership and that embeds equality, diversity, inclusion and promotes well-being and
 success for staff and PGRs.

 1.3.1 Excellence through strategic investment, interdisciplinarity and collaboration
 We have built on areas of strength that align with priorities of funders and Government (SA1)
 through strategic investment in staff and infrastructure (3.2, SA3). Strategic investment in staff
 and facilities has generated a 60% increase in research income,1352 publications in prestigious
 journals (57% with international co-authors, Scopus) in partnership with 1308 international
 institutions across >60 countries (4) since REF2014. Sixteen new permanent academic
 appointments have built critical mass, ensured succession and supported collaboration across
 themes to deliver cross-disciplinary methods, outputs and income.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoS Institute of Life Sciences, Web Science Institute, Southampton Neuroscience Group and
 the Alan Turing Institute drive interdisciplinary collaborations between PPN and other Schools,
 Faculties and UoAs. Since REF2014 our UoA4 staff have secured £26.9M in collaboration with
 15 Schools and 11 UoAs at Southampton (Figure 2) and published in journals that span the
 physical, social and health sciences (Figure 3).




          Figure 2: Joint funding awards to support interdisciplinary research and impact




                      Figure 3: Publications across disciplines (SciVal 2020)




                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.2 Inculcating Impact
 Strategic alignment across PPN/UoA4 has improved pathways to impact (SA4) in partnership
 with NHS, education, government and industry (Figure 4).




                            Figure 4: Impact Strategy and Infrastructure

 The creation of new clinical research pathways/clinics (3.2, Figure 11) has increased
 translational research in applied settings, supported through the creation of 4 new joint
 appointments with the NHS (Amin, Armstrong, Chamberlain, Cortese). Our new Centre for
 Workforce Wellbeing based in Psychiatry (£330k, HEE) works with national partners to generate
 evidence and interventions that will improve the working lives of NHS staff.
 Our PGR community drives research and impact with key stakeholders. We’ve increased PGR
 recruitment and commissioned training to increase research output, outreach and impact (SA6)
 and to create one of the largest UK providers of PGR and scientist-practitioner training
 (110+/year). Since 2014 we have increased commissions for PGR training in clinical (DClin
 24/yr) and educational psychology (EdPsych 14/year), increased our Academic-Clinical
 Fellowships in psychiatry, research studentships funded by the ESRC DTP, and our new Centre
 for Workforce Wellbeing. Our PGT programmes in CBT and MSc Clinical Psychology (25+
 students/yr, 30% international) align with programmatic research and link with local clinical
 services to increase impact and provide a pathway for regional, national and international
 collaboration (SA5, 6). Our MSc in Health Psychology provides a research training pathway in
 regional health services.


                                                                                         Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Extensive patient and public involvement (4.3.1) co-produces research, supports recruitment
 from often difficult-to-reach populations and maximises dissemination/knowledge-exchange. We
 second staff from NHS and education authorities to our doctoral programmes to train PGRs who
 complete service-related doctoral research embedded in regional NHS services and schools
 (2.1.3).
 We’ve maximised impact through active and visible engagement with charities and their
 stakeholders and increased/diversified our partnerships to launch 38 projects with 27 charities
 (+600% non-competitive funding vs. REF2014). We’ve delivered 10 projects with Government
 (MoD, Transport, GCHQ, DSTL), 9 with industry partnership and 77 funded collaborations with
 NIHR and NHS/Hospitals (Solent, Isle of Wight, Hampshire Partnership, GOSH).
 Our new devolved Centre budgets (£20k/yr) fund pilot/translational research, personal
 development, outreach/dissemination to increase impact, and are supported by Faculty, ESRC
 and EPSRC impact acceleration grants and impact workshops. Impact activities are reviewed at
 appraisal/promotion, and are a required output from all sabbaticals. We have increased the size
 and diversity of our knowledge-exchange activities, including hosting workshops/conferences
 and exchange programmes/funded networks (e.g., H2020, EPSRC, NIHR, MRC 4.1, 4.2.3) and
 senior membership of national advisory groups/societies that shape policy and practice (e.g.,
 SAGE, Royal Colleges, Guideline development groups; 4.2)
 1.3.3 A Culture of Research Integrity
 Research integrity is embedded through the research centres, under the leadership of centre
 directors, alongside a staff mentoring and appraisal process which focusses on excellence,
 accountability, transparency and responsiveness. Training in research integrity is provided to
 PGRs through Programmes and the UoS Doctoral College (2.3.3). All staff complete an annual
 register of interests in accordance with the UoS Conflict of Interests Policy. PDRAs/PGRs
 receive mentoring on publication and co-authorship, with the clear expectation they will lead-
 author their work, per the Vancouver Protocol.
 1.3.4 Research Governance
 Those working with human tissues, organs or data arrange sponsorship and insurance through
 Southampton’s Research Governance Office (RGO). All research is registered on Ethics and
 Research Governance Online (ERGO II). Graham (Chair of Faculty ethics committee) and
 Ingham (Chair of Psychology ethics committee) provide training for staff/PGRs across the
 Faculty and inform University ethics policies. Directors of Research have responsibility for
 research integrity and compliance with the five commitments in the 'Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity' and for managing confidential mechanisms for reporting of misconduct per
 University procedures, REF5a.
 1.3.5 An Inclusive and Safe Research Environment
 We’ve developed a supportive and inclusive culture recognised by new Athena SWAN
 Bronze/Silver awards and improved staff perceptions of (i) flexibility, (ii) support, (iii) inclusivity (iv),
 fair workload and (v) respect, value, collegiality and consideration of individual differences (Staff
 Engagement Survey, 2019). Psychology is leading on Faculty and University wellbeing strategies
 (2). Wellbeing is promoted through the Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (ED&I) committee (2.4).
 International hires (12 of 16 non-UK) have fostered an international, inclusive research culture and
 global outreach.
 Heads of School/Centres, experimental/laboratory managers and Health & Safety officers (Dargie
 in Psychology, Coles in Psychiatry) embed Health & Safety through staff/PGR induction, training
 and monitoring. Risk registers, inspections, training records and incidents/near-misses are
 reviewed at School/Faculty H&S Committees.

                                                                                                        Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3.6 Committed to Open Research
 We promote best practice in research, with emphasis on
 open science and reproducibility, supported by Institutional
 funding for open access publishing (REF5a). Staff/PGRs
 attend training on data management and reproducibility,
 analysis using open software (R) and meta-analysis. Our
 audit of Open Science practices shows a clear increase in
 sharing of materials, data, methods and/or pre-registration
 (Figure 5). Our technical team (3.2) use open-source
 platforms (e.g., jsPsych, R) to code and disseminate
 experimental tasks, stimuli and data. Data analysis pipelines
 are developed and shared widely e.g., Godwin’s Open-
 source R eye-tracking analysis tool eyeTrackR: >6000           Figure 5: Publications that include pre-
 downloads since launch in December 2019. Adams/Graf’s          registration, open methods/data.

 open-access Southampton-York Natural Scenes (SYNS: https://syns.soton.ac.uk) dataset of 3D
 image data from 100 rural/urban locations has 430 academic and industry users across 36
 countries (>15000 downloads). Users include Apple, Adobe, Facebook, NASA, Nvidia, Hitachi.
 All our ICSs are underpinned by Open Research and their resources/data shared with other
 institutions where permitted. Meta-research datasets, including unpublished data, are made
 freely available (Cortese).

 1.4 Future Aims and Goals
 Over the next 5 years we will consolidate the integration of Psychology, Psychiatry and
 Neuroscience at Southampton. A cross-Faculty PPN steering group will inform strategic
 investment in people (funded studentships, ECR-fellowships, academic appointments), facilities,
 postgraduate training and external engagement with NHS, schools, industry and charities to
 maximise PPN research, impact and community.
 Strategic priorities will build on our expertise in physical and mental health and wellbeing, with a
 focus on risk/prevention, and developing accessible interventions (online, parenting) to support
 social, cognitive, and emotional development across the early life-course (childhood through
 early adulthood). High quality, reproducible, open science methods will be developed in
 partnership with a new stakeholder advisory group to deliver impact. Research and enterprise
 with industrial partners will be stimulated by ongoing programmatic research in human
 factors/technology-interactions (autonomous systems, security).
 Our EDI initiatives will improve diversity and inclusion to mirror the strides taken in gender
 equality, and specifically target increases in i) PGR recruitment from minority groups to our
 expanding DClin/EdPsych programmes, ii) outputs and funded collaborations with international
 partners, iii) research visits/exchanges (e.g., overseas sabbaticals/hosting international
 workshops). Our extensive collaborations with schools/UoAs at Southampton will target i)
 increased interdisciplinary funding, ii) sustained growth in income from UKRI, charities and NIHR
 and iii) increased knowledge-exchange and enterprise with industrial partners.




                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing & recruitment
 2.1.1 Current Staff
 Our return includes 49 staff (46 FTE), evenly spread across gender (52% female) and seniority.
 This represents substantial growth since our 2014 submission (33 FTE), and a notable
 improvement in gender representation, particularly at senior levels (Figure 6).
 Number of staff




                                      Level                                                Level

                   Figure 6: Academic staff returned to UoA4 in 2014 (left) and 2021 (right) by level, gender.

 Several colleagues have retired (Bradley, Mogg, Lynch, Kennedy, Perry, Kingdon), moved to
 take non-academic posts (Cieza: World Health Organization) or professorships elsewhere
 (Reichle, Donnelly, Liversedge, Sonuga-Barke). All continue to collaborate
 (funding/publications/supervision). In the same period, we have made 16 strategic hires (8F,
 8M).
 2.1.2 New appointments & recruitment strategy
 Section 1.2 highlights recruitment that has increased quality and impact in strategic research
 areas. Assistant Professorships within each theme increase critical mass and succession/
 sustainability.
 Joint appointments to increase translational research and impact:
                   Neuroscience and Mental Health: Amin (Associate Professor) co-leads the Old Age
                   Psychiatry network in Wessex and clinical trial portfolio at the Memory Assessment and
                   Research Centre (MARC) and strengthens our track record in dementia and inflammation.
                   Chamberlain (Professor) researches latent phenotypes (cognition/traits/imaging) conferring
                   risk and resilience to mental disorders, impulsivity and addiction. He leads the only trans-
                   diagnostic NHS clinic for Impulsive Disorders. He identified cross-diagnostic markers linked
                   to brain structure and inferred gene expression, linked experimental models of brain
                   processes through to clinical trials by translation and back-translation (e.g., glutamate
                   system xc-), and identified vulnerability and resilience markers during pandemic lockdown
                   (n=343,000 members of UK public). Cortese (now Professor and CAMHS Consultant, Solent
                   NHS Trust) informs clinical decision-making in child and adolescent psychiatry, with a specific
                   focus on ADHD. His expertise in advanced meta-analytic approaches, as well as large
                   epidemiological datasets is world-renowned – ranking 2nd worldwide (Expertscape) in ADHD.

                                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Health: Armstrong is the Research Lead for NHS Solent Sexual Health Services, leading
    regional research in sexual health, including service evaluations of online and in-clinic STI
    testing (100k+ tests/yr), uptake of vaccination for HPV, Hepatitis A/B; HIV pre-exposure
    prophylaxis (PrEP) and new care pathways (remote consultations, treatment-by-post).
    Morrison holds a split post within UoS (Psychology:Primary Care Research Centre) to
    support multidisciplinary collaboration and funding (e.g., NIHR School for Primary Care
    Research), translate novel method-specific expertise (e.g., LifeGuide programme, person-
    based approach to intervention development) and capitalise on infrastructure and capacity
    development (e.g., cross-cutting behavioural science theme within the NIHR Biomedical
    Research Centre).
 2.1.3 Category C staff - Contribution, Integration and Development
 Our professional practice research doctorates are supported by 4 category C (seconded) staff
 employed by educational psychology services, and 2 NHS clinical psychologists. Secondees
 have offices in our school and receive personal budgets to support research. All supervise and
 publish doctoral research (EdPsych/DClin) and support impact/outreach through links with
 education, councils and NHS services. We have mentored one clinical secondee to Associate
 Professorship and part-funded the PhD training of a seconded educational psychologist. We
 host NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowships in general adult, child/adolescent, old age psychiatry
 (5 since 2014, with Amin now employed as a clinical-academic Associate Professor at UoS).
 Clinical R&D is supported through visiting/honorary research appointments for 30+ educational
 psychologists, 30+ clinical psychologists, psychiatrists, neurologists (across 5 NHS Trusts and 4
 education authorities), and 10+ international visiting psychiatrists support our research/clinical
 trials overseas.
 2.2 Staff support and development
 We are fully committed to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
 and its Action Plan. Our Centre for Higher Education Practice (CHEP) provides professional
 development training for all staff.
 2.2.1 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 ECRs receive research mentorship from staff beyond their research centre and are members of
 a new ECR network that supports skills training, progression and peer-support. In addition to
 support provided through their research grant, ECRs access devolved Centre budgets to attend
 workshops/conferences/CPD. The network is co-chaired by ECRs Payne/Greenwell and
 provides representation at School/Faculty/Health & Safety and EDI meetings. The ECR career
 development budget (£5k/yr) is used to invite speakers and fund CPD. ECRs wishing to develop
 their education/leadership to support applications for lectureships can apply (through open
 Expressions of Interest) to deliver teaching and supervision across UG/PG programmes. This
 contribution is formally bought-out from their employing research grant following discussion with
 PIs. This new model was developed following consultation with our ECRs and provides flexibility
 to develop academic skills that support academic employment. Since 2014 all ECRs have
 moved into professional employment (60% in academic positions).
 2.2.2 Mentoring
 Our Mentorship Scheme provides one-to-one advice on diverse topics e.g., work-life balance,
 grant writing. This is supported by a Faculty mentorship scheme that can be accessed by all
 staff and is coordinated by our Concordat Champion (Chapman). A ‘new-starters network’, with
 a budget of £1.5k per year, provides near-peer support and mentorship for new appointments.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2.3 Line Management
 Staff are line managed within research centres. Annual appraisals review performance against
 mutually agreed objectives given job blend (Research:Education:Enterprise:Leadership/Admin).
 Appraisals prioritise forward-looking discussions that revise objectives and identify training and
 resources to support career progression, including opportunities for research leave, promotion
 and research leadership. Mandatory training for line-managers emphasises supportive appraisal,
 and >80% staff agree that these are useful. All new staff receive induction, near-peer support,
 start-up research budgets and complete reflective probation handbooks with line-managers to
 review and support research development.

 2.2.4 Research Support
 Staff, ECRs and PGRs meet regularly within each of the four research centres (typically weekly)
 and convene seminar series, external speakers, pitch-a-project sessions, and informal
 opportunities to discuss research at all stages of development (proof of principle ideas, draft
 manuscripts/funding applications, dissecting reviewer feedback). Meetings emphasise a culture
 of inclusivity, collegiality and collaboration. Devolved Centre budgets (total 20k/yr) fund
 workshops, external speakers, pilot projects and CPD. Monthly seminar series (both in
 Psychology and Psychiatry) are open to all staff, PGRs, and undergraduate/MSc students. Staff
 receive an annual R-budget (£900) to support conference travel and other research activities.
 Since 2019 research costs for UG/MSc projects supervised by academic staff are met by central
 funds (~£28k/yr) rather than staff R-budgets/services-rendered.

 2.2.5 Sabbaticals
 Opportunities (6 months to focus 100% on research and impact) are advertised annually to all
 staff on education/research contracts (including part-time/fixed-term). Our workload model
 ‘bakes-in’ sabbaticals to help colleagues plan their research leave (e.g., visits to International
 collaborators) and help schedule cover. Since 2014 all sabbatical requests have been granted
 (26 sabbaticals in total, 50%F, 77% assistant/associate professor).

 2.2.6 Support to gain research and impact funding
 Colleagues develop research funding applications and receive support within the UoA4 research
 centres from senior PIs (mentorship, feedback) and peers. Colleagues can view successful
 funding applications and we encourage staff to share unsuccessful applications with reviewer
 feedback. The University’s Research & Innovation Services (RIS) arranges independent/external
 peer-review, interview training and mock-panels and supports costings (pre-award) and
 contracts/delivery/IP (post-award). Colleagues are supported by Liossi (UoA4 Impact
 Champion) to apply for internal and external funding to support impact. Public Policy
 Southampton (PPS) and Public Engagement with Research (PERU) provide impact training and
 toolkits, guidance to engage with relevant stakeholders and capacity building activities.
 Guidance to staff is available at all stages from application for funding through to dissemination
 to policymakers (REF5a).

 2.2.7 Workload
 Since REF2014, we have introduced a transparent and detailed workload model. This ensures
 that all colleagues have protected time for research, irrespective of seniority or other factors.
 New staff, those returning from periods of leave (e.g., maternity/parenting leave, illness), and
 those with health problems have reductions in teaching and administrative duties to facilitate
 research.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Doctoral Research Students (PGRs)
 Our PGR community totals 150+ students/yr and brings together PGRs across our Doctorates in
 Psychology (PhD, DClin, EdPsych) and Psychiatry (PhD, DM).

 2.3.1 PGR funding
 PGR-studentships (stipend, training and research costs) are funded through NHS/HEE
 commissions (DClin), Department for Education (DEdPsych), ESRC via the South Coast DTP,
 EU funded training networks (Marie-Curie training networks), competitive studentships through
 IfLS, Presidential Scholarship scheme, government (MoD, DSTL), non-profit organisations (TK
 Foundation), charities (Kids Company) and industry (Lloyd’s Register).

 2.3.2 PGR recruitment
 Since 2013/14 we have recruited 270 PGRs (2019 intake +30% vs. 2013). Recruitment is
 governed by Faculty policy to ensure gender representation on panels and that quality criteria
 are met. All PGR applications are reviewed by 2 staff and all shortlisted applicants are
 interviewed prior to offer. Our professional practice doctorates explicitly evaluate research
 competencies at shortlisting and interview to confirm readiness for research training (alongside
 practitioner training). EDI policy and practice has increased diversity and representation in our
 PGR community (cf. 2013) – evidenced by increased proportions of international students (21%;
 +12%), and those wishing to train part-time (27%; +18%). Our PGR community is 80% female,
 commensurate with our gender ratio in REF2014 and undergraduate psychology programmes.

 2.3.3 PGR training and development
 Research Directors within each programme (PhD/DClin/DEdPsych) coordinate research training
 and support progression. All PGR students have a supervisory team (2+ academics). The
 Faculty Graduate School, Doctoral College and online hub (PGR-Tracker) provide training,
 pastoral support, mentoring, academic skills and networking for PGRs and supervisors and
 monitor progression (annual reports/transfer). All PGRs have personal IT/laptop and personal
 desk space (PhD) – our ‘Postgraduate Hub’ provides workstations, soft seating, safe storage
 and communal space (50m2 in Psychology, 30m2 in Psychiatry). Our PGR senior tutors (Kirby,
 Witzel) provide pastoral support.
 PGRs attend research centre presentations and present at our annual PGR conference (30+
 oral presentations, 60+ posters, 150 attendees, external keynotes). PGRs receive training in
 data management, Open Science, Open Access publishing, writing, job search and interview
 (via Doctoral College) and advanced training in meta-analysis, statistical programming in R,
 scientific writing and trial-design (DClin/EdPsych). PGR publications have increased +40% since
 REF2014. PGRs have authored 16% of submitted outputs.
 Personal PGR budgets support research and conferencing, supplemented with competitive
 society-awards (e.g., EPS, SPS, BAP, ECNP) and supported through EU network and training
 grants. PGRs typically attend 2 UK and 1 international conference during their training. The
 effectiveness of PGR supervision and student progression is evidenced by: (i) excellent
 completion times, and (ii) strong destinations data. PGR completion rates (UKRI definition; i.e.,
 mean time to submit) have improved from 3.67 (2013) to 3.45 years. The PGR completion rate is
 98%, with 97% students gaining professional employment.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Commitments to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) and Wellbeing
 Our commitments to EDI and wellbeing are embedded in everything we do, ensuring that staff
 development opportunities are available and promoted to all staff, irrespective of contract type
 (permanent, fixed-term, part-time), gender, or other protected characteristics. We mirror the
 University’s commitment to EDI (REF5a). In recognition of our commitment to gender equality
 Psychology was awarded Athena SWAN Bronze in 2020, and Medicine (Psychiatry) Silver in
 2015. Our staff community is more diverse (14% BAME vs. 7% in 2014) and international (43%
 EU/International vs. 40% in 2014) – mirroring improvements in our PGR community 2.3. EDI
 Champion (Kirby) is a member of School Board and oversees Race Equality, Concordat,
 Athena SWAN action planning and implementation. EDI is a standing item on all committees. In
 line with University policy, all staff involved in hiring, appraisal and promotion have undertaken
 EDI/unconscious bias training and our recent staff survey confirmed that at least 80% of staff
 have good understanding of EDI issues, policies
 and practice:
 •   Job adverts/person specifications use
     inclusive language and are reviewed by UoS
     Equality Charters Advisor. We redact gender
                                                       Number of staff

     information/names from applications where
     possible prior to shortlisting. Since 2014 all
     staff recruitment panels include equal
     gender representation. In line with the
     University’s Disability Confident Leader
     status, we offer an interview to all applicants
     with a disability. Figure 7 shows recruitment
     by level and gender.                                                                                      Level
     Annual workshops provide guidance on                                                       Figure 7: Recruitment by gender
     promotion. Potential applicants receive
     mentorship from recently promoted
     colleagues and have access to all successful
     applications. Figure 8 gives promotion data
     by gender and level.
                                                            Number of staff




 • Leadership roles are advertised to all
                                                                              Number of staff




   colleagues and applied for through
   Expressions of Interest. Female role models
   now in leadership roles include Deputy Heads
   (Research – Graham; Education –
   Kovshoff), Centre Directors (Adams,
   Stevenage, Liossi, Graham), Dir. External
   Relations (Carnelley), Impact Champion
                                                                                                               Level
   (Liossi) and leadership of ICSs (Yardley,
   Kreppner).                                                                                    Figure 8: Promotion by gender

 • We support part-time, flexible and remote working, and all applications for voluntary reduced
   hours, in which right to return to full-time working is protected, have been supported. Group
   activities (meetings/seminars) occur within core hours of 10-4.
 • Colleagues taking maternity leave, or taking adoption leave as primary carer are entitled to 6
   months full pay i.e., substantially more than statutory pay. We support colleagues during

                                                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    periods of maternity leave via KIT days and provide access to private space for
    breastfeeding. Staff returning from leave receive a 20% reduction in their
    teaching/administration for 6 months to prioritise research. Our Family and Caring Leave fund
    provides £3k/staff member to support
    research during their parental leave
    (e.g., to fund research assistants,
    opportunities to attend conference with
    family).




                                                Number of submitted papers
 • Colleagues with mental and physical
   health difficulties are supported via
   reduced workload guided by
   Occupational Health. Maguire (UoA4)
   is Wellbeing lead at School, Faculty
   and now University-level and is
   commissioned to develop a
   comprehensive wellbeing strategy
   informed by staff-
   engagement/wellbeing survey data,
   focus-groups and our Centre for                                                            Level
   Workforce Wellbeing.                                                      Figure 9: Number of submitted outputs
 • Staff involved in REF decision-making                                     from current staff by gender and level.
   have taken additional EDI training. All
   research staff nominated outputs for benchmarking, in consultation with centre heads (Figure
   9). Similarly, staff at all levels contributed to our internal benchmarking - a training opportunity
   to understand the qualities of 3* and 4* research. For outputs, %FemaleUoA4Staff =
   %FemaleBenchmarking = %Femalesubmitted.
 • All staff members were encouraged to consider possible ICSs, and these were drafted by
   staff members from levels 5 to 7 across all research clusters. This highlighted the importance
   of, and pathways to, achieving impact to all staff and identified future impact activities/
   ICSs. Submitted ICSs were led by 3F and 1M, supported by Liossi (Impact Champion).




                                                                                                                       Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Summary of Research income during the REF period
 Over the assessment period our research income has averaged £2.26M per year - a 61%
 increase from the previous REF period (Figure 10). We have attracted substantial funding from
 diverse sources, including UKRI (EPSRC, ESRC, MRC), NIHR, Australian Research Council,
 charities, industry and the EU (SA2).
            REF2014                                          REF2021
            Income per year: 1.41M                           Income per year: 2.26M
            Total income: £7.03M                             Total income: £15.79M




                             Figure 10: Research income by funder.

 3.1.1 Neuroscience and Mental Health
 With £5M+ funding we have consolidated and extended our programmatic research. Competitive
 grants fund our development of evidence-based parenting programmes for ADHD (NIHR:
 Kreppner, Cortese), nerve trigeminal stimulation in ADHD (NIHR: Cortese), autism (Waterloo:
 Kovshoff) and anxiety (Kavli Foundation: Lawrence). We have profiled social, emotional,
 behavioural and cognitive outcomes in children who have i) experienced institutional deprivation
 (ESRC: Kreppner et al.), ii) hearing impairment (NIHR: Kennedy, Kreppner), iii) brain tumour
 (CRUK, Brain Tumour Trust) and (iv) suffered adverse neurological events in the peri/neonatal
 period (NIHR, Action Research: Vollmer). Our research in mood and anxiety disorders has
 validated experimental medicine models and evaluated new pharmacological targets in anxiety
 (3 sequential MRC awards: Baldwin, Garner). NIHR, NHS Trusts and industry are funding
 feasibility studies of pharmacological and neurostimulation treatments in anxiety and related
 conditions (OCD). With funds from EUFP7 and European Colleges we have established new
 training networks/knowledge exchange programmes in anxiety across Europe and South Africa
 (EUSARNAD). With funding from NIHR Kingdon, Lynch led the evaluation of DBT for refractory

                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 depression, while awards from NIHR (Kingdon, Newman-Taylor) funded our development and
 evaluation of pharmacological and cognitive-behavioural interventions for psychosis. Research
 in alcohol and comorbid conditions includes studies of medication adherence for relapse
 prevention, behavioural interventions for alcohol and substance misuse and drinking
 behaviour/risk in breast cancer (Sinclair: NIHR, MRC). The ERC-funded STRATIFY study is
 examining neuroimaging markers of reinforcement-related disorders (alcohol disorders, ADHD,
 and depression) in young adults (Sinclair). Research in vulnerable groups led by Maguire has
 secured funding from charities and Government in the UK and USA to develop evidence-based
 interventions for people excluded from statutory health and social care, and to understand
 pathways to homelessness (Big Lottery, Oaktree Foundation, Public Health England, MHCLG,
 Houston Homeless Healthcare). Colleagues are currently leading a new Centre for Workforce
 Wellbeing, funded by Health Education England (£330k), to develop evidence-based guidelines
 for the National Health and Social Care workforce (Baldwin, Sinclair, Cortese, Hou, Garner).
 Clinical trials in dementia and mild cognitive impairment conducted at the Memory Assessment
 Research Centre (MARC) in Southampton, led by Holmes and Amin, have been awarded grant
 funding from commercial partners and RCUK organisations (e.g., ARUK, Alzheimer’s Society,
 MRC, NIHR).

 3.1.2 Health Psychology
 Colleagues have been awarded £4M+ in funding since 2014. Yardley, Morrison, Bradbury,
 Graham, Liossi and Kirby have secured funding (e.g., NIHR, MRC, EPSRC, Innovate UK,
 Stroke Association, NHS Trust, Dunhill Medical Trust, Asthma UK, The Meniere’s Society,
 Versus Arthritis) to develop and evaluate digital interventions. Bishop has attracted funding
 (Versus Arthritis, NIHR) to explore and manipulate contextual factors (including placebo effects,
 treatment beliefs and the patient-clinician relationship) in healthcare. The Centre for Sexual
 Health Research (Graham, Ingham, Armstrong) has won £2M+ from MRC, NIHR, Australian
 Research Council, Norwegian Research Council and industry for research in sexual health.
 Liossi has secured funding from Great Ormond Street Charity and NIHR to develop and test
 pharmacological and psychological interventions to improve pain management and quality of life
 in paediatric palliative care.

 3.1.3 Social Psychology
 The ESRC has supported research on self-evaluation i.e., whether people see self-consistent or
 self-enhancing information (Gregg, Sedikides) and interventions to improve close relationships
 (Carnelley). Research on intellectual arrogance versus humility has been supported by the
 Templeton Foundation (Gregg, Sedikides) and research on how narcissists behave in the
 workplace has been supported by the Daedalus Trust (Sedikides, Wildschut).

 3.1.4 Perception and Cognition
 £1.5M+ in external funding for impact-oriented work has been awarded since 2014. Work led by
 Godwin on detection of real-world threats (e.g., improvised explosive devices) has attracted
 funds from DSTL and DfT and extends our 2014 ICS. Interdisciplinary work on the estimation of
 3D structure in natural scenes by humans and deep neural networks is funded by the EPSRC
 following on from previous EPSRC funding to produce a publicly available, natural scenes
 database (>300 academic and industrial users, Adams, Graf). Interdisciplinary work on identity
 recognition in humans and artificial intelligence by Stevenage and colleagues has been funded
 by GCHQ and the EPSRC. Drieghe’s Leverhulme-funded work revealed how Arabic diacritics
 are processed during reading. International collaborations are further supported by two
 substantial current EU-funded interdisciplinary projects, one which investigates visual-haptic
 material perception in the real world and virtual reality (Adams) and another that models how

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 migration patterns are affected by migrants’ decision-making (Higham). Higham is also funded
 by the ESRC to investigate the use of spaced retrieval practice in the lab and classrooms to
 enhance student learning. Adams is co-leading the £12m ‘Trustworthy Autonomous Systems’
 research platform at UoS.

 3.2 Key investments in infrastructure and facilities during REF period
    •   Neuroimaging – functional/structural MRI: In 2014, PPN colleagues secured £1.4M to
        invigorate research imaging at SGH (joint funded by UHS NHS Trust with £500k
        MULSER funding from UoS). Facilities include 4 high resolution multi-detector
        Computed Tomography (CT) scanners (all 128-slice dual-energy systems) and 6
        Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) scanners (2 x 3 Tesla for neuroimaging and 4 x
        1.5 Tesla). Since 2015 colleagues have weekly ring-fenced scanning-time to deliver
        grant-funded neuroimaging research and pilot/proof-of-concept projects funded by a
        service-level agreement between Psychology (UoS) and UHS NHS Trust. This initiative
        has secured the recruitment of new staff with imaging expertise (Golm, Zhang,
        Chamberlain) and grant funding (e.g., MRC: Baldwin, Garner; ERC: Sinclair, ARUK:
        Hou, Holmes). Vollmer chairs the joint UoS-UHS Research Imaging Management
        Group (RIMG). UoS forward-pays for 25% of imaging time on a Siemens Skyra 3 Tesla
        to guarantee MR scanning availability (e.g., research in acute patients). Additional
        imaging modalities that support neuroscience research in neuroinflammation, dementia
        and aging include: Two SPECT-CT systems support diagnostic and molecular
        radiotherapy work; dynamic and gated acquisitions are available, including first-pass
        imaging. Ultrasound – with ultra-high resolution high frequency, compound imaging
        capability, Doppler enabled scanners with a full array of transducers. Plain radiography
        and fluoroscopy.
    •   The university’s high-performance computing cluster (one of the largest in the UK,
        REF5a) supports data analysis, computational modelling, deep learning and computer
        vision. Image processing workstations provide teams with free access to the UoS
        IRIDIS supercomputing facilities (www.go.soton.ac.uk/akd). Imaging researchers can
        have their MR images pushed from the scanner to a server (and a mirror site) hosting
        XNAT (Extensible Neuroimaging Archive Toolkit), an imaging informatics platform,
        providing local archiving facility and the means to share anonymized imaging data with
        collaborators worldwide.

 Since 2014 Psychology has invested £190k to redevelop 450m2 of laboratory space to
 accommodate 67 research rooms, including:
    •   18 single-occupancy computer testing stations, and 3 multi-station rooms
        configured to test 3-6 participants in parallel (e.g., social gaming studies).
    •   2 Electroencephalography (EEG) labs relocated to optimise signal quality: Our
        EEG laboratories are equipped with active electrode systems that have an improved
        signal-to-noise ratio which increases data quality and allows shorter preparation time for
        participants. We use 128-channel EEG data for event-related potentials (ERPs), event-
        related spectral perturbations (ERSPs or EEG time-frequency components), and
        multivariate data analytic techniques (e.g., multivariate classifiers, machine learning
        algorithms, and inverted encoding models) to track social, cognitive, and affective
        processes. Our EEG systems are linked to eye trackers.
    •   Transcranial Magnetic/Direct Current Stimulation: Brandt has led the refurbishment
        of our TMS suite, now equipped with a single pulse Magstim stimulator/test chair, and

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        “Signal” software to assess cortical inhibition and facilitation in single coil, double-pulse
        paradigms. Combining TMS stimulation with behavioural paradigms, as well as
        peripheral electrical stimulation enables investigation of neural plasticity in healthy and
        clinical populations (TICs). 10 portable tDCS stimulators support experimental-lab
        studies of cortical function and augmentation treatments in clinics.
    •   Virtual Reality: 2 Oculus Rift labs support projects in perception and navigation and
        exposure-based psychological intervention in collaboration with clinicians.
    •   Multisensory lab including hand-tracking, force measurement, and high-performance
        3D printing supports Adam’s EU training network grant on perception and action.
    •   New colour vision lab (Witzel) uses high-precision spectroradiometer to conduct
        rigorous colour psychophysics on a calibrated computer setup and with coloured
        surfaces (standard Munsell chips) under controlled lighting.
    •   Eye-tracking: 4 refurbished labs house eye-link 1000Hz eye-tracking systems for
        research in visual search, reading, and clinical neuropsychology and enable co-
        registration with EEG and fMRI.
    •   The Pain Research Laboratory is temperature-controlled and hosts state-of-the-art
        quantitative sensory testing equipment, including the TSA-II Neurosensory-Analyser, a
        bespoke cold-pressor task, Rolltemp rollers, a handheld digital algometer, pinprick
        stimulators, and a set of von Frey hairs, among others. The lab features a private waiting
        area, which is especially important for parents when conducting our paediatric research.
    •   4 labs house Biopac psychophysiology amplifiers to measure heart rate, skin
        conductance, respiration rate, and electromyography during cognitive, behavioural and
        social paradigms.
    •   Social observation lab with one-way mirror between adjoining rooms allows us to view
        participants from multiple cameras and microphones positioned in the lab to measure peer-
        peer, parent-child and client-clinician interactions.
    •   Our mobile research unit (MRU) is a custom-fit vehicle that allows us to take carefully
        calibrated equipment, such as eye movement recorders, into hard-to-reach communities,
        schools, older adult and clinical sites (+1000miles/yr).
    •   Clinical/Experimental Psychopharmacology
        o   Pharmacological challenge – 2 clinical research labs (Psychiatry, Psychology) host
            drug-challenge studies in healthy-volunteer and patient groups. The labs have
            parallel set-ups to standardize protocols (psychophysiology, eye-
            tracking/pupillometry, and carbon-dioxide challenge). Research teams include
            trained phlebotomists for venesection.
        o   The Clinical Biochemistry Laboratory at Southampton General Hospital provides
            multiplex immunoassay human proinflammatory 9-Plex panel multi-array technology
            to measure blood serum levels of cytokines including, IL-1β, IL-2, IL-6, IL- 8, IL-10, IL-
            12p70, TNF-α , IFN-γ, and GM-CSF. The assay has ultra-low detection limits,
            provides up to five logs of linear dynamic range to accurately determine levels in
            normal and disease samples without dilutions.
        o   £20k contracts with LGC (formerly Laboratory of the Government Chemist) to analyse
            drug levels in blood serums via liquid chromatography with tandem mass
            spectrometry (LC-MS-MS).

                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o   £30k contracts with specialist pharmacy services to manufacture medicines and
                placebos for double-blind placebo-controlled evaluations of duloxetine, memantine,
                quetiapine, amiloride and naltrexone in patients/healthy-volunteers.
            o   The Southampton Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility (Southampton
                General Hospital) hosts UoA4 research protocols ranging from early experimental
                medicine studies through to late-stage studies investigating the effectiveness of
                treatments and diagnostic tests.
        •   Dedicated technical and experimental officers: 4 research technicians (Psychology)
            and 2 experimental officers (Psychiatry) programme experimental tasks, co-register
            hardware, maintain labs and manage our Test Library – a centrally-funded library of
            bookable resources - from standardized questionnaires/neuropsychological test
            batteries to 30 research laptops that enable data collection in community settings
            (nurseries through care-homes).


 Research Clinics: Since REF2014 we have created 6 new clinical research pathways to
 support translational research.




                                  Figure 11: Clinical Research Pathways


   i.       The IfLS has provided seed-funding to launch the Interdisciplinary Dementia and
            Aging Centre that brings together academics, NHS services, engineers and industry.
            Amin is Clinical Trials and Therapeutics Theme Lead. Southampton has an international
            track-record in dementia and inflammation. The MARC includes academics, consultants,
            research nurses, pharmacy and health psychologists to conduct clinical and basic
            science research supported by NIHR Clinical Research Network (and significant
            funding). Since REF2014 UHS-Trust has developed a new enhanced dementia care
            ward to support clinical research in dementia and aging.
  ii.       Specialist CBT clinic for people with psychosis: A collaboration between UoS
            Psychology, and Southern Health R&D and Southampton Psychology Service, to run a
            specialist CBT research clinic for people with psychosis.



                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  iii.   Pain Pathways (GOSH): Liossi runs an outpatient psychology clinic, participates in the
         MDT clinics for children with chronic pain and is the co-chair of GOSH’s paediatric
         psychology research committee. Access to clinical populations at GOSH has supported
         recruitment to funded trials and provides a pathways to impact for the Pain Research
         Lab’s translational research.
  iv.    Alcohol Care Team: Sinclair led the development of the Alcohol Care team at UHS,
         developing it into a research active service, contributing to National (NIHR) and
         investigator led studies. The UHS Alcohol Care Team is now the South East Region’s
         only Early Implementer Site to be awarded funding from NHSEI to optimise into a seven-
         day service and enhance its capacity.
  v.     ADHD Clinic: Cortese is lead of outpatient clinical consultations for children and
         adolescents presenting neurodevelopmental disorders. Access to clinical populations in
         Solent NHS Trust has supported recruitment to funded trials (NIHR) and supported by
         the Solent Academy of Research and NIHR Research Capability funding (£100k+ since
         2015).
  vi.    Specialist Clinic for Impulsive and Compulsive Disorders: Chamberlain in 2020
         launched the UK’s first trans-diagnostic NHS clinic for Impulsive and Compulsive
         Disorders. The clinic provides rigorous assessment and treatment options for patients
         with neglected mental disorders (e.g., gambling disorder, adult ADHD, hair pulling
         disorder, compulsive stealing).
 Use of facilities with collaborators: fMRI & structural MR (with NIMH, Leiden, Cambridge,
 Kings College London); pharmacological interventions (Cambridge); eye-tracking (e.g., Tianjin
 China, Ghent). 16S rRNA gene analysis (America Gut project, UC San Diego School of
 Medicine). We have access to large-scale and specialised samples (e.g., Romanian adoptees,
 with IOPPN, London) which facilitates our basic research and clinical interventions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 International Collaborations
 During the REF period 57% of UoA4 publications were with co-authors at 1308 international
 institutions (62 countries).
 Global collaborations include USA (30+), Canada (10+), China (10+), Australia, South Africa,
 France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
 Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Turkey (+5). Most frequent co-authorship is with USA (436 papers),
 Germany (170), Canada (106), Australia (83), Netherlands (80), Italy (72) and France (57).
 UK collaborations include Aberdeen, Bath, Birmingham, Bradford, Bristol, Cambridge,
 Edinburgh, Exeter, Glasgow, KCL, Newcastle, Nottingham, Oxford, Sheffield, Surrey, Sussex,
 York, UCL, Warwick, KCL, Oxford and others, supported by EPSRC (Adams, Stevenage), MRC
 (Baldwin, Garner), Horizon2020 (Adams, Sinclair), ESRC (Kovshoff) and NIHR (Kreppner,
 Liossi, Bradbury, Yardley, Graham, Holmes, Baldwin, Sinclair). Most frequent co-
 authorships are: KCL (119), Cambridge (114), Nottingham (87), UCL (81), Oxford (75), GOSH
 (75).
 Funded Exchange Networks & International visitors: Adams’ Horizon 2020 DyViTo training
 network includes academic/industry partners from Germany, France, Spain, Netherlands,
 Turkey; the EUSARNAD anxiety network (Baldwin, Garner) has supported 10+ exchanges
 between UoS and EU/South Africa. We host visiting researchers from China (Chinese Academy
 of Sciences), France (Syms School of Business, Grenoble), Germany (Saarland University,

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University of Cologne), Japan (Kochi University of Technology), Poland (Jagiellonian
 University, Warsaw School of Social Sciences), Singapore (Nanyang Technological University),
 The Netherlands (University of Utrecht), South Africa (Cape Town), USA (Ohio, NYU, Houston)
 and Canada (Queen’s University).
 Staff hold visiting positions at Shandong University (Sinclair, Baldwin, Hou), Cape Town
 (Baldwin), University of Technology, Sydney (Bishop), NYU (Cortese), Nottingham (Cortese),
 The Kinsey Institute (Graham), KCL (Golm), Baylor College of Medicine, Houston TX
 (Maguire).
 4.2 Contribution to the Research Base
 4.2.1 Contribution to Scientific journals
 28 colleagues (15F, 13M) have served on Editorial Boards (as Editors, Associate Editors,
 Members) of 50+ Journals. Colleagues hold Editor-in-Chief roles at: Journal of Sex Research
 (Graham), Human Psychopharmacology (Baldwin), and Deputy Editorships at the Journal of
 American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry (Cortese), Evidence-Based Mental
 Health (Cortese) Neuroscience and Biobehavioural Reviews (Chamberlain). Colleagues are
 associate editors/members of boards for journals across:

 Neuroscience & Mental Health: Neuroscience and Biobehavioural Reviews, British Journal of
 Psychiatry, Developmental Medicine and Child Neurology, Frontiers in Neurology,
 Comprehensive Psychiatry, Alcohol and Alcoholism, Developmental Child Welfare, Acta
 Neuropsychiatric, CNS Drugs, Journal of Psychopathology, Therapeutic Advances in
 Psychopharmacology, J of the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry,
 Evidence-Based Mental Health, Child and Adolescent Mental Health, Human
 Psychopharmacology, European Journal of Paediatric Neurology, British Journal of Psychiatry,
 Cognition & Emotion, Cognitive Behaviour Therapy, Cortex, Scientific Reports, Case Reports in
 Psychiatry.

 Health Psychology: British Journal of Health Psychology, Sexual Health, Archives of Sexual
 Behavior, BMJ, Health Education, Sex Education, AIDS Education & Prevention; Sexually
 Transmitted Infections.

 Social Psychology: Journal of Personality and Social Psychology; Self and Identity, J Social and
 Personal Relationships, Attachment and Human Development, Personality and Social
 Psychology Bulletin, Personal Relationships, European J. Social Psychology.

 Perception & Cognition: Psychological Science, Multisensory Research, Attention, Perception
 and Psychophysics, Behavior Research Methods, Scientific Reports.

 4.2.2 National Advisory Groups, Committees and Learned Societies
   i.   Colleagues hold leadership roles within the Royal College of Psychiatrists (RCPsych),
        including Chair of the Addictions Faculty (Sinclair), Chair of the Psychopharmacology
        Committee (Baldwin) and are members of the General Adult Specialist Advisory
        Committee (Chamberlain) and the Research Committee, Royal College of Paediatrics
        (Liossi).
  ii.   Yardley is member of the UK Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE).
        Sinclair is leading policy and practice as National Speciality Advisor for Alcohol
        dependence to NHS England. Chamberlain is Advisor to British National Formulary; Co-
        Founder, UK Network for Research into Behavioural Addictions and EU COST Action
        Network on Problematic Usage of the Internet. Holmes provides national leadership in


                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         dementia treatment as Department of Health advisor on Dementia, as scientific advisor
         to Alzheimer’s Society and AZ Research UK and as NIHR board member for dementia
         research. Liossi is Chair, NIHR CRN Children | Pain & Palliative Care Clinical Research
         Group. Vollmer is on the advisory board of Global Alliance for Newborn Care. Graham is
         a member of the Advisory Council of the Kinsey Institute.
  iii.   Staff are members of 5 NICE guideline groups: ADHD (Cortese), Anxiety (Baldwin),
         Social Anxiety (Stopa), Behaviour Change (Yardley) and Public Health A (Yardley).
         Yardley is also an expert contributor to NICE on antimicrobial stewardship. Colleagues
         sit on international guideline groups e.g., European and Canadian Guidelines Groups
         (ADHD, Cortese), European Standards Group (Newborn Health; Vollmer) and co-author
         consensus statements in child/adolescent, adult and older adult psychiatry (e.g., British
         Association for Psychopharmacology, BAP – Baldwin, Sinclair, Cortese, Holmes).
  iv.    Baldwin is President-Elect of the British Association for Psychopharmacology and Chair
         of Education, European College of Neuropsychopharmacology, and colleagues chair
         educational/clinical satellites of learned societies in psychiatry (BAP, ECNP; Baldwin,
         Sinclair, Cortese, Chamberlain) and clinical psychology (BABCP, EABCT, Stopa,
         Newman-Taylor). Vollmer is Co-Chair, British Paediatric Neurology Association (BPNA)
         Fetal and Neonatal Neurology.
   v.    Ethics and Governance: Baldwin is Vice-Chair Ministry of Defence Research Ethics
         Committee and Maguire advises the Ministry of Housing, Communities & Local
         Government on research ethics with vulnerable populations.
  vi.    Roles in Research Councils and Funding Agencies: Colleagues serve on the funding
         panels for: EPSRC (Adams), MRC (Yardley, Baldwin), HTA (Yardley), NIHR (Yardley),
         Alzheimer’s RUK and Alzheimer’s Society (Holmes). Perry was Chair of the MRC (UK)
         Neurosciences and Mental Health Board (2012-2017), member of MRC Strategy Board
         (2012-2017) and Chair of the Oversight Board of Dementias Platform UK (DPUK) (2015-
         2019).

 4.2.3. Conferences and Seminar Series
 Staff have delivered 300+ invited/keynote lectures at major conferences in Universities,
 Governmental and NGO and learned societies, including regular contributions across
 psychiatry/clinical-psychology (BAP, ECNP, BABCP, EABCT, BNA), social psychology (BPS,
 SESP, SPSP, EASP), health (BPS DHP, Soc. Scientific Study of Sexuality, Paediatric Palliative
 Med) and experimental/cognitive psychology (VSS, EPS, AVA, Psychonomics). We hosted the
 biennial Social Psychology symposium on “Self and Identity”, MRC-funded conference on
 anxiety (Baldwin, Garner), ESRC-funded workshops on Relationship Science and Interventions
 (Carnelley), and EPSRC-funded workshop on human/machine vision (Adams). Early-career
 researchers co-convened major meetings e.g., Object Perception, Attention and Memory
 (Godwin, 2014–California; 2015-Chicago).

 4.2.4 Academic Recognition
 Our staff have been recognised for their contributions to their discipline. Major awards include:
 Distinguished Career Awards for Sedikides (Society for Self and Identity - Distinguished
 Lifetime Career Award; British Psychological Society Distinguished Contribution to Social
 Psychology; Daniel M. Wegner Theoretical Innovation Prize, elected Fellow of the British
 Academy); Yardley (OBE in Queen’s Birthday Honours, NIHR: Senior Investigator; Academy of
 Society Sciences: Awarded Academician), Graham (Society for the Scientific Study of Sexuality:


                                                                                              Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Distinguished Scientific Achievement Award and Distinguished Service Award), Stopa (Beck
 Scholar for leadership in CBT), Baldwin (President’s Award RCPsych).
 Mid-Career Awards for Wildschut (Society for Personality and Social Psychology: Mid-Career
 Award for Outstanding Research in Social Psychology), and Cortese (Kramer-Pollnow-Prize in
 Biological Psychiatry).
 Early-Career Awards for Feldmann-Wüstefeld (German Psychological Society: Best PhD),
 Armstrong (British Association for Sexual Health and HIV, Int. Academy Sex of Research),
 Lawrence (National Doctoral Research Award – Springer Nature).

 4.3 Broader Contributions to the Economy and Society
 Involvement of beneficiaries (4.3.1) and policy-makers throughout the research cycle
 maximises the quality and impact of our research.
 Security - Stevenage (EPSRC) works with GCHQ, Centre for Applied Science and Technology
 (CAST) within the Home Office, National Policing Authority (NCA), National CyberSecurity
 Centre (NCSC), Quinetiq, Turing Centre, IBM and network of ACEs in Cybersecurity. Godwin
 works with UK government groups (e.g., Dstl, Home Office, Ministry of Defence, International Air
 Transport Association, Department for Transport) to evaluate and develop methods to detect
 threats in real-world scenarios, and to train professional staff (e.g., X-ray baggage screeners,
 military personnel in combat), and the public (e.g., object recognition in crowded spaces).
 Education – Policy & Practice: Higham contributes podcasts and book/magazine articles to
 secondary schools/FE on evidence-based techniques to enhance student learning. Palmer-
 Cooper is a member of the BPS governing committee for A-level Psychology teaching and is
 developing curricula on open-science and research ethics for schools. Our EdPsych PGR
 pathway partners with schools to develop and evaluate evidence-based interventions for
 children and adolescents (28 service-research/doctoral projects/yr).

 Health & Wellbeing: (see 4.2.2) Liossi has designed new curricula in paediatric pain
 assessment and management for national bodies, including contributions to the e-PAIN project
 and the RCPCH E-learning course Pain Management in Children and Young People, designed
 to train NHS staff and is a member of the European Association for Palliative Care (EAPC)
 steering committee. Ingham has provided expert advice to the UK government (House of
 Commons Select Committee) on sex and relationships education in schools and advised the
 Thai government on their adolescent pregnancy policy. Graham was an expert member of the
 American Psychiatric Association’s (APA) Sexual and Gender Identity Workgroup for DSM-5 and
 is a current member of the APA’s Scientific Review Panel. Maguire co-wrote guidance on
 psychologically-informed environments, used widely by UK/USA homelessness organisations
 and consults to the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government and Public Health
 England on research with vulnerable and excluded populations.

 4.3.1 Patient and Public Involvement (PPI)
   i.    Friends of MARC provide focus groups to discuss journal articles, co-create and gather
         feedback on leaflets, websites and other materials related to dementia care, advises on
         assessment and research priorities and raises awareness through community outreach.
   ii.   AnxietyUK, the largest charity and support network in the UK, support our clinical
         research and outreach. Baldwin is medical patron, chairing podcasts and forums with
         user groups. Members sit on our grant-steering committees and co-chair conferences.
  iii.   TICSConnect - Brandt, Palmer-Cooper received funding from PERu to lead regional
         workshops for individuals and families with Tic disorder/Tourette syndrome. Supported

                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         by Tourettes Action, regional NHS neurology, psychiatry and CAMHS TICSConnect co-
         designs research with patient groups, provides clinical-research assessments to inform
         treatment and support, and secured funding (AMS Springboard, Brandt) for basic
         research and to pilot a TICs/Tourette research clinic at Southampton.
  iv.    ACoRNS – The Autism Community Research Network @ Southampton is a research-
         practice initiative, co-directed by Parsons (UoA23) and Kovshoff, that seeks to improve
         the lives of autistic children and young people. Funded through the University’s Public
         Engagement and Research Unit, ACoRNS supports knowledge-exchange with local
         nurseries, schools and colleges who are interested in developing, researching, and
         sharing good practice in educational provision for autistic children and families. ACoRNS
         hosts PGR students and interns to conduct research in partnership with schools and
         families.
   v.    Adopt South (Southampton, Portsmouth, Isle of Wight) is a recruitment partner in the
         Adversity Research Project (CARE; Golm, Kreppner) and supported discussion and
         dissemination of ICS-0402-ERA through ESRC Impact Acceleration Grant (Kreppner) to
         highlight how the effects of institutional deprivation on development can shape policy and
         practice.
  vi.    Childhood Adversity Professional Exchange (CAPE) Network (Golm) facilitates
         collaboration and exchange between researchers and practitioners in different disciplines
         e.g., teachers, social workers, psychiatrists working with traumatised children.
 vii.    Psychosis Online Engagement Meetings (POEMs) is an online engagement platform
         and resources website that shares research and practice with individuals with lived
         experience (Palmer-Cooper, Newman-Taylor, Maguire).
 viii.   PPI in Health Psychology: We engage PPI at all stages of research, from initial funding
         bids to dissemination. Our LifeGuide team (Yardley, Bradbury) run UK workshops and
         online knowledge hub to disseminate the person-based approach to health.
         Colleagues engaged with patient groups and charities include: Versus Arthritis (Bishop,
         Bradbury), Asthma UK (Kirby). Graham and Ingham with the Wellcome Trust delivered
         the nationwide Sexology Songwriting project, exploring the study of sexuality through
         music with young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. Our annual wellbeing
         scheme for school pupils provides 12-week workshops, addressing mental health,
         relationships and sexuality.

 4.3.2 Industrial collaborations to enhance research and impact
 Neuroscience & Mental Health: Colleagues provide consultancy to support clinical trial design
 and treatment development in anxiety/mood disorders, addiction and dementia, including:
 Promentis Pharmaceuticals, Shire, Leso Digital Health, P1vital, Cambridge Cognition,
 (Chamberlain), Lundbeck A/S (Sinclair), Mundipharma, Pfizer (Baldwin, Garner), Eisai
 Pharmaceutical (Amin), Novartis, Biogen, Cortexyme, Adex (Holmes), Unilever (Golm), Healios
 (Garner) and Headspace (Hou).
 Digital Interventions & Health Behaviour: Yardley and Bradbury collaborate with digital tech
 company Changing Health to disseminate the POWeR weight loss intervention, and with Cigna
 Insurance (POWeR) and Vive Health (CLASP, for a cancer survivors’ intervention). Graham
 collaborated with PP Products, Ltd. and condom manufacturers Durex and MyOne on large-
 scale intervention trials.
 Social Psychology: With Spotify, Wildschut and Sedikides tested 150K+ users from 19
 countries to develop Spotify’s personalised playlist feature ‘Your Time Capsule’ designed to elicit


                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 music-evoked nostalgia. Planned collaborations are developing personalised playlists to improve
 wellbeing in dementia.
 Cognition & Human Factors: Adams’ DyViTo EU network combines academics and industrial
 partners in graphical rendering and physical development of materials to translate academic
 expertise in material perception to consumer applications.

 4.3.3 Public engagement / media exposure
 An excellent track record of public engagement involves schools, colleges, science festivals e.g.,
 College-link research days, Pint of Science and Researchers’ Café initiatives, Edinburgh
 Science Festival, Glastonbury Festival, Fulcrum Science Festival, and installations at
 Winchester Science Centre (190k+ visitors/yr) and Southampton’s annual Science and
 Engineering Festival (8000+ visitors).
 TV/Radio coverage has featured our research on health behaviour change/pandemic response
 (all major news channels- Yardley) and sexual health (BBC Horizon, Women’s Hour and BBC3 -
 Graham); addiction (BBC Horizon, BBC News, Women’s Hour - Sinclair), child and adolescent
 mental health (ITV - Lawrence); nostalgia and identity (BBC, CBS, CNN, MSNBC; Channel 4 -
 Sedikides).
 Newspaper/magazine coverage includes the UK (e.g., Guardian, Guardian Science Weekly,
 New Scientist, The Times, Independent, Telegraph, Marie Claire; New Statesman; Observer
 Magazine); USA (LA Times, New York Times, Wall Street Journal, Scientific American, The
 Atlantic, The New Yorker, Time), Austria (Wiener-Zeitung), Chile (El Mercurio); Germany (Die
 Zeit; Welt am Sonntag; Der Spiegel, Für Sie); Ireland (Belfast Telegraph, Irish Times); Italy
 (Donna Maderna), Netherlands (NRC-Handelsblad, Psychologie), Spain (El-Pais);
 Switzerland (Sonntags-Zeitung).
 Public engagement is evidenced by Altmetrics data (January 2021 index of online engagement).
 Our outputs authored during 2014-2020 have been referenced by: (i) 2660 mainstream online
 news outlets; (ii) 44 Wikipedia entries; (iii) 86 policy citations, and (iv) 32,063 shares or posts on
 social media. A total of 246 (14.2%) of our publications have Altmetrics Attention Scores (AAS),
 placing them within the top 5% of all research outputs tracked by Altmetrics.




                                                                                                 Page 27
