Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Portsmouth


 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art & Design: History, Practice and Theory


 1.        Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Art and Design research in the Faculty of Creative and Cultural Industries (CCI) expanded
 significantly in breadth and depth over the census period as a result of focused strategic
 development and investment since 2014. As a result, this is the first submission to UoA32 from
 the University of Portsmouth (UoP) since 2008. It comprises 37 staff (17 female (f): 20 male (m))
 equating to 34.01 FTE. Researchers in our Unit represent a broad range of history, theory and
 practice across Art and Design that offers an interdisciplinary understanding that reaches into
 allied areas of the media, communication and the built environment. Their work presents a
 diversity of outputs that include monographs, journal articles and conference proceedings, as
 well as practice research including artworks, images, exhibitions, installations, buildings and
 architectural designs, film and animation, software and digital applications.

 1.1       Research structure and context

 All 4 of the Schools in CCI are returning staff to the Unit:

           Portsmouth School of Architecture (PSA): architectural, urban and interior design;
            history and theory; heritage and conservation.
           School of Art, Design and Performance (ADP): art and design history; curatorship;
            fashion and textile design futures; graphic and data visualisation design; illustration;
            photography.
           School of Creative Technologies (CT): animation; creative and immersive
            technologies; digital humanities; human experience and interaction design; gaming.
           School of Film, Media and Performance (FMC): film practice.

 Research Leads from our 4 Schools work with the Impact Lead (SONNET), Associate Dean
 Research (ADR) (SUGG RYAN) and Executive Dean (KEEBLE). The cross-Faculty Practice
 Research Working Group (CCI-PRAG) includes staff from the Unit representing Architecture,
 Photography, Computer Games, Fashion and Textiles and steers the development of practice
 research, running workshops and mentoring colleagues within their respective schools. UoA32
 has 3 Co-Coordinators (MITCHELL, SONNET, TEBA) and 1 Deputy (KWINT), each leading on
 different aspects of our submission. This team was formed to ensure gender balance (2f; 2m),
 with subject specialism and knowledge across the breadth and range of our research outputs, as
 well as planning for succession.

 1.1.1      Research clusters

 The establishment of three overarching research clusters in CCI has facilitated the
 development of our interdisciplinary research. In line with institutional ambition to bolster our

Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 existing and emerging strengths, these clusters have made a strong contribution to 4 of UoP’s 5
 overarching strategic research themes (ILES 1.2.9, p.2), while realising their own research
 objectives. This has significantly enabled interdisciplinary partnerships, research mentoring and
 bidding, and has focussed research upon major societal challenges.

           Cluster for Sustainable Cities (CSC)

 The Cluster for Sustainable Cities (CSC) is an interdisciplinary research cluster of over 35
 researchers and their students from across UoP which works at the interface of sustainable
 architecture, urban design, planning, social sciences, Information Communications Technology
 and engineering. Co-led by MELIS, it has enabled numerous successful interdisciplinary
 research projects, funded externally and internally. CSC’s research provides real world solutions
 for key challenges aligned with UoP’s Sustainability and the Environment Theme.
 Researchers (DI RAIMO, ELBANHAWY, LIEBERMAN, PEDRABISSI, ROBAZZA, TEBA,
 TEELING) have collaborated internationally with industry, government, public agencies, charities
 and communities to enable urban change and effect transformations that benefit the
 environment, promote sustainable urban living and contribute to a carbon-neutral society. They
 have developed applied research on smart, resilient communities and integrated technologies,
 which include citizen-centric solutions to meet the changing needs of urban areas and
 demographic shifts by providing step-change improvements in urban living and systems. CSC
 has also contributed to UoP’s Health and Wellbeing theme through the design of a specialist
 hospital dedicated to neuropathologies of children and adolescents (MELIS).

           Design Innovation Cluster (DI)

 Led by FARRER, our Design Innovation Cluster developed significant interdisciplinary research
 aligning to UoP’s Health and Wellbeing Theme. Our submission includes designs for
 healthcare materials, professionals and environments, including research into barrier solutions
 and diagnostic skin dressings for the treatment of chronic dermal wounds and disease
 (FARRER; BOWYER; GUMTAU; KWINT). A project in Nairobi raised awareness of the COVID
 pandemic using creative methods such as illustration to reduce transmission (BOWYER;
 NETTER). Design innovation projects also address social inequalities and explore cultural
 identities through creative practice research, advancing UoP’s Democratic Citizenship Theme.
 E.g., PONToon: Partnership Opportunity using New Technologies fostering sOcial and
 ecOnomic inclusioN represents a progression from the use of digital technologies for social
 inclusion to uses for economic inclusion that produced a scalable and transferable methodology
 that can be applied to broader demographic sets and geographical regions for continuing impact
 (FARRER; BOWYER; NETTER).

           Centre for Creative and Immersive Extended Reality (CCIXR)

 We have developed our physical research environment considerably by securing investment to
 support our strategic ambitions. Building on the existing facilities and strong track record of CT,
 CCI won £3.6m from Solent Local Enterprise Partnership for a new Centre for Creative and
 Immersive Extended Reality (CCIXR) providing state-of-the-art XR labs and multimedia facilities,
 due to open formally in January 2022. CCIXR builds on our track record of interdisciplinary
 projects combining creative and immersive extended reality with arts and humanities research,

Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 which contribute to UoP’s Future and Emerging Technologies Theme. In March 2021, for
 example, KEEBLE and GARNER worked in partnership with the Royal Shakespeare Company
 to create and stage Dream, an entirely digital presentation of live performance, bringing together
 traditional stage technologies and practices with new and emergent technologies of visual and
 spatial computing.

 1.1.2   Emerging Research Groups

 Our emerging Research Groups (RGs) provide an organisational and developmental context
 for research within the broad and interdisciplinary area of Art and Design across CCI. Our RGs
 were developed after an open call and awarded seed funding to support the realisation of our
 overarching strategic ambitions for research. RGs are open to Faculty staff, including
 Postgraduate Research students (PGRs) and technical support staff. Some groups are more
 advanced and outward facing, with a thematic and interdisciplinary focus on producing outputs
 and events such as symposia, funding bids and pathways to impact. Other RGs are more
 developmental, with a discrete disciplinary focus and peer-to-peer research development
 agenda to support ECRs and those who have entered from industry or professional practice or
 who would like to restart research. Their continuing work will increase the pool of submissible
 staff for REF2027. RGs aligned with UoA 32 include the following:

        Advanced Games investigates the cognitive psychological experience and impacts of
         computer gaming and virtual experiences (GARNER; HOWELL).
        Computational and Analogue Theory and Practices in Architecture interrogates the
         use and opportunity of technologies to create new modes of practice and production (DI
         RAIMO; MELIS; ROBAZZA; PEDRABISSI; TEELING).
        Cultural Heritage explores the preservation, display and interpretation of collections and
         sites, with a particular focus on audience engagement, through archival research, digital
         interventions and creative practice (BAILEY-ROSS; KWINT; METALKOVA-MARKOVA;
         MITCHELL; SUGG RYAN; TEBA; WHITMARSH). Members contribute to UoP’s
         Heritage Hub, an informal cross-UoP grouping of researchers, particularly working on
         interdisciplinary external funding bids.
        Digital Interactions focuses on human interaction with and through technology,
         including research on data visualisation and materialisation (BAILEY-ROSS; GUMTAU).
        Fashion, Textiles and Material Futures considers post-digital practice in textile and
         material design to understand contemporary practice methods and outcomes in support
         of a theoretical context for designing sustainable textiles (IGOE; TORRES). Much of their
         research was conducted under the umbrella of the Environment and Sustainability
         Theme in collaboration with colleagues across the University; to facilitate this, IGOE is a
         member of both UoP’s Revolution Plastics Steering Committee and Circular Textiles
         Group. The group also collaborated with UoP Democratic Citizenship Theme Director
         Professor Leila Choukroune on a project on human rights in the fashion and textiles
         supply chain.




Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

           Illustration Practice research focuses particularly on aspects of health and wellbeing
            (BATEY; KNIGHT; NETTER) through the use of authorial illustration and the sharing of
            personal stories through self-publishing to offer a narrative of care and understanding.
           Photography members explore historical and contemporary communities, political,
            cultural and sexual identities in their practice research (ARIEL; HAKIM-DOWEK;
            KOLKER).

 1.2       Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact

 Our strategic aims for research and impact were to:

 1.2.1      Identify, support and develop existing and new research active staff

 We have returned 37 (headcount) staff, achieved through a combination of mentoring to
 develop the research profile of 16 existing staff (7f: 9m), and the recruitment of 21 new staff
 (10f: 11m) with strategically relevant research expertise. This has enabled us to develop a
 focussed critical mass across our subjects: Architecture has 11 new staff; Art and Design
 has 6 new staff; Creative Technologies has 4 new staff. The growth and support of research
 active staff within the Unit has increased our expertise, techniques and methodologies, and has
 positively impacted on overall research activity, as evidenced by significant growth in the number
 of successful research bids and funding income, peer reviewed-outputs, monographs and
 practice research during the REF period. We have developed new areas of strength such as
 Architecture and Creative Technologies by ensuring that research is a priority in staff recruitment
 and workload planning, and by supporting developmental activities such as mentoring, project
 funding and enhanced Workload Allocations (WLA). In support of our ambition to deepen and
 expand our research, 14 staff members have been sponsored to undertake PhDs (see 2.2).

 1.2.2      Support the development of practice research

 CCI-PRAG (see 1.1) was formed to lead the development of practice research. It also supported
 the development of contextual information for 21 of our outputs (2 of which are double-
 weighted), which comprise nearly 29% of our total.

 1.2.3      Increase the volume and diversity of external research and knowledge transfer
            income

 Research funding increased nearly 30-fold from £21,010 in 2013-14 to £646,788 in 2019-20.
 50% of submitted staff have secured externally funded research income as Principal Investigator
 (PI) or Co-Investigator (CI) in the census period, resulting in this year-on-year growth. Increased
 diversity of funding is evidenced by the numbers of different funders of our research, including
 UKRI Research Councils, British Council, European Commission, NHS, international and
 national governments and businesses (see section 3).

 1.2.4      Develop the research culture and environment

 Research Clusters and Groups have enabled staff to become research active and provided a
 crucial pipeline to increase research intensity. The critical mass developed around common


Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 themes within our clusters and RGs fostered a sense of shared research identity and reputation,
 engendering a facilitative culture that supports integrity and openness, and enabling a focussed
 and coordinated approach to training, developmental activities and bidding.

 1.2.5      Enable and facilitate impact

 We raise awareness of the importance of impact through workshops and activities, as well as
 each staff member’s annual Performance and Development Review (PDR). We appointed a
 Faculty Impact Lead to support the development of impact in partnership with the central
 University impact team. We provided support for the development of impact for projects and
 funding bids through our Faculty Research, Innovation and Impact Acceleration Fund (RIAAF,
 see 2.2) and WLA. We strengthened collaborations which underpin the production,
 preservation and display and public engagement with contemporary and heritage
 collections. We scoped and supported the development of 6 projects, from which we selected 3
 Impact Case Studies:

           Contemporary creative practice research: Securing the future for ‘art-zines’ and
            artists’ books (BATEY)
            Brains to Biennale: Bridging Art and Science to Build Audiences and Develop Artists
            (KWINT)
           A House Through Time: Shaping a flagship TV series to achieve critical and financial
            success and inspiring the public to engage with house history (SUGG RYAN)

 We have built up working relationships with key stakeholders and are involving them in the co-
 design and delivery of our research to develop resilient and sustainable communities to
 enhance health and wellbeing and democratic citizenship. This resulted in a number of
 impactful ongoing projects, such as:

           PONToon (FARRER) (see 1.1.1 and 4.2).
           CRUNCH: Climate Resilient Urban Nexus Choices (MELIS) (see 4.2), an international
            interdisciplinary project led by UoP, funded by the Sustainable Urbanization Global
            Initiative (established by the Belmont Forum and Joint Programming Initiative Urban
            Europe), to bring together fragmented global research and expertise to find innovative
            solutions to the challenges of the Food-Energy-Water nexus (FEW). The project
            comprises a multidisciplinary group of academics from the UK, the Netherlands, Poland,
            Sweden, Taiwan and USA.

 1.3       Our Unit’s progress towards an open research environment, research integrity and
           ethics

 Our Unit follows the University’s Open Access policy (ILES 3.2, point 24, p.4), achieving an
 overall OA-compliance rate of 100% for all in-scope articles during the REF period. Furthermore,
 100% of our Unit’s staff have an ORCID. BAILEY-ROSS contributed to the National
 Coordinating Centre for Public Engagement’s Museum-University Partnership Programme




Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Toolkit, working with colleagues at the National History Museum and V&A to create open access
 resources for anyone working on projects that involve museums.

 UoA32 follows UoP’s commitments under the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (ILES
 3.2, 22, p.4). All our research projects, including externally/internally funded and unfunded, staff,
 masters and PGRs, follow UoP’s ethics guidance and are reviewed by CCI’s Ethics Committee
 (ILES 3.2.23, p.4), which contains representatives from our schools and includes our
 Departmental Research Degrees Coordinators (DRDCs). The Ethics Committee Chair also sits
 on our Faculty Research and Innovation Committee (FRIC). We have held Ethics workshops in
 CCI and staff complete Ethics training.

 1.4     Future strategic aims for research and impact

 The following strategic objectives will build on our achievements in REF 2021:

 1.4.1    Consolidate our research base through development of overarching
          interdisciplinary research themes and groups

 The new CCIXR interdisciplinary research and development facility will drive new research that
 combines the critical and practical investigation of human interaction design and aligns closely
 with the interests and strategic ambitions of our researchers in Architecture, Art and Design, and
 Creative Technologies. It will support our ambition to strengthen our practice research, as well
 as give us the opportunity to recruit new senior research leaders.

 We will review our Research Groups and consolidate them into fewer, more overarching
 interdisciplinary thematic groups that drive our research strategy, align CCI and UoP priorities,
 and build on our demonstrable expertise in Sustainability and the Environment and applied
 design and creative approaches to Health and Wellbeing and Cultural Heritage.

 1.4.2    Support the development of practice research

 We aim to increase the number of research active staff by supporting people to develop their
 professional/creative practice into practice research. This also supports our ambition to increase
 the proportion of practice research in our REF2027 submission by at least 30%. CCI-PRAG will
 continue to facilitate developmental work and will hold an annual conference with external
 speakers. As a steering group, it will provide leadership opportunities for early and mid-career
 academics within their schools and subject groups. CCI-PRAG will be given a devolved budget
 to award funds to facilitate practice research and its documentation.

 1.4.3    Increase the volume and diversity of external research and knowledge transfer
          income

 We will seize opportunities to develop bids with non-academic partners and funders offered by
 CCIXR. We anticipate further growth through targeted development and cohort training
 approaches aimed at specific schemes by UKRI Research Councils and other funders, and by
 continuing to work closely on interdisciplinary projects with our colleagues in the Faculty of
 Humanities and Social Sciences and exploring co-development opportunities with other
 Faculties and UoP Themes. For example, we will build upon work with the Theme Director for

Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Health and Wellbeing to further develop projects aligned with Portsmouth Hospitals University
 NHS Trust (ILES 2.2.16, p.3), such as HARKINS’ Bedview Graphic Interface Development
 hospital bed management project.

 1.4.4    Increase our PGR numbers

 We aim to increase PGR student numbers significantly, in line with University ambitions and
 targets, through our Faculty QR-funded bursaries scheme and attracting self-funded students.
 Key to this will be the expansion and development of diverse modes of PhD programmes
 that recognise more fully practice-based research, and research by publication / portfolio. We
 will capitalise on SUGG RYAN’s 2020 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Partnership (CDP) award
 by making more applications to the scheme and will work towards an application to join an
 AHRC Doctoral Training Programme in the next round.


 2.      People

 Our submission includes 5 Professors (including Dean; Head of School; ADR) (2f; 3 m); 1
 Associate Dean Global Engagement (f); 3 Readers (m); 3 Principal Lecturers (1f; 2m); 1 Senior
 Research Fellow (f); 20 Senior Lecturers (10f; 10m) and 4 Lecturers (2f; 2m).

 2.1     Staffing strategy

 We undertook sustained and strategic recruitment of ambitious, research-active staff to grow our
 research culture. Our 24 new appointments represent 65% of our headcount. We have been
 ambitious in recruiting 5 Professors in research and leadership roles since 2014: KEEBLE,
 Dean and Professor of Design; LIEBERMAN, Head of PSA and Professor of Architecture;
 FARRER, Associate Dean Enterprise and Innovation (until 2019) and Professor of Design and
 Innovation; SUGG RYAN, Associate Dean Research and Professor of Design History and
 Theory; MELIS (internally recruited replacing Lehmann), Professor of Architecture and
 Innovation. We have sought to maintain a balance of staff at different career levels, recruiting
 senior staff with managerial experience, mid-career and early-career researchers to combine
 experience with opportunity. Other appointments represent strategic investments into priority
 growth areas within school research across practice, theory and history. ADP made
 appointments supporting practice research in Fashion and Textile Design (1 Senior Lecturer),
 Photography, Illustration, and Visual Culture (3: 1 Lecturer in each). CT appointed a Senior
 Research Fellow in Enterprise and Innovation to support their projects and other appointments
 specialising in research in Human Experience and Interaction Design and Immersive
 Technologies (2 Senior Lecturers) and in Animation practice (1 Lecturer). PSA made a
 considerable investment in staff working across research in Architectural and Urban Design
 theory, practice and history (1 Reader; 1 Principal Lecturer; 4 Senior Lecturers; 3 Lecturers), and
 in Heritage and Conservation (2 Senior Lecturers).

 Part-time hourly-paid staff and PGRs, such as HOWELL and HOBBS, have been nurtured to
 gain permanent staff contracts to consolidate our staff research profile and sustain future
 research strength. There is only one member of staff in the submission on an (externally funded)



Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 fixed-term contract. We have 9 staff on permanent fractional contracts (0.4-0.8), enabling them
 to fulfil professional practice and other external commitments.

 CCI is committed to recognising and rewarding excellence in research leadership, outputs and
 impact. 27% of staff submitted to the Unit have been promoted in the census period. These
 10 staff promotions comprise: 5 from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer; 1 from Senior Lecturer to
 Principal Lecturer; 2 from Senior Lecturer to Reader; 1 from Senior Lecturer to Associate Dean;
 1 internally recruited from Senior Lecturer into a vacancy for Professor. In addition to the advice
 and guidance given on applying for promotion in UoP procedures (ILES 3.4, 54. p. 8), we invite
 successful applicants to give briefing sessions to our staff, and plans are discussed and
 reviewed through the PDR.

 We intend to increase the number of senior research leaders, with particular attention to
 diversity and inclusion. We will address this at Faculty level through targeted work on the
 career progression and promotion pipeline to compliment the new UoP ECR to Research Leader
 strategy (ILES 2.2.2, 41, p.7). We will include sessions aimed at women, who are currently
 underrepresented at Reader level, and we will encourage and support more to undertake
 Advance HE’s Aurora leadership training for women. We will support our Readers to make
 applications for promotion to Professor within UoP’s recommended 4-year timeframe. We will
 ensure opportunities to gain experience of leadership to support applications for promotion are
 recruited in a fair and transparent way by advertising and interviewing roles and having time-
 limited terms of office. We will create new opportunities in anticipated growth in membership and
 activities of CCI-PRAG. We will encourage staff from underrepresented groups to apply for
 leadership roles through mentoring, PDR and briefings. We will continue to consider the gender
 balance of research leadership roles when we recruit and/or renew terms of office and will offer
 roles to those with protected characteristics who are underrepresented where there is a tie.

 2.2   Staff development and support

 Our staff development strategy aims to grow the capabilities, profile and collaborative networks
 of our researchers using a combination of in-Faculty training and support systems, wider
 University-level initiatives (ILES 3. People pp. 5-8), and relevant external initiatives such as
 those offered by the CHEAD Research Alliance and RIBA. Our Unit adheres to the Concordat to
 Support the Career Development of Researchers (ILES, 2.2.2, 41, p.7).

 The research WLA is the principal mechanism to foster sustained research activity and
 development, and all Unit members have a workload allocation of at least 20% and up to 50%.
 All Unit members undergo an annual PDR jointly organised and conducted by senior
 researchers and School Heads, to monitor progress and development which is factored into the
 workload allowance for the following academic year. Our PDR process places research at the
 heart of career development, enabling us to factor resource requirements into our research
 plans at the individual, School and Unit level. Our Research and Innovation Coaching Scheme
 partners experienced researchers with developing ones, providing extra support for personal
 research strategies, plans, career progression, funding bids and research-project management.

 CCI supports researchers at each stage of their career, with training activities led by our ECR
 working group, and follows UoP’s targeted support mechanisms for ECRs (ILES 2.2.2, pp. 6-7).

Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 9 staff in the Unit are ECRs, representing 24% of the overall staff Unit FTE, which
 demonstrates success in the sustained strategic investment in ECR staff over the census period.
 All ECRs join research groups. In addition, we aim to cultivate and build supervisory experience
 and capacity by deploying ECRs on PhD supervisory teams, helping them learn to be effective
 PhD supervisors alongside more experienced staff. Currently 46% of our staff are first
 supervisors. All but one of our current ECRs are on supervisory teams.

 73% (13f; 14m) of staff submitted to the Unit have PhDs, which reflects disciplinary norms
 with staff from industry, professional and practice backgrounds. In line with UoP objectives to
 increase the number of staff with PhDs and in support of our ambition to deepen and expand our
 research, existing and new staff members have been encouraged and supported to undertake
 PhDs. 6 staff have completed PhDs within the census period. Of the 10 staff without PhDs
 (4f; 6m); 3 (1f; 2m) are currently registered. In addition, 5 more staff (3f; 2m) not returned in
 this submission are registered for PhDs and we anticipate they will be part of our 2028 return.

 In order to increase our research intensity, outputs and income targets, we intend to increase
 the number of staff with PhDs. We will continue to recruit staff with PhDs, mindful of
 disciplinary norms for those from professional, industry and practice backgrounds. We will
 support staff currently registered for PhDs to completion, with targeted timetabling arrangements
 and study leave. Both existing and new staff will be offered opportunities for research training
 through a more diverse range of PhDs (see 1.4.4), supported by fee waivers.

 RG leads, school research leads, and Unit leads contribute to planning regular developmental
 events at the Faculty level to complement UoP-wide research development activities (ILES
 2.2.1, p. 6). At the Unit level, activities have included workshops on producing high-quality
 written outputs and presenting practice research work. 4 staff in the Unit are part of the Faculty-
 wide CCI-PRAG, mentoring other staff to articulate and present their practice research outputs.
 Faculty training events on research funding are outlined in section 3 below.

 In order to ensure that senior researchers are supported to be effective research leaders, UoP
 invested in two ongoing schemes in which Unit staff have participated (ILES 2.1.34, p.6): the
 Research Leadership Programme (DI RAIMO), and the Reader to Research Lead Programme
 (ZAMBELLI) for which KEEBLE and SUGG RYAN are mentors. These schemes include
 coaching sessions, a mentor from across UoP, and extensive workshops on how best to support
 early and mid-career colleagues. To ensure staff at all levels will benefit from such schemes,
 UoP will be launching a new early to mid-career programme in October 2021, which staff in CCI
 will be offered the opportunity to participate in through their ongoing development as part of the
 PDR.

 All Unit members have access to a Conference Support Fund, which provides funding for
 conference fees, travel, accommodation and costs of caring responsibilities. All staff can apply
 for one term of sabbatical leave to undertake a predefined project. Three of our four sabbatical
 awards supported staff undertaking and/or progressing doctoral research: NETTER (2017)
 advanced his practice-led PhD research and developed outputs in illustration and historiography;
 IGOE (2017) advanced her previous doctoral research towards a monograph, Textile Design
 Theory in the Making; MITCHELL (2019) progressed a PhD by Publication in ‘Performing
 Interiors’. Our fourth sabbatical supported the development of impact by KWINT (2018) arising

Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 from his previous curatorial research on neuroscience and visual culture, and the development
 of a related successful bid for a Paul Mellon Centre Fellowship. We supported the development
 of research and impact activities leading to outputs and external funding bids through our
 Research, Innovation and Impact Accelerator Fund (RIAAF), which covers the cost of expenses
 including travel, materials and research assistance. Projects from the 10 awardees from the Unit
 include research assistance to conduct perception questionnaires for ROBAZZA’s practice
 research on the impact of temporary urban structures; travel expenses for PEDRABISSI and DI
 RAIMO for projects for the Venice Architecture Biennale (postponed to 2021); and expenses for
 KNIGHT’s project on alternative book formats to aid cartographic literacy in the digital age.
 GARNER had an award from the University Themes Research and Innovation Fund for his
 interdisciplinary project Sonic Augmented Reality and the Virtual Doctor (£9,380).

 2.3     Postgraduate research students

 2.3.1    Integration into research culture

 We recognise and value PGRs as an essential part of our Unit’s research culture. In line with our
 wider Faculty strategy, we have allocated substantial QR funds to bursaries that support PGRs’
 full and part-time registration. We currently have 34 PGRs registered in our Unit, comprising 14
 in Architecture, 12 in Art and Design, and 8 in Creative Technologies.

 We nurture and develop PGRs’ skills and confidence through integrated training and seminar
 programmes in which they participate alongside established staff researchers, supported by
 supervisory tutorials. PGRs also present to their supervisors prior to their seminar. These
 developmental opportunities led to our Unit PGRs’ participation in annual Faculty-wide
 postgraduate research conferences. Our PGRs also attend regular research meetings to discuss
 and share research and to network with other students and researchers. Our Faculty Research
 Degrees Coordinator leads fortnightly catch-up sessions and, prior to COVID restrictions, a
 monthly research lunch to which all PhD students and supervisory teams are invited. DRDCs
 also set up regular peer-to-peer meetings between students. Furthermore, we strategically
 assigned PhD students office space next to academic staff to facilitate easy access and
 engagement with them and to help integrate PhD students into our research culture.

 2.3.2    Recruitment and funding of PGRs

 Alongside developing our student-staff research culture, we aimed to increase the numbers of
 PhD students in our Unit over this REF period. While 10 PGRs graduated in the census period,
 the exponential growth in our research output and income has been matched by a sharp
 increase in new registrations, totalling 34.

 Table 1: New PGR registrations

       2013-14   2014-15    2015-16    2016-17     2017-18    2018-19     2019-20    2020-21


          0         2          2           3          4           8          5          10




Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 As well as the interest generated by our staff’s research outputs, our primary mechanism for
 attracting students has been advertisements for fully-funded Faculty bursaries and UoP strategic
 and global bursaries. CCI offers up to four bursaries per annum to promote research in strategic
 areas, complementing the University-wide global bursaries for which our students are eligible, as
 well as attracting self-funding candidates. We will build on SUGG RYAN’s AHRC CDP with the
 Science Museum Group for future applications and we will also adopt this collaborative model
 for some of our own bursary-funded projects, drawing on existing work we do with our local
 heritage and cultural organisations such as Worthing Museum (BAILEY-ROSS), Fishbourne
 Roman Palace (TEBA), Aspex (ACE NPO) and Portsmouth Guildhall Trust (KEEBLE), and
 forging new partnerships, e.g., Portsmouth City Museums. This will help us build track record
 and capacity to submit an application to join an AHRC Doctoral Training Programme in the next
 round.

 Supporting the wider University’s admissions policy (ILES 3.30, p.5), we carefully word our
 bursary advertisements to emphasise the value of candidates with protected characteristics and
 encourage uptake from communities experiencing barriers to PhD study. We also encourage
 dialogue from candidates with non-traditional backgrounds and qualifications. In this way, we
 have sought to develop a diverse and international postgraduate student body, with 30% of our
 PGRs during this REF period coming from overseas.

 2.3.3    Monitoring and support mechanisms

 We provide each PGR with a supervisory team of at least two (usually three) supervisors with
 expertise relevant to the student’s topic and/or methodology. All supervisors complete
 supervisory training provided by the Graduate School. All PGRs take part in an annual review,
 requiring them to submit a thesis outline, a summary of their progress and training over the year,
 and draft sections of their thesis. We ensure this process is as supportive as possible, carefully
 choosing assessors with a complementary research background and promoting constructive
 feedback. We offer any PGR who has not made sufficient progress the opportunity to re-submit
 their work within an agreed deadline for a second (and final) review meeting. To monitor
 progress and resolve any emerging issues, each student’s primary supervisor also meets with
 them for regular one-to-one check-ins alongside additional meetings with their supervisory team,
 providing reports on their progress to the DRDC.

 The Unit’s students have also benefited from UoP’s measures to overcome the effects of COVID
 on PGR research and progression, which include no-cost fee extensions, access to the student
 hardship fund, and other targeted support (see ILES COVID Annex, p.10). We also offered
 increased online support to our PGRs, including an enhanced online Graduate School
 Development Programme (GSDP), moving Faculty informal fortnightly PGR catch-up online, and
 offering an online writing retreat.

 2.3.4    Skills development and career preparation

 Our supervisors encourage PGRs to identify their training needs and arrange internal and
 external Continuing Professional Development (CPD) to meet them, assessing their progress
 and development in the Annual Reviews and adjusting training goals accordingly. We


Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 complement the GDSP with bespoke developmental sessions at the Faculty and
 School/Department level. E.g., our ‘Ethics for Creatives’ event provided a panel of experts to
 demystify the ethics process and offer research tips and insights ranging from interviews to
 collaborative practice-focused research. We offer dedicated funds for PGRs to attend national
 and international conferences so they can improve their presentational skills and utilise
 networking opportunities. We also encourage PGRs to submit their work for publication,
 facilitated by peer-review feedback from their supervisory team. PGRs have co-authored peer-
 reviewed journal articles with their supervisors and have also contributed chapters to edited
 books in our REF submission.

 Personal, professional and career development are integral to the content of the GSDP, which
 aligns with the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (RDF) (ILES 2.2.1., 38, p.6). Our
 Graduate School provides 76 training sessions across the RDF domains, 11 of which specifically
 address job searching, preparing CVs and application forms, transferable skills, personality-type
 analysis, interviews, entrepreneurialism, and sourcing and applying for research funding. Our
 Careers and Employability Service also provides a comprehensive range of resources and
 training.

 We encourage and facilitate PGRs to acquire lecturing experience, providing our students with
 paid supervisor-supported teaching experiences. To begin teaching, PGRs must enrol on the
 Graduate Students Professional Development teacher-training programme, provided by the
 Department for Curriculum and Quality Enhancement. In the last Postgraduate Research
 Experience Survey (2019), our Faculty scored in the top quartile of universities for PGRs’
 professional development (82%) and teaching opportunities (82%), with 49% of our PGRs
 employed in lecturing and 92% receiving formal teaching training.

 2.4   Equality and diversity

 Our Unit follows UoP’s commitment to Equality and Diversity (ILES 3. p.7). The recruitment and
 promotion processes for staff consider and encourage applications from those with protected
 characteristics. All Unit members involved in the selection of outputs have completed UoP’s
 three core modules on Equality and Diversity training (Unconscious Bias, Bullying and
 Harassment, and Equality in Higher Education). As described in the ILES, UoP holds an
 Institutional Athena Swan (AS) Bronze Award (ILES 3, 44, p.7). PSA and CT both hold the AS
 Bronze award, while ADP and FMC both have an AS progression team of staff preparing to
 submit an application. To support our aim of increasing the proportion of women in leadership
 positions, two people from the Unit have undertaken Aurora leadership training.

 Staff with caring responsibilities have access to flexible working plans and timetable constraints.
 Our FRIC’s recommendation of a fund to support the costs of those with caring responsibilities to
 facilitate conference attendance proposed by our ADR was incorporated into the 2019 University
 Travel and Expenses Policy.

 All staff who are ‘at risk’, have family members ‘at risk’, or who have been uncomfortable being
 on campus during COVID have been supported in remote working since March 2020. All




Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 research activities and meetings have also taken place online and we will pursue a mixed online
 and in-person approach for research events in future.

 Overall, 46% of submissible staff are female, which is in proportion with our eligible staff.
 While we have a gender balance in our Lecturers, Senior Lecturers and Professors, all three of
 our Readers are male. 35% of the staff that we have appointed in the census period are female
 and promotions also show an imbalance, with 22% going to women, which we will address in our
 new staffing strategy (see 2.1). Despite this, the mean gender pay gap for UoA 32 eligible
 staff is just 1%. 36% of our outputs are attributed to female staff and we will work to close this
 gap for our submission in REF 2028.

 Examples of initiatives supporting equality and diversity include CCI hosting the 2015 UoP AS
 Annual Conference with Jane Duncan, then President Elect of RIBA as keynote speaker.
 Professor Catherine Harper, our former Dean, was UoP’s Institutional AS Champion and SUGG
 RYAN served on the Career Progression and Promotion Working Group of the University’s AS
 Self-Assessment Team. The work of implementing equality and diversity has been extended at
 departmental level through an Equality and Diversity group in all Schools. Other examples
 include an all-staff workshop in PSA on issues relating to gender, pedagogical practice and the
 promotion of women to leadership roles. In response to this, and to facilitate an increased
 diversity of research outputs, in 2017 PSA organised a practice research conference, open to all
 Faculty staff. The conference had a range of external and internal speakers engaged in different
 forms of practice to enable a discussion about the making of research through a diversity of
 voices. The UoP AS Champion Fund then supported PSA to facilitate a follow-on conference on
 equality and diversity.

 UoP is signatory to the Race Equality Charter. The 9% representation of BAME staff submitted
 in UoA32 is 2% higher than those eligible and our submission of 50% of eligible BAME staff
 represents a higher proportion than the 39% of eligible white staff submitted. To increase
 representation, we are taking action to increase the number of BAME staff we recruit. E.g.,
 UoA32 staff took part in a series of anti-racism development sessions with the organisation
 ‘Shades of Noir’ in 2020. Sessions addressed curriculum design, research agendas, learning
 and work-environment cultures, and staff recruitment. We have a significant international
 presence within staff in this submission, with 29% EU and 12% non-EU international. Together,
 this reflects the inclusive, multi-cultural environment within the Faculty, as well as the
 international reputation that it enjoys.

 UoA32 fully supports people with disabilities to engage in research and to have a significant
 responsibility for research as part of their roles: of the 13% of staff with declared disabilities, 51%
 are being submitted, compared to 41% of those without disabilities.

 Equality Impact Assessments showed no significant difference according to age between staff in
 our submission and eligible staff. 100% of eligible ECRs (5f; 4m) have been submitted. Within
 our submission, ECRs (24% of our submitted staff) are slightly under-represented with 20% of
 outputs, whilst senior researchers are overrepresented, with 29% of outputs from Readers and
 Professors (19% of our submitted staff).




Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.    Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1   Income

 There was a substantial growth in the volume and diversity of income to our Unit from external
 sources over this REF period. Our annual research income has increased by nearly 3,000%
 percent from £21,010 in 2014 to £646,788 in 2020.

 Chart 1: UoA32 Research Income, 2013/14 – 2019/20

  £700,000
                                                                                     £646,788

  £600,000


  £500,000


  £400,000                                                               £383,513


  £300,000
                                                             £211,921
  £200,000                £171,215

                                                  £106,760
  £100,000
                £21,011                £14,034
          £0
                 13/14      14/15       15/16       16/17      17/18       18/19      19/20
 Grand total: £1,555,242; Average: £222,177.

 Our vibrant, supportive research environment, together with our staffing and recruitment
 strategy, has brought on experienced PIs who have been able to support their colleagues in
 developing collaborative bids - with training and administrative support from Faculty Research &
 Innovation (CCI-RI) - to secure more funding from diverse sources. Income has ranged from
 smaller-scale individual projects such as KWINT’s Paul Mellon Centre Fellowship (£10,135) to
 joint funding bids to multi-partner projects such as ZAMBELLI’s (CI) AHRC Large Grant ‘Wastes
 and Strays’, with Newcastle University (UoP £36,840 of £207,944. The DI cluster’s participation
 in complex, consortium-based international research programmes has been key to our income
 growth; such as FARRER’s European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) Interreg France
 (Channel) England programme funded PONToon (see 1.2.v) (CI: HAKIM-DOWEK; NETTER)
 with 11 partners across the UK and France (£569,727 of €5.8 million).

 Interdisciplinary projects conducted under the umbrella of the Cluster for Sustainable
 Cities have been key to increasing external income for the Unit and have facilitated a range of
 outputs such as journal articles and edited books. CSC members worked together under the


Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 leadership of senior academics to obtain a range of funding, with CIs learning from PIs, and
 made 3 successful bids to the British Council (PIs: LEMES, TEBA; CI: MELIS) totalling £60,936
 with universities in Brazil, China and Jordan. They also obtained funding from ESRC (CI:
 MELIS); ERDF Interreg 2 Seas (CIs: ROBAZZA, KALLITIS); MIBACT– Italian Ministry of Cultural
 Heritage and Activities (MELIS); and Portsmouth City Council (ROBAZZA). CSC also received 4
 competitive internal awards from the UoP Global Challenges Research Fund totalling £286,825.

 We will help our other RGs grow income in the same way through their development into larger
 thematic groupings. We will build on our projects on sustainability, e.g., FARRER’s ERDF
 Interreg 2 Seas funded Sustainable Up-cycling of Agro-, Agrofood, and Fisheries Residues in
 Horticulture and Agriculture as Bioenergy, Biochar and Chitin-rich Products (Horti-blueC, CIs:
 BOWYER; NETTER). Significant funding was obtained for projects to improve the delivery of
 healthcare: BOWYER’s Tupumue, funded by the Medical Research Council (CI NETTER);
 BOWYER’S Action Against COVID Transmission (ACT) (CI: NETTER) was supported by the
 Research England QR Global Challenges Research Fund; HARKINS’ Portsmouth Hospitals
 NHS Trust funded Bedview Graphic Interface, and FARRER’s ERDF Interreg 2 Seas DERMA
 (CIs: BOWYER, NETTER, GUMTAU, KWINT).

 We have also drawn on our strengths in research in collections, curation and audiences to
 develop funded projects with museums and cultural institutions: SUGG RYAN’s AHRC CDP with
 the Science Museum Group; and BAILEY-ROSS’s (CI) Innovate UK funded ‘Disgust: Why Do
 We Feel the Need to Judge’ for Worthing Museum. In addition to Paul Mellon Centre funding,
 KWINT’s curatorial projects with multiple partners have been supported by the Henry Moore
 Foundation and form the basis of an Impact Case Study (ICS). Collaborative partnerships and
 strong stakeholder involvement have underpinned Creative-XR projects funded by Innovate UK:
 GARNER’s XR for Training and Education with DSTL via QinetiQ; and KEEBLE’s impactful
 Innovate UK/UKRI Audiences of the Future Demonstrator Project with the Royal Shakespeare
 Company Consortium, including the Philharmonia Orchestra, Manchester International Festival,
 and Punchdrunk. The latter’s multidisciplinary engagement of design, creative technologies and
 performance received significant in-kind support from industrial partners including EPIC and
 Vicon. This work builds on the 2018 UoP/Limbik Theatre production Fatherland, which was
 supported by over £100k of funding as part of Creative XR (ACE/Digital Catapult).
 KOCHBERG’s (CI) practice research ‘Ritual Reconstructed: Challenges to Disconnection,
 Division and Exclusion in the Jewish LGBTQI Communities’ was funded by AHRC and formed
 the basis of his practice research submission.

 3.2   Infrastructure

 CCI made considerable investments in research management and administration over the
 census period, externally recruiting the ADR (SUGG RYAN) and appointing a Faculty Innovation
 Director and Faculty Impact Lead, complemented by appointment of a Research and Innovation
 Officer, Research and Innovation Administrator, Senior Finance Officer, and Centre Business
 Director for CCIXR. The Executive Dean (KEEBLE) and ADR co-chair the FRIC, which
 determines the research strategy and support schemes for the Faculty. Each School is
 represented on the FRIC by Heads of School (including LIEBERMAN: PSA) and School
 Research Leads (including DI RAIMO and ZAMBELLI: PSA, KWINT: ADP and BAILEY-ROSS:


Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 CT) who have a WLA to support this. REF leadership is drawn from this committee and the
 wider academic community.

 CCI-RI developed a Research & Innovation Hub that features funding opportunities across the
 broad range of Art and Design covered by our Unit and a library of previous bids and funder
 feedback to support colleagues, embracing mentoring and peer-led culture. Researchers are
 also supported by central UoP Research and Innovation Services (RIS) whose seven Grants
 and Development Officers support Unit members with Research Council grant applications and
 deliver targeted training on UKRI schemes working with CCI-RI, the ADR and School research
 leads. UoP has a Peer Review College (PRC) run by RIS, with reviewers from across UoP
 including Unit members FARRER, GUMTAU, KEEBLE, and SUGG RYAN. Along with
 successful award holders, they also undertake reviews of bids within CCI not covered by the
 UoP PRC. The library has a Research Data Officer who advises staff on data management
 plans (ILES 3.3.24 p.4). Investment in our library resources in liaison with our specialist Faculty
 Librarian also supports our research.

 3.3   Facilities

 The Unit is housed in the refurbished Eldon Building and supported with investment in facilities
 over the census period to ensure the ongoing vitality and impact of our work. This includes state-
 of-the-art television and motion capture (MoCap) studios, and a cinema used for teaching,
 research and public engagement events. Practice research in UoA32 is supported with provision
 of annually-updated workshops in timber, digital and wet photography studios, metal, laser
 cutting, 3D printing, glass/plastic, textiles construction, and fashion studios. These provide staff
 and PGRs with opportunities to experiment with research questions. ROBAZZA was supported
 to build the sculptural structures that resulted from his research projects. MITCHELL used laser
 scanning engineering workshops as part of her exploration of interior space in Wymering Manor.
 KWINT’S Henry Moore Foundation project used the MoCap Studio. Other staff members
 explored ideas of mapping and textile printing as ways of exploring city edges in Portsmouth.
 CCI also includes state-of-the-art creative technologies and virtual reality (VR) labs that TEBA,
 HOWELL, BAILEY-ROSS, GARNER, BOWYER and FARRER use to advance research and
 practice in digital innovation studies, including preservation strategies for tangible and intangible
 heritage.

 Building on our demonstrable academic expertise, CCI prioritised the securing of sizable
 external funding to create CCIXR, our world-leading facilities in creative and immersive
 technologies to enable our future research and impact activities (see 1.2.4). The facility, located
 within the Eldon Building, will feature cutting-edge technologies including photogrammetry,
 volumetric capture, and virtual production technology. Alongside GARNER and BAILEY ROSS’s
 funded partnerships with Worthing Museum and QinetiQ (DSTL), our funded R&D applications
 of creative technologies and human interaction design in relation to immersive theatre have
 been key to the development and successful funding of CCIXR. We will also be creating new
 updated Motion Capture facilities, a VR lab, recording studios, and a digital coding space. Our
 three new music studios will incorporate world-class equipment including a Neve Genesis mixing
 desk and a Dolby Atmos system. These world-leading facilities will have an invaluable impact on
 UoA32’s research in human interaction design and medical applications, as well as artistic,
 design, curatorial, heritage, spatial, and architectural practice. They will also drive future income

Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 with interdisciplinary projects that combine our strengths and facilities in creative, immersive and
 extended reality with our wider research in art, design, architecture and media.


 4.    Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1   Arrangements to support effectiveness of research collaborations, networks and
       partnerships

 A central aim of our Unit has been to encourage research collaborations, networks and
 partnerships to stimulate and internationalise our research and build on collective strengths. This
 has proven central to the expansion and development of our research outputs, impact and
 bidding activities over the past six years, and the significant rise in external income during this
 period is testament to this. These collaborations have been developed through the PDR, along
 with the RIAAF, the Conference Support Fund, and seed funding for RG activities. In addition,
 members have access to an individual staff development allowance of £450 per year, which
 funds travel for networking. Readers and Professors have an annual allowance of £1000 with
 the specific aim of developing networking and thereby seed-funding collaborative projects.
 Collaborative working and partnership has been supported by CCI-RI, as well as RIS
 colleagues, notably a faculty-dedicated Collaboration Manager (ILES 2.2.15, p.3).

 4.2   Staff engagement with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences

 The public discourse of architecture, and in particular cultural and social sustainability, is a
 key focus for research in this Unit. Led by MELIS and CSC, CRUNCH (see 1.2.5) works with
 urban practitioners, designers and policy makers at six international case-study sites. The
 project offers Urban Living Labs as a testbed for the interdisciplinary practice-based application
 of research knowledge and post-occupancy data monitoring. Although continuing through 2021,
 it has already resulted in a major publication of findings to date and has informed the design of a
 strategic mobility plan led by MELIS for the UNESCO Heritage City Centre of Campeche,
 Mexico (September 2020). Based on the developing principles of community resilience, the plan
 has been developed in partnership with the Governmental Fundacion Pablo Garcia with the
 Patronage of the City Centre.

 Working with colleagues across the Faculty, KEEBLE and GARNER contributed to the UKRI
 Innovate UK Audience of the Future Demonstrator Project led by the Royal Shakespeare
 Company. In this project, originally scheduled for 2020 (rescheduled to 2021 due to COVID), a
 multi-disciplinary team provided creative and technical R&D for Dream, a live digital performance
 with the RSC, Marshmallow Laser Feast, Goldsmiths, Manchester International Festival and
 Magic Leap.

 Our interdisciplinary partnerships with researchers both within and beyond UoP in projects
 facilitated by the DI cluster have been key to our engagement and response to national and
 international priorities and challenges. Led by FARRER, PONToon (see 1.1.1) was centred
 around community development, social and economic inclusion and equality. Established as a
 consortium of UK and French partners, including Aspex Visual Arts Trust, Portsmouth (ACE
 NPO), Devon Mind, and Amiens Metropole, the project explored the design and interface of


Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 creative technologies in support of social inclusion and empowerment of socially marginalised
 young women.

 GUMTAU collaborated with STS Defence on data visualisation, developing IConIC (Intelligent
 Condition Monitoring with Integrated Communications), an automated ‘machine to machine’ and
 ship-to-shore data exchange capability. Led by the Flanders Institute for Agriculture, Fisheries
 and Food, Horti-Blu is an Interreg-funded project bringing together academic and industrial
 partners from the Netherlands, Belgium, France and UK to investigate sustainable and circular
 soilless horticulture. FARRER and BOWYER led UoP’s team, which included botanists,
 biologists and business innovators.

 Between 2014-2020 FARRER and BOWYER were part of the Interreg funded project DERMA –
 Design of Enabling Regenerative Materials. Joining bio-scientific and clinician teams on this
 project, UoP researchers’ contribution focused upon prototype development and material
 innovation. In 2017-18 FARRER, BOWYER and DI RAIMO secured funding to further develop
 and share aspects of this research with colleagues at the Ho Chi Minh City International
 University (IU), Vietnam, through participation in the Erasmus+ staff mobility scheme. This
 research-focused collaboration enabled sharing of practice and presentation of the work -
 ‘DERMA - Wound Care by Design’ - at the 7th International Conference on the Development of
 Biomedical Engineering in Vietnam: Healthcare Technology for Developing Countries, which
 took place in Ho Chi Minh City (2018).

 UoP Global Challenges Research Funding also enabled the CSC to undertake a number of
 collaborative research projects and build new networks and partnerships. MELIS and BOWYER
 (£176,825) investigated catalysing sustainability transitions in cities in the global south suffering
 from severe plastic pollution. LIEBERMAN (£80,000) leads a project to explore building resilient
 coastal communities: ‘Learning from Small Island Developing States’. TEBA’s (£20,000) project
 led and grew a Middle Eastern Heritage Research Hub network to explore different heritage
 challenges in Egypt, Lebanon and Turkey in collaboration with key universities and heritage
 bodies in these three countries of the Middle East.

 4.3     How the Unit engages with diverse communities and publics through its research

 4.3.1    Exhibitions

 Photographers in the Unit have made significant exhibitions of their research in projects which
 have directly involved participatory communities: HAKIM-DOWEK curated and exhibited East
 and West: Visualising the Ottoman City (Peltz Gallery, Birkbeck College, 2014) as part of the
 AHRC Conference Project ‘Ottoman Pasts, Present Cities: Cosmopolitanism and Transcultural
 Memories’; ARIEL’s photographic work Blurring a Border Begins with First Light was
 competitively selected and exhibited at the 2016 Print Awards, the centrepiece of the
 International Print Biennale. KOLKER’s exhibition of photo portraits The Landscape of Auschwitz
 was part of The Lake District Holocaust Project, working with refugee Holocaust survivors.
 TORRES’s extensive international exhibition of fashion-film series Unmaking included
 TRANSFASHIONAL, held at Lisbon Fashion Week SUMMER 2017 at Pátio da Galé, Praça do
 Município - a joint initiative of the Lisbon City Council and ModaLisboa Association (2016), at
 Ujazdowski Castle Centre for Warsaw Contemporary Art (2017), at City Museum of Rimini

Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 (2019-20), Vienna Museums Quartier (2017), and at Melkfabriek ‘State of Fashion’ (successor to
 Arnhem Fashion Biënnale) (2018).

 A number of curatorial projects have engaged with diverse communities and publics, including
 KWINT’s Frontiers Reimagined (Venice Biennale, 2015). In 2019 MELIS was appointed Curator
 of the Italian Pavilion at the Venice Biennale 2020. Though delayed until May 2021 due to
 COVID, this project, entitled Resilient Communities, provides an unrivalled platform for a number
 of researchers in this Unit (DI RAIMO, LIEBERMAN, PEDRABISSI, ROBAZZA) and a
 culminating showcase for the CRUNCH project. METALKOVA-MARKOVA curated An
 Archaeology of Memory at the National Gallery of Bulgaria in Sofia, 2018, a major public
 engagement component of a much larger British-Bulgarian research and education project,
 ‘Heritage Preservation on the Devetaki Plateau in Bulgaria’, which instigated and examined
 methods of recording, restoring and adapting vernacular architecture. DI RAIMO’s co-curation of
 Albanian Universe between the Vacuum and the Energy marked the first presentation of an
 Albanian Pavilion at the Milan Triennale (XXI Design after Design, 2016).

 4.3.2    Media

 A key ambition for UoA32 is to ensure our research reaches beyond academia and informs and
 enriches the communities with whom we collaborate (ILES 2, p.3). Staff from the Unit attended
 talks by UoP’s Press Office on how best to engage with the media. CCI hosted explanatory talks
 by editors of The Conversation along with UoP’s Head of Media and Communications, resulting
 in articles by 7 members of the Unit.

 An experienced broadcaster, SUGG RYAN is represented by leading factual television and radio
 agency Knight Ayton Management. She is consultant and contributor to all 3 series of BBC
 Two’s A House Through Time, whose individual episodes have reached audiences of over 4
 million. Public engagement through social media is central to SUGG RYAN’s research and she
 contributed articles on house history to leading genealogy website FindMyPast and was
 interviewed for their Facebook Live events. She founded and co-hosts Twitter’s
 #HouseHistoryHour via @HouseHistoryHr with 7 leading professional house historians,
 engaging with professional and amateur historians and genealogists, and heritage professionals.

 4.3.3    Co-creation with communities

 KOCHBERG’S interdisciplinary ethno-documentary project ‘Ritual Reconstructed: Connecting
 LGBTQI+ Jewish Communities through Filmmaking' closely involved members of the Jewish
 LGBTQI community through innovative arts practices, and resulted in public screenings of the
 co-created documentaries. Co-creation in the community is central to ROBAZZA’S research,
 which explores temporary urban installations as tactical tools for environmental and socially
 sustainable development through the promotion of belonging, social cohesion and solidarity
 between members of the local community. In 2019, ROBAZZA co-designed and co-built
 Chatterbox, a public space interactive installation in partnership with 25 members of ‘Chat Over
 Chai’, a Portsmouth based BAMER (Black, Asian, Minority Ethnic and Refugee) group, with
 funding support from Portsmouth City Council (£9k) and ACE (£15k).




Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The focus upon the interface of creative practice-led research and health and wellbeing
 innovation was further explored by BOWYER and NETTER’s participation in the AHRC MRC
 Wellcome Trust-funded AIR network concerning global air pollution. This led to a number of
 distinct community-based projects in the Mukuru and Buruburu areas of Nairobi. The initial focus
 of the ‘Tupumue’ project concerned information gathering and communication about respiratory
 health but recent events have developed this work through the GCRF funded project ACT
 (Action against COVID Transmission), which co-creates and disseminates public health
 messages through creative media.

 4.4     Evidence of the Unit’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

 Staff undertake roles that support and sustain the discipline nationally and internationally:

 4.4.1    Subject associations and learned societies

 Staff hold leadership roles in subject associations across our disciplines, including: BATEY,
 founder member UK & Ireland Zine Librarians group; TEBA, Chair of ICOMOS-UK Digital
 Technology National Committee. Memberships include: HARKINS, Chartered Society of
 Designers; IGOE, Design Research Society and Textile Society; HOWELL, Southern
 Independent Games Network and The Independent Game Developers Association (TIGA).
 Fellowship of learned societies includes: SUGG RYAN, Royal Historical Society; LIEBERMAN
 and FARRER, Royal Society of Arts.

 4.4.2    UKRI Peer Review Colleges

 Several members of the Unit have served on the AHRC Peer Review College in the census
 period: GUMTAU; FARRER; SUGG RYAN (strategic reviewer). FARRER is an Assessor for
 Innovate UK and Interreg funded projects and member of EPSRC Peer Review College. SUGG
 RYAN is a Peer Reviewer of UKRI Future Leaders proposals. ZAMBELLI is a member of AHRC
 Technē Peer Review College.

 4.4.3    Editorial boards

 Researchers are editorial board members of a range of journals across our disciplines - selected
 examples include: Airea: Arts and Interdisciplinary Research Journal; Computer Games Journal;
 Journal of Architecture; IBBYLink Journal; Journal of Textile Design Research and Practice.
 SUGG RYAN was a member of the Editorial Board of the Adam Matthew Digital database Trade
 Catalogues and the American Home, and the Advisory Boards for AHRC funded project ‘The
 Redress of the Past: Historical Pageants in Britain’ (2013-17) and the V&A’s Food: Bigger Than
 the Plate (2019).

 4.4.4    Peer reviewing

 Researchers regularly review book proposals for publication, including for Edinburgh UP,
 Routledge, Pearson, Bloomsbury, Lawrence King, Vintage Press, McFarland, Rowman and
 Littlefield, and Manchester UP. They peer review articles for publication across a range of




Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 journals that reflect the diversity and interdisciplinarity of our research. Selected examples
 include:

           Art, Design & Communication in Higher Education
           Textile: Journal of Cloth and Culture
           Journal of Design History
           Journal of Cultural Heritage Management and Sustainable Development
           SPACE: International Journal on Architecture, Planning and Urban Design
           Drawing On: Journal of Architectural Research by Design
           IDEA Journal
           IEEE Pervasive Computing
           Digital Scholarship in the Humanities
           Games and Culture Journal

 They also peer review for interdisciplinary journals including: International Journal of the Arts in
 Society; Journal of Home Cultures; International Critical Geography Conference.

 4.4.5      External examining of PhDs

 Staff have examined a range of PhDs in the UK, including BATEY: Anglia Ruskin; BAILEY-
 ROSS: Bath Spa; FARRER: Heriot-Watt; HARKINS: Arts London; KWINT: De Montfort;
 Southampton and overseas: FARRER: Western Sydney, Australia; MELIS: Polis, Albania;
 SUGG RYAN: Carleton, Canada.

 4.5       Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 4.5.1      Prizes

 SUGG RYAN’s monograph Ideal Homes, 1918-39 won the Historians of British Art 2020 Book
 Prize for Exemplary Scholarship in the Period after 1800 and was shortlisted for the Society of
 Architectural Historians of Great Britain 2018 Alice Davis Hitchcock Medallion. MELIS won
 architecture prizes for his practice research for the Library and Auditorium of Sant'Anna
 University and the Stella Maris Clinic for Children with Neuropathologies. BATEY won the
 Journal of Publishing Studies 2020 International Award for Excellence for Information, Medium,
 and Society. Our ECRs have also won awards for the quality of their research: HOWELL’s
 Amnesia: A Machine for Pigs won the TIGA Games Industry Award for Best Audio; BUCKNER’s
 //_sleeper was nominated for Best Animated Film at the 2019 Dublin Independent Film Festival;
 TEBA, Best Early Research Stage paper at the REHAB 2015 International Conference on
 Preservation, Maintenance and Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings and Structures, Porto,
 Portugal; PEDRABISSI, award for Best Presentation on Architecture and Built Environment at
 the International Conference on Civil Engineering and Architecture (2019).




Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5.2    Keynotes and international lectures

 SUGG RYAN gave the 2019 Association for Art History annual lecture, and her six keynotes
 include ‘Nordic Modernity and Nostalgia’, University of Tampere (2018), and ‘History in the
 Limelight: Dramatizing the past, c.1850 to the present’, UCL Institute of Education, London
 (2016). MELIS gave numerous international lectures including TEDx, Mestre (2019), Italian
 Institute of Culture, London (2019), Biennale Pisa 2019, International Festival of Culture, Assisi
 (2019), Domus Academy Milano (2019), Buenos Aires Biennale (2019), Architecture
 International Festival Rome (2019). TYRRELL gave the 2019 AIA Spring Lecture Series,
 Baltimore USA. Other international presentations include: DI RAIMO (University of La Sapienza,
 Italy); KOLKER (Tsukuba University, Japan); KWINT (Circolo Italico-Britannico, Italy, 2015;
 Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 2018); TORRES (The Swedish School of
 Textiles; Manifattura Tabacchi, Italy; Austrian Center for Fashion Research in collaboration with
 MAK, Austria; Whataboutery 8, The Netherlands; Foment de les Arts i del Disseny, Spain).




Page 22
