Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen

1B   Unit of Assessment: 26 (Modern Languages)

2B   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Aberdeen’s research in Modern Languages exemplifies its location at a nexus of disciplines and
methodologies. Our work on literary, visual and material cultural forms places them in dialogue with
each other, and embeds them in their historical and political contexts. In doing so, we intervene in
fields including memory studies, postcolonial studies, science and technology studies, medical and
environmental humanities, and intercultural competence. Through our strengths in visual culture,
we engage different audiences and contribute to the cultural enrichment of our region. Our
expertise in civil society and citizenship, as well as language acquisition and language planning,
enables us to influence public policy nationally and internationally.
UOA26 comprises 18 FTE staff. We are part of Language, Literature, Music and Visual Culture
(LLMVC), one of twelve academic Schools at Aberdeen (see REF5a). Modern Languages covers
French & Francophone, Gaelic, German, Spanish & Latin American and Translation & Interpreting.
LLMVC also includes Celtic & Anglo-Saxon, English, Film & Visual Culture, Linguistics and Music,
providing a diverse yet cohesive interdisciplinary context for our work. There are strong synergies
between Modern Languages and Film & Visual Culture (FVC), which is included in our return. The
School’s Research Centre in visual culture is co-directed by Modern Linguists; there is a joint
FVC/German appointment; and research in visual culture includes expertise in Slavonic Studies.
The School’s unitary structure facilitates our collaborative and interdisciplinary activity; enables
strategic investment in our research; and provides administrative, policy and financial support,
including match-funding contributions and PhD scholarships. The Head of School oversees
research strategy and policy, working with Directors of Research (DoR), Postgraduate Studies
(DPGS) and Postgraduate Research (DPGR), a Research Ethics Officer, and an Equality, Diversity
& Inclusion lead. Research strategy is developed by the School Research Committee (chaired by
DoR), constituted by discipline research leads, School impact lead, and School PGR Director.
Postgraduate strategy is developed by the School Postgraduate Committee (chaired by DPGS).
Interface with institutional strategy and policy is via the University Research Policy Committee
(representation from DoR), Postgraduate Committee (representation from DPGR) and Committee
for Research Ethics & Governance in Arts, Social Sciences & Business (representation from
Research Ethics Officer). Internally, Research and PG Committees report to School Forum and
EDI Committee (for Athena SWAN implementation).
The School Office provides administrative support for research, PGRs, and Athena SWAN. The
University Postgraduate Research School (PGRS) manages doctoral training partnerships, and
coordinates central provision of postgraduate training, monitoring and support. Research &
Innovation (R&I) provides institutional support for funding applications, horizon scanning, grant
management, impact activity and knowledge exchange (REF5a).
Since REF2014, our research strategy has been to sustain a supportive environment that
capitalizes on our distinctive combination of disciplines and enables Modern Languages to thrive in
its diversity. We have maintained the geographical and chronological range of our research, from
Gaelic Scotland to Latin America, and from the seventeenth to the twenty-first centuries. Through
major grants and new appointments, we have enhanced our profile in citizenship and civil society
and visual culture, and built up translation and interpreting. Our Research Centres foster the
collaborative and cross-cutting activity highlighted in our submission to REF2014. We recruit
researchers whose comparative and interdisciplinary expertise embodies the University’s
commitment to interdisciplinarity, which is at the heart of its current strategic plan, Aberdeen 2040
(REF5a).
Aberdeen 2040 identifies social inclusion and cultural diversity as a priority theme. Our research
advances this work through its position at the intersection of literature, language, culture, film,
society, history and politics. We have long-standing interests in cultural and linguistic identity; the
role of culture in mediating social, historical and political transformations; and questions of public
culture and civil society. Barker, Larkin and Welch investigate how literature, film and

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
photography depict space, identity and modernization in C20 and C21 Hispanic and French
culture. Marcus uses research films to articulate how different places evoke, elide and reconfigure
memory and history. Tribout demonstrates the political functions of memorial writing in C17 and
C18 France, and their contemporary relevance for practices of testimony. O’Connor examines
intermediality, translation and bilingualism as ways of navigating identity in contemporary French
poetry. Watson and M. Macleod draw out similar concerns in their studies of Gaelic fiction and
drama, while M. Macleod’s work on Gaelic language acquisition and revitalization informs policy
frameworks on linguistic and cultural identity. Through M. Macleod (Co-Director until 2017), we
have shaped the agenda of Soillse, the national research consortium for the maintenance of
Gaelic language and culture. Work on civil society and public culture is pursued by Kiwan, on
citizenship, identity and the role of Muslim intellectuals in France; Stack, on citizenship in Mexico
and theories of the civil sphere; and Schell, on sociability and public culture through discourses of
natural history and cultures of civility in C19 Latin America.
New appointments have enhanced our interests in comparative literature, visual culture, memory
studies, environmental humanities, post-war cultural history, language planning and translation.
Beaney adopts a comparative approach to German literature, investigating human identity in a
context of environmental crisis. Bryzgel examines the contrasting manifestations and functions of
performance art across Eastern Europe during the post-war period. Casini deploys visual culture,
science and technology studies and critical theory to explore how images and perception work
within systems of knowledge. Krylova intervenes in memory studies through her investigation of
how post-war Austrian literary and visual culture confronts the problem of Austria’s past. Drawing
on a background in education and social sciences, K. Macleod works on Gaelic language planning
policy and language acquisition. Sanchez-Ortiz publishes on audio-visual and textual translation
practice, while Zhu is a practising translator with interests in literary and historical translation.
Prior to REF2014, the School developed Research Centres to harness shared interests across its
disciplines, making GBP1,000/year available to each for their activities. Centres facilitate research
methodologically by providing a context for comparative and interdisciplinary work, and adapting to
reflect the interests of the staff and PGRs who populate them. Three are built on UOA26 strengths:
CISRUL (Citizenship, Civil Society and the Rule of Law, supported by match-funding worth
GBP1.6 million from a private donor and the University), directed by Stack, co-founded with Kiwan
and involving Anthropology, Education, History, Philosophy, Law, Politics, Sociology and Theology;
GWW (George Washington Wilson Centre for Visual Culture, named after a pioneering Aberdonian
photographer), co-directed by Casini, Krylova and Larkin; and CMLR (Modern Languages
Research), directed by Kiwan, formed in 2019 to build on an existing seminar series. Centres have
catalysed research collaboration, PGR recruitment and impact activity, attracting external grants in
the process.
Led by Stack and supported by Kiwan, CISRUL secured EU COFUND funding in 2017 for twelve
studentships over six years as part of a doctoral training programme on the life of political concepts
(POLITICO). It is one of only two COFUND projects in the UK. In 2018, Bryzgel, Krylova and
Larkin won funding for GWW from Aberdeen City Council for a programme of collaborations on
visual art and culture with regional practitioners. Meanwhile, School financial support enabled
GWW to bid successfully for a Fulbright Visiting Fellowship, leading to collaboration with Larkin on
the Washington Wilson photography archive and a British Academy/Leverhulme Trust grant in
2019. In 2015, with a grant from the Aberdeen Humanities Fund, Welch and photographer John
Perivolaris staged City of Ghosts, an exhibition based on the Washington Wilson archive which
attracted 4,500 people.
We contribute to Research Centres based in and beyond the School. As members of CHPSTM
(History and Philosophy of Science, Technology and Medicine), Casini and Schell have
collaborated with Anthropology, Medicine and University Museums and Collections, co-ordinating
workshops on Picturing Science (Casini); and producing exhibitions on Aberdeen’s pioneering MRI
scanner (Casini), and nineteenth-century scientific/explorer networks in South America (Schell).
Through her work on poetry and bilingualism, O’Connor collaborates with colleagues in Irish and
Scottish Studies on the activities of Grierson (Comparative Literary History). Jointly with English
and History, Tribout has co-organised the CEMS seminar series (Early Modern Studies).
Over the next five years, Research Centres will remain focal points for research, public

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
engagement, PGR recruitment, and external partnerships. Supported by Watson and Zhu,
Sanchez-Ortiz is leading a new Centre for Translation & Interpreting, marking its expansion as
one of our areas of expertise. The Centre will be a hub for a growing cohort of PhDs (currently
three), and a framework for external collaborations. It will build on institutional investment in an
Interpreting Suite to work with local authorities and agencies on public service translation and
interpreting practice. Led by Kiwan, CMLR will build collaborations in Modern Languages across
Scotland, positioning interdisciplinarity as fundamental to Modern Languages research. It is leading
the development of a network to highlight the role of Modern Languages in decolonizing research
and pedagogy. CISRUL will use its international expertise in civil society and governance to target
challenge funding, particularly on human rights and pluralism. GWW will highlight medical
humanities, memory culture, and the Washington Wilson archive. We will continue to lead research
in Gaelic language and culture at national level. M. Macleod will pursue issues around adult
language acquisition for Soillse. Watson is the inaugural Director of a new National Centre for
Gaelic Translation, in collaboration with the Gaelic Books Council.
REF2014 helped us identify influence of public policy and cultural enrichment as key to our impact
strategy. They have both been taken forward during the current census period. In relation to public
policy, REF3 highlights how our research shapes policy nationally and internationally via Gaelic
language education (M. Macleod, Watson), emerging out of Soillse; and civic activism in Mexico
(Stack), reflecting the work of CISRUL.
Visual culture is central to our strategy of cultural enrichment, building on the Director’s Cut series
of film industry talks. Director’s Cut, led by Marcus, with contributions from Bryzgel and Krylova,
continued with nineteen events during the census period. Talks attract large local audiences and
are archived online as webcasts. In 2018, GWW launched the VIEW programme with funding from
Aberdeen City Council. Reflecting our contribution to the Aberdeen 2040 theme of social inclusion
and cultural diversity, VIEW emphasises engagement with local audiences through talks,
exhibitions and collaborations with regionally based artists. It has partnered with Aberdeen
schools, especially from more deprived areas, to provide workshops on filmmaking. Some are
PGR-led, providing training in communicating research to different audiences. Showcasing the
intersection of visual culture and science, Casini’s 2019 exhibition on Aberdeen’s MRI scanner at
Aberdeen Royal Infirmary had around 60,000 views.
Cultural enrichment also derives from our work on Gaelic language and culture. M. Macleod was a
consultant on programmes for the BBC and MG Alba (Gaelic Media Scotland). Watson was
commissioned by the Glossika online platform to create courses in Gaelic for a global audience,
and will be MG Alba’s consultant on a language learning television series using his CEFR
framework, to be developed during the next census period.
Our impact strategy is coordinated by the School Impact Lead (Schell) and overseen by the
School Research Committee. Research Centres submit impact plans as part of annual reporting to
the Committee. Institutional support comes from PERU (Public Engagement with Research Unit)
for public engagement events, and from Communications for media work (REF 5a). Internal
applications for research leave and funding require reflection on impact plans, and individual
annual research meetings include discussion of impact. The Impact Lead supports impact planning
for grant applications, liaising with impact officers for humanities and public policy in R&I. These
discussions enable sometimes unexpected opportunities for impact to emerge. For example, as
part of his AHRC Fellowship on memories of the Fronde in 2015, Tribout organised a workshop on
testimony, historiography and memory in the aftermath of intra-state conflicts, and the status of
testimonies in methodological, historical, therapeutic and legal contexts. Professional stakeholders
included psycho-trauma clinicians and peace practitioners.
Effective dissemination of our research is vital, and we seek to enable open access (OA)
wherever possible, supported by the Scholarly Communications Service (REF5a). During the
census period, journal articles that were OA from point of publication increased from 29.4% in 2014
to 66.6% in 2019. Since 2018, 41.2% of book chapters are OA. We recognise that the best place to
publish, in terms of reach, audience or profile, is sometimes in international journals which are not
OA compliant. In order to ensure the best academic impact for our work, we support publication in
non-OA compliant journals where there is a strong rationale for doing so.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All staff have ORCID IDs. We circulate regular reminders about OA requirements and use of the
institutional repository (AURA). In advance of Plan S, we are encouraging staff to go beyond
minimum OA requirements and use the institutional repository for monographs and book chapters.
Institutional support for OA is also provided by Aberdeen University Press (AUP), which publishes
Scottish Gaelic Studies, founded in 1926 and the leading journal in its field (editors M. Macleod
and Watson). Working with the University Library, AUP plans to become an entirely OA publisher
during the next census period.
We adhere to research ethics and governance frameworks set out in the institutional Research
Governance Handbook, which in turn is aligned with UKRI, UUK and EU concordats and policies
on research integrity (REF5a). The importance of compliance is regularly stressed in School
Forums. Biennial School ‘Health Checks’ on research ethics and governance are reviewed by the
Research Policy Committee. The University makes research integrity training mandatory for all
staff and PGRs. Research ethics and governance training is strongly encouraged for staff and
mandatory for PGRs.
The Research Ethics Officer (Kiwan 2014-15) provides advice on ethics review to staff and
students; signs off ethics approvals at School level; and sits on the Committee for Research Ethics
& Governance in Arts, Social Sciences & Business. As committee co-Chair, the Dean for Cultural
Strategy and Research Governance convenes management boards to oversee projects with
complex governance, ethics and risk assessment requirements, such as Stack’s project in Mexico.
3B   2. People
We have made six appointments since REF2014 following moves, retirements and strategic
investment. We have focused on earlier-career recruitment, with five appointments at Lecturer
level and one at Senior Lecturer level. A further staff member moved from another School to take
advantage of better research fit. All appointments are to open ended contracts, in common with
existing staff. We have used appointments to consolidate existing research areas (FVC, Gaelic,
German); open up new areas in Translation & Interpreting with Senior Lecturer (2014) and Lecturer
(2020) positions; and support areas with strong potential for impact (FVC, Gaelic).
German has been strengthened with two appointments (Beaney 2014, Krylova 2018), one of
whom (Krylova) is a joint appointment with FVC. Krylova joins our Modern Linguists specialising
in visual culture (Barker, Larkin, Welch). K. Macleod (2019) consolidates our expertise in Gaelic
language acquisition and planning policy (M. Macleod, Watson). In FVC, the appointment of
Casini (2015) and transfer of Bryzgel from History of Art (2015) emphasise the interdisciplinary
nature of our research (Bryzgel between Slavonic Studies, performance art and art history, Casini
between Visual Culture and Science & Technology Studies). In Translation & Interpreting,
Sanchez-Ortiz (2014) brings expertise in audio-visual and textual translation practice. She is
complemented by Zhu (2020) on translation and second language acquisition.
While recruitment has focused on earlier-career staff, existing staff have taken on leadership roles
in the School, and been supported in gaining promotion. Four staff were promoted to Senior
Lecturer (Bryzgel, Larkin, Stack, Tribout, 2W/2M), and four to Professor (Bryzgel, Kiwan, M.
Macleod, Marcus, 3W/1M). Promotions were achieved across disciplines (2xFVC, 3xFrench,
1xGaelic, 1xHispanic), with all bar German (where the promoted colleague is teaching-track) now
having a balanced profile of early and mid-career staff, and at least one professorial-grade
researcher (4W/2M). For REF2014, only French and Hispanic had professorial staff.
The School works with the University’s Researcher Development Unit to support staff
development through a set of interlocking arrangements, aligned with Vitae’s Concordat for the
Career Development of Researchers in terms of building an inclusive research culture and a
productive environment for career development and progression. Aberdeen’s strength in this area
is reflected in its HR Excellence in Research Award (REF 5a). Staff have Annual Review meetings
with their Academic Line Manager (ALM), reviewing research plans in the context of other areas of
activity, and focusing on career planning and promotion. ALMs are promoted staff formally
appointed to the role, and receive training in management skills from HR. They each manage 10-
12 academic staff, with responsibility for support, development and well-being. Subsequent to
Annual Review, Head of School and ALMs provide guidance and feedback on promotion


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
applications at the start of the annual round each December.
There are annual meetings with UOA leads to discuss research plans and ideas, including
collaborative and impact-related activities. Meetings complement Annual Review by focusing solely
on research in conversation with a colleague working in a related discipline area. Peer research
support groups, introduced by Schell as Director of Research, provide an informal context in which
to discuss work-in-progress, draft publications and grant applications, and research impact ideas.
New appointees are included in peer support groups to facilitate networking and integration with
colleagues from across the School. Three groups (of five) are convened by UOA26 researchers
(Barker, Beaney, Larkin). Building on them, an annual School research conference helps to share
ideas and get to know each other’s work.
As Head of School, Welch revised the workload model during the census period to improve
transparency in workload allocation and activity, and better identify pressure points. It builds in a
research allocation at 40% for T&R staff; 50 hours/year for CPD; explicit recognition of research
leadership roles (e.g. Research Centre Directorship); and a stated expectation that T&R staff have
at least one day a week free of teaching during term to maintain research activity. All staff
benefited from this arrangement during the census period. To support work-life balance, the School
introduced an email good practice policy in 2017, initiated by Schell (and subsequently adopted by
the University), with guidance on avoiding email use during evenings, weekends and research
days. As part of its Athena SWAN Action Plan, it will monitor attitudes to workload pressure and
transparency through staff surveys, paying close attention to the impact on research of the Covid-
19 pandemic, and revisit the workload model accordingly.
The School’s research leave policy is one half-session in every six. Staff join the research leave
rota once they have completed probation. Rotas are agreed at discipline level and approved by the
School Research Committee. Staff with external grants supporting relief from teaching and
administration maintain their position in the internal leave rota. The rota is adapted to take into
account EDI and specific circumstances. During the census period, there were three instances
where a term of research leave followed maternity leave to enable staff to re-establish research
momentum. Leave can be advanced to support staff who need to meet a deadline, undertake
impact activity, or urgently complete a major piece of work. All staff beyond probation benefited
from research leave during the census period.
There are additional arrangements to support early career/probationary staff at Lecturer level. They
have reduced teaching and administration during the first two years of appointment (75% Year 1,
85% Year 2), to help them develop their research. Alongside ALMs, they have a dedicated mentor
as part of the institution’s probationary framework, and membership of a peer research support
group. Probationary mentors are promoted staff providing advice on career development, including
research activity and training opportunities. Probationary targets for research include publications,
funding applications, networking and opportunities for impact. Probation is accelerated in instances
of strong performance. During the census period, two staff completed their probationary period in
two rather than three years.
Researchers each have access to GBP750/year via the School Research Committee for archival
work, conference attendance and research costs (e.g. indexing, image permissions). The fund is
open to fixed-term staff on teaching-focused contracts so they can maintain research activity
during their period of employment. Further funding for activities is available via annual allocations
to Research Centres.
The School Director of Research coordinates peer review and development of external grant
applications, which are double peer reviewed before submission, and organises brainstorming
sessions to develop major grant applications, involving colleagues experienced in running or
assessing large grants. Institutional support is provided by the Grants Academy (REF5a); the
Impact Team (identifying non-academic audiences and partners for impact activity); PERU
(planning for public engagement); and Governance Officers (support for research ethics and
governance).
While we have students registered for research degrees in all our core disciplines, our
postgraduate recruitment strategy reflects our emphasis on interdisciplinarity and collaboration. In
this assessment period there have been twelve co-supervisions to completion involving

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Anthropology, Divinity, English, Ethnology, Law, Linguistics, Music, Politics and Sociology, with five
current co-supervisions involving a similar range of disciplines. Through studentships from the
Scottish Graduate School for Arts & Humanities (SGSAH) and Doctoral Training Centre in Celtic
Languages, we co-supervise with Stirling (Kiwan) and Glasgow (Bryzgel, Watson). Via AHRC
and SGSAH Collaborative Doctoral Awards, we work with the National Library of Scotland (Schell
co-supervisor) and Edinburgh theatre company, Imaginate (Bryzgel lead supervisor). Competitive
internal funding supports a project involving the National Trust for Scotland (Larkin/Welch co-
supervisors). Via a co-tutelle agreement, Casini co-supervises with IUAV (Venice).
Research Centres are important for embedding PGRs within a supportive research culture. Our
cohort of PGRs working on topics in visual culture has grown to nine students (with six completions
during the census period). They have associate membership of GWW, participate in its activities,
and contribute to its blog. The Centre for Translation & Interpreting will play a similar role in
building on our existing cohort of students. Our corporate membership of the Institute of
Translation and Interpreting facilitates placements with partners in literary and audio-visual
translation and public service interpreting. CISRUL has an established record of doctoral training
(28 co-supervisions since 2010), with Kiwan and Stack mentoring two recent supervisees to
postdoctoral fellowships (2018, 2019). Its track record helped secure COFUND support for the
POLITICO programme, which prepares the cohort for career routes including academia, policy
development and the third sector through integrated secondments with partner organisations (e.g.
Radboud and Aukland Universities). Kiwan and Stack are on POLITICO’s Supervisory and
Training Board.
While Research Centres provide focal points for our students, they also benefit from the diversity of
the School’s wider PGR community. We have strengthened its cohesiveness during the census
period through additional support, networking and training opportunities. In 2015, the School
introduced a ‘PG Research Gym’ to provide training tailored more specifically to humanities
researchers, and opportunities for new postgraduates to meet and network. It is taken by all new
PhD students and covers key skills including academic writing, publication strategies, time
management and presentation skills. Since 2017, the programme has been led by Bryzgel as
School DPGS and extended to two other Schools, providing our students with additional
networking opportunities. We introduced online sessions in 2020 to better support part-time and
distance-learning students, anticipating the move of the whole programme online during the Covid-
19 pandemic.
The School invests in fee waivers and fully-funded scholarships, which are awarded on a
competitive basis. PhD students receive GBP750 of funding over their period of study to support
research activity. A dedicated bequest provides maintenance for PGRs in French and German.
Teaching opportunities are available from PhD Year 2, with compulsory training from the
institution’s Centre for Academic Development. The student-run PG Forum meets monthly, with
papers from PGRs and staff, as well as online sessions. Bryzgel runs weekly drop-in sessions as
DPGS (online during the pandemic), providing a first point of contact for advice and support.
School provision complements the Researcher Development Programme offered by the PGRS,
which covers leadership, enterprise, knowledge exchange, impact and employability; research
methods, including qualitative methods and digital tools; resilience and wellbeing; and mandatory
training on Research Ethics & Governance, Information Security & Data Management, and
Equality, Diversity & Inclusion. The PGRS focuses on student wellbeing, working closely with
supervisors and Student Support in cases of difficulty. It provides compulsory training for new
supervisors, and refresher training for more experienced supervisors (REF5a).
PhD students have access to training events organised by the SGSAH. Via SGSAH Discipline+
Catalysts for Modern Languages (Barker) and Media/Film/TV (Casini/Krylova), we work with
colleagues across Scotland to develop training from academic, industry and third sector experts for
doctoral researchers in arts and humanities.
The PGRS tracks student progress through six-monthly monitoring completed by the student and
supervisory team. This is supplemented within the School by a progression review at nine months
(including chapter/chapter extract), and annual review meetings thereafter, conducted by academic
staff independent of the supervisory team. All PhD students present their work at an annual School

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PGR conference in Year 2 or 3 of study. We (co-)supervised 38 PhD students to completion during
the census period (27.43 FTE). They have progressed to positions including British Academy and
Leverhulme postdoctoral fellowships; and lectureships in Nigeria (Otuoke), the UK (Edinburgh,
Strathclyde) and US (Davidson).
We are committed to fostering an inclusive culture which reflects the diversity of our community.
Our staff and students come from Africa, Asia, Europe, the Middle East and North America. We
engage with issues of equality, diversity and inclusion through research on the politics of
difference, identity and citizenship (Kiwan), the nature and role of civil society (Stack),
representations of disability and illness (Larkin) or gender in performance art (Bryzgel). Our PGRs
research topics including disability, Islamophobia, and intersectional feminist movements.
The School achieved an Athena SWAN (AS) Bronze Award in April 2019 (Welch co-lead). While
focused on gender equality and removing obstacles for women, the AS Action Plan provides a
foundation for our wider EDI actions. Central to the Action Plan is enhanced support for career
progression. In particular, the School wants to see an increase in successful applications from
women for promotion to Senior Lecturer/Reader and Professor. It is also investigating the length of
time spent at different grades, the reasons for this, and what barriers to promotion need to be
overcome.
Career planning and concerns about promotion have emerged as important factors for all staff, and
the School is working to address these via the development and support arrangements described
above. Annual Review is used to discuss career development in terms of leadership opportunities
(e.g. Research Centre Director, central leadership roles), research funding and publication
strategies, career breaks and work-life balance. An initial indicator of the positive impact of the
measures is the most recent promotions round in 2019, with successful outcomes for all three
female applicants (2xProfessor, 1xSenior Lecturer).
The School supports career breaks, flexible and part-time working. Requests for flexible working
and contract reductions are enabled where possible, with a review of contract changes after twelve
months, as was the case for one member of staff who returned to full time working after the trial
period. We have a tailored approach to reintegration after parental and other leaves, e.g. by
enabling research leave to follow maternity leave, or through phased returns from illness. The
School’s AS Action Plan proposed that dedicated breast-feeding rooms be created across the
University to facilitate childcare; these are now in place.
Nevertheless, AS surveys highlighted concerns over the impact of parental leaves and career
breaks on career progression. In response, additional training to support those on and returning
from leave is being developed for ALMs with HR. The School’s AS Health & Wellbeing Lead is
improving awareness of parental leave and flexible working through increased communication. We
have influenced university policy through O’Connor’s work with institutional EDI leads to establish
a Parents’ and Carers’ Network in 2019. The network is for staff and PGRs, providing peer support
and sharing good practice. As network co-lead, O’Connor sits on the institutional Equality,
Diversity & Inclusion Committee (EDIC). Via EDIC, we are informing discussion on EDI
implications of the Covid-19 pandemic for research and career development.
EDI and AS Action Plan implementation are standing items on School Research and PG
Committees. Both report to the School EDI Committee. We are adapting the Action Plan to take
into account intersectionality, reflecting Aberdeen’s membership of the Race Equality Charter since
2020. Actions for the Research Committee include ensuring Research Centre activities and the
REF reviewing pool maintain gender balance and diversity. Actions for the Postgraduate
Committee focus on enhancing the PGR community by using video conferencing/VLEs to foster
inclusion of part-time/distance-learning students; ensuring PGR activities take into account
religious observance; providing additional networking opportunities and career development
guidance through the Research Gym programme.
All School meetings take place during core hours (10am-4pm), and Research Centres hold most
events during these hours. The University’s ‘Diversity Calendar’ helps us plan activities at inclusive
times, and we accommodate religious observance by not scheduling events at the end of the
week. We encourage staff to participate in university support networks (BAME, Disability, LGBT+,
Menopausal, Parents/Carers, Women’s). We use part-time and distance-learning modes to cater

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for PGRs with different needs, and encourage switching to them or suspending studies where
appropriate. Institutional online EDI training is mandatory for staff and PGRs, and there was
bespoke EDI training for staff involved in REF decision-making, including selection of the output
portfolio. Unconscious bias training is mandatory for appointing panels, and available to all staff.
In line with Modern Languages nationally, the majority of our researchers are women. Our gender
profile at submission was 11W/7M (61/39%), which is mirrored in our output portfolio (29 by
women/16 by men: 64/36%). Proportionally more women than men returned more than 2.5 outputs
(62.5/37.5%). Our output selection process was compliant with the San Francisco Declaration on
Research Assessment and the institutional Code of Practice. All outputs had at least two internal
and/or external reviews, ensuring gender balance of reviewers. Staff were invited to declare
circumstances that could entitle the unit to a reduction in the number of outputs required. We
selected the strongest output for each researcher, and other outputs according to quality,
consulting with staff so that selected outputs represent their activity appropriately.
4B   3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
We secured GBP1.1 million income during the census period (GBP62.2k/FTE), more than
doubling our REF2014 income. We have developed a diverse funding portfolio, with grants from
UK and international research councils, charities and local authorities, supporting collaborative and
individual projects.
Two major collaborative grants demonstrate our strengths in civil society, political discourse and
identity; contribution to developing the research base; and work with non-academic partners. The
EU COFUND grant for POLITICO (Stack PI, Kiwan Co-applicant, 2018), worth €1.9 million to the
University, capitalizes on CISRUL’s track-record of fostering interdisciplinary research in
citizenship and civil society, particularly at doctoral level. Working with partners in Mexico, Stack
was PI on an ESRC/Newton Fund/CONACyT project on civil society and violence (2016-2019,
GBP590k), highlighted in ICS2, securing GBP200k additional funding as PI via the Newton Fund
Impact Scheme in 2020. Also in Latin America, Schell (PI, 2020) secured British Academy and US
Social Science Research Council funding totalling GBP30k to train and mentor ECRs from across
the region in reaching an international audience with their research.
Our national role in shaping Gaelic language policy, highlighted in ICS1, attracted grants totalling
GBP25k from Bòrd na Gàidhlig and the Scottish Funding Council (M. Macleod Co-I, 2014; Watson
PI, M. Macleod Co-I, 2019); Soillse (M. Macleod PI, 2016); and Aberdeen City Council (M.
Macleod PI, 2019). Our contribution to the cultural life of North East Scotland was enhanced by
GBP6k of Aberdeen City Council Creative Funding for the GWW VIEW programme (Bryzgel PI,
Krylova/Larkin Co-Is).
Fellowship grants for individual projects in French and Visual Culture worth a total of GBP268k
were awarded by the AHRC and the Leverhulme Trust. AHRC Early Career Research Fellowships
(GBP168k total) were awarded to Bryzgel (2015-16) and Tribout (2014-15). Leverhulme
Research Fellowships (GBP100k total) were awarded to Bryzgel (2013-14) and Casini (2019-20).
These grants led to outputs returned in REF2.
Through grants worth c. GBP29k from the Carnegie Trust and British Academy/Leverhulme Trust,
Barker (2013), Casini (2017), Marcus (2013, 2016), Schell (2013, 2016), Stack (2013), Watson
(2015) and Welch (2016) undertook archival and field research leading to outputs returned in
REF2. Other grants have supported collaborative projects. Krylova won funding via the AHRC
OWRI initiative for a conference on cross-language dynamics (Co-I, 2019). Larkin’s conference
and edited volume on Fall Narratives was supported by the Royal Society of Edinburgh (2014, PI).
Building on collaboration with a visiting Fulbright Scholar in 2018, Larkin secured a British
Academy/Leverhulme grant for exhibitions on photographer George Washington Wilson and
accompanying symposia in Scotland and California.
Our funding portfolio reflects the breadth of our activity, both collaborative and individual, ranging
from qualitative fieldwork to archival research. The geographical and methodological diversity of
our research means we target a variety of funders, including those which emphasise international
capacity building, policy development and interdisciplinarity. CISRUL’s focus on civil society is
aligned with the GCRF challenge area on Human Rights, Good Governance and Social Justice,

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
which it will be targeting as its work develops. Building on postdoctoral fellowship successes for its
PhD students, it will mentor the POLITICO cohort in developing applications to British Academy,
Leverhulme and Newton PDF schemes. Three AHRC themes (Understanding cultural value, Arts
and science/Arts in science, Interdisciplinarity for contemporary challenges) map on to strengths in
visual culture, inter-medial studies, memory studies and cultures of science. With follow-on funding
for Soillse secured in 2017, we will maintain collaboration with other Scottish HEIs to ensure
national support continues for Gaelic language and culture, and compete for Soillse funding for
our own work.
We recognise that different types of research suit different scales or types of grant, and we help
staff to identify the most appropriate funding for their project. Annual Review and research planning
meetings help staff, particularly at earlier career stages, to develop funding strategies for their
projects. Through our cumulative knowledge of grant writing, we support them in applying for
smaller external grants, gaining experience in grant application and establishing a track record of
external funding. Casini’s Leverhulme Fellowship, Stack’s Newton Fund grant and Tribout’s
AHRC Fellowship originate in research enabled by starter grants from the Carnegie Trust (Casini,
Tribout) and British Academy (Stack).
Central support for funding applications is provided by the Grants Academy (horizon
scanning/grant writing), PERU (public engagement planning) and the Impact Team (identifying
non-academic partners and audiences). Grant management, including support for ethics and
governance, is provided by dedicated officers in R&I. Pump-priming funding from R&I enabled
workshops with external facilitators to develop our impact case studies (REF5a).
Research infrastructure was greatly enhanced in 2012 with the opening of a new University
Library (REF5a). It provides state-of-the art research facilities, dedicated exhibition spaces, a
Special Collections area, and meeting rooms across seven floors. Many seminars and events now
take place there, making it the hub of humanities research in the University.
The Library contains over a million items, including rich early-modern collections (relevant to
CEMS), a wide collection of C19 periodicals (relevant to CHPSMT), and significant photographic
holdings, including the Washington Wilson photography archive (a focus for GWW). In 2020, it
revamped its online portal, improving access to its holdings. It manages open access to research
through the AURA repository and PURE research portal, and supports Gold Route publishing
through Open Access block grant funding.
We draw on special collections for public engagement projects, working with a dedicated officer in
Archives and Special Collections. The Washington Wilson archive has been used for exhibitions by
Welch (2015-16) and Larkin (2020-21); Casini exploited the Aberdeen MRI scanner archives for
her exhibition at Aberdeen Royal Infirmary (2019); and Schell included archival materials in her
‘Aberdonians in the Americas’ exhibition at the University’s King’s Museum (2017).
The School commits GBP7k/year to support additional subscriptions to e-journals and
bibliographical databases. Book budgets are devolved to individual disciplines, with priority given to
newly-appointed staff so they can build resources in their research area. Staff and PGRs have
access to inter-library loans worth GBP50/year. Input into Library strategy is through liaison
between Library Information Consultants and School Library Representatives (Beaney, Krylova,
Tribout); and by School representation on the Museums and Special Collections Academic Forum.
CEMS is part of the Newberry Library Consortium, and is linked with the Herzog August Library
(Germany).
All staff have individual offices with IT facilities. PGRs are guaranteed shared office space for three
years, with offices in School buildings. IT Services provide licensed software (e.g. NVivo), data
storage, archiving and management, with 2TB of data storage via personal network drives with
auto-backup. To drive growth in translation and interpreting, the School has secured institutional
investment of c.GBP200k in an Interpreting Suite, with installation due by mid-2021.
5B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
We undertake research collaborations globally, nationally and regionally, helping us to address
important societal questions, build research capacity in our disciplines, and contribute to social and
cultural enrichment. Stack’s leadership as PI on his project on civil society and violence in Mexico

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(2016-19) reflects our responsiveness to national and international priorities (cf. ICS1). It involved
collaboration with two Mexican HEIs (Colegio de Michoacán, Centro de Investigación y Docencia
Económicas), the Overseas Development Institute, and Iteru Consulting, as well as partnerships
with civil society and NGOs in Mexico. His Newton Impact Scheme award will support further work
in Mexico from 2021, with a Co-I from LSE and Mexican partners including prosecutors, police and
NGOs.
CISRUL’s POLITICO programme involves 23 partners including the University of Malaga, the
École des Hautes Études en Sciences Sociales, The Polish Academy of Sciences, Lund University
and Jawaharlal Nehru University. It represents a major contribution to the international research
base by bringing together a cohort of twelve early-stage researchers from across the EU, and
training them in interdisciplinary methods informed by political philosophy and critical theory.
Schell’s British Academy/SSRC-funded project was developed with other current and former
editors of the Journal of Latin American Studies at Cambridge, Oxford and UCL. It will build
research capacity in Latin America by helping ECRs from the region to develop their skills,
improve a target project for publication, increase their understanding of publication in English-
language journals and foster new research partnerships. Rescheduled for 2021, the project will
involve five workshops with 50 ECRs from Argentina, Brazil, Costa Rica, Mexico and Peru.
In 2020, Toulouse-Jean-Jaurès and Paris-Sorbonne-Nouvelle invited Kiwan to join a five-year
Scientific Interest Group involving 18 institutions and academics from backgrounds including
political science, sociology, French and British studies.
Nationally, K. Macleod, M. Macleod and Watson are part of the Soillse consortium, shaping
policy on Gaelic language and culture (cf. ICS2). The first phase funded PhDs and research
fellowships in the original network of institutions (Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Glasgow, UHI). Follow-on
funding supports an expanded network including Glasgow Caledonian, Heriot-Watt, Strathclyde,
and West of Scotland.
With starter funding of GBP5k from the Colmcille Irish-Scottish partnership programme, Watson
established the National Centre for Gaelic Translation in 2019 as its inaugural Director, working
with an international team of Depute Directors from Dublin City University, Glasgow and Charles
University Prague. In partnership with the Gaelic Books Council, the Centre will publish 2-3
translations/year, and is seeking additional support from Creative Scotland.
The School has facilitated career development opportunities focused on research networks and
collaborations. Bryzgel is an alumna of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Scottish Crucible research
leadership programme. She mentored Casini in her application to the programme (2016), where
she worked with Glasgow University and Royal Botanic Gardens Edinburgh, using the RGBE
Herbarium to produce online material that enhances its collections. In 2018, the School invested in
a Fulbright Scholarship for Dr Heidi Brevik-Zender (California Riverside) to enable collaboration
with Larkin on the representation of women in C19 photography, leading to Larkin’s British
Academy/Leverhulme Trust grant to develop the project.
Research in visual culture involves sustained engagement with regional audiences. The Director’s
Cut series of talks with film industry professionals (Marcus, Bryzgel, Krylova) is unique in the UK,
bringing a diverse range of international practitioners to the region. Alongside Polish director Pawel
Pawlikowski (2015 Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film), Indian filmmakers K.P.
Jaysankar and Anjali Monteiro, and Serbian performance artist Tanja Ostojić, we have showcased
work by contemporary German and Austrian filmmakers Niki Stein, Volker Gerling and Ruth
Beckermann. In collaboration with Belmont Filmhouse Aberdeen, Director’s Cut Masterclasses
have enabled aspiring filmmakers to engage with renowned directors such as Tina Gharavi and
Jon Baird.
GWW’s VIEW programme involves talks, exhibitions and art performances which are free to the
public. VIEW showcases regional talent while also bringing international artists, directors and
researchers to Aberdeen. Exhibitions curated by staff include Bryzgel’s ‘Eastern European
Performance Art in Scotland: The Legacy of Richard Demarco’ (2016); Casini’s ‘From Where Do
We See?’ (2019), on MRI and medical imaging, in collaboration with the Grampian Hospitals Arts
Trust; Larkin’s ‘Shared Heart’ (2020-21) with local artists Bibo and Brian Keeley, in collaboration

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with NHS Grampian; O’Connor’s ‘Home Truths: Workers and Families on the Move in the Oil
Community’ (2015), with The Barn Arts, Banchory; and Welch’s ‘City of Ghosts: a dialogue with
George Washington Wilson’ (2015), with John Perivolaris (photographer) and Pete Stollery (sound
artist).
Four staff are editors of major journals: Larkin as French Subject Editor for Forum for Modern
Language Studies; Schell as Co-Editor of Journal of Latin American Studies; M. Macleod/Watson
as Co-Editors of Scottish Gaelic Studies. Editorial board memberships include Kiwan (Performing
Islam); Larkin (Irish Journal of French Studies); M. Macleod (Poznan Celtic Studies); Sanchez-
Ortiz (Transletters); Schell (Ediciones Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile); and Welch
(Legenda Studies in Visual Culture). Schell is President of the Society for Latin American Studies
(2019-21); Welch is Honorary Secretary of the Society for French Studies (since 2019); Krylova
was Secretary of Women in German Studies (2015-19).
We peer review for publishers including Bloomsbury Academic, Chicago, Indiana, Liverpool, MIT,
Manchester, Palgrave, Pickering & Chatto and Routledge; and for an extensive range of journals
reflecting our disciplinary and interdisciplinary expertise:
French/Francophone: Contemporary French Civilization, XVIIe siècle, French Cultural Studies,
                    French Studies, Irish Journal of French Studies, Modern and Contemporary
                    France, Nineteenth-Century French Studies, Nottingham French Studies
Gaelic:             Aiste: Studies in Gaelic Literature, Scottish Language
German/Austrian:    German Quarterly, Journal of Austrian Studies
Hispanic:           The Americas, Bulletin of Hispanic Studies, Bulletin of Latin American
                    Research, Bulletin of Spanish Studies, Hispanic Research Journal, Journal
                    of Iberian and Latin American Studies, Mexican Studies/Estudios
                    Mexicanos, Revista de Estudios Hispánicos
History:            Agricultural History, Cultural and Social History, Gender and History,
                    Historia, History of Science, Social History of Medicine
Modern Languages: Modern Language Review, Romance Studies
Multidisciplinary:  American Ethnologist, Ethnic and Racial Studies, Feminist Review,
                    Identities, Modern Jewish Studies, Science Communication
Slavonic:           Journal of Baltic Studies, The Russian Review
Visual Culture:     Art Journal, Leonardo, Public Art Dialogue, Third Text, Cinema and Cie
Several staff have external evaluator roles. Bryzgel, Kiwan, Tribout, Watson and Welch serve
in the AHRC Peer Review College. Bryzgel, Krylova and Schell peer review for the Scottish
Universities Insight Institute Trust, as does Casini for the Leverhulme Trust and Stack for the
ESRC. Tribout, Watson and Welch are research assessors for the Carnegie Trust. Barker,
Kiwan, Krylova, Sanchez-Ortiz, M. Macleod, Watson and Welch have been on selection panels
for SGSAH doctoral competitions as Modern Languages representatives.
Internationally, Bryzgel reviews grants for the Slovenian Research Agency; Casini has served as
expert evaluator for Horizon 2020 Future and Emerging Technologies; M. Macleod is a member of
the Irish Research Council Outer Board; Schell reviews for CONICYT (Chile) and the National
Endowment for the Humanities (US); Stack reviews for CONACyT (Mexico); Welch reviews for the
Irish Research Council for Humanities and Social Sciences, the Conseil franco-québécois de la
coopération universitaire, and the Austrian Research Council.
We hosted two major Modern Languages conferences during the census period: the Society for
French Studies annual conference in 2014 (Larkin, Kiwan, Welch); and the Society for Latin
American Studies Conference in 2015 (Schell). Beyond Aberdeen, Krylova collaborated with St
Andrews and Edinburgh on ‘The Politics of Contemporary German Culture’ conference (St
Andrews, 2019, funding from AHRC OWRI), leading to an Edinburgh German Yearbook volume
(2020), and organised the conference ‘Thomas Bernhard: Language, History, Subjectivity’ with
Glasgow (Goethe Institut Glasgow, 2020).
As part of CISRUL’s activities, Stack and Kiwan have co-organized interdisciplinary conferences
and PhD summer schools, including ‘Conceptualizing Difference’ (2020), ‘Decolonising Political
Concepts’ (2019), ‘Citizen Participation in Contexts of Crime-Related Violence and Institutional
Fragility’ (2018), ‘Radical Democratic Citizenship’ (2018), ‘Radicalism and the Civil Sphere’ (2017),

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
‘Radical Protest in Constitutional Democracy’ (2016) and ‘Political Community’ (2014).
In 2019, Casini was a Brain Gain Fellow at IUAV University (Venice) and Stack was Excellence
Initiative Visiting Professor in Anthropology and Development Studies at Radboud University
(Netherlands), having been an RSE Visiting European Fellow at Universidad de Málaga (Spain) in
2016. Krylova’s monograph The Long Shadow of the Past: Contemporary Austrian Literature,
Film, and Culture was included in the 2018 Outstanding Academic Titles list by Choice, the journal
of the American Library Association. The list is used by librarians to identify the most innovative
and valuable titles for collection.
Keynote lectures include Casini on ‘Transactions: Imaging/Art/Science’, University of
Westminster (2019); Kiwan on ‘Islam, humanism and public intellectuals in contemporary France’,
at a symposium celebrating Professor Michael Kelly, Europe House, London (2017); M. Macleod,
on ‘Fèin-aithne agus fèin-dealbhaidh ann an dràma Gàidhlig’ at Rannsachadh na Gàidhlig (2016),
and ‘The Celtic Languages in the Modern Languages Discipline’, as British Academy invited
contributor to Our Uncommon Ground, Durham (2018); and Welch on ‘Visualising Urban Futures
in Post-war France’, Florida State University (2016).
Marcus’s films have been shown across the United States. He was invited to screen 216 Beach
Walk, Waikiki at the Jack London Society Biennial Symposium at the University of Nevada and the
Huntington Library, California (2019). In The Birch Grove was shown at Columbia University’s
Heyman Centre (2015) and, along with The Forgotten Jew in the City of Youth, at UCLA’s Centre
for Jewish Studies (2018). The New Colossus, on the US-Mexico border, was screened and
discussed in Los Angeles by the Council on Foreign Relations (2018).
Public talks include Barker on Spanish film and historical memory, in an online series organized
by the Instituto Cervantes, Manchester (2020); and Bryzgel, who interviewed Serbian artist Milica
Tomic at the Vienna Art Fair (2016), and Richard Demarco at the opening of the exhibition ‘The
Demarco Legacy’, Aberdeen (2016). Kiwan interviewed author Leila Aboulela in Aberdeen (2019),
and was a panel member on ‘Locating the Humanities’ at the AHRC Being Human Festival,
Aberdeen (2014). Barker and Sanchez-Ortiz organized translation workshops with Argentinian
writer and translator Carlos Gamerro (2016) (including a UK university tour organized by Barker);
and Spanish writer Jesús Carrasco with his English-language translator Margaret Jull Costa
(2018). Schell spoke at the British Museum ‘Day of the Dead Festival’ Study Day on ‘Twentieth-
Century Mexico: Revolutions in Culture and Politics’ (2015) and was a ‘Festival of Politics’ panellist
on ‘How Has Latin America Influenced the USA?’ in Edinburgh (2015).
Media contributions include articles in The Conversation by Barker on erotic cinema and the
shaping of modern Spain (2018) and Bryzgel on performance art (2014, 2015, 2016 twice, 2019).
One of Bryzgel’s 2016 articles was republished on the CNN website. M. Macleod gave interviews
about heritage learners and the Glossika collaboration to BBC Radio nan Gàidheal in 2018, and
was interviewed by The Guardian about new Gaelic speakers in 2014. Schell discussed Frida
Kahlo on In Our Time (BBC Radio 4/World Service, 2015), and was interviewed by Observer Tech
Monthly about Chile and Darwin (2015).
In sum, our supportive School environment and a set of dynamic Research Centres enable us to
pursue our individual specialisms and capitalize on opportunities for collaborative activity. We work
with partners from around the world while at the same time participating in the social and cultural
enrichment of North East Scotland. In doing so, we ensure that Aberdeen’s contribution to the
diversity and impact of Modern Languages research is substantial and sustained.




                                                                                             Page 12
