Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Salford

 Unit of Assessment: 11

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit context and overview

 With a focus on the needs of our industry partners, the goal of the Informatics Research Group
 (IRG) is to produce internationally excellent research that drives real-world economic and societal
 impact. We align with global agendas around building resilient technological infrastructure,
 promoting inclusive and sustainable industrialisation and fostering innovation through the use of
 data, artificial intelligence and machine learning. An example of our international reach includes
 our partnership on the EU-funded SUCCEED programme, contributing to the adoption of mass
 digitisation and development of common standards for storage and dissemination of cultural
 heritage documents across five European countries. In this REF period we have increased the
 number of active researchers, internationalised our funding and built associated networks, and
 grown the size of our PhD community. We have intensified our impact through 11 Knowledge
 Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), being a partner in the AI and Cyber Foundries and working with a
 range of companies and public sector organisations including the Office for National Statistics,
 LG-Energy, Humn.AI and Add Energy Ltd.

 The IRG is based within the Salford Innovation Research Centre (SIRC) in the School of Science,
 Engineering and Environment (SEE), which was established in 2015 to form an interdisciplinary
 research environment bringing together: Acoustics; Autonomous Systems and Robotics;
 Engineering; Informatics; and Materials and Physics.

 Members are listed against their primary affiliation, although many work in cross-disciplinary
 collaborations:

    •   Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (DSAI) (6.0 FTE: Antonacopoulos, Meziane,
        Pletschacher, Preiss, Saraee, Vadera) includes cost-sensitive data mining, medical
        image processing, natural language processing, digitisation, document image analysis and
        recognition, and data mining and machine learning.

    •   Telecommunications and Information Security (TIS) (6.0 FTE: Alani, Belguith,
        Dargahi, Hegarty, Linge, Takruri-Rizk) addresses key questions around: network traffic
        prediction, spatial and temporal optimisation in cloud computing, millimetre wave 5G
        networks, latency reduction in C-RAN networks.

    •   Software Engineering and Visualisation (SEV) (4.0 FTE: Bass, Gaber, Hughes,
        Roberts) has strengths in developing large-scale agile software development
        methodologies, IT infrastructure in developing countries, intelligent systems and trust-
        based security models.

 Research strategy 2015 – 2020

 The SIRC research strategy spanned 2015-20 to drive economic prosperity through enhanced
 utilisation of productivity-enhancing digital technologies and big data and artificial intelligence
 approaches in Industry 4.0. Computer Science and Informatics research has linked into the SIRC
 strategy through a strong collaborative ethos, forging links with industrial partners to deliver
 research impact.

 Our 2015-20 strategic priorities were:

    •   Grow our research base


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        We have invested in and developed our researchers, especially early career researchers
        (ECRs). We have increased our submission by 23% to 16 FTE from 13 FTE in REF2014.
        We have expanded through a process of recruiting research-active staff, ensuring
        alignment with strategic priorities and a balance of recruitment across career stages.

    •   Diversify our funding portfolio and grow our involvement in international networks
        We have invested in key facilities that support our strategic research programmes. We
        have received awards from 11 different funders; 49% has come from UK
        government/industry sources; 42% from European programmes and 10% from Research
        Councils, UK charities and overseas organisations.

    •   Grow our community of postgraduate researchers (PGRs)
        We have provided PGRs with an excellent research training experience and increased the
        number of PhD degree awards to 46 from 41 in REF2014; an increase of 12%.

 Since 2014, Computer Science and Informatics has increased the number of research outputs in
 SCOPUS-indexed journals by over 35%, from 76 to 103. Over the same period, the field-weighted
 citation index (FWCI) for our outputs reached 2.24 compared to the global average of 1.0 (SciVal)
 demonstrating that our work attracts academic attention and contributes to driving research
 forwards across multiple informatics disciplines.

 Key research and impact achievements since 2014

 Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (DSAI)
 A focus of this group has been pattern recognition and digitisation (Antonacopoulos,
 Pletschacher). Research included a multi-year collaboration (until 2024) with the Office of
 National Statistics to digitise census data, making it available to the public and industry via digital
 applications. Collaborations with other major libraries and international organisations has
 generated substantial impact, outlined in one of our REF3 submissions, fundamentally improving
 the accessibility and utility of critical but previously inaccessible organisational data, directly
 influencing digitisation strategy and enabling the creation of new large-scale automated document
 recognition systems by large organisations, using machine learning approaches.

 DSAI has delivered AI and big data solutions for emerging technologies such as autonomous
 vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communication (Saraee with TIS). DSAI members
 also contribute to the AI Foundry project, which aims to support up to 170 SMEs to adopt the latest
 practices developed by our AI researchers, for innovation and growth, including ‘building back
 better’ from the COVID-19 pandemic (Antonacopoulos, Aspin (leaver), Hegarty, Hughes,
 Meziane, Preiss, Saraee, Vadera (lead)).

 Telecommunications and Information Security (TIS)
 TIS research has improved the energy efficiency in large-scale telecommunication, wireless body
 sensor networks and households (Takruri-Rizk) leading to societal and economic benefits.
 Further projects have addressed reducing computational complexity in Cloud-RAN mobile
 networks (Alani) and low-complexity non-intrusive load monitoring using unsupervised learning
 and generalised appliance models, which won the Chester Sall award (2019) at the IEEE
 Consumer Technology Society (Linge).

 Belguith, Dargahi and Hegarty, with input from another five IRG members, lead the Salford
 contribution to the £6m Greater Manchester Cyber Foundry project (ERDF funded), working with
 the Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce and 150 Greater Manchester SMEs to translate
 the latest cybersecurity research into practice. Example research includes designing (ML-based)
 tools to automate security monitoring, or rapidly disseminate information to non-specialists for
 fraud detection, and blockchain solutions for secure transfer of data. Salford partners have
 included: LG-Energy; TeamKinetic; Fister Educational; CPD-Online Productions; Salford
 Foundation and Humn.AI.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 TIS has produced outputs on network security, privacy enhancing technologies, authentication,
 access control, blockchain, applied cryptography and forensics. Impact is evident in cybersecurity
 and privacy practices in sectors with major security and privacy concerns, such as cloud
 computing, 5G networks, autonomous connected vehicles and healthcare (Dehghantanha,
 leaver). Research has led to improvements in security and privacy challenges in emerging
 networks, increased usage of attribute-based encryption for security and privacy, cryptography
 and threat detection (Belguith); and the creation of novel clone detection methods based on
 multidimensional scaling that is being developed towards enhanced security for Internet of Things
 (IoT) devices (Dargahi).

 Software Engineering and Visualisation (SEV)
 SEV research impacts software development and deployment, quality compliance and risk
 mitigation in areas including large-scale offshore software development programmes and cloud-
 based computing. This has benefitted our industry partner, Add Energy group, as evidenced in
 our second REF3 submission (Bass), through development of innovative software for the
 optimisation and enhancement of asset registers and leading to significant operational efficiency.
 The company has attracted £4m in revenue to date through exploitation of its software products,
 including the innovative AssetC software.

 Visualisation research includes the investigation of immersive virtual/augmented reality for
 accessibility services (Hughes) and as a platform for data- (Aspin, leaver) and medical- (Gaber)
 visualisation. Presenting and exploring data and hypothesising within large-scale dynamic
 environments sits tightly connected to Data Science and AI. The core research question relates
 to how to create dimensionally scaleable dynamic visual models that present complex data
 systems in a way that is intuitively comprehensible and therefore enables the ability to make well-
 informed data-driven decisions.

 Future research and impact plans

 Vision: With data and information at the heart of Industry 4.0, we seek to develop novel methods,
 algorithms and systems in the areas of cyber-security and digital infrastructure, learning
 behaviours and predictive models. Using this knowledge, we will work with our partners in industry
 to develop innovative applications that make a national and international impact.

 Group aims:

    1. Digital Innovation: We will develop emerging digital applications and technologies, such
       cybersecurity, blockchain, AI and machine learning, to deliver improved performance and
       prosperity, whilst addressing barriers to their adoption.

        IRG will bring together aspects of digital society, public engagement with STEM, to create
        a ‘top-five digital economy’, including 5G adoption (MediaCityUK in Salford being the
        commercial 5G network in the UK) through close partnerships with TalkTalk and Siemens,
        and cybersecurity, leveraging our developing collaborations with GCHQ in Greater
        Manchester.

    2. Robotics and Automation: With the opening of the £13m North of England Robotics
       Innovation Centre (NERIC), due for completion in 2023, we will work with engineers to
       develop new artificial intelligence and robotics innovation for the healthcare industry,
       automotive sectors (including autonomous vehicles) and Industry 4.0 development
       (automation and Internet of Things).

    3. Smart and Sustainable Living: IRG will leverage the University’s built environment
       expertise (UoA13), to improve digital infrastructure (Internet of Things, 5G and network
       infrastructure, sensors etc.) including improvements in digital literacy, sensor technology
       and cybersecurity considerations. IRG will collaborate closely with the new Energy House


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2.0 facility, a £16.5m investment (£8.2m secured from ERDF) due to open in 2022,
        particularly around data analytics through adoption of smart meters and sensors.

 Objectives:

    •   Increase the diversity and number of staff with relevant expertise, by developing ECRs
        through our three-year research plan process and making appropriate strategic
        appointments. Particular attention will be paid to equality and diversity and the disruptive
        effects of COVID-19 on career progression, for example on caregivers.

    •   Increase the number of PGR enrolments and completions in IRG through growth in
        domestic and international recruitment. This will allow us to boost our knowledge base,
        enrich our scholarly community, build our global partnerships and collaborations and grow
        the next generation of scholars.

    •   Increase the value and duration of external research funding to allow for greater
        stability and depth in our activity. This will be achieved through increasing our number of
        collaborative research grant applications.

    •   Expand the impact of IRG research for non-academic users by considering impact
        activities at an early stage in each project and providing tailored support through strategic
        internal funding and staff support.

    •   Fully exploit our increasing investment in digital infrastructure via the North of
        England Robotics Innovation Centre (NERIC) and Energy House 2.0.

        IRG will collaborate closely with engineering colleagues, with the overall aim of facilitating
        digital innovation and AI and data science solutions for SMEs to enhance productivity and
        prosperity across multiple industrial sectors, including manufacturing, industry 4.0 and
        healthcare. This builds on and expands our successful Cyber- and AI-foundry projects,
        with similar goals, and further embeds our research and impact in the applied aspects of
        computer science and networks, cybersecurity and software engineering.

 Our researchers are supported in developing their impact through formalised annual impact action
 plans, which are implemented through a School Impact Coordinator (Antonacopoulos) to monitor
 progress against objectives and to discuss future impact activity.

 To complement our REF3 submissions (Antonacopoulos and Bass), we are building on existing
 impact activity in the following areas:

    • Addressing cybersecurity and privacy-preserving issues in cloud computing (Belguith and
      Dargahi) and collaboration with GCHQ through the GM Security and Trust Partnership
      (Vadera)
    • Developing future mobility solutions in Greater Manchester, utilising big data and
      visualisation approaches towards improved Mobility as a Service (MaaS) and Connected
      Autonomous Vehicle infrastructure (Saraee)
    • Developing leading platforms in Media Accessibility through AI and interactive technology
      integration (EU COST action; Hughes)
    • Using virtual reality as an exposure therapy intervention for those suffering trauma, e.g.
      victims of the Manchester Arena bombing in 2017 (Roberts).

 Active participation in digital innovation will also be at the heart of the Greater Manchester Digital,
 Creative and Media strategy, through our work on digital innovation at the MediaCityUK campus
 and close collaboration with the creative industries including the BBC, ITV and museums in our
 locality.



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research integrity and open research practices

 Integrity is supported by the School Research and Enterprise Committee (SREC), a research
 oversight committee of academics, technicians and PGR representatives chaired by the Associate
 Dean for Research and Innovation (ADRI), and the School Ethics Approval Committee (SEAC), a
 school ethics oversight committee of Ethics Panel Chairs, with academic and student
 representation. These committees refer to the institution’s Research Code of Practice and
 Academic Ethics Policy, which incorporate and develop the principles of the UK Research Integrity
 Office’s Code of Practice for Research and Universities UK’s Concordat to Support Research
 Integrity (REF5a). All projects involving primary data collection or research participants require
 approval from the School ethics review panel.

 To ensure data are sustainably accessible and discoverable, and to enhance the integrity and
 efficiency of data sharing, validation and re-use, our researchers are committed to the University
 open access strategy, managed through the University Library. 100% of submitted staff have
 ORCID identifiers to share details of publications and datasets; all in-scope research outputs are
 deposited and made available as open-access as pre-prints or accepted versions in the University
 of Salford Institutional Repository (USIR) or on external pre-print servers such as arXiv. Authors
 whose work was funded through UKRI sources have access to funding for Open Access Article
 Processing Charges (7% of our total outputs have benefitted from this funding).
 Institutional Open Access Funds were also available based on internal peer review of the paper
 by the Research Centre Director and ADRI. Agreements with several academic journal publishers
 also reduce or remove the cost of publishing open access in their journals: 21 outputs benefitted
 from institutional funding or publisher deals.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 To accomplish our goal to grow our research base, two strategies were adopted: firstly, to retain
 and develop existing academic staff (Alani, Antonacopoulos, Linge, Meziane, Pletschacher,
 Roberts, Saraee, Takruri-Rizk, Vadera) and secondly to recruit research-active staff to bring new
 expertise and knowledge to each of the three IRG research groups (Bass, Belguith, Dargahi,
 Gaber, Hegarty, Hughes, Preiss). Bass was recruited to strengthen research in software
 engineering with emphasis on agile methods and software deployment methodologies with
 specific applications to the cloud; Belguith, Dargahi and Hegarty were recruited to provide
 expertise in cybersecurity, forensics and cyber physical systems as part of establishing the
 Telecommunications and Information Security group; Hughes was recruited with expertise in
 visual computing to develop the link between the software engineering and data science and AI
 teams towards developing tools and methods for visualising complex data. Gaber’s recruitment
 was to span expertise between software engineering, machine learning and cybersecurity; Preiss
 was recruited to link natural language processing and Artificial Intelligence with established
 excellence in pattern recognition.

 IRG has 7 Professors (Antonacopoulos, Linge, Meziane, Roberts, Saraee, Takruri-Rizk,
 Vadera), 2 Senior Lecturers (Bass, Hegarty) and 7 Lecturers (Alani, Belguith, Dargahi, Gaber,
 Hughes, Pletschacher, Preiss). All 3 groups have representation from Lecturers and Professors
 ensuring that there is strong leadership and developmental opportunities for ECRs, so that each
 area remains sustainable. Staff have had opportunities to advance in their careers through
 promotion in recognition of their contributions to excellent research since REF2014. Bass and
 Hegarty were promoted to Senior Lecturer and Antonacopoulos and Saraee were promoted to
 Chair. Specifically, Saraee was promoted in recognition of the development of industry-focused
 data science. Antonacopoulos was promoted due to continued excellence in pattern recognition,
 image and document analysis, and digitisation.




                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career development and support

 Formal career development processes
 All staff have annual Career Conversations (Performance and Development Review, PDR) with
 their line managers, which allows for feedback and advice on the individual’s research trajectory,
 setting of research objectives and measurement of achievement. Three-year research plans feed
 into PDR discussions so that objectives are set for specific activities and each member of staff
 can receive the necessary support from their line manager, group lead and ADRI. For example,
 Saraee is directly line-managed by the ADRI to enhance linkage between data science research,
 enterprise and research-led teaching. Research workloads are set for staff in line with the outcome
 of their three-year plan assessment, with a minimum of 20 workload units for staff with ‘significant
 responsibility for research’ (SRR) as described in our REF2021 Code of Practice.

 Newly appointed staff are allocated a formal mentor from amongst the senior staff in their
 disciplines to support them during their first year of employment at the University and are given an
 enhanced research allocation (and a reduced teaching workload) as an investment component.
 Such an approach was very successful for IRG, as evidenced by the promotion of Bass to Senior
 Lecturer in Software Engineering. SEE has recently established an ECR Network to ensure that
 this community has a voice within School activities. Local coordination with the University-wide
 mentoring scheme (REF5a) is managed by Bass.

 Supporting high-quality bidding, outputs and impact activities
 Staff have access to regular SEE and University internal funding calls to support research output
 production and dissemination (including open-access APC charges), pump priming, impact
 generation and conference travel. Funding is prioritised towards staff members within their first 2
 years of appointment and staff requesting support must demonstrate how their project aligns with
 School and SIRC strategic priorities. £17.5k in support has been provided to 10 staff to pump-
 prime research, attend conferences, or disseminate research findings. The University operates a
 policy whereby 25% of overhead income from research awards is provided into a staff
 discretionary account, which is used for staff and PGR students to attend conferences, organise
 workshops (e.g. the Empirical Software Engineering workshop, held at Salford, with MMU and
 UCLAN, Bass) or activities that enhance research quality or impact.

 Complementing the Salford Early to Experienced Career Researcher Enterprise Training
 (SECRET) programme, through SEE and SIRC, staff receive more tailored guidance for bidding,
 publication quality and impact activities. The School ADRI discusses available external grant
 opportunities and facilitates cross-disciplinary bid development at weekly School research
 meetings. To support staff to produce high quality research outputs, SIRC organises an internal
 peer review process that provides feedback to all authors on their publications using the criteria
 of ‘originality, significance and rigour’.

 Development of research impact is a priority and supported in multiple ways. Internal funding from
 the University’s Research Impact Fund has supported expansion of impact-generating activities
 for Antonacopoulos and Bass. Annual impact action plans were introduced in 2018 to support
 researchers to develop their impact in a strategic manner to maximise the benefits of the research
 for wider society. School Impact Coordinators (Antonacopoulos for SIRC) meet regularly with
 plan holders to discuss future activity: Hughes has an action plan to generate impact from his
 Immersive Accessibility project and also a joint plan with researchers in SEE’s Biomedical
 Research Centre (BRC) to develop impact around virtual reality/immersive technology within
 biomedical education. An additional 10% research workload has been provided to support the
 development of impact case studies included in REF3.

 To provide a supportive research community and facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration we
 organise away days and a regular research seminar series. The seminar series is open to both
 staff and PGR students and includes both external academic and industrial speakers, for example
 the Chief Scientist for SINTEF Digital, Norway, who gave a talk on Large-Scale Agile Development
 and Coordination (2018); and collaborators such as Carnegie Mellon, USA with a talk on

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institutions and Capabilities in Incremental Design (2017); and Health Innovation Manchester, with
 a seminar on the application of data science to health (2019). SEE’s Professorial Network also
 provides a forum for discussion of leadership and management of research activities across the
 School.

 Ensuring an excellent postgraduate research experience

 Creating an effective and supportive environment for research students is a core element of the
 School’s and IRG’s priorities, therefore, we have invested (with support from HEFCE) in our PGR
 office infrastructure including a full refurbishment of a modern, state-of-the-art PGR facility (£589k)
 and PC suite (£530k), including dedicated PGR meeting room facilities (£31k).

 We have supported PhD progression through regular monitoring and supervisor training to ensure
 support for students is of a high quality. Mandatory training for all new supervisors ensures that
 the supervision teams are trained and educated in supervisory skills. PGR student supervisor
 training is regularly refreshed and is monitored alongside PGR progression through SREC. Any
 issues with progression are identified and resolved at an early stage through the supervisory team,
 the ADRI and the Doctoral School (for example 66% of our PGR students have been granted
 COVID-19-related extensions to aid progression). At School level, all staff actively engage with
 learning agreement development, annual progression and final viva assessments, ensuring a
 common understanding of expectations across supervisory teams and an independent audit of
 PhD progression. Students have monthly formal meetings with their supervisory team, ensuring
 an excellent supervisor-supervisee relationship develops. Supervisory teams are usually
 comprised of a main supervisor, a co-supervisor and an independent personal tutor. To develop
 their supervisory skills ECRs are paired with more senior researchers as part of supervisory teams.

 To complement the Salford Postgraduate Research Training (SPoRT) programme (see REF5a),
 SEE runs a first-year PhD student symposium with training around delivering scientific
 presentations at seminars and conferences, and all PGRs contribute to the University-run Salford
 Postgraduate Annual Research Conference (SPARC), where students and ECRs present their
 research and gain feedback. These cover aspects of doctoral studies such as expectations in the
 progression points, preparing for the viva, academic writing, research and software development
 methodologies and data analysis using NVivo and SPSS. In addition to centrally provided training,
 in computer science PGRs are encouraged to attend PGT modules related to their research
 domain. We have informatics-specific training sessions on methods for selecting research sites
 and data collection and data analysis when using qualitative methods in areas such as computer-
 supported cooperative work or computer human interaction. Workshops covering academic writing
 for journal and conference papers have explored consideration of time management styles.

 The training and development experience encourages PGRs to apply for grants, publish and
 present their work at conferences during their PhDs to build a track record. Support is given around
 selecting target conferences and appropriate journals within the field. £300 a year is provided for
 each student to assist with conference attendance. Exemplars of PhD student successes include:
 Abdullahi (Dargahi with an Engineering colleague) who published an interdisciplinary paper on
 autonomous vehicle to infrastructure communication; and Odero (Dargahi, Takruri-Rizk, with an
 Engineering colleague), who published a cross-disciplinary paper detailing improvements to
 computer network and IPv6 security. Many of our students take up academic positions at the
 conclusion of their postgraduate studies: Takruri-Risk has supervised 4 students (with 5
 publications) that have gone on to permanent academic positions in Saudi Arabia, Dubai and Iraq;
 Vadera has supervised PhD students that are now, or have been, academic tutors at Salford (2),
 MMU and the Ghadems Higher Institute of Science and Technology, Libya.

 Equality and diversity

 The University is a member of the Athena SWAN charter. The former School of Computer Science
 and Engineering (CSE) (which merged with other Science and Engineering schools to form SEE
 in 2019) gained an Athena SWAN bronze award. Our Self-Assessment Team is chaired by

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Takruri-Rizk, who has an international profile for work on gender and STEM and was awarded
 an MBE in 2009 for services to Women, Black and Minority Ethnic people in Science, Engineering
 and Technology education. She works with national and local organisations (e.g. Equal
 Opportunities Commission, Opportunity Now, Royal Academy of Engineering, Skillset, Women’s
 Engineering Society) and with industry (e.g. Airbus, BBC, Gargill, Gamma, Morson, United
 Utilities) around ensuring STEM inclusivity. Through outreach and engagement events we seek
 to promote the role of women in science and inspire female students from across UK
 schools/colleges to study STEM subjects for a future career in the industry, helping the industry
 to be inclusive and diverse. For example, Salford has hosted the annual British Computer Society
 Lovelace Colloquium, a free conference for female students to promote informatics careers (Bass,
 Belguith) which attracted 110 presentations from women in STEM in 2019, featuring prominent
 Senior Software Engineers from Bloomberg and the BBC.

 Takruri-Rizk and the Athena SWAN self-assessment team are working to match our
 achievements with BAME improvement in gender equality. We are supporting female ECRs to
 take on leadership of major projects (e.g. Belguith will take over as Salford lead for the Cyber
 Foundry). Regular School and University-level promotions workshops feature successful
 applicants sharing their experience of the promotion process to support those considering
 Readership/Professorial promotion and specifically seek to support under-represented
 colleagues. We are committed to improving representation of female academics within IRG. Four
 staff in our submission are female (25%), which is an increase from one in REF2014. Whilst an
 improvement, we recognise there is much we need to do to achieve full equality and we are
 committed to appointing more women computer scientists and working with schools to develop
 the pipeline of future women leaders and graduates in computer science.

 The selection of staff for REF submission and outputs followed our Code of Practice closely. We
 have excellent representation of BAME staff, with eight members being from a BAME background
 (62%); six (46%) have been appointed since REF2014. Attribution of REF2 outputs to female staff
 is 7% below our proportion of female submitted staff (18% compared with 25% submitted female
 staff). However, 45% of outputs are attributed to BAME staff in a submission where 31% are from
 a BAME background.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 We have undertaken 30 projects across the REF period with total income of £2.24m from 11
 funders. 49% of income has come from UK government/industry sources and 42% from EC
 programmes. The final 10% is from Research Councils (EPSRC and ESRC), UK charities and
 overseas organisations.

 Supporting our industry collaboration strategy, IRG has been involved with 11 KTPs (Innovate UK,
 value £1.1m), each evidencing translation of our research into real-world impact. Partner SMEs
 include: Financial Services (Car Finance 24; Humn.AI; Ripe Insurance Services; Dargahi,
 Saraee), Data Mining and Marketing (Social Sense, Idox Software Ltd.; Vadera), and Internet of
 Things (Invisible Systems; Bass, Correa, Meziane and Add Energy group; Bass). We regularly
 publish outputs with industry partners, for example co-publication of an article detailing the
 reduction of smoking in school-age children, through a KTP with Social Sense Ltd. (Vadera).

 Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
 Significant funding has been awarded to the area of document recognition and digital conversion.
 A strategic focus of this group is a collaboration with the Office of National Statistics (ONS; £272k),
 which been extended to digitise data from three census years, making it available to the public via
 digital applications (ONS: £500k, 2020-24; Antonacopoulos). The Aggregating content in
 Europeana project (EU CIP programme: €4.1m total, €391k to Salford, 2012-2015) developed
 digitisation methodology and infrastructure to migrate the Europeana newspapers collection to a
 new digital platform (Antonacopoulos, Pletschacher). This work founded the Salford Pattern

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recognition & Image Analysis (PRImA) research lab that has supported a number of further
 projects:

    •   SUCCEED (FP7 €1.9m total, €192k to Salford) was funded to promote the adoption and
        validation of research in mass digitisation with 7 other partners that included the British
        Library and the Bibliothèque National de France. This work further enabled the
        development of the PRImA research lab (Antonacopoulos, Pletschacher).

    •   eMOP (Andrew W. Mellon Foundation: $734K total, $86K to Salford) developed capability
        for a cloud-based system for annotation and for document recognition system training
        (Antonacopoulos).

    •   ZoneMaster (EU Eurostars programme: €1.1m total, €50k Salford subcontract) developed
        several digitisation evaluation methodologies which were subsequently tested in a
        commercial protype development environment (Antonacopoulos).

 Artificial Intelligence research notably includes the Salford contribution to the £6m ERDF Greater
 Manchester AI Foundry project, which aims to support up to 170 SMEs to adopt the latest
 practices, developed by our researchers in Artificial Intelligence, for innovation and growth,
 including ‘building back better’ from the COVID-19 pandemic. (Correa, Meziane, Vadera (lead)).
 Further income in AI and Data Science has supported:

    •   Developing and applying data mining and immersive visualisation techniques (through
        OCTAVE) to categorise the victims of crimes (The Centre for Crime and Justice Studies
        crime profiling project (ESRC: ‘A Profiler for Crime, Criminal Justice and Social Harm’
        £150k; Aspin, Meziane, Saraee)).

    •   Developing comprehensive insurance solutions for Autonomous Vehicles (Saraee, £130k
        KTP with Humn.AI).

    •   Combining Artificial Intelligence and IoT technologies to optimise energy usage (£130k
        KTP with Invisible Systems Ltd. (Correa)).

    •   4 KTPs (each £130k; Innovate UK led by Vadera) in AI applications that have: 1)
        developed novel churn models for a software house that enabled an objective approach to
        targeted retention of customers and new business (IDOX; 2013-2015); 2) provided insights
        into one of the largest Social Norms programmes in the UK that reduced smoking among
        children (Social Sense Ltd.; 2015-2016); 3) utilised machine learning to reduce the time to
        consider insurance applications and improve conversion rates whilst obtaining the best
        interest rates for its customers (CarFinance247, 2016-2018); and 4) applied Bayesian
        models for dynamic pricing and understanding and planning around customer churn rates
        (RIPE Insurance; 2018-20, with Saraee).

    •   Privacy4Forensics (EU FP7: €231k) project that developed tools for, and identified best
        practice for carrying out, privacy-respecting forensics investigations including Windows,
        Android, OSX and Internet of Things (IoT; Vadera).

 Telecommunication and Information Security
 TIS leads, and 50% of IRG members contribute to, the ERDF Greater Manchester Cyber Foundry
 project that works with 150 Greater Manchester SMEs, including the Greater Manchester
 Chamber of Commerce, to adopt latest best cybersecurity practices to protect them from
 cybercrime (Belguith, Dargahi, Hegarty). Partners have included: CPD-Online Productions,
 Fister Educational, Humn.AI, LG-Energy, Salford Foundation and TeamKinetic (See Section 4).

 Software Engineering and Visualisation
 A strategic focus for SEV is digital innovation with Add Energy group, who are establishing an on-
 campus facility at Salford (from 2021) to facilitate research collaborations. This follows 2

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 successful KTPs (Innovate UK: each £130k) that have led to the creation of an exhaustive
 taxonomy of software development artefacts and established in-house commercial software
 development capabilities, which is further detailed in (REF3; Bass). Other SEV research income
 has included:

 • Immersive Accessibility (Part-H2020 funded, total of €2.9m: €205k to Salford; 2017-2020)
   was established to develop an integrated, web-based 360° Immersive Accessibility (ImAc)
   service (including Subtitles, Audio Description, Audio Subtitling and Sign Language) that
   overcomes the limitations of existing web-based 360° video players. Collaborators included 8
   academic, industrial and charity partners across Europe including the German Aerospace
   Center (Hughes).

 • CROSS-DRIVE (Part EU funding, total of €3.59m: £315k to Salford; 2014-2016) led to the
   development of a new, collaborative, interactive and immersive approach for exploring 3D time-
   dependent Mars atmospheric data in distributed teams and virtual reality (Roberts).

 Infrastructure and facilities

 Informatics research occupies a number of dedicated laboratories located in the Newton,
 Cockcroft and Maxwell Buildings. In 2017, the University embarked on developing a Campus
 Masterplan and our future interdisciplinary collaboration strategy is planned around capitalising on
 the unification of the 3 science schools into SEE, to develop multidisciplinary research in areas
 such as environment, biomedicine, energy and the built environment. Within the Masterplan, the
 new £65m SEE building, due for completion 2022/23, will provide 15,366m2 of state-of-the-art
 collaborative workspace including workshops and studios at the heart of the Peel campus,
 consolidating SEE from 5 buildings into 1. For IRG the building will house computer suites,
 software laboratories, a CISCO imaging and computer lab, a cybersecurity suite, a data science
 suite and training suites for postgraduates and undergraduates.

 To strengthen the research in the areas of data science, visualisation and information security the
 University made a £84k investment in cloud infrastructure, aimed at developing a big data analytics
 and visualisation platform to support research. We have invested in a Hypervisor (multi-node)
 private cloud, consisting of 6 Dell PowerEdge rack servers located in our data centre (4 OS and 2
 management servers), offering up to 120 vCPUs, 755GB RAM and ~3TB of storage space. Each
 node has either one or two 20-core Intel Xeon E5-26XX Processor(s), with CPU speeds ranging
 from 2.3GHz to 3GHz, and memory ranging from 64GB to 256GB. The data centre and wider IT
 infrastructure is serviced by a dedicated technician.

 PRImA
 The Pattern Recognition and Image Analysis (PRImA) research lab has been supported by the
 School in terms of space provision, matched funding for projects as well as through Staff
 Innovation grants. The PRImA lab has enabled interdisciplinary collaborations, with social
 sciences and humanities researchers internationally, national and other prominent cultural
 institutions, non-profit and government organisations. It has enabled the development of 6
 Research Assistants and Research Fellows (among which, Pletschacher progressed to a
 lectureship) and 5 PhD students. The PRImA lab has participated a number of research grants
 and contracts (see Antonacopoulos) and has produced software that is being commercially
 licensed to other organisations. The PRimA Lab has hosted visiting researchers from India, South
 Korea and Switzerland. While the majority of the activities have been in digitisation and document
 recognition (e.g. the Aletheia document analysis system and the PRImA digitisation performance
 evaluation methodology), a prominent example of other work is the successful collaboration with
 civil engineering researchers to create the Dewaterability Estimation Test (DET) device, for which
 a patent has been granted and a spin-out company created to exploit it: ATW (UK) Ltd.

 OCTAVE
 The School provided over £700k in investment in the previous REF period on OCTAVE and has
 invested in its maintenance and support through this cycle, including dedicated technical support

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for research utilising this resource. OCTAVE is an 8-sided virtual immersive environment that
 provides both virtual and augmented reality capabilities impossible to deliver with standard head
 mounted VR equipment. In this period, this investment has led to visualisation research involving
 students and external stakeholders, and impact through outreach. For example, the facility has
 enabled a multi-user immersive data visualisation for the ESRC-funded crime profiling project
 (Aspin, Meziane, Saraee) that studied the relationship between victims of crimes, their
 characteristics and features, and the types of crimes committed through immersive visualisation.

 OCTAVE has been used to support: research bids including tele-collaboration (Roberts), Big Data
 (Aspin, Saraee) and medical and psychology research (Roberts); 22 outputs (University-wide);
 and 11 PhD students. OCTAVE is complemented by ThinkLAB, a VR/XR collaboration facility
 designed to bring University teams and external partners together in an atmosphere of
 collaboration and co-creation. ThinkLAB includes dedicated technical support with deep
 experience in Smart Cities and Collaborative Engineering to deliver virtual training environments.

 Wider SEE infrastructure
 SEE offers wider unique and state-of-the-art facilities such as Energy House (and the future
 Energy House 2.0), a testbed for new energy systems and testing of energy efficiency; IRG staff
 contribute to this area through data analysis and machine learning applications to optimise energy
 usage (e.g. Bass, Saraee). Our purpose-built Automotive and Autonomous Vehicle
 Technology (AAVT) laboratory includes a £220k Navya autonomous shuttle that facilitates our
 contribution to cybersecurity of vehicles, vehicle to infrastructure networking and development of
 predictive models for insurance. This has led to an external collaboration with Project Darwin, a
 consortium that includes Telefonica, the UK Space Agency, European Space Agency and Oxford
 University.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Effective collaborations leading to economic and social impact

 Research in Telecommunications and Information Security is co-developed with partners across
 Europe and the Middle East including: Ruse University (Bulgaria); Technical University of Cluj
 (Romania); ESTIA (France); University of Malaga (Spain); University of Rome La Sapienza (Italy);
 Birzeit University, Palestinian Polytechnic University, Palestine Technical University, Islamic
 University of Gaza, Palestine IT, Telecom Association (PITA), Jerusalem Electricity Distribution
 Company (JEDCo), Ministry of Telecommunication and Information Technology and Ramallah
 Municipality (Palestinian territories).

 Staff have engaged with 44 SMEs to develop cybersecurity and data science solutions through
 the ERDF Cyber Foundry. Completed research and development technical assists have been in
 partnership with: Greater Manchester Chamber of Commerce; LG Energy; Reason Digital;
 TeamKinetic; Fisher Educational (10 ticks); CPD Online Productions; the Salford Foundation;
 Innovate Healthcare Management Group and Toasted Productions. Further collaborations are
 being developed with: DeepCognito; Accredited Acoustics; Café Renaissance and Autosermo.
 We are collaborating with the Manchester-based GCHQ research department to develop
 information security and natural language processing applications.

 Research in software engineering includes partners that are seeking software solutions to improve
 their processes and operations. For example: Add Energy Ltd.; Idox Software Ltd.; Invisible
 systems Ltd. Research in visualisation and broadcasting is developed in collaboration with
 European partners including: I2CAT Foundation in Spain; the public broadcaster Rundfunk Berlin-
 Brandenburg; The Corporació Catalana de Mitjans Audiovisuals, the leading audio-visual media
 group in Catalonia; Motion Spell, an SME specialised in audio-visual media technologies in Paris;
 the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona; Anglatècnic, an SME specialising in the engineering and
 development of software systems for the broadcast and IT sectors, Barcelona; IRT, an SME
 specialised in audio-visual media technologies jointly owned by the Public Service Broadcasters


                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Germany, Austria and Switzerland and The Royal National Institute of Blind People (RNIB), a
 UK charity. The main achievements of this group include:

    •   New software products e.g. AimHi, AssetVoice, Optibom and LookC. The AssetVoice
        software has optimised the asset verification process used by BP in North America by
        helping it to collect asset inventory data that included refineries and offshore platforms.
        Our software development process has been adopted by Add Energy Ltd.’s R&D
        department, creating 5 jobs (see also REF3).

    •   Open-source software for personalised accessibility services for users with sensory or
        learning disabilities. The Immersive Accessibility Project (ImAc) integrates accessibility
        data with 360° immersive video and will be adopted by MPEG as part of their reference
        player. Further contributions have been made to the EBU, W3C, ISO, VRIF
        Standardisation Groups.

 Research in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science is developed in collaboration with companies
 and the public sector. For the latter, partners include the NHS, for health-related applications such
 as the length of stay of patients in Intensive Care Units, Medical Image Analysis and classification
 of the plantar fascia and the Achilles tendon. Research has also been undertaken with The Centre
 for Crime and Justice Studies and Salford City Council for understanding the behaviour of
 disadvantaged groups.

 The PRiMA group (led by Antonacopoulos) develops and deploys software tools for document
 analysis, digitisation and evaluation frameworks towards increasing the availability and
 accessibility of previously inaccessible, now digitised documentation. Software development has
 led to reduced costs of digitisation and adoption by libraries, public bodies and commercial service
 providers including over 25 partners across Europe, USA and Australia. Partners include: the
 European Centre of Competence in Digitisation; JISC/UK Data Service; Office for National
 Statistics; Texas A&M University, FamilySearch, USA; Australian Department of Defence, French
 National Library; National Library of the Netherlands and the State Library of Berlin. Furthermore,
 the group has influenced international digitisation policy, such as the European Commission’s
 Digital Agenda for Europe (see also REF3). Preiss has used linguistic analysis-based relations to
 improve the accuracy of literature-based discovery techniques. The research showed that
 relations extracted through automatic linguistic analysis identify several orders of magnitude fewer
 instances of hidden knowledge than approaches that use term co-occurrence relations.

 Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline

 IRG has supported the organisation and delivery of the work of international professional
 organisations and learned journals, and our expertise and involvement has been frequently sought
 by our peers.

 Keynote addresses and invited talks
 In recognition of the international research profiles within IRG, members have received numerous
 invitations to give plenary talks as invited speakers at international conferences, national and
 international research groups:

    • Alani: IEEE 10th Computer Science & Electronic Engineering Conference (CEEC 18) in
      the UK and the 3rd Scientific Conference of Electrical Engineering (SCEE2018) in Iraq in
      2018.
    • Antonacopoulos: digital humanities at the University of Verona (2014), on document
      recognition at The National Archives (2014), on the future of document analysis and
      recognition at ICDAR2017 (Kyoto), and on historical document analysis at the National
      Library and Archives of Belgium (2018).
    • Belguith: Smart Infrastructure theme at the ICT Brokerage event ICTurkey 2019 in Turkey
      and at the Subjectification of UK and Russian Smart Cities Workshop.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • Gaber: was Keynote Speaker at the 3rd International Conference on Robot, Vision and
      Signal Processing in 2015, Taiwan and at the 2nd workshop on ‘The Role of Information
      Technology in Sustainable Development’, organised by UNESCO, in Cairo, Egypt in 2014.
    • Hughes: at the Symposium on Subtitling Technology (IRT, Munich) in 2018.
    • Meziane: gave 8 invited talks at international conferences including in UK, Egypt, France
      and Malaysia, e.g. International Conference on Information Science and Systems
      (Cambridge, UK) and 3 at the International Conference on Frontiers of Information
      Technology (Nice, France). Additionally, he has been invited to present seminars to
      research groups in CNAM Paris and ISEP Paris.
    • Saraee: was the Keynote Speaker at the 4th International Conference on Web Research,
      Tehran, Iran (2018).
    • Vadera: gave 6 invited talks at international conferences and events, including in Dubai,
      Egypt and India, including the Amity International Conference on Artificial Intelligence
      (2019), an IEEE conference on Signal Processing and Integrated Networks (2020) and
      Software and Information Engineering (2020).

 International conferences hosted at Salford
 Meziane organised 2 international conferences on application of Natural Language to Information
 Systems (NLDB) at the University of Salford in 2016 and 2019. He was the general co-chair of the
 conference and Saraee and Vadera were the co-chairs of the Programme Committee. The
 proceedings were published by Springer in their Lecture Notes in Computer Science series, LNCS
 9612 and LNCS 11608. Meziane, Saraee and Vadera were among the editors of these 2 volumes.

 Bass organised and chaired the IFIP WG 9.4 14th International Conference on Social Implications
 of Computers in Developing Countries (2017, Indonesia) that led to him organising the 17th ICT4D
 in June 2020. Proceedings of the conference were published by Springer Nature. As a result of
 being invited to give a talk at the Public Sector Cyber Security Conference at Salford (2018),
 Dargahi was invited to give a lecture at Copenhagen School of Design and Technology, 2019.
 She was also the invited speaker at the Healthcare Cyber Security Conference held at Salford
 (January 2020).

 International conferences organised outside Salford
     • Antonacopoulos co-founded and co-organised the conference series Digital Access to
         Textual Cultural Heritage (DATeCH) in association with the European Centre of
         Competence in Digitisation, in 2014 (Madrid), 2017 (Göttingen) and 2019 (Brussels), the
         proceedings of which were published by the ACM. Antonacopoulos was also Co-Chair
         of the 12th International Workshop on Document Analysis Systems (DAS2016), held in
         Santorini with proceedings published by IEEE-CS and General Chair of the 5th International
         Workshop on Historical Document Imaging and Processing (HIP2019) in Sydney, with
         proceedings published by the ACM.
     • Bass organised and chaired the 7th and 8th International Workshop on Large-Scale Agile
         Development as part of the International Conference on Agile Software Development in
         2019 in Canada and 2020 in Denmark respectively. The workshop proceedings were
         published by Springer Nature.
     • Gaber was Co-Chair of the 1st International Workshop on Advances in Image Processing
         and Colorization (AIPC'16), Gdansk, Poland, 2016; the 2nd International Conference on
         Advanced Intelligent Systems and Informatics (AISI2016), Cairo, Egypt, 2016; the 3rd
         International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Systems and Informatics (AISI2017),
         Cairo, Egypt, 2017; the 4th The International Conference on Advanced Machine Learning
         Technologies and Applications (AMLTA2019), Cairo, Egypt; and the International
         Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Computer Vision (AICV’2020), Cairo, Egypt.
     • Hughes organised the workshop on languages and media at the 12th International
         Conference on Language Transfer in Audio-visual Media, organised in Berlin and the
         Media4all workshop in Stockholm in 2019.
     • Vadera was programme chair/co-chair for a number of conferences, including the
         International Conference on Information Management and Engineering (annually: 2015-


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        2020), the IFIP International Conference on Intelligent Information Processing (2016,
        2020).

 Prizes and awards
 The quality of the research developed by the members of the informatics research group is
 recognised at the international level. Bass won the best paper award at the International
 Conference on Product-Focused Software Process Improvement (PROFES 2018) on his work on
 Influential Factors of Aligning Spotify Squads in Mission-Critical and Offshore Projects – A
 Longitudinal Embedded Case Study. Dargahi won the best paper award at the IEEE International
 Conference on Wireless and Mobile Computing, Networking and Communications (WiMob 2017)
 for her work on the Feasibility of Attribute-Based Encryption for WLAN Access Control. Vadera
 won the Amity Research Award for the field of Artificial Intelligence and Neural Networks, 2018.

 Leadership within professional organisations
 Members are engaged in supporting and leading research agendas in their field of expertise.
 Antonacopoulos was elected in 2018 as the President of the International Association for Pattern
 Recognition (IAPR), following 4 years’ service as treasurer. IAPR is an organisation of 50 national
 associations comprising ~10,000 members. Antonacopoulos and Pletschacher organised a
 series of international competitions that established the state-of-the-art in key digitisation
 challenges, notably the recognition of documents with complex layouts and the recognition of early
 Indian and historical Arabic scientific manuscripts with the British Library. Antonacopoulos
 serves on the Advisory Board of the EU-funded EURHISFIRM project, aiming to create
 infrastructure and digitise historical company and stock market data across Europe for economists
 to base their models on. Since 2016, Pletschacher has been a member of the Editorial Board of
 ALTO – the technical metadata standard for Optical Character Recognition maintained by The
 Library of Congress: the organisation responsible for standardising the way information acquired
 through digitisation processes is encoded, exchanged and interpreted to improve the availability
 of content. Hughes is leading the XRAccess Working Group on Accessibility Applications.

 Peer reviewing for funding bodies
 Antonacopoulos is an expert evaluator for the Belgian Federal Research Science Policy Office,
 the Swiss National Science Foundation. Meziane is the Vice-President of the French National
 Research Agency (ANR) for the Mathematics, Numerical and Digital Sciences sub-jury, a panel
 that awards research grants. Antonacopoulos and Vadera are members of the EPSRC college.

 Journal Editorial roles
 Alani is an editorial board member of the International Journal of Mobile communication and
 Antonacopoulos has served on the editorial board of the Cultural Heritage Digitisation journal.
 Dargahi is an editorial board member for 3 journals: the ICT Express open access journal, in the
 Special Issue on ‘Blockchain Technologies and Applications for 5G Enabled IoT’; the IEEE
 Transactions on Sustainable Computing, in the Special Issue on ‘Sustainable Cyber Forensics
 and Threat Intelligence’ and the International Journal of Multimedia Intelligence and Security.
 Gaber is on the editorial boards of the International Journal of Smart Sensor Technology and
 Applications and the International Journal of intelligent Engineering Informatics. Meziane was the
 guest editor of 3 special issues of the Data and Knowledge Engineering journal on the Application
 of Natural Language to Information Systems. He is the editor of the special issues for the
 International Journal of Information Technology and Web Engineering. Saraee is the associate
 editor-in chief of the International Journal of Web Research. Vadera is a co-editor for the CRC
 Series of books on Emerging Trends in Biomedical Technologies and Health Informatics.

 Specific editorial activities have included: Antonacopoulos as co-editor of the book ‘Advances in
 Document Analysis and Text Recognition: Benchmarking State-of-the-Art Systems’ published by
 World Scientific in 2018 in its Series in Machine Perception and Artificial Intelligence; Dargahi as
 co-editor of the ‘Cyber Threat Intelligence’ book by published by Springer in Advances in
 Information Security Series in 2017; and Meziane as co-editor of 2 volumes of the proceedings of
 the International Conference on Application of Natural Language to Information Systems,
 published by Springer.

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Media engagement
 Linge is called upon by national, regional and local TV and radio as a subject expert to comment
 on topical events such as the O2 network outage in 2018 (BBC Breakfast, Radio 5 Live and 12
 regional BBC radio stations and Sputnik Radio) and trends in landline telephone usage as reported
 by Ofcom in 2019 (Sky News, BBC Breakfast). In 2015, he was invited by Vodafone as an
 independent technology expert to assist with the press and media campaign associated with the
 30th anniversary of their launch of the first UK mobile network and similarly, in 2017, to assist New
 World Payphones with the media launch of their Amscreen public phonebox. In addition, his
 involvement with telecommunications heritage has resulted in various contributions including the
 BBC Timeshift documentary, ‘Dial B for Britain’.




                                                                                              Page 15
