Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester

 Unit of assessment: 10 (Mathematical Sciences)

 1: Context, structure, research and impact strategy

 1(i) Context and structure

  Mathematical Sciences research at Manchester is diverse and impactful. With contributions to
  topics ranging from Lie algebras to landmines, ergodic theory to epidemiology and machine
  learning to metamaterials, the Unit impacts on fundamental aspects of the discipline and its
  applications. Mechanisms to support research ensure that the Unit provides an intellectually
  stimulating environment for all.

  The Unit comprises the Department of Mathematics (DoM) and the affiliated Manchester
  Centre for Nonlinear Dynamics (MCND) at the University of Manchester (UoM). It provides
  an outstanding environment in which to carry out world-class research and to attract
  exceptional researchers across all career stages. The Unit is strongly research intensive with
  92 category A submitted staff (89.95FTE), including 17 ECRs. 90 Unit staff reside in the DoM
  and 2 in the Department of Physics & Astronomy (DP&A). The Unit hosts over 120 PGR
  students and 150 postgraduate taught students. The DoM and DP&A reside within the School
  of Natural Sciences together with the Departments of Chemistry, Earth and Environmental
  Science and Materials. The School sits alongside the School of Engineering, comprising the
  Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE).

  Since REF2014, the Unit has enabled increases in key measures of success (figure 1). The 22
  major staff prizes and awards included a Royal Society Professorship (Higham FRS) and
  Foreign Membership of the Royal Society (Dongarra ForMemRS). Additionally, research
  income more than doubled to GBP26M from GBP11.4M at REF2014.




                  Figure 1. Illustrating increases in key measures of success


  Over the period, the Unit has strategically strengthened its world-leading expertise in algebra,
  continuum mechanics, inverse problems, numerical analysis and probability whilst growing
  activity in applied statistics, number theory, mathematics in the life sciences, uncertainty
  quantification (UQ) and data science. The Unit’s interdisciplinary activity has flourished with
  staff conducting research in advanced materials, data science, digital trust and security,
  energy, geophysics and planetary science, and the life sciences and public health. The Unit’s
  impactful research has broadened, involving engagement with over 100 non-academic
  external partners.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                                                                    The Unit is located primarily
                                                                    within the Alan Turing Building
                                                                    (ATB) at the heart of the
                                                                    University. MCND’s
                                                                    experimental facilities are
                                                                    housed in the adjacent
                                                                    Schuster Building, home of
                                                                    the DP&A. Since REF2014
                                                                    the Unit has restructured its
                                                                    research into seven
                                                                    interconnecting themes (figure
                                                                    2). Informal links between all
                                                                    themes are an important facet
                                                                    of the Unit’s culture, driving an
                                                                    array of intradisciplinary
                                                                    research.




     Figure 2. The Unit's interconnected research themes

  1(ii) Research objectives and achievement

  The Unit identified broad strategic objectives in its REF2014 submission, addressing
  intellectual environment, recruitment, interdisciplinarity and impact, and income. It refined and
  adopted these as the blueprint for its development over the assessment period, via four
  strategic objectives:
  O1: Intellectual environment. Provide an outstanding environment in which to carry out
  world-leading research across the mathematical sciences.
  O2: Recruitment. Appoint exceptional researchers to grow core strengths and to move into
  emerging areas of research.
  O3: Intradisciplinarity and interdisciplinarity. Establish a unique identity associated with
  mathematical sciences research spanning internal and external boundaries and have
  transformational impact beyond academia.
  O4: Income. Grow and diversify research funding to support high quality research.
  These objectives were defined by the Departmental Leadership Team, informed by the
  Departmental Research Committee, comprising the Head of Research (HoR, Parnell), Head
  of Business Engagement (Hewitt), Head of PGR (Heil), Outputs Lead (Tisseur), Impact Lead
  (Hewitt), and Research Leads (House, GO Jones and Powell), who assist with area-specific
  research strategy.
  Following REF2014, the Unit recognised that restructuring its research could have a major
  impact on achieving O1-O4. The subsequent move from 12 narrowly defined sub-discipline
  areas to 7 broadly defined and overlapping themes created a more open environment,
  encouraged new interactions, and contributed significantly to the Unit’s achievements over the
  period. The restructure also provided a strategic framework for recruitment, which has
  underpinned a planned reshaping of the Unit, with 35 new permanent appointments (see
  figure 3 below, illustrating the distribution of these across themes). The Unit invested
  strategically in ECRs, joint appointments and researchers with interdisciplinary interests,
  including experimental programmes. One key aim of the restructure was to increase

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  opportunities for interdisciplinary research, with explicit alignment of themes to opportunities in
  the physical sciences, engineering and the health and life sciences. The success of this
  approach is evidenced by e.g. Chernyavsky’s MRC- and EPSRC-funded research coupling
  modelling and experimental research on placental transport and Evatt’s Leverhulme Trust-
  funded project (with the British Antarctic Survey), the first UK-led expedition to the Antarctic to
  find meteorites. This growth in interdisciplinary research, described further in Section 1(iv), has
  driven significant diversification of funding beyond EPSRC (Section 3(i)).
  Alongside this radical theme restructure, the Unit continued to exploit successfully the
  strengths and space of the ATB, ensuring a physical environment that is highly conducive for
  producing world-class research in mathematics. Coupled with a healthy sabbatical programme
  (Section 2(iv)), funding (Section 3) and wide-ranging research support mechanisms (Sections
  3 and 4), the Unit aided staff in solving numerous open problems, as discussed in theme
  descriptions below. Over the period, staff published over 1300 research papers and attended
  over 1000 seminars in the Unit. As planned, the international standing of the Unit
  strengthened significantly: Higham was SIAM President (2017-18) and over the period, staff in
  the Unit have (numbers in parentheses indicate comparative data from REF2014)
        published with researchers in over 450 (100) international academic institutions in over
         60 countries on six continents;
        published 60% (40%) of all outputs in the period with overseas collaborators;
        acted as senior editors for 14 (6) international journals.

  Impact-enabling strategies described in Section 1(iii) cemented the Unit as a major force in UK
  industrial mathematics, including collaborations with over 100 external organisations (figure 4).
  Engagement broadened to non-profit sectors, 29 staff co-authored papers with non-academic
  partners and via research in big data and advanced materials (Section 1(iv)), the Unit
  contributed to national priorities. Noteworthy examples of impact-driven research include:
  Pellis’ critical calculation of the UK’s doubling rate of COVID-19 infections in March 2020,
  which, through SPI-M and SAGE, contributed to rapid UK lockdown; and Lionheart stepping
  into the minefield to detect landmines, and into the hospital to develop novel EIT methods for
  respiratory monitoring.

  The headline examples above were underpinned by achievements in the Unit’s seven
  overlapping themes, which are now described.
  (1) Algebra, Logic and Number Theory: (9 appointments)
      Strength in algebra was recognised by partnership with the Heilbronn Institute for
      Mathematical Research (HIMR) North in Manchester (GBP1.01M). Major results in
      algebra were proved by Premet (with Stewart), on the classification of the maximal
      subalgebras of exceptional simple Lie algebras and by Eaton (with Livesey) on
      Donovan’s conjecture for abelian p-groups (supported by GBP687K EPSRC funding). In
      tropical algebra, M Johnson and Kambites established a deep correspondence between
      the geometric property of pure dimension for tropical polytopes, and the algebraic
      property of projectivity for modules over the max-plus semifield. The theme saw sustained
      growth in number theory having sought and secured philanthropic funding (GBP1.04M).
      The resulting appointments reinforced overlaps with theme 2. Future goals are to appoint
      to develop strengths in algebra and logic alongside HIMR North (see UoM Institutional
      Environment Statement, Section 2(iv) (REF5a 2(iv)) and to continue to attract funding
      from diverse sources.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




         Figure 3. Illustrating new permanent appointments in themes and their
         overlaps, together with their role at appointment (RF: Research Fellow, L:
         Lecturer, SL: Senior Lecturer, R: Reader, P: Professor).

  (2) Analysis, Geometry and Dynamical Systems: (2 appointments)
      This theme saw intradisciplinary research conducted at intersections with theme 1. In
      algebraic geometry, Suess (with Ilten) gave the first effective application of Chen-
      Donaldson-Sun's resolution of the Yau-Tian-Donaldson conjecture. Connecting number
      theory with analysis and dynamical systems, Sahlsten (with Le Masson) proved a
      quantum ergodicity theorem for fixed spectral window and sequences of compact
      hyperbolic surfaces converging to the hyperbolic plane. The legacy of the inspirational
      Broomhead, who passed away in 2014, lives on in the interdisciplinary approach of the
      Unit, e.g. Muldoon’s work on the ecological dynamics of the upper respiratory tract
      microbiome on the Horizon 2020 grant CURE (GBP891K UoM share), associated with
      asthma treatments. Future aims are to build on recent appointments to establish critical
      mass at the intersection of dynamical systems and number theory and seek new
      application areas.

  (3) Continuum Mechanics: (7 appointments)
      This theme has seen further growth in MCND, led by Juel (American Physical Society
      Fellow, 2019, Co-I UK Fluids Network 2016-19), combining cutting-edge mathematical
      and computational modelling with quantitative experimental investigations in fluids, soft
      matter and granular materials. MCND research featured on journal front covers on 14
      occasions. Gray (GBP1.38M EPSRC Fellowship) showed that the µ(I)-rheology for

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     granular flow was ill-posed at high and low inertial numbers. Connections to advanced
     materials were provided by e.g. Hewitt (GBP1M funding) in materials modelling and
     Parnell (LMS Whitehead prize 2019, GBP2.7M funding) in metamaterials. Continued
     excellence across fluid dynamics, solids and wave mechanics saw the broadening of
     external connections, including two industry-funded research hubs (Section 1(iii)).
     Expertise in biomechanics ensured strong connectivity to theme 4. The Unit intends to
     grow its strength in MCND, and ensure broader connections to industrial partners and to
     advanced materials (one of UoM’s research beacons) via the Henry Royce Institute.

  (4) Mathematics in the Life Sciences: (2 appointments)
      The emergence and extensive growth in this richly interdisciplinary theme is consistent
      with the REF2014 aim to increase engagement across biomedical research, from
      fundamental biology to healthcare applications. It builds on the strategic appointment of
      Jensen, who co-leads a Wellcome Trust PGR Programme in Quantitative and Biophysical
      Biology (GBP2.56M, 4 cohorts, 2016-23, involving 10 Unit staff) and is Co-I on a
      GBP3.78M BBSRC sLoLa project on extracellular matrix modulation. Significant funding
      secured by Chernyavsky and Fedotov (see Section 3(i), leveraging UoM’s excellence in
      obstetrics and radiation therapy), supported the theme’s expansion together with the joint
      appointment of Shearer with Materials. Strong overlaps with theme 7, and epidemiology
      in particular, added further strength. Looking ahead, the Unit will broaden collaboration
      with life scientists at UoM (e.g. via the Christabel Pankhurst Institute and the Digital
      Futures digital health theme) and beyond, bringing further diverse opportunities for large-
      scale partnership and impact.

  (5) Numerical Analysis and Scientific Computing: (2 appointments)
      Strength and broad expertise in numerical linear algebra is provided by Dongarra
      (SIAM/ACM prize in Computational Science and Engineering 2019), Güttel (2 KTPs),
      Higham (LMS Naylor prize and Lectureship 2019) and Tisseur (LMS Fröhlich prize
      2020). Dongarra and Higham are at the forefront of HPC research exploiting mixed
      precision algorithms, and Higham's probabilistic analysis provided new insights into
      rounding error propagation. The theme also provides wide-ranging expertise in finite
      element (FE) approximation. Silvester and Powell (GBP381K EPSRC funding)
      developed adaptive FE-based algorithms for PDEs with uncertain inputs. Alongside
      Cotter (1 KTP, with Waite), they provide Numerical-Analysis-focused UQ expertise and
      pivotal links to theme 7. Theme members have a strong track record in developing open
      source software (Section 1(v)) and impactful research with partners (Argent & Waugh,
      Arrow, Arup, IBM, NAG, NPL). Future goals include developing software to address
      challenges in machine learning and exascale computing, and to incorporate UQ into
      engineering applications, thereby strengthening links to theme 7.

  (6) Probability, Financial Mathematics and Actuarial Science: (4 appointments)
      Peskir and Zhang maintain a leading position in probability theory and its applications.
      Peskir solved open problems on the Markowitz mean-variance portfolio optimisation in
      continuous time, and the quickest detection problem for Bessel processes (open since the
      1950s). Zhang derived discrete/lattice approximations to stochastic PDEs and reflected
      stochastic PDEs for the first time. Walton (Erlang prize 2018) resolved a conjecture by
      Shah et al on optimal queue-size scaling in switched networks. Denisov developed a
      general approach to renewal theory of Markov chains. As planned the theme grew links
      with external partners (e.g. Autotrader, NASA, Royal London, Toyota Mobility Foundation,
      TfGM). Future goals are to reinforce links to theme 7, further broaden collaboration with
      external partners and grow research in financial mathematics.

  (7) Statistics, Inverse Problems, UQ and Data Science: (9 appointments)
      Building on existing activity in statistics, inverse problems and numerical algorithms, a
      large strategic investment strengthened and broadened research across this theme. New
      expertise in statistical and machine learning algorithms for Bayesian inverse problems

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      ensured strong connections to themes 4 and 5. Hall (joint with the Faculty of Biology,
      Medicine and Health (FBMH)), House and Pellis established the Unit’s epidemiology
      expertise (GBP1.7M funding), overlapping with theme 4. Their expertise played a critical
      role in aspects of the UK’s COVID-19 response, with Hall a member (since 2006) of SPI-
      M. In inverse problems Lionheart’s leadership enabled engagement on major
      interdisciplinary projects (GBP7.5M) with 12 external partners. Dorn (3 CASE PhDs) is at
      the forefront of level set methods for inverse scattering. Cotter developed novel
      computational methods for inverse and multi-scale problems associated with biochemical
      networks. Powell led international UQ initiatives including a six-month Isaac Newton
      Institute (INI) programme (2018) and as Program Director of the SIAM UQ activity group
      (2018-20). Unit staff engaged strongly with UoM and national Data Science institutes, with
      11 securing Alan Turing Institute fellowships. The Unit will drive continued growth in this
      theme, overlapping with themes 4, 5 and 6, whilst ensuring alignment with UoM’s digital
      futures theme (REF5a 2(iv)) and national priorities.

  O1-O4 provide firm foundations for progress beyond REF2021. Growth in themes as
  described above will drive fundamental, applied and interdisciplinary research with impact.
  The Unit will further diversify income; specifically, it will identify larger-scale funding
  opportunities, e.g. via further philanthropic funding, the additional GBP300M EPSRC
  Mathematical Sciences programme, and collaborative international funding mechanisms, for
  both single and multiple-site projects. It will do this by
       exploiting its theme structure and existing expertise, and by appointing in new areas, to
          align with national priorities and outcomes of the UK Research and Development
          Roadmap;
       increasing engagement with external partners;
       further aligning locally with UoM research beacons (REF5a 2(iii)) and other centres of
          excellence.
  The Unit will invest in its people across all levels from PGR (including the Heilbronn Doctoral
  Programme), through ECRs to its most experienced professorial staff, with Equality, Diversity
  and Inclusion (EDI) embedded at the heart of all processes. This will secure a diverse people
  pipeline and leadership in the mathematical sciences in the coming period.

 1(iii) Enabling impact

 Aligned with UoM’s impact agenda (REF5a 2), the Unit continued its drive from REF2014 to
 broaden its impactful research. Its overarching strategy has been to adopt a flexible and
 responsive approach to growing relationships with external partners via multiple engagement
 mechanisms. This enabled the Unit to build a broad, sustainable base of research, supported by
 over 100 non-academic external partners (figure 4). Mechanisms facilitated the continuation of
 established relationships with key collaborators (Section 4(ii)) whilst enabling new collaborations
 to develop. 40 Unit staff engaged with partners during the period, including co-authorship of over
 100 papers with 39 external organisations.

 The following mechanisms enabled and facilitated impact.

 Recruitment and staff exchange
 The Unit appointed Assier, GW Jones and Knowledge Transfer Fellow Evatt to Industrial
 Mathematics lectureships, working with Hewitt to develop new external collaborations. The Unit
 gave key partner staff honorary/visiting status, e.g. Hammarling (NAG), Nigro (Thales), Monks
 (AWE), Zimon (IBM), and 6 KTP Associates facilitated knowledge exchange. Staff also provided
 consultancy (Section 3(v)).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 4. The Unit employs various engagement mechanisms to collaborate with over 100
                                    external partners.

 Seed-corn funding
 The Unit’s Applied Mathematics MSc provides an effective mechanism of external engagement.
 MSc (and Undergraduate (UG)) projects often stem from study days: intensive workshops with
 partners, who contribute GBP4K per event. During the period MSc/UG students completed over
 45 projects, offered by 15 organisations. New partnerships with Autotrader and Dstl were
 established by this mechanism. External links yielded 16 new CASE studentships during the
 period (8 at REF2014), and 6 other industry-funded PhDs. The Unit encouraged PGR students
 to engage with internships, enabling new collaborations, e.g. with Dyson.

 Larger-scale funding
 Awards from all industry-related sources, including direct funding, CASE-award contributions,
 government funding supporting industry (GCHQ for HIMR, KTPs) and consultancy has grown to
 over GBP4.2M, increasing from GBP2M at REF2014. The Unit’s six KTP awards (GBP1.56M)
 and six Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) awards (GBP125K) have been particularly impactful
 and fruitful mechanisms of external engagement. 44 external organisations partnered on
 research grants with the Unit.

                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research hubs
 The Unit’s development of research hubs, which are large-scale formal strategic collaborations,
 exemplifies the growth model. They facilitate responsive engagement with a focus on long-term
 partner goals. Hubs were developed with AWE and Thales during the period, including over
 GBP1.43M direct funding and GBP1.3M leveraged funding (Section 4(ii)).

 Relation to Impact Case Studies
 The Unit’s expertise across themes 3-7 underpins its seven Impact Case Studies (ICSs), which
 emerged from the nurturing mechanisms described above. ICSs associated with Thales (Assier,
 Cotterill, Heil, Parnell, theme 3), NAG (Higham, theme 5) and Rapiscan (Lionheart, theme 7)
 have emanated from long-term relationships. The ICSs benefitting Argent & Waugh (Güttel,
 Higham, theme 5) and Arup (Higham, Tisseur, theme 5), arose from study days. The COVID-
 19 ICS (Hall, House, Güttel, Pellis, themes 4, 5 and 7) illustrates the Unit’s agile response to
 national priorities and delivery of rapid impact.

 Beyond REF2021, the Unit will continue to adapt its enabling mechanisms to broaden and
 expand its hubs, consolidate other relationships and develop new collaborations in alignment
 with national priorities.

 1(iv) Interdisciplinary research

 Staff carried out a broad range of interdisciplinary research during the period, driving O3.
 Frequently, individual interactions are initiated by staff elsewhere seeking specific mathematical
 expertise, and by Unit staff seeking applications of mathematics. The following, more formal,
 mechanisms also enabled interdisciplinary research.

 Good practice and recruitment
 Leadership in interdisciplinary research from existing Unit staff (Section 4(v)) inspires PGR
 students and new recruits. The Unit’s recruitment assisted in nurturing its interdisciplinary
 identity, including joint appointments Shearer and Hall (Section 2(i)) and shared fellowships
 (Chernyavsky and Pearce) with FBMH.

 Workshops
 The Unit funded workshops, e.g. with DP&A, Computer Science, Materials and the Life
 Sciences, on broad exploratory topics and focused areas including data-centric engineering,
 materials modelling and machine learning. Workshops facilitated Jensen’s Wellcome Trust PGR
 Programme. Parnell led on establishing the Manchester Materials Modelling Centre in 2019,
 initiated by a FSE-funded workshop. Law’s ATI-funded workshop on data-centric engineering
 led to an 18-month ATI-funded project on digital fingerprinting with Withers (Regius Professor,
 Materials).

 Interdisciplinary institute engagement
 A thriving array of interdisciplinary University Research Institutes provides avenues to grow
 interdisciplinary research. The Unit played an active role in, and used facilities in, various
 institutes during the period, e.g.
 UoM institutes
      Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence (IDSAI) (Higham’s advisory board
          membership, Law’s IBM CASE studentship facilitated by a 2020 IDSAI workshop);
      Manchester Urban Institute (Walton and Pinto (Planning and Environmental
          Management) PhD co-supervision).
 National institutes
      Alan Turing Institute (11 Fellows);
      Henry Royce Institute, e.g. UoM Henry Moseley X-ray Imaging Facility (HMXIF) (6 staff);
      Diamond Light Source (3 staff);
      National Graphene Institute (NGI) (Heil, Hazel and Vijayaraghavan (Materials), PhD co-
          supervision).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The mechanisms above led to positive outcomes in the following areas.

 Advanced Materials
 Pihler-Puzović, Hazel and C Johnson worked on novel auxetic metamaterials, e.g. Soft Matter
 (2016). GW Jones published in Nano Letters (2017). Parnell’s Dyson collaboration led to the
 fabrication of novel acoustic metamaterials: Applied Physics Letters (2018). Parnell and Potluri
 (Materials) published in Composites B (2019).

 Data Science
 11 Fellows of the ATI and Higham’s Programme Grant (Section 3(i)) ensure national
 interconnectivity in this area. Walton’s ATI/Toyota Mobility Foundation project was the British
 Chamber of Commerce in Japan’s Best UK-Japan Partnership (2020). Holman organised a
 Dstl-sponsored microlocal analysis workshop (ATI, 2018). Law’s Oak Ridge collaboration led to
 a 2018 Nature Communications paper. Six Unit staff are Editors of the new journal Foundations
 of Data Science, including Law (Editor-in-Chief).

 Digital Trust and Security
 HIMR partnership ensured connections with UoM’s cross-cutting Digital Futures theme,
 encompassing cyber-security, data protection and privacy (Kambites). Lionheart’s security
 screening research involves collaborations with Peyton (Electrical and Electronic Engineering, 2
 patents), Morton (Rapiscan, 2 patents) and Withers.

 Energy
 Collaborations between P Johnson and Duck with Howell (Business School) on optimal
 renewable energy storage resulted in four papers, e.g in Applied Energy, 2018. Law
 collaborated with Oak Ridge in a fusion project with General Atomics (GBP450K).

 Geophysics and Planetary Science
 Successful collaborations with earth scientists include: Evatt’s paper in Nature Communications
 (2016); C Johnson’s collaboration on precious metal-mineralised layers, leading to a Nature
 Geoscience paper (2020); Gray’s collaborative work on avalanches, e.g. on the moon (JGR
 Planets, 2017).

 Life Sciences and Public Health
 High-impact publications include those by Jensen and Shearer (Nature Cell Biology, 2020),
 Chernyavsky (European Respiratory Journal, 2018), Cotter (Developmental Cell, 2018) and
 Muldoon (Science Signaling, 2018). Hall, House and Pellis’ epidemiology research included
 papers in Nature Communications and Infectious Disease Modelling.

 1(v) Open research

 UoM commits to an open and responsible research environment via its position statement
 (REF5a 2(v)).

 The Unit trailblazed Open Access (OA) research with the Manchester Institute for Mathematical
 Sciences (MIMS) EPrints server (established 2005). UoM’s library processes OA outputs and
 manages embargoes and requests for gold-OA funding. During 2016-20, the Unit published 144
 gold-OA publications via the UKRI block grant (GBP282K) and 25 via UoM institutional funding
 (GBP13K). 97% of the Unit’s outputs submission is OA compliant.

 The UoM New Academics Programme (NAP) (Section 2(ii)) includes training in Open research
 principles. All research proposals have data management plans and UoM provides 8Tb storage
 for projects on Mendeley data. UoM has institutional arrangements for publishing data, allocating
 DOIs, importing information on published datasets into PURE (UoM’s research repository) and
 linking to publications. PGR training in OA is mandatory.


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unit staff contribute to Open Source software including R packages on CRAN (Boshnakov,
 Nadarajah, Pan, Strimmer) and freely available MATLAB toolboxes (Güttel, Higham,
 Silvester, Tisseur). Silvester continued to develop IFISS and s-IFISS, and Hazel, Heil and
 Pihler-Puzović further developed oomph-lib. Ten Unit staff maintain Github (open) software
 repositories.

 1(vi) Research integrity

 UoM is strongly committed to the highest standards of research integrity (REF5a 2(v)). Robust
 organisational structures promote a culture of integrity and ethics at Unit level. Unit leadership is
 provided by ethics coordinator Lionheart, dealing with approvals via an online system. UoM
 handles legal obligations centrally, e.g. export control, employment law and data regulations.
 Staff receive advice on adherence procedures via FSE Research Support and HoR.

 In accordance with UUK Concordat requirements, UoM has implemented mandatory data
 protection and research integrity training for all staff who undertake research (repeated every 2
 and 3 years respectively) and for all PGR students. The NAP includes research ethics training.
 Concordat compliance is a requirement of receipt of HEFCE, UKRI and Wellcome Trust funding.
 Unit induction events reinforce research integrity awareness. Research Leads manage peer
 review of papers and proposals prior to submission, encouraging and embedding good practice
 (Section 3(i)).

 The Unit engages with, and influences policies of, the professional learned societies via
 membership and leadership (Section 4), noting that their codes of conduct uphold professional
 standards.

 2. People

 2(i) Recruitment and staffing strategies

 The Unit invested strategically across the early career stage during the period, with the
 appointment of 20 Lecturers, and 10 Research Fellows (RFs) whose roles continue to
 permanent appointments (Table 1). This investment enhanced, reignited and initiated areas of
 research. The Unit also made 5 strategic senior appointments in applied statistics and data
 science.

                            2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Total
  Research Fellow                          1      2      1    1       3     2 10
  Lecturer                    1    3       5      2      5            2     2 20
  Senior Lecturer                          1      1                           2
  Reader                                                      1               1
  Professor                                              1    1               2
                 Table 1. Recruitment distribution of permanent Unit staff.

 New recruits span the Unit’s themes (figure 3), with expertise ranging from fundamental
 mathematics to interdisciplinary activity. Supporting O2-O3, the 35 appointments grew the Unit
 significantly (23FTE net growth in permanent staff), with nine retirements and only Abrahams,
 Lotz and Moriarty from the REF2014 census departing. Seven additional staff arrived and left
 during the period. The Unit proactively appointed ECRs when staff retired/departed and adopted
 the strategy to create RF roles (via philanthropic funds) that continue to permanent
 appointments. This enhanced the attractiveness of the positions to potential applicants and also
 aligned with FSE’s Dame Kathleen Ollerenshaw (DKO) and UoM’s Presidential fellowship
 schemes (REF5a 3.3.2). This overarching strategy led to an improved demographic balance
 across career stage since REF2014 (Table 2). An EDI analysis of staff, including Postdoctoral
 Research Associates (PDRAs) in the Unit indicated a steady increase in BAME staff (29% in
 2013 to 36% in 2019) and a relatively steady level of 10% female staff.


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                  Research     Lecturer        Senior       Reader                 Professor
                  Fellow                       Lecturer
  REF2021         16.3%        25.0%           17.4%        10.9%                  30.4%
  REF2014         0%           28.6%           14.3%        10.7%                  46.4%
                         Table 2. The Unit’s demographic balance.

 Beyond REF2021 the Unit will ensure continued balance across the career spectrum, seeking to
 appoint high-quality ECRs, whilst providing leadership across all themes, consistent with future
 plans (Section 1(ii)). Increasing the proportion of female and BAME staff remains high priority.

 Influence of staffing strategy on theme development
 Taking into consideration the need for recruitment in areas driven by departures/retirements, and
 supporting the general strategies described above, the Unit recruited into themes in the following
 manner (figure 3).

 In theme 1, GBP1.04M philanthropic funding for Turing/Neumann Fellows brought a vibrant
 group of young researchers (Bui, Leon-Sanchez, Patel, Robertson) to the Unit. Coupled with
 the lectureship appointments of Frei and GO Jones and DKO Fellow Adiceam, this revitalised
 logic, and launched a strong presence in number theory and research across interfaces. These
 appointments were augmented by five HIMR Fellows (Barber, Calvert, Peacock, Smith,
 Sutton) and EPSRC Postdoctoral Fellow (now lecturer) R Webb. Suess’ appointment in
 algebraic geometry overlaps with theme 2, whilst Kempton and Sahlsten’s appointments in
 ergodic theory drive connections with theme 6.

 In theme 3, Assier and (Dorothy Hodgkin Fellow) Kisil strengthened expertise in wave
 mechanics, overlapping with analysis (theme 2). The appointments of GW Jones, Thales RF
 Cotterill and EU Marie Curie Fellow Meng enhanced expertise in solid mechanics. The
 appointments of C Johnson, Landel, Pihler-Puzović (DP&A) and Thompson strengthened
 MCND. Theme 4 benefitted from the joint appointment of Shearer with Materials and
 Presidential Fellow Chernyavsky, both having strong overlaps with the life sciences.

 Huang and M Webb further strengthened theme 5. Andres and Herrmann reinforced financial
 mathematics and actuarial science in theme 6. DKO Fellow Gaunt enhanced expertise in
 applied probability alongside the appointment of Walton. In theme 7, professorial appointments
 Law and Strimmer and Lecturer Thorpe established a new presence in data science.
 Charalambous, Han and Waite enhanced applied statistics expertise whilst providing further
 overlaps with theme 4. Hall (joint with FBMH and Public Health England (PHE)), House and (Sir
 Henry Dale Fellow) Pellis established the Unit’s epidemiology expertise, connecting to theme 4.

 15 Unit staff were appointed on fixed-term contracts, with 8 leading to permanent contracts. Five
 HIMR Fellows hold contracts with renewal opportunities on application.

 Evidence of success
 Of the RFs eligible to apply for funding and newly appointed lecturers, 18 of the 19 in post for
 more than two years secured external funding, amounting to a credit share of GBP3.24M (34
 awards, including 16 UKRI grants). New appointments published over 250 papers in leading
 international journals since joining and at census date they were involved in the supervision of
 over 60 PGR students. After joining the Unit, Walton won the Erlang prize, Law became Editor-
 in-Chief of Foundations of Data Science and Hall, House and Pellis had national impact with
 their COVID-19 research. During the period, 5 of the Unit’s 9 newly appointed lecturers who
 have been in post more than four years (beyond probation) were promoted to Senior Lecturer
 and both newly appointed Senior Lecturers were promoted to Reader.




                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2(ii) Staff development

 UoM’s Concordat Implementation Plan ensures full support for the Concordat (REF5a 3.2).
 Support and training
 In 2018 the Unit increased its number of Line Managers (LMs) to 13, from 4 at REF2014, to
 ensure improved, regular support for academic staff. LMs carry out annual Performance and
 Development Reviews, assist with promotion/sabbatical applications, review and sign-off
 probation objectives, meet staff informally, and advise on workload allocation. LMs of PDRAs
 are their supervisors.

 All academic staff undertake mandatory EDI, and Unconscious Bias (UB) training, with refresher
 courses every three years.

 Annual away days bring staff together to discuss Unit strategies and informal support is provided
 by HoR and Research Leads. FSE and the UoM Staff Training & Development Unit offer a wide-
 ranging career development programme. For staff in management positions, UoM runs the
 Inspiring Leaders programme.

 Induction and assimilation
 PDRA induction includes a tailored welcome meeting with supervisors, where training needs and
 other requirements are discussed. UoM provides a general induction for all new permanent staff,
 comprising a welcome event and contextual guide to the University, its policies, and the
 Concordat. The Unit complements this with its own induction programme. Strong assimilation of
 all appointments into the Unit is ensured by
       all staff, including PDRAs, joining at least one research theme;
       mentorship (see below) and HoR/Research Lead meetings when appointed, and
         regularly thereafter to discuss funding opportunities;
       the Early Career Forum (Section 2(iii));
       the Unit’s varied programme of events and seminars;
       informal coffee mornings, continuing virtually after March 2020.

 Mentoring and probation
 The probationary period is 4 years for academic staff and 9 months for PDRAs. In addition to a
 LM, academic staff on probation are assigned a mentor who provides one-to-one support.
 Ambitious, achievable probation criteria are devised as a set of tailored, measurable objectives
 via discussions between the appointee, LM and Head of Department (HoD, Jensen). Passing
 probation includes the successful completion of the NAP, which involves attendance at two
 research-focused days and the writing of a teaching-focused portfolio. NAP completion is
 externally recognised by fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. The Unit’s senior mentor
 coordinates the probation process and after liaising with LMs, reports to the Departmental
 Promotions Committee (DPC) where probation outcomes are decided.

 Promotions
 Driven by EDI, the DoM initiated a new promotions procedure in 2018. An annual email
 encourages all eligible staff (including PDRAs) to submit paperwork to DPC, comprising
 members of the Department Leadership Team, a member from another department, and an
 elected departmental representative, who serves as the DoM Athena SWAN (AS)
 representative, ensuring that the Committee adheres to AS/EDI principles. The DPC makes
 recommendations to the Faculty Promotions Committee (FPC), which makes final decisions. 52
 promotion cases were made to FPC. The success rate was 94.2%: 6 to Professor, 8 to Reader,
 17 to Senior Lecturer and 18 from Grade 6 to 7 (to Lecturer or Research Fellow).




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2(iii) Support for ECRs

 In addition to the support described in Section 2(ii), newly appointed RFs and Lecturers are
 supported during probation by
      reduced teaching loads and protection from significant administrative roles;
      start-up packages of GBP2-5K for travel and networking. Larger packages allow
         experimentalists (e.g. those interfacing with MCND), to initiate lab-based activity. After
         probation, further support is available (Section 4(i)).
 To help ECRs integrate into local research culture, they are encouraged to
      co-organise Research Seminars, to broaden their networks and gain exposure
         nationally and internationally;
      co-supervise PGR students. Senior staff team up with new Lecturers on PhD projects.
         The former take the lead supervision role while the latter co-supervise, gaining valuable
         experience. After probation, new appointees transition to lead supervisors.

 A key support mechanism for ECRs, and particularly PDRAs, is the DoM’s Early Career Forum
 (ECF).

 The ECF is led by ECRs (formerly M Johnson, now Chernyavsky), with oversight from senior
 staff. Set up in 2013, with support from the DoM’s AS committee, today it is a thriving, highly
 active group, connecting to corresponding structures at FSE and University levels. Membership
 comprises late-stage PGR students, PDRAs, RFs and new Lecturers. The ECF provides the
 following support mechanisms.
       Informal meetings. These take place 4-5 times every year over refreshments in the
         ATB, helping ECRs to network with peers. These continued online after March 2020.
       Training events. The ECF regularly surveys participants to determine their most
         pressing training requirements. The ECF lead then liaises with senior staff to plan
         bespoke events. The Unit provides financial support as needed. Recent events included
         grant-writing club sessions, a fellowship-writing workshop and a collaborative research
         sandpit co-organised with other Departments in the School of Natural Sciences. Events
         are advertised to all Unit ECRs and frequently involve presentations from Professional
         Services (PS) staff, and successful grant holders. Senior academics assist with
         interactive activities, e.g. mock panels.
       Web resources. ECF representatives maintain a dedicated web-page, electronic
         newsletter, and since March 2020, an online repository of resources to support
         homeworking and well-being.
 Support for PDRAs assists the sustainability of the discipline (Section 4(v)).

 The ECF enjoys strong links with the DP&A ECF (Section 2(vi)).

 2(iv) Sabbatical leave

 All full and part-time academic staff who have taught for 6 consecutive semesters or more, and
 whose contract duration is longer than this period, are eligible to apply to DPC for sabbatical.
 The Unit’s research sabbatical strategy, aligned with UoM’s, is to ensure that staff engage in
 continued research and impact activity, with complete relief from teaching and administrative
 duties. In addition to carrying out high quality research, staff are encouraged to write a grant
 proposal. During the assessment period, 36 one-semester and 4 two-semester sabbaticals were
 awarded, facilitating staff to publish over 50 research papers, submit 16 successful grant
 applications, develop 23 new collaborations and undertake 34 research visits. Notable examples
 of successful outcomes are (a) Eaton’s EPSRC grant (2019-22, GBP369K), (b) Powell leading
 a six-month INI UQ programme (2018), (c) Evatt’s impactful trip to Antarctica (Sections
 1(ii),(iv),4(v)), (d) Suess’s Leverhulme Trust grant (2020-24, GBP284K), (v) Peskir’s work noted
 in Section 1(ii), and (vi) Silvester’s Romberg Visiting Professorship (University of Heidelberg,
 2019).


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2(v) Staff exchange programmes

 Partner staff spend time in the Unit, e.g. Arup (Kannan), AWE (Monks), Dstl (Desai, Watson),
 NAG (Hammarling), Thales (Cotterill, Nigro) and Zeiss (Thompson). Having held a Royal Society
 Industry Fellowship during the last period, Thales employee Cotterill continued to spend 0.5FTE
 on knowledge transfer activity in the Unit until retirement, when he joined the Unit at 0.2FTE via
 Thales funding. Davey joined Thales after an Impact Fellow position (Section 2(vi)). In 2020 the
 Unit appointed Zimon (IBM) to an Honorary Lectureship, recognising the emerging relationship
 with IBM. Unit staff engaged with hubs have funding to work in associated organisations. House
 spent time at IBM (Royal Society Industry Fellowship) prior to March 2020 and 6 KTP Associates
 distributed time between the Unit and partners. See also Section 3(v).

 2(vi) Rewarding staff and impact support

 Research and knowledge transfer are two of four (equally weighted) categories of promotions
 criteria, thus rewarding success in both areas. The Unit’s workload model accommodates
 significant grants and knowledge transfer activities with reduced workloads elsewhere. Staff with
 research fellowships are relieved from all other duties. Impact Fellows supported ICS
 development and UoM’s business engagement team offer broad support for impact (Section
 3(iii)). Unit/UoM social media and newsletters highlight key achievements. 15 staff had 15
 papers highlighted on the FSE In Abstract webpage, highlighting outstanding research.

 Staff were recognised at UoM awards, including
 Better World Awards
     Nadarajah (2019, 2020) for his Educating Africa charity;
     Güttel (2017) for industrial installation alarms research (leading to an ICS).
 Research Staff Excellence Awards (initiated 2020)
     Pellis (with 2 PDRAs), won Best Contribution to Impact (COVID-19 research);
     Chernyavsky (with Boya, DP&A), runners-up in Best Contribution to Research
        Environment (ECF work).

 2(vii) Postgraduate Research

 The Unit maintains a large and vibrant PGR community. 217 PGR students registered in the Unit
 during the period and there were 205 completions, compared with 201 and 125 at REF2014.
 Completion rates for students starting in 2014 and 2015 were 92% and 100%, respectively.

 Recruitment
 The Unit recruits outstanding PGR students from a wide range of institutions. 1FTE DoM PS
 staff provides administrative support for recruitment, while three PGR Admissions Officers
 connect applicants with supervisors. Two nationally-advertised Open Days are held annually in
 the ATB. Opportunities are disseminated via the Unit’s varied networks and funded projects are
 advertised on UoM and DoM websites, and on FindaPhD.com. Recruitment is based on
 academic record and potential, judged by (i) taught course performance, (ii) research
 experience, (iii) interview performance, and (iv) references. Interviews are conducted with two
 academics (having taken the EDI/UB training noted in Section 2(ii)), including the intended
 supervisor. Following an academic offer, students without financial support are considered for
 funding.

 Support for PGR students with protected characteristics
 The Unit monitors PGR data and recruitment practices for potential biases. Its PGR recruitment
 strategy has been informed by the DoM’s 2014 survey to determine PGR aspirations, especially
 amongst female and BAME students. Care is taken to ensure that staff and students involved in
 Open Days represent a gender and ethnicity balance, and that webpages and printed materials
 feature diverse representation. To encourage applications from under-represented groups,
 targeted events/schemes are

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Meet a Researcher (annually). Role models from under-represented groups talk about
       PGR experiences and career progression;
     Women in Mathematics. Organised in 2019 by Unit staff, supported by the Advanced
       Mathematics Support Programme;
     Unit mentor scheme (initiated in 2019) for female and non-binary students considering
       PGR study. To date 14 students have engaged with this scheme.
 The annual proportion of newly registering female PGR students fluctuated between 19% and
 41%, with the two-year rolling average increasing from 26% to 34% between 2014 and 2019.

 Funding
 Students are funded via diverse mechanisms, avoiding over-reliance on DTP funding (figure 5).
     Unit funding. A substantial DoM budget is administered by the DoM’s PGR Committee,
       which makes decisions on a rolling basis.
     UoM funding. The President’s Doctoral Scholar (PDS) Award scheme funds 100
       outstanding PGR students annually across UoM. FSE provides Dean’s Awards.
     Case awards and other industry. 17 Unit staff supervised PhD projects with external
       partners (figure 4) during the period.
     Overseas Governments. The Unit recruits international students with financial support
       from overseas government agencies, e.g. CSC (Chinese Scholarship Council) and
       CONACyT (Consejo Nacional de Ciencia y Tecnología).




     Figure 5. Funding mechanisms for the Unit’s 217 newly registered PGR students.

 The DoM PGR committee funded 210 students and the DP&A committee 7, with 5 DP&A
 students having co-supervisors in DoM. Over the period, Unit staff co-supervised students with
 collaborators in 10 other Units across UoM. The Wellcome Trust PGR Programme supported 20
 PGR students; 19 were registered in FBMH but all had co-supervisors in the Unit and benefitted
 from Unit facilities.

 Progression
 1FTE PS staff provides DoM PGR administrative support. Every student has a main supervisor,
 at least one co-supervisor, and an advisor. Rigorous procedures monitor students via the UoM
 online system eProg. Students complete quarterly progress reports and receive written
 feedback. They also submit annual reports including future plans, assessed by the supervisory
 team and an independent assessor. Following an oral exam, feedback is recorded and
 progression depends on a satisfactory report and viva. In 2019, the Unit established the Derek
 Matthews prize (via philanthropic funding) for the best first-year PGR student progress report.
 Over the period, over 90% of students were awarded PhDs without or with minor corrections.
 Almost all interruptions/extensions granted were due to health issues or maternity leave.

 Development
 Students undergo regular skills audits and have access to a broad range of FSE training.
 Students are required to pass 100 hours of Taught Course Centre (TCC) material, chosen from
 the MAGIC TCC, the Academy for PhD Training in Statistics TCC, and/or the Unit’s MSc
 courses (including rigorous summative assessment).

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR students have access to regular Unit and FSE employability events and UoM’s award-
 winning Careers Service. Frequent opportunities exist in teaching and outreach (Section 4(iv)).
 Annually, one student acts as a UoM-funded Widening Participation Fellow, engaging in
 community outreach. PGR students take an active role in organising events, e.g.
      the annual Mathematics Research Students Conference (MRSC), featuring
         presentations and posters from current students (supported by the Unit, IBM and NAG);
      the Unit’s active SIAM-IMA Student Chapter runs an annual one-day meeting and
         organises an annual Industry Challenge (supported by N Brown);
      two weekly PGR seminar series, where students present work to peers;
      in 2015 a Unit PGR student initiated the PGR Showcase, where students present
         posters (now a successful annual UoM event).
 The cohort experience on the Wellcome Trust PGR programme enabled training of students in
 the major questions and experimental techniques in biology and in the application of
 mathematical modelling and statistical analysis.

 Conferences and internships
 The Unit supports PGR students’ attendance at national and international conferences with a
 simple internal funding application. The majority of students speak at 2-3 events (often more)
 during their programme. All CASE-funded students undertake placements of 3 months and the
 Unit actively encourages other students to undertake internships (figure 4).

 Prizes
 The Unit’s PGR students won over 40 awards and prizes over the period, including ABTA
 Doctoral Researcher Awards, David Crighton Fellowships, and
      UoM Awards: DTA Doctoral Prizes, President’s Distinguished Achievement Awards;
      Travel Awards: IMS, SIAM;
      Best Talks/Posters/Papers: American Statistical Society, BAMC, SIAM, Biennial
        Numerical Analysis Conference, British Society of Rheology, Designed Experiments, UK
        Fluids Conference, and Young Researchers in Mathematics conference;
      Other Competitions: Take Aim, UK Fluids Network Photo Competition.
 One former PGR student appeared in the Sunday Telegraph’s 2018 “Top 50 Women in
 Engineering”. In 2020, a Unit PGR student was recognised at the UoM Making a Difference
 Awards for their WellSpring Mental Health app (outstanding contribution to social innovation).

 2(viii) Equality and diversity

 The DoM supports the LMS Good Practice Scheme and has held an AS Bronze award since
 2008. The DoM AS committee initially focused on issues affecting women’s careers, but later
 broadened its remit to include all EDI matters. Committee members included academic staff and
 PGR representatives. The Unit embeds institution-level EDI policies in its procedures and
 supplements these with its own strategies to support staff and PGR students.

 Flexible and remote working, and sabbaticals
 In 2016, DoM introduced a core-hours policy, stipulating that meetings and seminars should be
 held 10am-4pm. All staff can apply for flexible working, with many having unofficial
 arrangements such as shifted days to accommodate childcare. In the last AS survey (December
 2018), 98% of academic staff said they had the opportunity to work flexibly. The Unit adapted
 swiftly to remote working in March 2020, supported by UoM’s institutional Zoom licence. Staff
 continue to accrue sabbatical credit during maternity, paternity and adoption leave. During the
 period, the Unit modified job advertisement language to encourage applications from qualified
 candidates seeking flexible and/or part-time appointments. Staff involved in recruitment
 undertake enhanced EDI training.




                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Career pathways for fixed-term staff
 UoM places all staff coming to the end of fixed-term contracts onto their redeployment register.
 The ECF provides support for the careers of fixed-term staff. HIMR Fellows benefit from the
 wider HIMR network, and associated diversity schemes.

 Enabling research
 The AS committee regularly monitored DoM procedures for bias during the period, to ensure
 equitable access to resources to support research. An annual Unit budget of GBP3-5K was used
 to fund additional female seminar speakers and to fund events aimed at encouraging PhD
 applications from under-represented groups (Section 2(vii)).

 Career progression and leadership
 EDI considerations drove changes to promotions procedures (Section 2(ii)). During the period,
 two Unit staff benefited from the externally-run Aurora and Stellar HE leadership programmes,
 which are tailored for female and BAME staff, respectively. HoD liaises with LMs regularly in
 efforts to maintain balanced representation on decision-making committees and at leadership
 level. The 13 LMs are distributed across career stage from Senior Lecturer to Professor and 3
 are female.

 Periods of leave
 LMs offer tailored support for academic staff returning from periods of leave due to illness,
 maternity, paternity or adoption leave, or caring responsibilities. This includes a review, and
 where possible a reduction, of workload upon return to work. UoM launched its flagship
 Returners Scheme in 2018. Academic staff returning can apply for a teaching replacement for
 one semester (pro-rata for part time staff), and up to GBP3K to support research. In the Unit,
 returning staff can also access GBP1K research funds, increased from the annual funding pot
 (Section 4(i)). Staff who would incur extra costs by attending conferences, e.g. due to childcare
 or immobility, are encouraged to apply to the AS committee for funding. During the period the
 Unit liaised with DASS twice to ensure supply of specialist software and equipment for staff
 following return from illness. PGR students can request interruptions where their programme
 clock is paused. Return to study is managed by their supervisor who makes arrangements for
 assimilation back into the Unit and signposts students to support (see Wellbeing below). From
 students registering during 2013-15, seven interrupted; six returned, with five completing, and
 one to submit in 2021.

 Protected characteristics
 Support for research staff with protected characteristics is strongly embedded in UoM and Unit
 policies, through for example, the Disability Confident scheme used for job advertising, overseas
 travel guidance, promotion workshops targeted at under-represented groups, staff Networks
 (including Black Minority Ethnic, LGBT, and Disabled groups), same-sex partner leave for new
 parents, Occupational Health involvement in work conditions, and zero-tolerance “Report &
 Support” procedures on harassment.

 Wellbeing
 In addition to arranging regular check-in meetings with staff, where appropriate, LMs signpost
 staff to UoM counselling and wellbeing services, and e-resources to support mental health. A
 dedicated Student Support Officer provides PGR students with wellbeing guidance and direction
 to UoM services, including counselling and DASS (4 PGR students were registered with DASS
 at census).

 REF return
 The Unit’s outputs return was selected in accordance with UoM’s annual Research Review
 Exercise, led in the Unit by Tisseur, with oversight from FSE. Papers selected by authors were
 distributed to at least two internal referees (Unit staff) who had undergone tailored REF
 assessment training and were supported by EDI/UB training (Section 2(ii)). Results were
 compiled and considered at a panel chaired by Tisseur. Broad consensus contributed to final
 grading. Authors fed their own feedback on scores into the process via an online system,

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 managed by Tisseur. An EDI analysis of the Unit’s return showed an average of 2.3 outputs
 from both Male and Female authors and an average of 2.3, 2.1 and 2.7 outputs associated with
 White/BAME/Unknown or refused ethnicity, respectively.

 Hewitt managed ICS selection, supported by HoR and the Unit’s Impact Officer (Section 3(iii)).
 A broad range of potential ICSs were discussed at rolling panels with Unit and FSE staff. ICSs
 were ultimately selected on the basis of quality and evidence.

 The Unit’s environment statement was written by Parnell, with a core team of 8 staff (2 female).
 Input was sought and information returned from Unit staff on several occasions to provide
 illustrative examples and data.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3(i) Research funding strategies

 The Unit’s strategic objective O4 to grow and diversify research funding is bearing fruit, with
 GBP26M total income over the assessment period, up significantly from GBP11.4M at REF2014.
 Its appointment strategy drove a healthy balance between curiosity-driven research and
 responsiveness to specific funding calls. A key mechanism in achieving O4 was improvement of
 support for grant proposal preparation via the appointment of Research Leads (RLs). As part of
 the Unit’s new proposal submission approval process, RLs manage intensive internal peer
 review (two referees), involving multiple iterations of drafts to improve proposals and PI
 responses, and to ensure call alignment. Particular attention is provided to ECRs, mentoring
 them through the process and ensuring support post decisions. HoR/RLs discuss unsuccessful
 proposals with PIs to consider potential improvements and future funding options. Mock
 interviews are always arranged as appropriate. The Unit consistently grew its market share
 (HESA data) of research income (figure 6).




                       Figure 6. Market share of research income

 Credit share of external research awards during the period totalled GBP25.2M (figure 7). The
 proportion of Research Council awards was 62%, compared to 72% and 90% in REF2014 and
 RAE2008, thus further reducing Unit reliance on this source. “Other” sources (philanthropy,
 overseas institutions, etc.) increased significantly to GBP1.97M from just GBP42K at REF2014,
 illustrating increased, diversified funding.




   Figure 7. Research awards (GBP M) comparing proportions at REF2014 and REF2021



                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit’s diverse research enabled access to UKRI funding beyond the EPSRC mathematics
 panel, including BBSRC (Jensen), ESRC (Fedotov), MRC (Hall, Han, Chernyavsky) and
 NERC (Gray, C Johnson). Notable sources outside UKRI include:
     HIMR Partnership (5 fellows, GBP1.01M) with further appointments and Heilbronn
         Doctoral Partnership PGR funding to follow after the period;
     Research hubs with AWE and Thales (GBP1.43M);
     Six KTP projects (GBP1.56M including government and industry contributions);
     European Commission funding for five projects (GBP1.38M);
     Philanthropic funding for Turing/Neumann Fellowships (GBP1.04M, 2015-20) and
         follow-on funding (GBP0.8M, 2020-25) after the period.

 The Unit placed strategic emphasis on encouraging and supporting applications for research
 fellowships. 35 were hosted during the period (compared to 13 at REF2014), including 31 new
 fellowships. Sixteen arose from applications to external bodies:
       Chernyavsky (MRC, 2016-19, GBP444K);
       Gray (EPSRC Established Career, 2015-20, GBP1.38M);
       Hewitt (William Penney Fellowship Extension, 2016-2019, GBP150K);
       Higham (Royal Society Professorship, 2018-23, GBP1.39M);
       House (EPSRC Healthcare Technologies Impact, 2016-19, GBP320K and Royal Society
        Industry, with IBM, 2019-22, GBP140K);
       Kisil (Royal Society Dorothy Hodgkin, 2019-24, GBP643K);
       Meng (EU Marie-Curie Individual, 2019-21, GBP149K);
       Parnell (EPSRC Early Career, 2014-19, GBP1.1M, and Extension, 2019-2022,
        GBP897K);
       Pearce (Leverhulme Trust Early Career, 2015-18, GBP70K);
       Pellis (Wellcome Trust Sir Henry Dale, 2017-21, GBP640K);
       Shearer (EPSRC Postdoctoral, 2014-17, GBP220K);
       Stafford (Leverhulme Emeritus, 2019-21, GBP16K);
       Symonds (Leverhulme International Academic, 2018, GBP25K);
       R Webb (EPSRC Postdoctoral, 2019-20, GBP38K).

 Thales provided GBP45K explicit funding for RF Cotterill (2018-21, Section 2(v)). The remaining
 14 independent fellowships were supported by UoM, and were awarded in open competitions
 administered by the Unit/UoM. Direct funding to the Unit supported five HIMR Fellows (Barber,
 Calvert, Peacock, Smith, Sutton, GBP843K, 2019-22) and philanthropy funded six
 Turing/Neumann Fellows (Bui, Leon-Sanchez, Loughran, Patel, Prendiville, Robertson,
 GBP1.04M). Loughran and Prendiville arrived and departed during the period. Philanthropic
 funding to UoM accounted for two DKO Fellowships (Adiceam, 2018-23, GBP215K; Gaunt,
 2016-21, GBP218K) and UoM supported one Presidential Fellow (Chernyavsky, 2019-23,
 GBP193K) (REF5a 3.3.2).

 Additionally, four fellowships awarded during the REF2014 period overlapped with the REF2021
 period: Hewitt (William Penney Fellowship, 2013-16), Higham (ERC Advanced, 2011-16),
 Moriarty (EPSRC Early Career, 2012-17), and Tisseur (EPSRC Leadership, 2011-16).

 The Unit’s seven ICSs were supported by 29 grants, totalling GBP11.4M.

 Table 3 evidences links between key outputs and grants.




                                                                                        Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Output                                         Author            Funding Awards

 Diffraction by a quarter-plane. Analytical     Assier            EPSRC (EP/N013719/1)
 continuation of special functions.
 Q. J. Mech. Appl. Math. (2019)

 Donovan's conjecture and blocks with abelian Eaton               EPSRC (EP/M015548/1)
 defect groups.
 Proc. Am. Math. Soc. (2018)

 Well-posed and ill-posed behaviour of the      Gray              NERC (NE/E003206/1,
 μ(I)-rheology for granular flow                                  NE/K003011/1), EPSRC
 J. Fluid Mech. (2015)                                            (EP/I019189/1, EP/K00428X/1,
                                                                  EP/M022447/1)

 A new analysis of iterative refinement and its Higham            ERC (267526), EPSRC
 application to accurate solution of ill-                         (EP/I01912X/1, EP/P020720/1)
 conditioned sparse linear systems.
 SIAM J. Sci. Comput. (2017)

 Pfaffian definitions of Weierstrass elliptic   GO Jones          EPSRC (EP/N007956/1)
 functions.
 Math. Ann. (2020)

 Soft phononic crystals with deformation-       Parnell           EPSRC (EP/L018039/1)
 independent band gaps.
 Proc. R. Soc. Lond. A (2017)

 Systematic selection between age and           Pellis            Wellcome Trust and Royal
 household structure for models aimed at                          Society (202562/Z/16/Z)
 emerging epidemic predictions.
 Nat. Commun. (2020)

 Displacement flows under elastic               Pihler-Puzović,   EPSRC (EP/J007927/1)
 membranes. Part 2: Analysis of interfacial     Juel, Heil
 effects.
 J. Fluid Mech. (2015)

 The Ziegler spectrum for derived-discrete      Prest             EPSRC (EP/K022490/1)
 algebras.
 Adv. Math. (2017)

                 Table 3. Examples of links between key outputs and funding.


 O3 is underpinned by Unit staff playing integral roles in large intra- and inter-disciplinary
 research projects, including
     Fedotov: EPSRC, Bioproton (GBP1.4M, 2019-24) with FBMH, Massachusetts General
        Hospital and NHS-England;
     Higham: EPSRC Programme Grant, Inference, computation and numerics for insights
        into cities, (GBP5.3M, 2017-22) with Imperial, Oxford and Edinburgh, and national and
        international police forces;



                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Landel: Dstl, Modelling chemical decontamination of porous surfaces, (GBP1.3M, 2019-
        22) with Cambridge;
       Lionheart: EPSRC Platform Grant, Next Generation Multi-Dimensional X-ray Imaging,
        (GBP1.2M, 2015-20) with Materials; EPSRC, Robust Repeatable Respiratory Monitoring
        with EIT (GBP890K, 2014-18) with Guy’s and St Thomas’ NHS Foundation Trust; Sir
        Bobby Charlton Foundation (two grants: GBP2.2M and GBP1.5M) with Electrical and
        Electronic Engineering;
       Jensen: BBSRC, Opportunities to Modulate Extracellular Matrix Secretion and Assembly
        for Long-Term Health (GBP3.78M) with FBMH and Bristol;
       Muldoon: Horizon 2020, Connecting Lung Structure and Function in Cystic Fibrosis
        Through Physiological Modelling, Image Analysis and UQ (EURO2.91M, 2017-21) with
        10 partners in 7 countries.

 3(ii) Organisational infrastructure

 MIMS
 The Manchester Institute for Mathematical Sciences is the organising centre for the Unit’s
 research activities. It provides facilities and funding (GBP15K/year) to host visitors at all career
 stages, seminars, workshops and conferences (Section 3(iii)).

 MCND
 The Manchester Centre for Nonlinear Dynamics is the Unit’s experimental arm, offering staff
 approximately 300m2 of laboratory space, facilities and 1FTE technician support. MCND’s
 facilities grew further via GBP100K investment in microfabrication facilities, key to experiments
 on biomimetic blood flows (Chernyavsky, Jensen, Juel), airway reopening and viscous
 fingering instabilities (Pihler-Puzovic, Juel) and surface microfabrication for wetting studies
 (Juel). The Centre also benefitted from the use of UoM facilities in Chemistry, Materials, NGI
 and FBMH and has developed strong collaborative links with Chemistry and Chemical
 Engineering.

 UoM institutes and centres (Section 1(iv) and REF5a 2(iii)) provide focus for interdisciplinary
 research.

 3(iii) Support infrastructure

 UoM’s Estates Department maintains the GBP40M ATB, housing 120 staff and PGR offices,
 large computing clusters, and dedicated MIMS space for research dissemination. MIMS facilities
 include two seminar rooms, a hot-desking area, Access Grid room (interactive
 videoconferencing facilities), meeting rooms, and 3 multi-occupancy visitor offices. A GBP20K
 annual budget allows for standard improvements to the building. In 2018, AV equipment in
 seminar and computer rooms was upgraded (GBP42K).

 Research and impact support
 Comprehensive institutional support is provided (REF5a 4.1). The Unit has two dedicated
 Research Support Officers (RSOs) and a Research Support Manager (RSM) for pre- and post-
 award support. Funding opportunities are distributed by HoR and RSM. RLs assist in identifying
 potential applicants and discuss opportunities with staff. To enable impact, UoM funds an Impact
 Officer, who assists in the development and maintenance of new and existing industrial contacts,
 facilitates pull-through of impact and assists in ICS development. The UoM Business
 Engagement team provides broader expertise and connectivity.

 Computational resource
 In addition to the Research IT Computational Shared Facility to which the Unit contributed seven
 compute nodes (GBP64k), the Unit has its own computational resources hosted in a dedicated
 fileserver room in the ATB. Compute nodes for specific projects run alongside servers available
 to all staff. Total Unit investment in this infrastructure over the period was GBP110K.


                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Funding
 For non-CASE PhDs, the Unit provides funding when external organizations part-fund projects
 (six during the period). UoM/EPSRC provided assistance for impact development via impact
 support funds, with the Unit benefitting from two impact fellow awards (GBP92.5K). These
 projects are connected via the FSE impact support network managed by the Faculty Impact
 Team. UoM’s dedicated KTP support team assisted in the award of six KTPs with Argent &
 Waugh (GBP245K), Arrow Global (GBP278K), Arup (GBP261K), Inventive IT (GBP194K), NAG
 (GBP302K) and Process Integration Ltd (GBP280K). Six IAA awards totalling GBP125K
 provided proof-of-concept and relationship-incubator funding for Gray, Lionheart and Parnell,
 together with external partners. The UoM Innovation Factory funded Gray (GBP60K, 12-month
 PDRA support, market assessment and patenting costs, 2016); Law (GBP5K to establish
 collaboration with Victrex, who contributed GBP5K); and Parnell (GBP25K, market assessment
 and patenting costs).

 Facilities
 Shared UoM infrastructure, including the library, Research IT and large equipment has
 benefitted from significant UoM investment (REF5a 4.2).

 3(iv) Equality, diversity and inclusion

 The Unit takes great care to treat all staff equally with regard to access to research facilities and
 support. The Unit’s MIMS director Tisseur (female) makes recommendations on Unit OA
 funding based on research quality and career stage. The female to male ratio of RLs is 1:2; HoR
 and RLs ensure equal treatment in terms of associated support (Section 3(i)) and access to
 facilities. Recently, the Unit trialled double-blind research proposal peer review to remove any
 potential for unconscious bias and this approach will be adopted in the future for appropriate
 calls.

 MCND has an intentionally horizontal structure; access to experimental infrastructure is
 therefore straightforward for all in the Unit, with experimental advice provided at weekly
 meetings. Led by Juel, it is an exemplar of support for female scientists with pro-active drawing
 in of new appointments (several female) into existing projects and new funding proposals.

 All facilities within the ATB and Schuster (MCND) are fully accessible with no steps on entry,
 dedicated disabled toilets and lifts to all floors.

 3(v) Relation of infrastructure, facilities and expertise to impact

 The ATB permits flexible engagement with partners including dedicated office space for external
 partner staff. This has increased engagement with industry and improved the quality and
 sustainability of interactions (Sections 1(iii), 2(v)).

 Consultancies
 The Unit recognises the value of staff undertaking consultancy, provided that it forms part of a
 virtuous circle, whereby research is applied to novel applications, which in turn identify open
 questions that inform new fundamental research. Unit staff provided consultancy to a diverse
 range of organisations (figure 4), totalling GBP274K.

 Contracts and Intellectual Property
 All projects with external partners have contractual agreements drawn up by UoM’s contracts
 office. The UoM Innovation Factory provides support to manage IP arising from impactful
 interactions, e.g. they assisted Gray in obtaining a US patent in 2020 (US 10,752,444 B2).




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3(vi) Specialist and shared research infrastructure

 Institutes
 Unit staff benefitted from facilities at the INI and International Centre for Mathematical Sciences
 (ICMS) in Edinburgh, with staff having organised 8 meetings during the period and 17 attending
 meetings. The Unit’s ATI Fellows benefit from its array of facilities in the British Library. Staff
 also enjoyed use of HMXIF and Diamond (Section 1(iv)).

 International
 Staff benefit from international computing infrastructure, e.g. Law and Dongarra (Summit, Oak
 Ridge, USA) and Law (Shaheen, KAUST, Saudi Arabia).

 Healthcare
 During the COVID-19 pandemic, Hall, House and Pellis accessed confidential datasets in PHE
 and Hospital facilities that would otherwise have not been possible to share, e.g. the Office for
 National Statistics' Secure Research Server, a major national research investment.

 In-kind support
 The Unit received over GBP2M of in-kind support from partners during the period, including
 partner staff time on CASE PhDs, access to equipment and computational resource, and sample
 fabrication. Examples include
      Assier, EPSRC First Grant (2015-17), Thales, staff time (GBP44K);
      Chernyavsky, EPSRC (2020-22), McMaster University and St Mary’s hospital, staff time
         and other resources (GBP70K);
      Gray, EPSRC Fellowship (2015-20), EPFL and Procter and Gamble, experimental
         facilities (GBP330K);
      Lionheart, EPSRC (2014-18), Guy's & St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, facilities and
         clinician time (GBP153K).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4(i) Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Support for collaboration
 The Unit supports and encourages collaborative research via
           MIMS (supported over 50 meetings during the period);
           12 weekly seminar series, including 2 PGR series (GBP20K annual budget);
           sabbaticals (Section 2(iv));
           GBP0.5k annual travel stipend with supplementary GBP1K budget on application;
           strategic initiatives for collaborative PhD supervision.

 Additionally, since 2017 the DKO Trust has provided GBP30-50K annual funding for activities
 including 4 distinguished Visiting Professors (Cherlin, Masser, Payne, Pillay), 4 research visitors,
 5 public lectures, and outreach (Section 4(iv)).

 After campus closure in March 2020, the Unit moved its collaborative activities online, including
 the majority of its seminar series. Staff also initiated new international online seminar series
 (Wavinar, E-NLA, eNBSAM, Mathematics of Machine Learning, Mathematical Biology and Data
 Science).

 Networks
 Additional support for collaborations was provided by externally funded national research
 networks, e.g. UK Fluids Network (EPSRC, Juel); From Models to Decisions (UKRI, Powell);
 North British Semigroups and Applications Network (LMS, Kambites); Tropical Mathematics and
 its Applications (LMS, M Johnson); Transpennine Topology Triangle (LMS, Ray) and LMS


                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research in Pairs grants (Leon Sanchez, Prest, Stafford, Voronov). Manchester is a named
 node in three additional LMS Scheme 3 networks spanning combinatorics and number theory,
 ergodic theory and group theory.

 The Unit’s collaborative reach was described in Section 1(ii). Effectiveness of the collaborations
 is evidenced by outputs with over 500 UK and international academic institutions (increasing
 from 100 at REF2014) and over GBP8.5M in grants with research institutions in the UK, e.g.
 Birmingham (Powell, Silvester), Cambridge (C Johnson, Landel), City (Eaton); Edinburgh
 (Chernyavsky), Leeds and Loughborough (Parnell), Liverpool (Hazel), Nottingham (Jensen)
 and Oxford (GO Jones); Europe, e.g. EPFL (Gray), Marseille (Assier), INRIA, BSC and DLR
 (Dongarra, Higham, Tisseur), and worldwide, e.g. Lawrence Livermore (Higham, Tisseur),
 National University of Mexico (Montaldi), Oak Ridge (Law), Universidade de São Paulo
 (Fedotov), Virginia Tech (House).

 4(ii) Relationships with key beneficiaries to develop impact

 The Unit’s numerous mechanisms for engagement (figure 4) have facilitated strong long-term
 relationships with key partners, including Arup, AWE, NAG, Rapiscan and Thales. Partner
 representatives participate strongly in PGR student and PDRA co-supervision, building close
 relationships with Unit staff. Visits, workshops, and staff exchange with key partners enrich the
 local research environment, providing a constant source of relevant research problems, ensuring
 broader engagement and the development of impact.

 The relationship between NAG and the Unit dates back over three decades, whereas the
 relationship with Arup was initiated via a study day in the previous assessment period. Both
 collaborations provide vehicles for researchers’ algorithms to be made widely available: new
 modified Cholesky and nearest correlation matrix codes based on Unit staff’s work appeared in
 the NAG library in 2019. During the period, 6 Unit staff engaged with NAG via 1 KTP (1 PDRA)
 and 3 MScs. 4 Unit staff engaged with Arup via 1 KTP (1 PDRA), 2 PGR students and 2 MScs.

 Significant impact has been delivered to AWE and Thales through the Unit’s hub model. The
 relationship with Thales, beginning with Parnell’s CASE PhD (2001-04), is their longest
 continuous UK academic collaboration and during the period, engagement involved projects
 with 8 Unit staff, 5 PGR students and 4 PDRAs. The Unit’s collaboration with AWE, established
 via Hewitt’s Penney Fellowship (2013-2019) is blooming, with projects during the period
 involving 9 Unit staff, 5 PGR students, 1 PDRA and 2 PhD internships.

 The relationship with Rapiscan began with consultancy (Lionheart), developing via two CASE
 studentships (2007-2011), leading to ICSs at REF2014 and REF2021, and the formation of the
 Bobby Charlton Foundation charity, a partnership including UoM and Rapiscan that
 supported research in the Unit over the current REF period via GBP3.7M grants.

 4(iii) Contributions to economy and society

 Unit staff generate impact by applying and translating new and existing mathematical knowledge
 to address current societal challenges.

 In addition to the Unit’s seven ICSs, in healthcare, Lionheart’s research has been instrumental
 in developing a prototype 3D Electrical Impedence Tomography (EIT) system for real-time
 monitoring of mechanically ventilated patients in ICU. Muldoon developed statistical analysis
 to show that mosaic vaccines for HIV induce improved immune responses. This was
 instrumental in bringing the mosaic approach to the forefront of HIV vaccines, making it only the
 fifth vaccine to reach efficacy testing in the last 35 years.

 Landel is leader of the EPSRC UK Fluids Network Special Interest Group in the fluid mechanics
 of cleaning and decontamination, involving academics and company representatives, and he
 works with Dstl to develop efficient decontamination strategies.

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Members of theme 7 worked with e.g. Dstl, IBM and NPL to embed cutting-edge UQ
 methodologies in broader communities, having co-authored key monographs: An Introduction
 to Computational Stochastic PDEs (Powell, 2014), and Data Assimilation (Law, 2015). P
 Johnson and Duck worked with National Grid and UoM’s Climate Crisis Centre on applying
 stochastic models to optimise energy usage.

 4(iv) Engagement with diverse communities and publics

 The Unit organises online and in-person engagement activities, catering for all ages and
 communities. Public lectures and events bring the public into the Unit’s research environment
 (e.g. IMA Festival of Mathematics 2014, Women in Mathematics Research 2019, annual DKO
 lectures by: Marcus Du Sautoy 2015, Hannah Fry 2016, David Sumpter 2017, James Grime
 2018, Vicky Neale 2019, Katie Steckles 2020). Outreach events take staff and PGR students
 into the community (e.g. regular popular talks in schools, pubs and cafes, and science fairs).
 Research is publicised via social media, YouTube videos (e.g. Chernyavsky, Parnell,
 Sahlsten) and blogs (e.g. Borovik, Evatt, Higham, Khudaverdyan, Walton), attracting tens of
 thousands of hits annually. Mainstream media regularly covers the Unit’s research, including
 work on meteorites (Evatt) (BBC, New Scientist), ribbon curling (Jensen, Juel) (BBC), football
 match result prediction (Boshnakov) (BBC), and the COVID-19 pandemic (Hall, House, Pellis)
 (BBC, ITV). Evatt, Hazel and Walkden contributed puzzles for BBC R4 Today Programme’s
 “Puzzle of the Day”, published in the Today Programme Puzzle Book (2018).

 Events for school children include the Alan Turing Cryptography Competition (ages 11-16,
 approximately 4000 participants/year), the DKO Mathsbombe (ages 16-18, approximately 1500
 participants/year) and MakingMaths@Manchester, an annual two-day residential course for
 approximately 80 sixth-form students.

 During the period, Unit staff presented their research at e.g. Big Bang Fair, New Scientist Live,
 Manchester Science Spectacular and at events designed to reach non-traditional audiences
 including ScienceX (Trafford Centre, 2016-2019) and the Manchester University Community
 Festival (2017-2020). PGR students and ECRs played an active role in all outreach, and the
 teams were representative in terms of gender and ethnicity.

 4(v) Discipline sustainability, interdisciplinary exemplars and responsiveness to national
 and international priorities and initiatives

 Staff played key roles in national and international institutes, e.g. SIAM President (Higham,
 2017-18), ICMS Director (Abrahams, 2014-16, Glendinning 2016-present). Glendinning is
 president elect of the IMA (2022-23).

 Additional examples of leadership are:
 Borovik (LMS Council, 2014-20);
 Güttel (Secretary and Treasurer, SIAM UKIE section, 2016-18; Vice-Chair, GAMM Activity
 group on Numerical and Applied Linear Algebra, 2015-present);
 Glendinning (IMA Vice-President (Learned Society), 2010-2014; IMA Council, 2015-18; INI
 Scientific Steering Committee, 2016-present);
 Juel (Euromech Council, 2018-2024);
 Powell (Program Director, SIAM Activity group on UQ, 2018-20);
 Tisseur (President, UKIE SIAM section, 2019-21; Program Director, SIAM Activity Group on
 Linear Algebra, 2013–15; Vice-President, SIAM UKIE section, 2013–15; Board of Directors of
 the International Linear Algebra Society, 2011-14).

 Staff also sat on UKRI strategic advisory teams and boards (Section 4(vi)).




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Powell was principal organiser of a six-month INI UQ research programme (2018, over 100
 participants). Dongarra and Higham co-organized a Royal Society discussion meeting on
 Numerical Algorithms for High-Performance Computational Science (2019, 150 attendees).
 The Unit actively engages in training the next generation of researchers, employing 91 PDRAs
 during the period. Of the 67 whose contracts ended, 21 moved onto new PDRA positions, 25
 into academic appointments, 17 into scientific careers in industry, and 4 destinations are
 unknown.

 The Unit’s active participation in interdisciplinary projects helps sustain the discipline; key
 exemplars addressing national and international priorities are:

 Environment
     Evatt’s lost meteorites of Antarctica project (Leverhulme Trust, partnering with British
       Antarctic Survey), with earth sciences, and electrical and electronic engineering.
     C Johnson’s work on the V-PLUS project (NERC highlight grant) to improve predictions
       of volcanic ash dispersal in the atmosphere, with earth sciences.

 Healthcare
     National and international epidemiological modelling (Hall, House, Pellis) connects
       public health, policy and mathematics.
     Jensen’s leadership in engagement with life sciences, leading to the Wellcome Trust
       PGR Programme, training 20 PGR students to work at the interface between
       mathematics and the life sciences.
     Chernyavsky's work (EPSRC and MRC) on placental modelling, in collaboration with
       UoM’s Maternal and Fetal Health Research Centre.
     Shearer’s (EPSRC, joint appointment with materials) work on tendon biomechanics, with
       the Division of Cell Matrix Biology and Regenerative Medicine, FBMH.

 The Unit responds rapidly and proactively to research priorities, engaging with the UK Research
 and Development Roadmap, and applying to priority funding calls, e.g. 12 submissions to the
 EPSRC New Horizons Scheme. Staff played key roles in aspects of the national response to the
 COVID-19 pandemic. The Unit’s 11 ATI Fellows address national priorities in Data Science.
 Duck and P Johnson address societal challenges in energy usage. Lionheart’s Royal Society
 Challenge Grant addressed the global problem of landmine detection and clearance.

 4(vi) Contributions to the discipline and leadership

 Awards and Prizes:
 Dongarra
 SIAM/ACM prize in Computational Science and Engineering, 2019;
 Women of the ENIAC Computer Pioneer Award, 2020;
 Frei
 Prize of the Austrian Mathematical Society, 2019;
 Higham
 Royal Society Research Professor, 2018-23;
 LMS Naylor Prize and Lectureship, 2019;
 Landel
 APS Gallery of Fluid Motion Award, 2017;
 Parnell
 LMS Whitehead Prize, 2019;
 Tisseur
 Olga Taussky-Todd Lecture prize, ICIAM 2019;
 LMS Fröhlich Prize, 2020;
 Walton
 Erlang Prize, 2018.



                                                                                                   Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit awards: Gray (2016-21), Lionheart (2015-20), Tisseur
 (2014-19) and Abrahams (whilst part of the Unit, 2013-16). Wilkie (FRS, Emeritus) was awarded
 the LMS Polya prize (2017).

 Fellowships:
 Dongarra
 Foreign Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, 2017;
 Foreign Member of the Royal Society, 2019;
 Fellow of the International Engineering and Technology Institute 2019;
 Higham
 Elected Member Academia Europaea, 2016;
 Fellow of the Institution of Engineering and Technology, 2018;
 Juel
 Fellow of the American Physical Society, 2019;
 Tisseur
 SIAM Fellow, 2016.

 Service on advisory boards
 Unit staff served over 40 boards and committees including the EPSRC Mathematical Sciences
 SAT: Abrahams (2014-15) and Juel (2015-18). Parnell is an advisory group member of the
 EPSRC’s additional funding programme for mathematical sciences. At REF2014, Abrahams was
 Deputy Chair and Higham was a member, of sub-panel 10.

 Additional examples include:
 Donev (Co-chair, design of experiments working group, European Research Consortium for
 Informatics and Mathematics, 2014-21);
 Dongarra (Co-chair, International Exascale Software Program, 2008-present);
 Glendinning (Nominating Committee, LMS, 2014-16);
 Hewitt (Member, Nuclear Security Science Network Management Panel, 2015-present);
 Juel (Chair, IUTAM UK panel, 2020-22; Member, IUTAM Congress Committee, 2018-22;
 Nominating Committee, Division of Fluid Dynamics, APS, 2018-20);
 Jensen (Member, Research Policy Committee, LMS, 2016-2019; Member, World Council on
 Biomechanics, 2010-22);
 Heil (Member, Co-chair and Designated Chair, Euromech Fluid Mechanics Conference
 Committee, 2014-present);
 Kambites (Member, Society Lectures and Meetings Committee, LMS, 2017-present);
 Powell (Steering committee, KTN Special Interest group on UQ in High Value Manufacturing,
 2016-18);
 Prest (Nominating Committee, LMS, 2013-14);
 Tisseur (Member, SIAM Fellows Canvassing Committee, 2017-20);
 Walton (Member, Council, Applied Probability Society, 2014-16; Member, Applied Probability
 Section, Royal Statistical Society, 2016-19).

 Journal editorships
 37 Unit staff served on over 80 journal editorial/advisory boards. Leadership was provided as
 senior editors for 14 journals:
 Dongarra (International Journal of High Performance Computing Applications, Supercomputing
 Frontiers and Innovations, Applied Numerical Mathematics and Journal of Computational
 Science);
 Duck (Quarterly Journal of Mechanics and Applied Mathematics);
 Hazel (Computer Physics Communications);
 Higham (Linear Algebra and its Applications and SIAM Fundamentals of Algorithms book
 series);
 Jensen (Mathematical Medicine & Biology: A Journal of the IMA);
 Law (Foundations of Data Science);
 Parnell (Wave Motion);
 Peskir (International Journal of Theoretical and Applied Finance);

                                                                                        Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Premet (Transformation Groups);
 Wilkie (Emeritus) Annals of Pure and Applied Logic.

 Furthermore Higham edited the Princeton Companion to Applied Mathematics (2015),
 (Associate Editor: Glendinning).

 Grant/Prize committees
 Unit staff served on 47 grant-awarding committees, including as chair/deputy-chair
 (Glendinning, Heil, Juel, Parnell, Silvester) in nine different countries. Staff served on prize
 committees including the SIAM Moser Prize, 2015 (Chair) and 2017 (Glendinning); the IMU
 Rolf Nevanlinna Prize, 2018 (Higham); SIAM Ralph E. Kleinman Prize, 2019 (Lionheart),
 Householder Prize, 2014 and 2020 (Chair) (Tisseur).

 Keynote and plenary lectures
 Staff contributed to over 600 scientific meetings, and gave over 170 keynote/plenary lectures,
 including:
 Borovik (Morning speaker, BMC, 2014); Dongarra (SIAM CSE19); Eaton (Morning speaker,
 BMC, 2018); Frei (BIRS-CMO, 2018); Gajjar (ISTAM, 2019); Gray (Debris-Flow Hazard
 Mitigation 2019); Higham (ICIAM, 2019); Jensen (SIAM Conference on the Life Sciences,
 2014); GO Jones (Diophantine Geometry, 2018); Juel (APS Division of Fluid Mechanics, 2020);
 Kambites (Research Programme Invited Speaker, Mittag-Leffler, 2018); Law (USNCCM, 2017);
 Parnell (IMECE, 2019); Pan (Multivariate and Mixed Linear Models, 2019); Peskir (Symposium
 on Optimal Stopping, 2018); Premet (ESI, 2017); Prest (Auslander Conference, Woods Hole,
 2017); Tisseur (ICIAM, 2019); Walton (Markov Lecture Discussant, 2020); Wilkie (Emeritus,
 26th Annual Gödel lecture, 2015); Zhang (Stochastic PDEs and related fields, 2016).

 Workshop and conference organisation
 Staff organised over 130 workshops and conferences, over 50 of which were in Manchester,
 including:
 European Study Group with Industry, Manchester, 2015 (Assier and GW Jones); 3rd IMA
 Conference on Dense Granular Flows, INI, 2019 (Gray); Workshop on thin liquid film modelling,
 Banff, 2019 (Hazel); UK Fluids Conference, Manchester, 2018 (Jensen); Fundamental
 Challenges in Inkjet Printing, Lorentz Center, 2019 (Juel); Fluid Mechanics of Cleaning and
 decontamination, INI, 2018 (Landel); Data-Centric Engineering, MIT, 2019 (Law); Symposium
 on Optimal Stopping, Houston, 2018 (Peskir); Statistical Methods for Postgenomic Data,
 Imperial College, 2017 (Strimmer); Developments in Commutative Algebra and applications to
 classical rings, Chennai Mathematical Institute, 2015 (Symonds); Model Theory of Modules,
 Algebras and Categories, Erice, 2017 (Tressl).




                                                                                             Page 28
