Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cambridge
 Unit of Assessment: 5 Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context of UoA5 research in Cambridge
 Our UoA5 submission includes over 250 researchers based in the School of the Biological
 Sciences (SBS). SBS is one of six Schools in the University and is composed of nine academic
 Departments and four research Institutes, one of which (Cambridge Stem Cells Institute, CSCI) is
 joint with the School of Clinical Medicine (Figure 1A). Each Department houses several groups
 spanning a range of interests and teaching capabilities appropriate to its remit, whilst the Institutes
 are foci for particular research areas. Colleagues from the Departments of Pathology, Psychology
 and Veterinary Medicine are being submitted to UoA1, UoA4 and UoA6 respectively, and most of
 those in CSCI to UoA1.

 A.                                                                     B.




  Figure 1. A. Departments & Institutes in SBS and the UoAs to which their staff will be
  submitted. B. Research is broadly organised into six cross-Departmental Research Themes.

 Over the reporting period SBS has engaged in extensive discussions about how best to organise
 its research efforts in broad Themes across departmental boundaries, to provide opportunities for
 collaborative and multidisciplinary research at all levels of career from senior academics to early
 career researchers and postgraduate students. As of July 2020, the general research areas are
 as shown in Figure 1B.

 Research in SBS is both investigator-led and carried out within larger coordinated teams within
 and beyond SBS. Additionally, many of our researchers are associated with University-wide
 interdisciplinary research networks (Section 1.3) that support research, translation and knowledge
 exchange activities in areas of global strategic importance. More broadly, SBS is a hub for the


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 wider Cambridge biosciences community encompassing academic and industrial collaborators
 and partners.

 A major strength is our close connections with:
     • the Biomedical Campus, which includes the School of Clinical Medicine, Addenbrooke’s
       Hospital (the largest teaching hospital in the region) and the MRC Laboratory of Molecular
       Biology (MRC-LMB).
     • the Wellcome Genome campus, home to the Wellcome Sanger and European
       Bioinformatics Institutes and other world-leading organisations in genomics and
       computational biology.
     • the BBSRC Babraham Institute & Innovation Campus, exploring the key to lifelong health
     • the National Institute of Agricultural Botany (NIAB), the UK’s foremost independent
       agricultural research institute.

 More broadly, Cambridge sits at the heart of the largest cluster of high-tech biotechnology and
 pharmaceutical companies in Europe, many of which have sprung from research within SBS,
 including Astex Pharmaceuticals and Mission Therapeutics.


 1.2 Research objectives during reporting period and for next 5 years
 The overriding aim of SBS is to carry out excellent research that addresses fundamental biological
 questions, and then to translate that research to tackle global challenges: treatment and
 prevention of disease, provision of food and nutritional security, mitigation of climate change and
 conservation of biodiversity, support and growth of the bioeconomy. We consider that innovative
 scientific vision and integration across the breadth of biology-related research are essential to
 achieve success in both discovery science and its translation. We have used these as guiding
 principles in developing our research strategy, enabling us to meet our objectives outlined in
 REF2014. Broadly these were to:
     • make academic appointments in key areas of strength to increase critical mass;
     • continue to deliver excellent scientific outputs and increase understanding of biological
          systems;
     • encourage and facilitate collaboration within SBS, across the University and with
          stakeholders, with an emphasis on interdisciplinarity;
    •   support translation to have impact in tackling real-world problems;
    •   enhance provision of state-of-the-art technologies and redevelop/establish purpose-built
        infrastructure.

 Below we highlight research achievements and relevant Impact Case Studies (CS) in our six
 Research Themes and for the cross-cutting research interfacing with Engineering and Physical
 Sciences. Section 1.3 provide more detail on our translation support, and infrastructure and
 facilities are covered in Section 3.

 1.2.1 Cell & Molecular Biology
 Objectives in REF2014 were: to make key appointments of leaders in the field; to enhance
 research facilities in cryoEM for macromolecular assembly analysis, to increase understanding of


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fundamental processes in cells; and to accelerate ways to lead to new treatments for disease,
 particularly by links with the Clinical School and industry.

 Cell and molecular biological research is carried out across SBS, studying aspects of cell function
 from molecules to tissues. As well as providing unparalleled insight into fundamental processes,
 an important focus is to extend this knowledge to understand diseases and to allow exploration of
 novel therapeutic avenues. To support and augment this area, as proposed in REF2014, several
 new appointments were made including Jussi Taipale (2017), Herchel Smith Chair of
 Biochemistry; Michael Edwardson, Sheild Professor of Pharmacology; Anne Willis (2018),
 Professor of Toxicology.

 Several new cutting-edge facilities in SBS have been installed, including Cryo-electron microscopy
 (Cryo-EM), augmented proteomics capability, enhanced FACS and Next Generation Sequencing
 (NGS) services. Cryo-EM has transformed our ability to understand multicomponent complexes
 at near atomic resolution e.g. the first pseudo-atomic structure of the MacAB-TolC ABC-type
 tripartite multidrug efflux pump provided insight into the basis for drug resistance in numerous
 pathogenic bacteria (Luisi). Structural biology also underpins the Fragment-Based Drug Discovery
 approach pioneered by Blundell and Astex Pharmaceuticals that has resulted in compounds
 targeting kinases involved in breast and urothelial cancer, two of which are now commercialised,
 with a further 5 in trials (Impact CS: Revolutionising drug discovery using a fragment-based
 approach). More broadly, earlier work developing phage display has led to Impact CS: New
 commercial ventures to accelerate therapeutic antibody discovery (McCafferty).

 Much of our discovery science has direct connection with understanding of disease, with a
 particular focus on cardiovascular disease and cancers, which have major impact on the health
 and wealth of the nation (N.B. our research on neurodegenerative disease is submitted with
 UoA4). Several treatments are now in the clinic, including Olaparib (Impact CS: Revolutionising
 cancer therapy via the DNA-damage response; S.Jackson). To consolidate research effort in this
 area, we fulfilled a REF2014 objective to support the Cancer Interdisciplinary Research Centre
 (IRC; Section 1.3), including opening of the preclinical “Mouse Hospital” in collaboration with
 Cancer Research UK to allow testing of new therapeutic targets. This has been augmented by
 establishment of a postgraduate programme in Cancer Biology. The Cardiovascular
 Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC) has also been established, building on previous
 successes, exemplified by Impact CS: Tackling cardiac rhythm abnormalities to extend and
 improve quality of life (Grace).


 To strengthen our position in therapeutic translation we established the Cambridge Academy of
 Therapeutic Sciences (CATS, Section 1.3), synergizing with the relocation of the MRC
 Toxicology Unit to Cambridge in 2019, and with extensive industry-funded PhD programmes
 (Section 2.3) and a Masters in Therapeutic Sciences to educate a new generation of scientists in
 translational drug discovery. This provides Cambridge with a unique and unrivalled combination
 of the disciplines necessary to input science into current and future questions that surround the
 drug discovery process.

 Future plans: Cross-theme collaborations and interdisciplinary approaches will be expanded to
 tackle disease-related biomolecular and cellular questions, with RNA biology a major focus, given

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 new therapies that are being developed. As well as continued support for School-based facilities,
 our cancer research will be enhanced by the new €30M IMI-funded ‘Immune-Image’ consortium
 that will explore Positron Emission Tomography (PET), Optical Imaging (OI) and Magnetic
 Resonance Imaging (MRI) to visualise immune cells during treatment. Appointment to the Sir
 William Dunn Chair in Biochemistry will allow us to maintain our strength at the biosciences-
 chemistry interface. As part of our strategy to translate our science we will continue to cement
 interactions with our industrial partners including AstraZeneca (AZ), based at the Biomedical
 Campus, and via CATS.

 1.2.2 Functional and Evolutionary Genomics
 Priorities identified in REF2014 were to: appoint a new Professor to a post supported by
 philanthropy; expand interdisciplinary and quantitative approaches to research in genome biology
 across the University; develop infrastructure and training in genome informatics and computational
 biology.

 Strategic appointments made in line with REF 2014 aims include two major Professorships at the
 interface of evolutionary biology, population genetics and computational genomics: Richard Durbin
 (Al Kindi Professor of Evolutionary and Computational Genomics) and Eske Willerslev (Prince
 Philip Chair of Ecology 2015), leader in the field of ancient DNA and e(environmental)DNA
 methods. Of note is the analysis of ancient and present DNA to reveal the history of human
 evolution and migration including in the Americas and Asia (Willerslev, Manica, Scally), linking
 genomics, evolution and anthropology. How heterozygosity influences mutation rate is challenging
 evidence of introgression of Neanderthal and other Homo DNA in modern humans (Amos). This
 increase in computational and bioinformatics expertise is underpinning extensive training and
 upskilling in genome informatics across SBS.

 Epigenetics is now a major focus in SBS, supported and augmented by the active Epigenetics
 Club, run by early career researchers with funds from AbCam, and in collaboration with colleagues
 from the Babraham Institute. Fundamental discoveries are also paving the way for future
 translation, for example understanding meiotic recombination in Arabidopsis (I.Henderson), and
 hybrid dysgenesis in tomato (Baulcombe) will have impacts in plant breeding, whilst the
 dysregulation of RNA methylation in cancer (Kouzarides) has led to extensive industrial
 collaboration/funding and a start-up company STORM Therapeutics.

 Research at the interface of genetics and experimental evolution has identified the evolutionary
 pressures on pathogens and their hosts (F.Jiggins, Leggett), and fundamental work on gene drive
 has led to new disease control measures for malaria (Impact CS: Overcoming regulatory barriers
 for the implementation of Gene Drive technology to control malarial mosquitos in Africa; Russell).

 Future plans: New positions are planned in evolutionary biology. Further interdisciplinary activities
 will be aimed towards nurturing genetic approaches to sustainability, ecology, and biodiversity, as
 well as strengthening microbial genetics. We will continue to expand and integrate shared facilities
 including next generation sequencing technologies and the management of even larger datasets.
 We will play a significant role in the major Darwin Tree of Life project (Section 4.1)




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.3 Infection & Immunity
 The REF2014 goal was to link researchers in Cambridge and Africa, building on joint programmes
 of applied research in infection and immunity with further plans to include research in food security

 Fulfilling our REF2014 goal, extensive links to research institutes in Africa have been forged to
 address disease, frequently supported by the Cambridge-Africa initiative, which funds African
 scientists to spend time in Cambridge. Most research on human/animal disease will be submitted
 to UoA1/UoA6, but we have considerable strengths in plant pathology and epidemiology. Projects
 with BecA-ILRI in Kenya to study plant-aphid-viral interactions (Carr) and in Ethiopia to understand
 landscape level interactions of plant pathogens with both natural and agricultural vegetation
 (Gilligan), have both involved Cambridge-Africa fellows. The Ethiopia project has provided the first
 quantitative model for dispersal of spores over large geographical areas (Gilligan) and the means
 to assess when and where to start control of an epidemic (Cunniffe), now being used to inform
 national and related policy on prediction and control of plant disease (Impact CS: Protecting global
 food production and woodland environments through epidemiological modelling; Gilligan). Further
 important African interactions led to a mathematical model for simulating immunisation strategies
 in Sub-Saharan Africa and estimating their impact on disease burden and transmission. Revised
 vaccination programmes based on the findings have saved many lives (Impact CS: Shaping WHO
 meningitis vaccine guidelines; TrotterUoA6). Analysis of antigenic variants of influenza virus is also
 pivotal in the WHO-led influenza vaccination programme (Impact CS: New generation pandemic
 and seasonal influenza vaccines; D.Smith).

 In parallel, fundamental biochemical understanding is leading to innovative approaches to tackle
 disease. For example, in a collaboration with MedImmune, repurposing an anti-cancer drug by
 conjugation to a specific antibody cured a stage 1 model of African trypanosomiasis (Carrington).
 The depth and agility of our research base is exemplified by extensive refocusing as a result of
 the coronavirus pandemic in 2020. In one Department (Biochemistry), seven groups initiated
 projects to investigate aspects of Covid-19, including development of multiplex serological assays
 for evaluation of SARS-CoV-2 immunity (Hyvönen), structural studies to develop drugs directed
 against the highly conserved s2m RNA element of SARS-CoV-2 virus (Luisi), and new technology
 to map the secondary structure and RNA interactome of the SARS-CoV-2 genome (Miska).
 Members of the Department are also part of a wider consortium that together will develop and test
 diagnostic tools for use in Africa.

 Future plans: We will continue to work with initiatives such as CATS and the Milner Institute that
 provide means to interact with clinicians and the pharmaceutical industry to highlight opportunities
 for research translation into the clinic. For plant disease a significant new focus will be through the
 newly-established Crop Science Centre (Section 1.2.5).

 1.2.4 Neuroscience
 REF2014 strategic plans: to concentrate on neurobiology of natural behaviour as a foundation for
 the Institute of Neuroscience; to combine advanced imaging, molecular engineering, optogenetics,
 computation, and sophisticated ethological approaches to revolutionize our understanding of
 animal brains; to make a number of key appointments.




                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 With over 70 researchers in Neuroscience, Psychology and Behaviour Cambridge makes
 contributions across the subject from neural development to cognitive behaviour. Most are
 submitted to UoA4, but more fundamental studies in UoA5 include studying neural circuits
 controlling fertility (Herbison, Colledge) and analysis of neural circuits and direct connectivity via
 electron microscopy, which have revealed novel aspects of behavioural control, including how
 competitive disinhibition mediates behavioural choice in Drosophila (Zlatic, Cardona, Landgraf,
 Jefferis). This latter work was made possible by the strategic recruitment of Zlatic and Cardona
 from Janelia and the awarding of significant consortium funding. We realised a REF2014 goal to
 revolutionize understanding of animal brains by the appointment of 3 new lecturers, who together
 have combined research across advanced imaging, molecular engineering/optogenetics,
 computation, and sophisticated behavioural approaches to discover fundamental mechanisms of
 brain GPS systems (Krupic), sensory selection (Poort) and olfactory and sensory plasticity
 (Galiano). These complement existing strengths in hippocampal circuitry and synaptic plasticity
 (Paulsen) and form a core segment for the emerging Institute for Neuroscience.

 Future plans: Building on the expertise in neural circuits and sophisticated behavioural approaches
 and the impetus provided by seed-funding for the Institute for Neuroscience, our goal is to
 establish a collaborative core of neuroscientists that can interact effectively with the breadth of
 research in UoA4. For example, the collaborative programmes in connectomics will extend into
 circuits of vertebrate brains to complement the functional studies of neural circuits.

 1.2.5 Organisms, Evolution & Ecology
 REF2014 plans were: development of the new Conservation Campus; redevelopment of the
 Museum of Zoology; recruitments in plant biology, including six new group leaders in the Sainsbury
 Lab.

 The major challenges of climate change and the catastrophic decline in biodiversity are tackled by
 researchers in Ecology & Conservation. The main strategic aim in REF2014 was to open a new
 Conservation Campus, achieved in 2016 with opening of the Cambridge Conservation Institute
 (CCI), located in the newly refurbished David Attenborough Building (Section 3.2.2), housing
 University researchers from Zoology, Plant Sciences, Geography and Land Economy together
 with over 400 staff from nine national and international conservation organisations.




                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The juxtaposition of researchers and practitioners has facilitated unprecedented coordination of
 academic ecological research with practical conservation projects globally: from estimation of
 carbon stocks in forests of Borneo (Coomes) to ways to reconcile food demand and biodiversity
 conservation (Balmford), drawn on by parliamentary committees shaping post-Brexit agricultural
 policies.

 Another important initiative from working with the CCI leadership was the identification of a
 pressing need to increase work on marine fauna and environments. A £2.3M philanthropic
 donation allowed appointment of a Whitten lecturer in Marine Biology (Herbert-Read) along with
 PhD studentships in this topic. Fresh-water ecology is also an important area; understanding
 bivalve biology has led to Impact CS: Biobullets for the control of commercially-important pests in
 the water supply industry (Aldridge).

 The Museum of Zoology was refurbished in 2018 for £4.1M, funded in part by the National Lottery
 Heritage Fund, providing a new demonstration lab and gallery displays for teaching, state-of-the-
 art research facilities for work on the collections and dedicated space for a microCT scanner,
 which is used across the University and by external researchers. The refurbishment has enabled
 novel approaches in palaeontology that have shifted our understanding of the ecological drivers
 of snake and reptile evolution (Head) and the pioneering reconstruction of the ecology and
 evolution of Edicarian animals (Mitchell).

 Building on the success reported in REF2014 in Plant Biology, we have achieved a key goal of
 making several new appointments, including 4 Group Leaders (Jones, Moyroud, Nédélec,
 Oldroyd) and two professorial appointments (Jönsson, Helariutta) at the Sainsbury Laboratory
 (SLCU), a new University Lecturer/Curator of the Botanic Garden (Brockington), and 2
 unestablished Lecturers joint with the Indian Dept of Biotechnology (Andreuzza, Yadav).
 Moreover, philanthropic donations have endowed the Russell R Geiger Professor of Crop
 Science, with Oldroyd the first appointee. The critical mass of over 30 group leaders studying
 plants, together with extensive collaborative and multidisciplinary interactions, has allowed
 fundamental discovery science to be highly integrated with a culture of translational and challenge-
 led approaches. Much work focuses on plant processes that will enable improvements in crop
 productivity and food security. Translation of these advances will be made possible by the recent
 establishment of the Crop Science Centre, directed by Oldroyd, a joint venture with NIAB. Co-
 location on the NIAB site provides direct access to stakeholders in the agricultural sector, attracting



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 >£25M external funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and Foreign, Commonwealth &
 Development Office (FCDO).

 Future Plans: Significant new appointments will be to the Chair of Plant Ecology and the 1866
 Chair of Zoology in evolution and ecology, and Lecturerships in evolutionary biology, providing
 unprecedented opportunities to expand our unique partnerships in the Cambridge Conservation
 Initiative to improve global conservation policies and practice. The establishment of the University-
 wide climate change initiative Cambridge Zero in 2019 will underpin a range of future
 collaborations to explore nature-based solutions for a zero-carbon future. Another significant focus
 in the next 3 years will be on the Crop Science Centre, with up to 4 Research Fellowships funded
 by philanthropy, and closer links established with the agricultural sector.

 1.2.6 Reproduction, Development and Lifelong Health
 REF2014 goals were to: focus on integration of basic research in developmental and stem cell
 biology with the more translational activities associated with UoA1; build on initiatives already
 underway, including the new Stem Cell Institute and with large national strategic initiatives; make
 strategic appointments

 The depth of research in stem cells, developmental biology and reproduction in UoA5 has created
 unique opportunities that have led to key breakthroughs for how animals are formed and function.
 Impact from several of these discoveries has been realised through the relationship with clinicians
 and the proximity of the Biomedical Campus. Notably we have achieved REF2014 aims to harness
 and build-on our interdisciplinary research, exemplified by the tracing of cellular dynamics in
 development, maintenance and disease of different organ systems (e.g. B.Simons, Rawlins,
 JH.Lee, Huch, Livesey, Brand), by establishing the role of tissue mechanics in axon pathfinding
 and morphogenesis (e.g. Franze, Sanson, Steventon, Harris) and to breakthroughs in
 understanding cross-kingdom commonalities between plant development, stem-cells and
 morphogenesis (Jönsson, Haseloff, S.Robinson).

 Other successful interdisciplinary initiatives are the Centre for Trophoblast Research (CTR) and
 recent establishment of the Reproduction Strategic Research Initiative (Section 1.3), augmented
 by appointments in Reproduction (Herbison, Professor in Neuroendocrinology, Wellcome Senior
 Fellow; Sferruzzi-Perri, Lecturer PDN) and in Developmental and Stem Biology (lecturers
 Steventon, Genetics; X.Ma, Gurdon Institute; J-H.Lee, Stem Cells).

 Exceptional progress in deciphering mechanisms of human development, organ function and
 regeneration, with widespread impact, has been achieved through synergies that have led to new
 methods to generate organoids from liver (Huch), lung (Rawlins, Lee), endometrium, uterus
 (Turco, Burton) and in making synthetic human embryos (Zernicka-Goetz) and gastruloids
 (Martinez-Arias). As well as revolutionizing our understanding of early human development, these
 advances have been highlighted in the national press as major steps forward in understanding the
 causes of birth defects, diseases and miscarriages.

 Fulfilling a key aim from REF2014, basic research in Stem Cell biology has been successfully
 integrated with translational stem cell activities (reported to UoA1), by consolidating the
 Cambridge Stem Cell Institute (CSCI) in the purpose-built Jeffrey Cheah Biomedical Centre. This

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consortium has already been successful in identifying key pluripotency regulators (Nichols,
 Hendrich), defining mechanisms controlling the differentiation of pluripotent stem cells towards
 hepatic tissue, with consequences for stem cell therapies (Impact CS: Optimised human cell
 products to improve therapy development; VallierUoA1) and elucidating principles of neurogenesis
 in human cortical development and how they are affected by diseases including Alzheimer’s
 (Livesey). Further moves into the patient setting will be fostered now CSCI is located in proximity
 to research hospitals and industry partners. In parallel, Impact CS: Next generation growth factors
 for regenerative medicine (Hyvönen) is providing materials for stem cell culture.

 Future plans We aim to build on existing strengths in (i) human organoids and synthetic
 embryos (ii) mechanics and tissue biology, enhancing the interdisciplinarity in these arenas.
 We will continue to invest in new imaging platforms to capitalize on our scientific advances.
 Growing investment and recruitment in these fields are complemented by an ambition to establish
 associated MPhil programmes. The forward strategy is exemplified by the appointment of Kathy
 Niakan (from October 2020) as the Mary Marshall and Arthur Walton Professor of Reproductive
 Physiology, to harness the successes of the CTR and develop further the Reproduction SRI.

 1.2.7 Cross-cutting research activities
 As well as objectives within the Research Themes, REF2014 proposed further development of
 physical, mathematical and computational approaches to tackle biological problems; and to build
 an internationally competitive activity in Synthetic Biology across the University


 Physics-Biology interface Building on existing strengths, we have invested significantly in cross-
 disciplinary research fields especially the Physics and Biology interface, including four new
 appointments: Pulach (Professor of Anatomy, PDN) Mechanobiology of cell shape control, Sarris
 (Lecturer, PDN) Cell navigation in complex tissues, Xiong (Group leader, Gurdon Institute) Role
 of mechanical forces in tissue development, and Nédélec (Group leader, SLCU) Systems biology
 of morphogenesis. Interdisciplinarity is the core of their work and that of many others across SBS,
 applying insights from theoretical and experimental physics to expose principles of such processes
 as stem cell dynamics during homeostasis, repair and tumorigenesis, and of regulation by the
 mechanical environment in plants and animals (Jönsson, S.Robinson, B.Simons, Paluch). Work
 in this latter area of mechanobiology has led to the discovery (Franze, ChalutUoA1, FranklinUoA1)
 that niche stiffness underlies the ageing of CNS progenitor cells. This area of research is
 considerably strengthened by establishment of the Centre for Physical Biology, launched with
 seed funding from the University to support pump-priming grants and prizes for PhD students
 working at the interface.

 Mathematical and computational biology - Consistent with a strategic aim from REF2014,
 mathematical modelling is an increasingly important component of our work, for example in
 understanding the genetics of populations and initiation and control of epidemics, dynamic
 modelling the properties of chromatin and stochastic modes of cell division in plant and animal
 development. Progress in this area is facilitated by several joint appointments in the School of the
 Physical Sciences (B.Simons, Locke, Jönsson), fostering collaborations and providing a conduit
 to recruit physics and maths graduates to consider research opportunities in biology. As also
 proposed in REF2014, two virtual organisations, Cambridge Systems Biology Centre and the


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cambridge Computation Biology Institute have been developed extensively to provide masters-
 level training in integrated genomics and bioinformatics.

 Synthetic Biology - The launch (2014) of the EPSRC/BBSRC OpenPlant initiative in plant
 synthetic biology, joint with John Innes Centre in Norwich, provided a major impetus to establish
 a significant critical mass of synthetic biology research in Cambridge, with investment in laboratory
 refurbishment and consolidation of Synthetic Biology Interdisciplinary Research Centre (Section
 1.3). Key advances enabled by OpenPlant include the genome-wide analysis of transcription
 factor binding in individual cell-types in rice leaves (Hibberd), and characterisation of the entire
 transcription factor complement of Marchantia (Haseloff), as well as projects of relevance to
 industrial biotechnology, such as elucidation of xylan biosynthesis to improve processing of plant
 lignocellulose during bioethanol production (Dupree), and engineering microalgae to produce plant
 natural products (AG.Smith). The importance of this emerging area and relevance to the
 bioeconomy has led to joint appointment between SBS and Engineering of a Lecturer in Synthetic
 Biology (Bakshi, submitted to UoA12) and dedicated Makespace. OpenPlant also supports the
 Biomaker Initiative providing pump-prime funds for ~60 projects to date for early career
 researchers to carry out projects at the intersection of biology with electronics, 3D printing, sensor
 technology and low-cost DIY instrumentation.

 Future plans New MPhil programmes will be established within the next 2-3 years in Physical
 Biology and recruitment of early career researchers who work at the interface will be prioritised.
 Further initiatives in Synthetic Biology are planned including closer integration with Engineering
 and potential shared research facilities.

 1.2.8 Future strategic plans across Biological Sciences

 Research topics presented in earlier RAE/REFs helped to highlight potential synergies across our
 research landscape. Since REF2014, this has prompted consideration of high-level strategic aims
 that will enhance interactions across SBS and facilitate both interdisciplinary work and translation
 of fundamental discovery science to address challenges. This has crystalized into the 6 major
 Research Themes (Figure 1B) that framed the showcasing of our research achievements and
 are now shaping future plans. Initially conceived in the context of a large-scale building plan (the
 Biocentrum) it became evident that a more formalised organisational framework will help shape
 research in SBS and hence form the basis for future estates development (rather than vice versa
 as originally envisaged). Starting in 2021, thematic research activities will be strongly supported
 in SBS, led by a Deputy Head of School for Research (J.SimonsUoA4), who has been appointed to
 drive this forward. A crucial objective is to ensure that existing critical mass, often scattered across
 individual Departments, is brought together to enable closer working between members (from
 Academics and Fellows, through ECRs to Postgraduates) in cognate and complementary
 disciplines. We will also invite associate membership from group leaders from outside SBS and
 the University in the local area, with many of whom we already have strong collaborative links
 (Section 4.1).

 The Themes are designed to enable greater agility and creative thinking in responding more
 effectively to major funding calls and global challenges, facilitate strategic planning of philanthropic
 fundraising and of engagement with industry, translation and impact. Theme members will
 undertake horizon scanning for grand-challenge funding opportunities with help from a new pre-

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 award Research Office team, and generate better understanding of requirements for intra- and
 cross-theme enabling technologies and research facilities. Moreover, the Themes will play a major
 role in strengthening efforts towards enhancing research culture in SBS, including widening
 participation, increasing the diversity of those in leadership roles, empowering early-career
 researchers and professional services staff, and exploring opportunities for institutional
 incentivisation of open research practices. SBS will invest in additional posts to support these
 activities.

 Biological Sciences at Cambridge is now entering a particularly exciting time. In addition to the
 Themes, we are also undertaking a large-scale review and re-imagination of our teaching
 programme, furthering research-led learning in the undergraduate years and launching a suite of
 Masters courses to cover a wide range of biological disciplines. These priorities, alongside our
 widening participation agenda and with an increasing focus on research culture, will support
 further our goals of advanced connectedness, creativity and excellence across the discipline.

 1.3 Support for interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinary research is supported by a range of cross-School Networks, enabling SBS
 researchers to interact with, amongst others, School of Clinical Medicine for translation of
 biological understanding into the clinic, Physical Sciences and Technology for Synthetic Biology
 and Physics of Medicine, and Humanities and Social Sciences to promote initiatives in
 Conservation and Sustainable Development. The Networks address large-scale multi-disciplinary
 research challenges, strengthen research collaborations and knowledge transfer across
 disciplines, and increase research capacity and profile by providing a platform for large-scale
 funding applications, recruitments and international research partnerships. They also enhance
 ways in which our research feeds into policy underpinning national and international research,
 innovation and funding agendas.


 There are three stages of Network, which
 although closely related differ in their maturity
 and scope. Several focused Strategic
 Research Networks (SRNs), such as those
 in    Sensors       or   Metabolism,       provide
 opportunities for staff to initiate collaborations
 and network with others in the University.
 More formal Strategic Research Initiatives (SRIs) bring together a critical mass of researchers
 to start to address one or more challenges; demonstration of success then leads to conversion of
 the initiative into an Interdisciplinary Research Centre (IRC). These initiatives are overseen by
 the University’s Research Policy Committee and receive direct University funding, e.g. for an
 executive manager and support staff for the SRIs/IRCs.

 The commitment of SBS to interdisciplinary research is exemplified by the fact that many of the
 IRCs have been conceived and/or led by UoA5 researchers, currently Conservation (Director
 Coomes), Global Food Security (Co-Director Griffiths) and Synthetic Biology (Director
 Haseloff), and previously Energy (Co-Director AG.Smith). The success of the IRCs is
 demonstrated by extensive external research funding. For example, Stem Cells, whose research
 impacts disease modelling, drug discovery and regenerative medicine, is funded by the MRC and
 Wellcome. Global Food Security was a key player in successful applications for several UKRI-

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 GCRF projects aimed at translating knowledge of plant physiology to support small-holder farmers
 in India and sub-Saharan Africa to improve yields and decrease water and nitrogen use.
 Synthetic Biology has attracted significant funding to develop low-cost molecular biologicals and
 equipment like the 3D-printed Openflexure microscope, making innovation in this area accessible
 to low-resource settings such as in Nigeria and Kenya. Cardiovascular has been associated with
 significant research funding from the British Heart Foundation (£6M), building on the relocation of
 the Royal Papworth Hospital to the Biomedical Campus.

 Similarly, the newly-established Reproduction SRI has secured an international collaboration
 with the Hubrecht Institute (Netherlands) to develop a new model of the early stages of human
 development. Another new SRI of note is the Cambridge Academy of Therapeutic Sciences
 (CATS), which aims to support the early-stage translation of academic science by linking
 University staff with industrialists, regulators and policy-makers in therapeutics and provide
 opportunities for secondments into industry. Success is evidenced by a £2.25M Wellcome
 Translation Partnership Award (Willis, Itzhaki).

 1.4 Achieving Impact
 Our REF2014 impact submission illustrated the depth and diversity of impact achieved by UoA5
 researchers from conservation policy and epidemiology to drug discovery and therapeutic design.
 These were realised essentially as individual activities rather than as a portfolio. Following
 REF2014, the strategic decision was made to support SBS researchers’ impact activities more
 proactively. Accordingly, in 2015 the Bioscience Impact Team (BIT) was created with funding from
 HEIF (£600k over 5 years) to support 3 FTE staff and associated impact activity. BIT provides a
 dedicated source of general advice and training on translation and impact, provides information
 on funding options for translation, and assists academics in developing and managing
 relationships with external partners. BIT has secured ~£1M of direct UKRI funding as Impact
 Accelerator Awards, enabling a broad range of pump-prime projects, placements, events and
 other collaborative activities with partners from industry, farming, charities, public bodies and
 developing countries (Sections 3.5 and 4.1). Critically, all 11 Impact CSs were developed by
 dedicated support from BIT over 3 years.




 Similarly, the CambPlants Hub, hosted and supported by Plant Sciences and SLCU, with
 additional funds from HEIF, facilitates networking and research grant applications with agricultural
 research institutes including Rothamsted Research, John Innes Centre and NIAB, as well as plant
 breeding and agronomy organisations such as ADAS. Interactions within this Hub helped shape
 the research focus of the Crop Science Centre, and facilitated an application by NIAB for £2.5M


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 from the Cambridgeshire and Peterborough Combined Authority for Barn4, a purpose-built
 Cambridge incubator for agritech start-ups.

 Driving SBS strategy to encourage and facilitate entrepreneurship and translation of discovery
 science by its researchers, all Departments/Institutes have Enterprise Champions. These work
 with BIT and CambPlants to identify and coordinate a range of networking and knowledge-
 exchange activities for SBS researchers, including with SMEs and larger companies in the
 Cambridge high-tech ecosystem and elsewhere. They also facilitate links to several University
 bodies, including the Milner Institute and the Office of Translational Research, which support
 conversion of ideas from any area of the University into the development of new products and
 approaches to treatment or prevention of human disease and illness (Section 4.2).

 UoA5 scientists have also taken advantage of Cambridge Enterprise. This provides seed funds
 to facilitate commercialisation, focusing on intellectual property management and the creation of
 spin-out companies, and can invest up to £500K in each new spin-out company. Apollo
 Therapeutics, a £40M collaborative venture between three UK Universities and three global
 pharmaceutical companies, has directly funded UoA5 researchers (e.g. St.Johnston) to help
 accelerate projects to the clinic. Similarly Cambridge Innovation Capital (CIC) has raised £275M
 to invest in technology and biomedical sciences including therapeutics, diagnostics, digital health
 and genomics/proteomics. Lastly, Ceres Agritech, a collaboration between the Universities of
 Cambridge, Lincoln, Hertfordshire, Reading and UEA, funded by Research England, provides
 translational funding for agritech projects, most recently for approaches to generate disease-
 resistant bananas (Hibberd).


 1.5 Open Access & Data Sharing


 1.5.1 Data sharing
 The University is committed to disseminate its research and scholarship as widely as possible and
 to contribute to society as well as to academic advancement. Its Open Access (OA) Policy
 Framework and the online OA Service ensure as many outputs as possible are OA, within the
 constraints of copyright and licensing agreements.

 We strongly encourage our researchers to make methods, results, and software widely accessible
 to the scientific community and beyond. Data not directly published by journals must be deposited
 in appropriate repositories such as model organism databases (human, Drosophila, tomato etc)
 or other online repositories, such as GEO for sequence data. Alternatively, data can be uploaded
 to the University’s own freely accessible data repository, Apollo, with a specific section for
 Biological Sciences (which is also the site where PhD theses are lodged). SBS supports data
 management champions within each Department/Institute (approximately 25 individuals), who
 provide advice and training for all researchers. Data management is further facilitated by the
 affiliation of all SBS libraries to the University Library in 2019. This offers an additional support
 network and coordinated strategy to facilitate navigation through a changing publishing landscape,
 as well as sharing of best practice between institutions and librarians.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5.2 Open-source data, methods and tools
 Cambridge bioscientists have been at the forefront of developing novel and innovative ways in
 which to make tool development and implementation more accessible and usable by others. Some
 highlights include:
     • The Cambridge Centre for Proteomics (CCP) developed mass spectrometry methods
         along with open-source bioinformatics and statistical tools that utilize pattern recognition
         and machine learning methods to enable robust analysis of organelle proteomics and
         multi-protein complex data. A recent novel application allows rapid global analysis of the
         RNA binding proteome
     • The BioModelAnalyzer (BMA) Tool is an open-source project that merges perspectives
         from systems biology, formal methods, human computer interaction and design to help
         biologists engaged in early drug discovery.
     • InterMine is an internationally accessed flexible data warehouse for the integration of
         heterogeneous biological data making it easy to access and analyse With InterMine
         researchers can explore organism-based and other research data provided by many
         different organizations, moving between databases using criteria such as homology.
     • The OpenPlant Synthetic Biology Centre pioneered an Open Material Transfer
         Agreement (OpenMTA) in a collaborative effort between the BioBricks Foundation and
         input from researchers, technology transfer professionals, social scientists, lawyers, and
         other stakeholders from across the globe. The OpenMTA enables individuals and
         organizations to share their materials on an open basis.
     • FlyBase is an online bioininformatics database and the primary repository of genetic and
         molecular data for one of the most extensively studied model organisms, Drosophila
         melanogaster. FlyBase is the work of a consortium of Drosophila researchers and
         computer scientists at Cambridge, Harvard and Indiana Universities.




 1.6 Research Integrity
 Underpinning our research is an ethos of openness, where researchers are supported to conduct
 and publish reproducible research, in an environment that maintains the highest standards of
 integrity and ethics. The University is committed to Universities UK (UUK) Concordat to Support
 Research Integrity, and was recognised as a Leader in Openness around Animal Research
 2019-2022 for "the innovation and courage shown by individuals and their organisations in
 supporting greater openness around the use of animals in research". The University promotes
 good research practice through its Researcher Development Programme and Good Research
 Practice framework. Governance policies and procedures are overseen by the Pro-Vice
 Chancellor for Research.

 The University is also a signatory to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA), demonstrating an institutional commitment to ensure that scientific output is measured

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 accurately and evaluated wisely. In SBS, we implement the key principles of DORA at all stages,
 from appointment of early-career researchers through career progression and promotions. In 2021
 we will adopt a common template for capturing CV, publication and other information, focusing on
 the narrative as much as metrics.

 Multiple training sessions are provided for all staff and students. These address issues of research
 integrity, legal and ethical obligations, bribery and anti-slavery practices, data protection, GDPR,
 record keeping, and professional standards. All group leaders are made aware of their role in
 ensuring the highest standards in research integrity and ethics in the undertaking and delivery of
 their research and this ethos is cascaded through the research teams. As demonstration of the
 commitment of SBS, two academics (Sanson (PDN), LamanUoA1 (Pathology)) have been
 appointed to lead in this area.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 SBS aims to support the breadth and depth
 of the discipline of biological sciences by
 attracting and training excellent staff from
 across the world. We have a substantial
 and dynamic community of almost 1000
 researchers across all career stages (plus
 ~600 postgraduates). Commitment to our
 staff is illustrated by tailored schemes to
 support       Career    Development        of
 Researchers in accordance with the
 Concordat, which were recognized by the
 European Commission HR “Excellence in
 Research” Badge (2015). Information from
 the        University-wide       consultation
 MyCambridge (2017) on what it means to work for the University is shaping strategies to foster a
 motivated workforce in SBS. Evidence that measures are increasing staff satisfaction come from
 the 2019 staff survey, where 6 of the top 10 questions showing improvement since 2016 were
 about aspects of job satisfaction, including ‘support from the Institution to achieve work/life
 balance’ (up 22%), ‘the opportunity to discuss skills and career development’ (up 11%) and
 ‘management of probation’ (up 8%).


 2.1 Academic Staff and Independent Fellows/Group Leaders
 Academic appointments are made on the basis of research excellence, whilst ensuring
 appropriate provision of expertise to teach all aspects of biological sciences. Since 2018, rather
 than simply remaining within departmental boundaries, recruitments have reflected our broad
 research Themes (Section 1.1), with increasing emphasis on recruiting interdisciplinary scientists
 who can nucleate transformational science and long-term impact (Paluch, Willerslev). There have
 been cross-School appointments between Genetics and Chemistry (Collepardo) and with
 Engineering in Synthetic Biology (BakshiUoA12), as well as planned cross-Department
 appointments (e.g. in Bacteriology, joint between Pathology/Biochemistry, 2021). Our aim in the
 next 5 years is to increase the proportion of strategic thematic appointments, facilitated by
 anticipated retirements of 13 senior staff within UoA5.


 2.1.1 Recruitment
 All academic positions are advertised widely, nationally and internationally. Electoral Boards
 (Professorships) involve experts from outside Cambridge and selection panels (non-professorial
 academic posts) have representation from at least two Departments, and from SRIs/IRCs or other
 external partners as appropriate. As well as providing relevant scientific expertise, the approach
 ensures consistency across UoA5. Success is evident from the large number of applicants per
 position (usually 80-100) and from the achievements of the new appointees in winning significant
 funding (e.g Sferuzzi-Perri, MRC New Investigator Research Grant; Kromdijk, UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellowship, Paluch, ERC Consolidator, Zlatic, ERC Consolidator and Wellcome
 Investigator). All those involved in recruitment must complete Equality and Diversity and


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Unconscious Bias training, and all panels are configured inclusively. Over the reporting period,
 there has been a focus on more inclusive advertising, short-listing and interview processes as
 well, leading to an increase in applications from women and minority groups. In 2014, 21% of
 academic staff were women. Of the 33 appointments at lecturer level since then, 14 (42%) were
 women, and overall the proportion of women has increased to 25%. Those who identify as Black,
 Asian or minority ethnic rose from 2% to 3.3%. A goal for the next period is to consider how to
 increase further the number of women and ethnic minorities in the faculty.

 Research fellows form an important strand of the scientific excellence in many research areas.
 Applications that synergise with existing strengths are fostered, so that the fellows can build their
 independent groups in a supportive and stimulating environment. Selection is based on previous
 achievements and on future research plans. Twenty-two independent fellows joined SBS during
 the current assessment period with fellowships from for example Royal Society, BBSRC, NERC,
 Wellcome (Section 3.1), plus 9 Institute Group Leaders (4 in SLCU and 5 in MRC Toxicology Unit).
 We also offer funded opportunities for researchers to transition towards independence whilst
 based in established groups. Annually these are 5 Next Generation Fellows supported by the
 Centre for Trophoblast Research, 4-5 Herchel Smith Fellows, 1-2 Broodbank Fellowships in
 plant/microbial biology and a range of Colleges’ Junior Research Fellowships. All research fellows
 are supported in their career development as outlined below, with the option to engage in teaching
 at the undergraduate and postgraduate level to aid progression to future academic posts.


 2.1.2 Staff Development Strategy
 Mentoring, probation, peer review (appraisal) and training are cornerstones of UoA5 staff
 development and are deployed for both established and short-term appointments. All new
 academic staff and independent Research Fellows discuss with their Head of Institution (HoI)
 expectations for research, teaching and general contribution in relation to probation and promotion
 criteria. For new Lecturers, these are summarized in the criteria for reappointment, which is usually
 considered after a 5-year probationary period (the individual may opt for progression or promotion
 earlier) and is supported by annual meetings with the HoI to discuss progress against the criteria.
 For Independent Fellows/Group Leaders, annual meetings and review allow effective reporting to
 the funders. Appointees at all levels are assigned a mentor, usually a senior academic in the same
 or related Department/Institute. Teaching loads may be adjusted to allow research programmes
 to be established. Depending on career stage, training includes a required course on supervising
 postgraduate students in science and involvement in the Pathways in Higher Education Practice
 scheme. All staff have Review & Development meetings (appraisal) at annual or biannual intervals
 depending on career stage, and appraiser-training has been significantly augmented, with a
 considerable increase in numbers of SBS staff reporting that they found their review useful in the
 2019 survey compared to 2016. In the reporting period all probationary lecturers passed probation
 (or were promoted), and most Fellows went on to tenure-track positions in academia (Section 2.2).

 For all staff across SBS, there is significant local support for preparing and refining grant
 applications. These include peer review sessions for responsive mode grants and cross-
 Department mock interviews for fellowship and investigator award schemes. In 2018, a new self-
 organised initiative of Research Fellows and newly appointed lecturers was established to provide
 peer mentoring and support. Over the next period, this initiative will be enhanced by administrative
 input from SBS and a dedicated web-presence.

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2.1.3 Staff Recognition and Rewards for research and impact
 A key tenet of the University People strategy is that achievements should be recognised and
 structured routes provided to progress careers. In accordance, SBS recognises and rewards staff
 for carrying out research and for achieving impact, primarily through the Senior Academic
 Promotions (now called Academic Career Pathways) Scheme, which operates for all academic
 positions. The case for promotion is assessed in relation to the
 criteria based on the strength of evidence covering the
 academic’s career. The three elements are Research/Impact,
 Teaching and Other contributions (apportioned 50:30:20 for
 promotion to Reader and Professor, and 4:10:10 to Senior
 Lecturer). Evidence of international leadership in research is
 sought at Professorial level and international recognition for
 Readerships, with reference to originality and contribution to
 the advancement of knowledge, evidenced by referees from
 overseas institutions. An ‘Additional Considerations’ statement
 by the applicant enables allowance to be made for contextual factors such as parental leave,
 disability, caring responsibilities, part-time working, and now for the coronavirus pandemic.
 Support for promotions applications is provided by a peer mentoring scheme. The University’s
 Women in Science, Engineering and Technology Initiative (WiSETI), which provides support for
 women at all career stages in STEM disciplines, operates a CV-mentoring scheme for those
 applying for promotion. A particular focus on encouraging women to apply for promotion has led
 to an increase in the proportion of Professors who are women from 22.4% to 25.4% over the
 reporting period, above the University average of 22.7%.


 2.1.4 Research/sabbatical leave and exchanges outside academia
 Sabbatical leave is integral to the University’s investment in academic research. Those in
 established academic posts (including part-time) are entitled to one term of sabbatical leave on
 full pay for each six terms of service, with no requirement to raise external funds for replacement
 teaching. Staff use this entitlement to refresh their research outlook and expertise, often at
 overseas universities. Approximately 60 UoA5 staff took advantage of this over the reporting
 period.

 The University recognizes that secondments have reciprocal benefits for individual career
 development and for developing the skills of an organisation, and are strongly encouraged across
 all staff. For SBS, a notable example in the reporting period is secondment of Dame Ottoline
 Leyser to be Director of UKRI (June 2020). Interactions with industry is also actively encouraged.
 The University is a key component of the entrepreneurial ecosystem around Cambridge. Several
 UoA5 researchers have spun out companies from their academic research, as evidenced from 6
 of the Impact Case Studies, with other examples across all Themes. Many companies are based
 in local science parks, and academics continue to play key roles in their scientific/technical
 leadership with no limit on their participation.




                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Support and career development for early career researchers
 Postdoctoral researchers comprise the largest staff group (35%) in the University, with >750
 engaged in UoA5 research. In response to this growth, the University is realising a key aim, stated
 in REF2014, to provide affordable accommodation for staff (and post-graduate students), via
 its £1Bn North-West Cambridge Development. In the first £350M phase, opened in 2015-16, high-
 quality sustainable housing was provided for over 700 staff members and their families. The
 Postdoc Academy, established in 2013 to champion the interests of postdocs, is also located
 there.

 The University’s Employment and Career Management Scheme, launched in 2011, provides
 researchers with clear role descriptions for each level of a research career, guidance on pay
 progression and information on promotions criteria. The probationary period for post-doctoral
 researchers is 6 months, and the criteria are allied to the specifics in the job description. Regular
 Career Management Review (CMR) meetings consider development needs and arrangements
 are made for mentoring and appraisal. Some Departments organize Peer Mentoring groups (e.g.
 Plant Sciences). Online guidance on CMRs is provided for both PIs and researchers, along with
 a self-assessment tool for researchers. There is a bespoke Postdoc Life Sciences programme run
 by the University Careers Service, providing online careers advice, one-to-one sessions with a
 dedicated Life Sciences advisor, and regular seminars about career options and opportunities
 within and beyond academia.

 The Contribution Increment Scheme for Researchers rewards research staff on the basis of
 outstanding work and/or the need to retain specialist skills. Applications are invited 4-monthly, via
 HoIs. Individuals can self-nominate or be nominated by their group leader for either a recurrent
 increment, where significant sustained achievements occur, or a one-off increment for a specific
 piece of work. The Senior Researcher Promotions scheme rewards achievements of more senior
 researchers (including Institute Group Leaders), and recognizes transitions to independence and
 leadership through two stages to Senior, then Principal, Research Associate.

 Active programmes and organizations within the University and SBS that focus specifically on
 supporting postdocs include:

    •   The Postdoc Academy coordinates a rich programme of training and development
        activities, working closely with the University’s professional development and careers
        offices. These include study space, online courses and mentoring from both within and
        outside academia. For example, ~40% of UoA5 postdocs have industry rather than
        academic mentors.
    •   Postdocs of Cambridge, a University Society for early career researchers, offers
        guidance on opportunities within and outside Cambridge and organises monthly social and
        networking meetings. It seeks to represent postdocs on issues surrounding career
        development and employment conditions.
    •   Entrepreneurial Postdocs of Cambridge, formed in 2015, supports postdocs in
        developing business and entrepreneurial ventures (activities include business plan
        competition, consultancy projects and workshops).



                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SBS Departments/Institutes run postdoctoral activities focused on scientific themes, such as Life
 Science Master Classes, a forum for discussion on 'hot topics' and current techniques in Biology.
 Other examples include:

    •   Annual postdoc research symposia (PDN) and retreats (Gurdon Institute) with discussions
        on career development and progression;
    •   ‘5-cubed mixers’ termly sessions (Biochemistry), ‘coffee chalks’ (PDN), ‘chalk talks’
        (Genetics) to present research plans and highlight potential for collaborations;
    •   Teaching experience via a Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship scheme (Biochemistry).

 Together, these activities have increased the sense of community among the postdocs, enabled
 access to specific pieces of equipment, stimulated collaborations, created knowledge-sharing
 platforms, and contributed to future science. A very positive indicator of our vibrant training
 environment is demonstrated by the fact that so many of our Career Development/Research
 Fellows secured scientific posts in academia or industry:

    •   in Cambridge (e.g. Steventon, Henry Dale, Genetics; Sarris, MRC-CDF, PDN; Sferruzi-
        Perri, Dorothy Hodgkin, PDN; Ahnert, Lecturer, Chemical Engineering);
    •   in the UK (e.g. Bushell, Beatson Institute; Branco, Queen’s University, Belfast;
        Montgomery, University of Bristol; Dicks, NERC Fellow to UEA – and then back to
        Cambridge as Lecturer);
    •   internationally (including: Braybrook, UCLA, USA; Conduit, Institut Jacques Monod,
        France; Huch, Max Planck, Dresden, Germany; Gillis, MBL, Woods Hole, USA;
        Gunesdogan, Sofja-Kovalevskaja-Award, Göttingen, Germany; D.O’Connor, Pairwise
        Plants, North Carolina Research Triangle, USA; Thorogood, Helsinki, Finland; Wigge, HoD
        Leibnitz IGZ, Potsdam, Germany).


 2.3 Research Students
 We have a thriving community of ~570 PhD and ~65 MPhil students from >70 countries. During
 the assessment period, 1029 PhD degrees and 287 MPhil degrees were awarded. Success of
 our students after graduation is shown in the Graduate Outcomes Survey from HESA, where in
 2020, 88.7% had gone on to further study or secured graduate-level employment, entering a range
 of different job sectors, but showing a preference for scientific destinations.


 2.3.1 Recruitment
 Recruitment of the highest calibre postgraduate students is achieved by rigorous assessment of
 applications and panel interviews. We strive to include students from varied backgrounds and with
 diverse experiences, and all panel members must complete equality & diversity and unconscious
 bias training. As a result, representation of British Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic postgraduate
 students in SBS grew by almost six percentage points, taking it just above the national average.
 To encourage applications from under-represented groups, in 2019 we initiated a summer
 internship programme (the Experience Postgrad Life Sciences programme) aimed at increasing
 the participation of minority ethnic postgraduate students, with a focus on Black, Black African,
 Black Caribbean, Bangladeshi, and Pakistani British students.



                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.2 Funding for studentships
 Many students are individually funded through competitive schemes. These include several
 Cambridge-based Trusts (International Scholarship Scheme, Commonwealth Trust, Overseas
 Trust, European and International Trust, the Gates Trust) and the Islamic Development Bank.
 Philanthropic funding since 2015 established new PhD training capacity in Marine Biology and
 Biology of Asia (9 studentships). International collaborative postgraduate programmes include the
 Herchel Smith Fund, (4 life-sciences students/year), the NIH-Oxford-Cambridge Scholars
 Program (8-12 students/year) and, until 2019, the Howard Hughes Janelia Graduate Programme
 (2-3 students/year).

 Collaborations with a range of industrial partners have led to ~50 CASE or equivalent
 collaborative studentships funded by the BBSRC or NERC during the assessment period. Since
 2014, 15 industrial PhD scholarships have been co- or fully-funded by either AstraZeneca or
 MedImmune each year. Participation in multiple EU Marie Curie training networks provides links
 to academic and industrial colleagues across Europe. During the reporting period 8 had
 Cambridge coordinators, including ImageInLife (multilevel bioimaging in vertebrate development;
 Zernicka-Goetz) and DOHART (periconceptional programming of health; Ferguson-Smith).

 A core strategy of SBS is to obtain and develop topic-focused interdepartmental PhD programmes
 that recruit cohorts of students, and in many cases offer rotation projects during the first year to
 give students a broader experience of the subject area. Moreover, they have galvanised
 establishment of core training courses. This approach has enhanced postgraduate training
 experience across SBS by opening access to all students. Over the reporting period, the following
 programmes have operated:

    •   The BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) (to 2019) admitted 30-35 students plus
        11 iCASE students annually and the training programme included a three-month
        professional internship. The University has been invited to reapply for BBSRC DTP funding
        in 2022.
    •   From 2020, an equivalent SBS DTP has been established through joint funding from the
        University (Vice-Chancellor Awards), Departments across SBS and several Colleges,
        providing 15-20 awards/annum.
    •   Four Wellcome PhD Programmes have been based wholly or partly in SBS, each admitting
        4-6 students per year: Stem Cell Biology and Medicine, (renewed in 2019 for a further 5
        years); Developmental Mechanisms; Mathematical Genomics and Medicine; Infection,
        Immunity and Inflammation.
    •   The British Heart Foundation PhD studentship programme in cardiovascular research,
        admits 4 students per year with an emphasis on interdisciplinary research.
    •   The NERC DTP is a flagship cross-School programme with Physical Sciences. UoA5
        students address the core themes “Biodiversity, Evolution & Adaptation”, and
        “Ecosystems”
    •   The CRUK Cambridge Centre, based in the Clinical School, has several students working
        on basic biology of cancer in Pathology, Pharmacology and Biochemistry.
    •   The MRC Integrated Toxicology Partnership provides doctoral level training in Toxicology,
        with 4-5 students/year.


                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The MRC Doctoral Training Partnership has four main research areas spanning SBS and
        Clinical Medicine and includes Flexible Funding to allow students to undertake internships
        or further training unconnected to their core research. Joint funding from several managed
        SBS Trust funds enabled the admission of 29 students in 2020.

 MPhil students (60-80 per year) mostly apply to individual labs to carry out a research degree and
 are funded by the Cambridge Trusts or self-funded. Two pioneering SBS MPhil training
 programmes have been established: ‘Basic and Translational Neuroscience’ in 2016 and
 ‘Developmental Biology’ in 2019 (hosted by PDN). These have a strong taught element in the first
 term through interactive workshops, followed by a 32-week research project. Recognising the
 strengths of this format for student learning and cohort-building, including providing bursaries to
 support Widening Participation efforts, another new MPhil in Therapeutic Sciences was launched
 in 2019 by CATS, offering student placements in academic spin-outs, consulting firms, biotech or
 small pharma companies.


 2.3.3 Training and support
 The Postgraduate School of Life Sciences (PSLS) provides structured training support for all SBS
 postgraduate students including access to a wide range of courses for PhD students wishing to
 pursue academic or non-academic careers. The core training includes presentation and writing
 skills, as well as subject-specific classes, developed to enhance breadth of knowledge and
 interdisciplinary study. Outreach and entrepreneurial skills are fostered through programmes run
 by the Office of External Affairs and Communications (‘Rising Stars’), the Centre for
 Entrepreneurial Learning, the Cambridge University Technology and Enterprise Club, (a student-
 run organisation, hosting talks, workshops, mentoring and networking sessions) and the i-Teams
 Cambridge scheme, where multi-disciplinary teams of students work with researchers and industry
 mentors to investigate potential products and markets. Several PhD programmes also include a
 mandatory placement in a non-academic setting (e.g. BBSRC Professional Internship for PhD
 Students) and students are supported to work away for research in other institutions to learn new
 techniques or use facilities, as well as for field work.

 Integration into Department/Institute research life provides tailored training, mentoring support and
 a rich programme of research seminars. Students also benefit from the opportunity to give poster
 or oral presentations and discuss their work with staff and other research students at symposia,
 including at student-led events. Specific research forums provide further opportunities for
 interactions; e.g. the annual Student Conference on Conservation Science, brings international
 delegates to Cambridge to network and learn new ideas (over 3400 delegates from 136 countries
 since launching in 2000).

 Besides being embedded within a Department/Institute, all students are members of a College,
 which offers pastoral care and a vibrant social environment with students from all disciplines.
 Events related to health and wellbeing are organized by a University-wide committee, supporting
 all University Doctoral Training Programmes. These emphasize available wellbeing resources and
 how to access them as well as offering more informal opportunities for discipline-agnostic
 interactions and training.




                                                                                              Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.4 Monitoring and Assessment
 The Postgraduate Office in each Department/PhD programme, along with Directors of
 Postgraduate Education, monitor student progress regularly through a series of checkpoints,
 starting with a project feasibility report 1-2 months into the PhD/MPhil, followed by annual progress
 reports written by the student. Each student has a supervisory team comprising their Principal
 Supervisor and two academic advisors, who critically assess progress reports, meeting with the
 student as needed. Assessors are usually colleagues within the host Department but can also be
 nominated experts in other Departments or outside the University. Students on PhD programmes
 have additional in-depth progress discussion meetings with management committees and peers.

 Supervisors assess academic performance and in discussion with students identify appropriate
 training courses, reviewing training and development logs to ensure that students are progressing
 appropriately and developing the skills required for successful completion of the PhD. Supervisors
 also submit termly reports (available to the student), in which any problems are highlighted.
 Students can submit a self-evaluation report once a year in Michaelmas (October) Term.
 Throughout, departmental postgraduate offices invite dialogue with students and supervisors
 about any issues, as they arise.

 For research-only degrees (MPhil or PhD), dissertations are examined by two examiners, one of
 whom is external to the University. A viva voce exam is carried out and the examiners’ reports on
 this and the thesis are forwarded to the student and supervisor. Success rates are >95% and the
 vast majority complete within the allotted time (>80% PhD within 4 years).


 2.4 Equality and diversity


 2.4.1 Strategies to support equality and diversity
 Several University-wide networks have been developed to provide support and advice to diverse
 groups, including LGBT+ Staff Network, BAME staff network, Women’s Staff Network, SPACE
 (Supporting Parents and Carers @Cambridge). These networks offer a regular forum to discuss
 diversity issues at work/study, a safe environment for raising issues and contribute to development
 of Cambridge’s equality, diversity and inclusion policy and implementation of plans. Participation
 in the Diversity Networks is viewed as a valuable professional development opportunity, with their
 Chairs and Secretaries entitled to release-time from teaching. Five University Equality Champions
 are available to members of groups with protected characteristics and provide overall leadership
 in diversity issues, augmented by School Champions, for UoA5 currently Itzhaki (Pharmacology).
 The University’s commitment to inclusivity was recognized by the Employers Network for Equality
 and Inclusion and by Stonewall, which ranked the University highly in its Top Employers Survey
 (best places to work for lesbian, gay and bisexual staff), awarding the University’s LGBT+ staff
 network “star performance” status. In 2019 the University was awarded the Race Equality Charter
 Bronze Award.

 All UoA5 Departments/Institutes have received a Bronze or Silver Athena Swan Award in the
 assessment period (the relocated MRC Toxicology Unit will apply in 2022). The applications for,
 and implementation of, these awards have provided impetus and seeded many grassroots
 activities and new initiatives within Departments/Institutes and has facilitated sharing best


                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practices between them. Equality and Diversity training has been mandatory for all UoA5 staff
 since 2018. Further initiatives include senior academic staff being tasked with identifying scientists
 from under-represented groups within their respective fields and encouraging and supporting them
 to apply to Cambridge. Seminars to promote awareness of equality and diversity in UoA5 have
 included Femi Otitoju (“Unconscious Bias”), Michelle Ryan (“Understanding How Context Shapes
 Women’s Ambition”) and Baroness Young of Old Scone (“Tap Dancing on the Glass Ceiling”)
 Annual “Inspirational Women in Science” poster competition and events for international women’s
 day are received with great enthusiasm. To celebrate 2020 Black History Month, a series of events
 were organised by SBS members, including an exhibition “Past & Present: Black Legacies in
 STEM” and roundtable discussion “Spotlight on Black Female Scientists in Cambridge”.

 In all SBS Departments/Institutes, essential meetings are timetabled within core working hours to
 allow staff working flexibly or delivering/collecting children from school to attend. Transparent
 documentation of academic work-loads has been prioritized and is being rolled out across SBS to
 enable fair distribution of loads and appropriate allowances for those working part-time. Staff have
 generous parental (and shared-parental) leave entitlements, leave for carers, and options of
 career breaks for up to two years and/or flexible working. For example, since 2014, 36 have taken
 shared parental leave (20 men/16 women). Since 2014, breast-feeding and baby-changing
 facilities have been established at multiple locations in SBS that all UoA5 staff can access. The
 provision of nursery places has increased with three workplace nurseries available.

 To support career and professional development following a career break or a period of leave for
 caring responsibilities, the Returning Carers’ Scheme provides grants of up to £10K for staff
 whose primary role is undertaking research. Awards can provide short-term research support, for
 example to generate preliminary data for grant applications, or to cover expenses of a person
 looking after an accompanying child while the researcher/academic attends a conference
 overseas. Since 2014, 74 UoA5 researchers have benefited from this Scheme. An example is
 Laura Itzhaki, who received an award in 2016, was promoted to Professor in 2017, established a
 start-up company (PolyProx Therapeutics) in 2019 and was appointed Head of Pharmacology in
 2020.

 Particular evidence of the supportive environment for women bioscientists comes from the
 numerous prestigious awards and elections to Learned Societies (asterisked in Section 4.5), and
 the significant number of leadership positions held by female academics in SBS since REF2014
 – seven out of ten Heads of Department/Institute (Genetics, Gurdon Institute, MRC Toxicology,
 PDN, Pharmacology, Plant Sciences, SLCU) and two Heads of School. Another measure is
 election of women to prestigious Chairs: Ferguson-Smith (Arthur Balfour Professor of Genetics,
 2017), since appointed interim Pro-Vice Chancellor for Research; and Leyser (Regius Professor
 of Botany, 2020), now seconded as Director to UKRI. Over the next reporting period, we will build
 on these achievements with the goal of further enhancing diversity and inclusivity in all aspects of
 staffing and recruitment. Our commitment is demonstrated by the appointment of an SBS
 academic lead for Equality, Diversity and Inclusion in 2020 (van-der-Pette, MRC Toxicology).

 2.4.2 Supporting staff and student wellbeing
 The goal of the University’s Wellbeing Strategy is to improve the health, safety and wellbeing of
 University staff and to prevent work associated ill health, recognising that values, personal

                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development and the work environment contribute to overall wellbeing at work. All
 Departments/Institutes have Wellbeing Advocates (SBS has 25 in total), who attend a Mental
 Health Lite briefing provided by the charity MIND. The Champions provide information to staff on
 local and University wellbeing activities and are a source of advice and guidance.

 Staff and students can access the University’s Occupational Health Service, where practitioners
 provide confidential advice and support with regards to health problems that could affect or impact
 on an individual’s ability to do their job, for example returning to work after illness, ill-health
 retirement, or work-related illness and control of occupational hazards. Advice may include
 workplace adaptations or equipment to support work activities, or referral to other support services
 e.g. Staff Counselling Service. To improve support for disabled staff and work towards a disability-
 smart environment, the University joined the Business Disability Forum (BDF), which shares
 expertise, gives advice, provides training and facilitates networking opportunities. This augments
 the advice provided to those with registered disabilities by the Disability Resource Centre.

 Other University-wide initiatives include Dignity@Cambridge, which provides a framework for
 respect and good conduct to prevent all forms of bullying, harassment, or discrimination and
 sustain a positive working environment for all staff. It highlights options available to any individuals
 who feel they are/have been subject to any inappropriate or unacceptable behaviour. The
 “Breaking the Silence” initiative, launched in 2017, provides a means for anonymous reporting of
 harassment and sexual misconduct. Dignity at work is an area of rigorous focus in SBS, initiated
 when some responses in the 2019 staff survey raised concerns, and will be supported by the
 newly-appointed academic leads in Research Culture and Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity.

 More broadly, many Departments/Institutes organize away days and retreats, with scientific
 elements, to foster interactions and all host social events (e.g. garden parties/barbecues,
 Christmas celebrations, children’s parties, regular “happy hours”) to encourage social cohesion.
 Recent experiences from the impact of the Pandemic have reinforced our commitment to
 wellbeing and mental health and in the absence of face-to-face events a series of digital well-being
 activities have been launched, including the Botanic Garden’s “Wellness Wander” and “Wildlife
 from your Window: Exploring the natural world at home” from the Museum of Zoology.




                                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Over the reporting period, UoA5 institutes and researchers have obtained ~£600M in external
 funding, underpinned by a further £300M investment by the University and SBS in estates, support
 posts and facilities.


 3.1 Research funding strategies
 The research funding strategy in UoA5 is to capitalize
 on the creative and collaborative environment in
 Cambridge. Researcher-led applications are actively
 encouraged and supported by Department-level peer-
 review schemes, whilst larger collaborative bids are
 fostered with assistance from SRIs/IRCs, the Impact
 Teams (BIT, CambPlants) and the University
 Research Strategy Office. Success is evident from
 the total value of awards which has increased
 substantially since REF2014, rising by 40%. Our
 portfolio currently comprises over 1100 awards from
 diverse funders. The most substantial are from
 Wellcome (£174M), BBSRC (£95.6M), MRC
 (£62.4M), Gatsby Foundation (£50M), ERC (£45M),
 Cancer Research UK (£29M), Bill & Melinda Gates
 Foundation (£25M), and NERC (£6.7M), but also
 include industry, Government Departments (e.g. DEFRA) and many health-related charities. The
 awards have generated significant outputs in terms of publications and impact cases, developed
 important research reagents that are distributed worldwide, led to national and international
 collaborations, follow-on and commercial funding, as well as enabling evidence-based policy
 decisions. Many have made major contributions to the health and wealth of the UK and globally.


 3.1.1 Investigator-driven, responsive-mode applications
 These are a cornerstone of the funding strategy. A number of University training courses provide
 support and guidance for preparing applications. Grant mentoring and feedback programmes
 within Departments help develop ideas and ensure that applications are competitive. For example,
 an average of 23 BBSRC grants are successful each year, placing Cambridge University second
 in the UK in terms of total BBSRC funding. The strength of our research across the discipline of
 biological sciences is demonstrated by the range of topics covered by the 31 ERC grants awarded
 since 2014, e.g.: Starter Grants to support work in crop pest resistance (Schornack) and
 mitochondrial genetics (Ma); Consolidator Grants in biophysics (Paluch), microbial ecology
 (Tanentzap), epigenetic modification (Sawarkar), microbiome (Patil) and mechanotransduction
 (Franze) and Advanced Grants to study C4 photosynthesis (Hibberd), plant transgressive
 inheritance (Baulcombe), developmental genetics (Martinez Arias) and conservation biology
 (Sutherland). The latter has contributed to the Conservation Evidence project (Section 4.2),
 which provides advice to Government on environmental policy. Investigator led applications also
 include large scale programmes of >£5M. Of particular note are grants of >USD10M to D.Smith
 that have led to improved and next generation flu vaccines (Impact CS: New generation pandemic
 and seasonal influenza vaccines).


                                                                                         Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.1.2 Fellowship applications
 Researchers at all stages are encouraged and supported through the Fellowship application
 process. For example, more than 20 senior researchers in UoA5 have been awarded
 Senior/Principal/Professorial Fellowships or Investigator Awards from Wellcome, MRC and Royal
 Society. These are allied to research strands across SBS (e.g. focusing on developmental, Brand,
 Bray, Sanson, Ferguson-Smith, and molecular mechanisms, Pellegrini, Luisi, CJR.Smith,
 Blundell) or plant epigenetics (Baulcombe). Outputs include the discovery that exercise reduces
 the growth of tumours and increases the effectivity of immune cells (R.Johnson), featured in the
 New York Times.

 As part of its wider strategy to support early career researchers, SBS has a strong ethos of
 supporting outstanding individuals to apply for independent Research Fellowships. Regular open
 competitions in Departments, which actively encourage applications from women and other
 underrepresented groups, help identify individuals with strong research backgrounds that
 synergise with activities in SBS. Potential candidates are then supported through the application
 process, with guidance and advice on grant writing, grant costing and the interview process.
 Success is evidenced by over 20 independent fellowships (64% women) from Royal Society,
 Wellcome (Sir Henry Dale), BBSRC David Phillips Fellowships, MRC, NERC and UKRI Future
 Leader Fellowships. As an illustration of the cutting-edge work from these independent fellows,
 Joo-Hyeon Lee adapted her three-dimensional models of human alveolar stem cells to reveal the
 infection response to SARS-CoV-2 and in 2020 was awarded a Wellcome Senior Fellowship to
 capitalize on her ground-breaking work.


 3.1.3 Large research consortium grants
 Support for interdisciplinary and collaborative grant applications comes from the SRIs/IRCs, as
 well as the BIT and/or CambPlants Hub. Additionally, the University’s Research Strategy Office
 helps with the response to major funding calls. Notable successes include: the Human
 Developmental Biology Initiative (HDBI), a £10M Wellcome collaborative project (Surani, Rawlins,
 B.Simons, with CoIs in UoA1 and London) to unravel how human embryos develop in the first
 weeks/months after fertilisation. This is leading to increased understanding of fertility, birth defects
 and new avenues for regenerative medicine; the Drosophila Connectomics Consortium (Jefferis,
 Landgraf, Zlatic, Cardona) supported by grants totalling £10M from Wellcome and Janelia
 Research Farm, and involving collaboration and joint appointments (Cardona, Zlatic) with the
 MRC-LMB. This has provided unparalleled understanding of how functional networks are wired.
 Several BBSRC sLoLas (>£2M) have also been held over the period (eg Lilley, Russell, AG.Smith,
 Hibberd, IR.Henderson, Oldroyd), on topics from engineering C4 photosynthesis to a spatio-
 temporal map of the fly interactome.

 Large-scale participation extends into translational and international initiatives. Of particular note
 are: the Engineering Nitrogen Symbiosis for Africa (ENSA) programme (led by Oldroyd; £18M
 Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation plus £8M uplift from FCDO) to support the translation of strategies
 to reduce inorganic N fertiliser use in sub-Saharan Africa; the Cancer Research Technology
 Translational Alliance, awarded a total of USD22M (£1M to Cambridge; Willis) to generate drugs
 to target protein synthesis; and Flybase, providing an essential global resource for Drosophila
 researchers (~ 50,000 users/month) with funding from NIH, MRC, WT £2M in total, N.Brown).

                                                                                                 Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3.1.4 Institute funding
 An important part of SBS’s research
 strategy has been to invest in its
 core-funded research institutes,
 which provide strong, collaborative
 environments aligned with the
 funders’ strategic missions. Our pre-
 established      institutes   (Gurdon
 Institute, Wellcome/CRUK funded; Cambridge Stem Cell Institute (CSCI) Wellcome/MRC
 funded; and Sainsbury Laboratory (SLCU), funded by the Gatsby Charitable Foundation)
 continue to be highly successful in generating extensive amounts of additional research income
 (£74M to Gurdon Institute, £52.6M to SLCU since 2014). As part of its strategy to increase drug
 discovery research, the University invested £18M in estate costs and £5M in posts and wider
 support in its successful bid for the MRC Toxicology Unit, which provides a new link between
 drug discovery and drug safety. Since its relocation in 2018-2019 the Unit has obtained ~£5M in
 additional research income. The University has also provided seed-funding to establish the
 Institute for Neuroscience (IfN) a research hub intersecting between PDN and Psychology,
 providing a research coordinator and internal research grants for proof-of-concept work, to
 facilitate substantive grant applications in basic Neuroscience.


 3.1.5 Industrial funding
 The University Strategic Partnerships Office works to increase the interactions with our Industrial
 partners and the co-funding of our discovery science, securing industrial funding for research with
 direct translational value and/or carried out in the pre-competitive space. These initiatives have
 contributed to a substantial increase in industrial funding to a current total of £17M. Significant
 projects associated with SBS include consortia with CATS/Milner (Kouzarides £4M) and a
 translational award from CR-UK linking with Celgene/BristolMyersSquibb (Willis).

 There is also an emphasis on fostering local interactions. SBS has two designated facilitators who
 work with local partners, notably AstraZeneca and GlaxoSmithKline, to identify areas for potential
 funding. For example, AstraZeneca fund both PhD studentships and, through the IMed scheme,
 postdoctoral fellows. They also support joint projects, including that exploiting human lung
 organoids (Rawlins, £450K).


 3.1.6 Endowments and philanthropy
 The University’s fund-raising team, CUDAR, has actively matched philanthropic support to SBS
 strategic plans, resulting in significant investments in biological research of >£10M since
 REF2014. These include several large donations, namely £5M support from Evolution Education
 Trust for the Milner Institute (Sections 1.4 & 4.2) to carry out target validation and functional
 genomics; £3M for the Whitten lectureship in Marine Biology and accompanying Whitten PhD
 studentships in Zoology; £1.5M to endow the Trophoblast Research Fund (PDN), providing
 fellowships and core laboratory administration and resources; and £3M to endow the Russell R.
 Geiger Professorship of Crop Science, crucially underpinning a successful application to UKRPIF
 for the Crop Science Building (Section 3.3.2). More generally, recurrent funding through the Isaac



                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Newton Trust in response to competitive applications helps match-fund research grants,
 fellowships and critical infrastructure.


 3.2 Addressing Equality & Diversity issues
 The University is committed to a positive working environment for all staff and an inclusive
 research culture. SBS recognises that such pressures as balancing caring responsibilities or
 dealing with a disability can impact on intellectual space for creative grant ideas. Accordingly,
 specific schemes have been developed to ensure all staff seeking to obtain grant funding are
 supported. As detailed in Section 2.4, these include transparent documentation of academic
 work-loads to promote fair allocation of time for research and grant writing activities; research
 awards under the Returning Carers’ Scheme; and grant mentoring schemes for women and
 Black, Asian and minority ethnic staff and fellows. In addition, significant investment to improve
 accessibility of older premises has been undertaken to enable all researchers to access the space
 that they require for their research, including ramps to enter buildings, lowering of research
 benches and hearing loops in meeting rooms. All these features are automatically included in new
 buildings.


 3.3 Institutional and operational support for research and impact
 3.3.1 Investment in the estate
 UoA5 researchers are primarily based on three adjoining central Cambridge sites in buildings
 erected mainly in mid-20th century that occupy ~53,000 m2 (8000 m2 for teaching). The SLCU is
 housed in the nearby Botanic Garden. New state-of-the art buildings that operate alongside older
 and refurbished buildings have significantly improved the estate, notably a tailor-made space for
 MRC Toxicology Unit (funded £18M University/£7M MRC).

 Additional investment in estates has included significant upgrade to existing research areas and
 to support research facilities. A >£5M upgrade of laboratories, offices, computational biology
 space and library facilities in Genetics transformed its research infrastructure. Similarly, a
 dedicated Ancient and Environmental DNA facility and purpose-built neuroscience and
 behavioural analysis suite were provided through ~£1M investment in Zoology. Importantly, SBS
 continues to support the research facilities through provision of support posts and matched funding
 for equipment.

 An evolving strategy to improve the Biological Sciences estate for cutting-edge research is being
 developed with the help of architects, following extensive analysis. Funds permitting, we are
 aiming to establish a new purpose-built Teaching Hub in West Cambridge for biological and
 biomedical teaching of all first and second year undergraduates. This will release teaching space
 embedded in our research buildings for refurbishment and repurposing, with a rolling programme
 to augment modern research facilities across SBS in the next 5-10 years.


 3.3.2 Investment in Organisational Research Clusters
 Investment in three broad research clusters was a key aim of REF2014, bringing together groups
 from the University with external partners. They are housed in purpose-built premises with
 considerable investment from the University and external funders. In all cases, thoughtful use of



                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 shared and social spaces greatly facilitates interactions with neighbouring Institutes and
 Departments.

    •   The Cambridge Conservation Initiative (Section 1.2.5) is housed in the David
        Attenborough Building, which opened in 2016. The cost of the refurbished building
        (£55M) was provided by the University, with philanthropic support from MAVA and the
        Garfield Weston Foundation. This unique collaboration between the University’s
        Conservation Research Institute and the world’s largest cluster of conservation
        organisations is transforming the global understanding biodiversity and the natural capital
        it represents, catalysing strategic partnerships between leaders in research, education,
        policy and practice, to secure a sustainable future for biodiversity and society.
    •   The Stem Cell Institute (CSCI) is co-located in the Jeffrey Cheah Biomedical Centre,
        alongside the Milner Therapeutic Institute (Section 4.2) and Cambridge Institute for
        Therapeutic Immunology & Infectious Disease, which both have the translational goal
        to transform pioneering science into therapies. The Centre, which opened fully in 2020,
        was funded by the University (£49M), Research England (UKRPIF-£25M) and Jeffrey Cheah
        (£13M).
    •   The Crop Science Centre was established through a collaboration between Plant
        Sciences and NIAB to facilitate a step change in translational research in food security and
        crop science, supporting multidisciplinary research programmes that combine cutting-edge
        bioscience with innovative agronomy, and take research from the lab to the field. The new
        Crop Science Building on the NIAB site, with access to field sites and extensive
        glasshouses, was funded by a £16.9M UKRPIF award and with an additional £3M from the
        University for plant growth facilities and equipment. Opening in late 2020, ~40 UoA5
        researchers are now located there.


 3.3.3 Computing and IT
 Recognizing the importance of high-performance computing and data storage, the University has
 invested significantly in both these facilities:

    •   High performance computing: Substantial externally sought and internal investment has
        established Bio-medical computer and data analytics infrastructure (~£5M). The
        Cambridge Bio-Cloud Facility benefits all research generating “big data”, with immediate
        beneficiaries including the Cambridge Genomics Services, DNA Sequencing Facility,
        Cambridge Centre for Proteomics and CAIC, all of which generate large datasets requiring
        considerable computing power for analysis. The users of the Bio-Cloud also have
        significant industrial connections, and the high-performance computing service has a
        proven track record of working with industry.
    •   IT: A major data centre, with various grades of storage, has been built in West Cambridge
        by the University. New high-speed network equipment and cabling is being installed to
        provide the necessary high-speed access (e.g. cabling access to the Biochemistry Hopkins
        and Sanger buildings ~£700K). In addition, SBS faculty are able to apply for research
        computing and storage resources up to the value of £5K.




                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.4 Infrastructure, facilities and expertise for impact
 The University has invested over £2M in Research Offices over the reporting period, ensuring that
 researchers are supported in developing, obtaining funding for and managing their research
 projects at all levels. Department/Institute research support staff liaise closely with the Research
 Operations Office and Legal Services, providing the basis for effective grant costings and
 collaboration agreements. The Research Strategy Office provides funding of up to £10K for larger,
 multi-institutional grant applications. This has supported several large awards including two led
 by Griffiths (Plant Sciences): £7M GCRF TIGR2ESS grant and the Cambridge hub of the EIT Food
 Knowledge & Innovation Community (KIC), with ~£2M so far to Cambridge.

 As explained in Section 1.4, we achieved a major goal of REF2014 by providing SBS support for
 the Bioscience Impact Team (BIT). BIT works with researchers on strategic collaboration and
 knowledge exchange across a variety of sectors, including Pharma, AgBiotech (Crop Science
 Centre UKRPIF award), Food (EIT Food KIC), Environment and Conservation. The team also
 liaises with the University’s Strategic Partnership Office and Cambridge Enterprise, the
 University’s Technology Transfer Office, to increase the translation of discovery science. In 2016-
 2017 ~40 grant applications were supported, with 25 successful. These comprised £5K in
 entrepreneurship activities, £185K for Knowledge Exchange, £10.5M for translational/industrial
 funding and £10M in international development including GCRF, much of the latter in collaboration
 with CambPlants (Section 1.4). BIT secured a further ~£1M in 7 BBSRC institutional grants (e.g.
 IAA, GCRF) and a Flexible Talent Mobility Account (BBSRC). Forty separate projects have been
 funded with over 50 external partners, mostly industry, leading to significant impacts. For example,
 an award for “BEST: Bio-Electrochemical System Tour” (Howe) to promote knowledge exchange
 and commercialisation of algal bio-electrochemical systems, secured further grant funding and
 enabled development of industrial partnerships.

 Several University organisations support the translation of UoA5 discovery science (section 4.1)
 including the Office for Translational Research and the SRIs/IRCs. For example, CATS (Section
 1.3) provides free external expertise through its industry Experts in Residence scheme. Over the
 reporting period 200 meetings have taken place, allowing researchers to obtain an external
 professional perspective on the translation of their research into the clinic, leading to new
 relationships with potential industrial partners.


 3.5 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities
 UoA5 researchers have the benefit of substantial University and SBS investment in shared
 research facilities and key infrastructure, including Biochemical & Molecular Biology Stores;
 Electronics workshop; Fly facility; Mechanical workshop; Plant Growth Facilities; Vehicle Pool; and
 Visual Media Group. In addition, as proposed in REF2014 several additional state-of the-art
 methodologies and equipment have been established, either by direct investment into core
 infrastructure or obtaining external income. Most significant is the substantial £160M investment
 by the University in its Biomedical Services, to provide new biofacilities for experimentation on a
 range of animals (zebrafish, cichlids, amphibians, rodents, guinea pigs, rabbits, chickens and
 other birds, sheep, pigs, horses and primates). These facilities. which underpin research by a
 substantial proportion of SBS scientists, are supported by 160 staff and trained experts who
 facilitate home office licence applications. More specialist facilities include:

                                                                                             Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   CryoEM facility: Established in 2016 with Talos Arctica and Taitan Krios microscopes
        (£4M in grants from Wellcome, £2.5M University funding) and a designated Facility
        Manager (Chirgadze) this facility provides a revolutionary tool for the vibrant structural
        biology community within UoA5 (>10 PIs) and other UoAs. The facility is also used by
        external commercial users from Big Pharma and small biotech. The acquired data underpin
        a range of projects that tackle fundamental problems in molecular biology relevant to
        human health.

    •   Cambridge Advanced Imaging Centre, CAIC: Facilities in advanced imaging have been
        enhanced since 2014 by investment of £3.5M in eleven new microscopes, each
        representing technology breakthroughs in light and electron microscopy. The Centre has
        recharged £1.2M to meet expenditure and has been successful in establishing
        collaborations across Departments and with industry. It has directly won £1.6M, including
        an EPSRC RSE Fellowship (Muresan), and a Wellcome technology development award
        (Harris, O’Holleran, Bray, Sanson, Paluch, St Johnston). Links with industry have been
        nurtured e.g. with studentships studying drug toxicity using liver organoids
        (GlaxoSmithKline & MPI-CBG, Huch). It has also developed novel imaging approaches
        that are being commercialised (EPSRC & Cairn Research Ltd). CAIC is complemented by
        satellite facilities such as the Zoology Imaging Facility, which has a dedicated imaging
        specialist and a high sensitivity Olympus FV3000 confocal system with super-resolution
        capacity, via £400K investment from Isaac Newton Trust and Zoology funds.

    •   Algal Innovation Centre: This is £500K facility in the Botanic Garden, funded by the
        European Regional Development Fund project EnAlgae with matched funding from SBS,
        Directed by AG.Smith, it was set up in 2016 to generate pilot data on growing algae at
        scale under (semi)natural conditions, underpinning commercialisation of algal biomass
        production. Researchers have since used the Centre to: (i) collaborate with over 30
        different SMEs and larger companies in testing a range of equipment and algal-based
        processes for sustainability solutions; and (ii) run professional development courses in
        algal biotechnology, each attracting 30-50 participants from academia, industry and policy-
        makers from around the world.

    •   Cambridge        Biotomography       Centre:      The high-resolution     micro-Computed
        Tomographic imaging facility, one of only three in the UK, is a multi-user research facility
        that supports Cambridge researchers as well as the broader national and international
        academic community. It is funded jointly with Department of Archaeology in School of
        Humanities & Social Science. The Centre is a core research tool for over £1.5M of
        externally-funded research grants and has produced at least 70 peer-reviewed
        publications since 2014.




                                                                                            Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Arrangements and support for research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 and evidence of success
 Collaboration is at the centre of the
 UoA5 research culture in Cambridge,
 supported by a variety of mechanisms
 with the University including SRIs/IRCs
 and central funding to support
 interdisciplinary research (Section
 1.3).    Many     of     these   enable
 collaborations that extend beyond the
 University to forge partnerships with
 the wider academic community locally,
 nationally and internationally. As
 detailed in Section 3.2.2, important
 examples are the Crop Science
 Centre joint venture with NIAB, whose
 establishment was supported by the
 Global Food Security IRC, and the
 Conservation Initiative underpinned by the Conservation IRC. Robust collaborative links exist
 with several other publicly-funded research institutes in the Cambridge area, including:

    •   BBSRC Babraham Institute group leaders are members of the Centre for Trophoblast
        Research, hosting students and fellows (Kelsey, Reik, Rugg-Gunn). They also co-organize
        the epigenetics club. Links are cemented by formal affiliations, such as Honorary
        Professorship (Wolf Reik).
    •   Wellcome Sanger/EBI Institute at Hinxton provides unparalleled opportunities for
        collaboration on bioinformatics and genomics projects, for example single-cell
        reconstruction of the early maternal-fetal interface in humans. The “Darwin Tree of Life”
        project (£9.4M Wellcome funding), an ambitious collaboration of ten research institutes
        and museums including the Sanger, which seeks to sequence all eukaryotic species on
        the British Isles, is led by Durbin (Genetics). The aim for the first phase in 2021 is to collect,
        ‘barcode’ and deliver high-quality genomes of at least 2,000 species. This will give new
        insight into evolutionary processes and uncover new genes, proteins and metabolic
        pathways to aid the development of drugs for infectious and inherited diseases.
    •   NERC British Antarctic Survey has been combining their expertise of remote sensing
        using satellite imagery and field logistics with that of plant scientists in algal genomics and
        biotechnology (AG.Smith, Davey) to conduct the first ever survey of the contribution of
        terrestrial snow algae to primary productivity in Antarctica. This has resulted in a follow-on
        collaborative NERC grant and extensive links with US & Chilean Antarctic bases.

 For international partnerships, the University’s Strategic Partnerships Office provides impetus
 and strategic direction to stimulate and support research collaborations between UoA5 scientists
 and colleagues globally at institutional level. Examples include a collaboration with SMART


                                                                                                  Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Institute, Indonesia to mitigate effects of oil palm cultivation on biodiversity (Turner);
 with IKIAM University in Ecuador to facilitate C.Jiggins’ research on studies of adaptation to
 montane habitats in butterflies by providing shared insectaries and climate chambers in Ecuador,
 and a three-way collaboration between Copperbelt University in Zambia, the University of Cape
 Town and Cambridge on brood parasite behavioural ecology (Spottiswoode).

 Bioscientists are also active in the Cambridge-Africa programme, which supports a range of
 proactive, coordinated, multi- and interdisciplinary initiatives that strengthen research capacity and
 scholarship in Africa (examples in Section 1.2.3). Cambridge Enterprise, the Postdoc Academy
 and the Judge Business School (JBS) also offer a range of courses, programmes and facilities for
 actual and would-be entrepreneurs and help staff and students commercialise their expertise and
 ideas for the benefit of the global community. Institutional level interactions are widespread, for
 example strong links have been forged with researchers and policy makers in India, initiated by
 Griffiths as a result of BBSRC-GCRF awards TIGR2ESS and MiLLNETi. These awards, which
 seek to support small-holder farmers to increase yields and decrease use of fertiliser and water,
 have led to several other initiatives with the Department of Biotechnology in India, and Griffiths
 has been appointed Advisor to the Vice-Chancellor on strategic partnerships with India.


 4.2 Evidence of how staff interact with key research beneficiaries


 4.2.1 Interaction with industry
 Key beneficiaries of UoA5 research include small and large industrial enterprises. Many of the
 partnerships established over the reporting period have had significant mutual benefit, informing
 and supporting further research. For example, in Pharmacology many research groups have
 projects jointly funded with industrial partners Takeda Pharmaceuticals, Roche, Heptares, Shinogi
 and Firmenich. Other large multinational companies such as GlaxoSmithKline, AstraZeneca,
 Microsoft and Toshiba have also directly reached out to UoA5 researchers to establish
 collaborations, new PhD programmes (Section 2.3) and joint postdoctoral positions.

 Collaborations between researchers in UoA5 with industrial partners is encouraged by several
 means, including the Office for Translational Research, CATS and the Milner Therapeutic Institute.
 The latter provides a physical hub for translational science and collaboration between academia
 and industry, with 54 affiliated members bringing diverse expertise and resource to the University.
 Indeed, the wealth of recent biological start-up companies in the Cambridge area constitutes a
 large component of the research environment, fostering an entrepreneurial spirit in our principal
 investigators. These, together the larger companies in the region, have provided unparalleled
 opportunities for our PhD students to gain experience in these environments, with many DTP
 students undertaking their PIPS with these companies.

 4.2.2 Interactions with policy makers
 Wide engagement with policy-making and legislation at national and international levels occurs
 via memberships and governance of learned societies including the Royal Society, the Academy
 of Medical Sciences, the Prime Minister’s Council for Science and Technology and the Department
 for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Section 4.5). An example is expert evidence to the House
 of Commons Environmental Audit Committee, Invasive Species Evidence Session from Gilligan


                                                                                               Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 who was also selected by the Secretary of State as Chair of the UK Joint Nature Conservation
 Committee. A forward-looking initiative is CATS having a member of the Medicines Health
 Advisory Board (MHRA) on its steering panel, enabling new discoveries in safety science to be
 translated into policy.

 Our researchers also provide specific data to guide policy: as contributors to the World Wildlife
 Fund’s Living Planet Report 2020, Cambridge zoologists showed that agricultural expansion is a
 key driver of rapid insect decline globally, helping to inform and alert national and international
 leaders to deliver policies that protect the planet. The Conservation Evidence project (Sutherland,
 R.Smith), which carries out industrial-scale evidence synthesis, led to the BioRISC initiative (led
 by Sutherland, Aldridge), funded by philanthropy through St Catharine’s College, which aims to
 change approaches to policy making. In 2020 this identified intervention options in the coronavirus
 pandemic and for reducing the risk of future pandemics, attracting the Environmental Audit
 Committee to meet in Cambridge. Balmford’s work on reconciling food demand and biodiversity
 conservation (drawn on by parliamentary committees shaping post-Brexit agricultural policies) has
 concluded that linking higher-yield farming to sparing or restoring natural habitats may be most
 effective. On the demand side the group has devised nudge-based interventions for reducing meat
 consumption and worked to eliminate ruminant meat from University outlets.

 More generally, bioscientists engage with policy makers over diverse issues from stem cells to
 ecology. Many of these interactions are via the Cambridge Centre for Science and Policy, which
 hosts decision-makers as Policy Fellows; ~50 UoA5 researchers have met >100 Policy Fellows
 since REF2014. In 2019, the Centre ran roundtable policy discussions on Data, Agritech and
 Research & Innovation in the food system linking UoA5 scientists with ministers and civil servants
 from DEFRA to commission an independent review to assist in the first National Food Strategy in
 75 years. A further University workshop chaired by Lord (David) Willetts discussed ways to
 translate University research into increased value capture through innovation. The resulting
 Building Innovation Communities project, organised by CambPlants, ran sandpits between
 academics and industry on innovation in the potato supply chain, leading to a BBSRC Agri-Food
 Technology Seeding Catalyst Award to use real-time crop and environmental data to control water
 flows to potato crops (Coomes, Plant Sciences) in collaboration with NIAB, KisanHub, and the
 Agriculture and Horticultural Development Board (AHDB).


 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society


 4.3.1 Health and Medicine
 Our research has contributed to improving health, quality of life and well-being through research
 that contributes to, and impacts on, drug development and medical interventions, including an
 increased understanding of the issues that surround medicines safety. Drug development takes
 many years and life-changing therapeutics that have arisen from earlier University spinouts
 include Olaparib (licensed by NICE for treatment of ovarian cancer in 2015; Impact CS:
 Revolutionising cancer therapy via the DNA-Damage response). New drug developments within
 the reporting period include the discovery of a small molecule inhibitor of a muscle specific chloride
 channel, which, by affecting muscle function, has significant potential for treating myasthenia
 gravis. More broadly, MRC Toxicology Unit has identified a new toxicophore, present in range of

                                                                                               Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 therapeutically relevant drugs, which adversely affects cardiac-cell function. This new information
 about the toxic substructures within some drugs will reshape drug development programmes in
 the pharmaceutical industry.


 4.3.2 Economic competitiveness of the UK
 University research under UoA5 has led to income generation through spinout companies and
 licencing of its scientific knowledge and creation of new processes, products and services. The
 University is at the hub of the “Silicon Fen” entrepreneurial ecosystem and many of the new start-
 ups, directly involving those in UoA5 in the 2014-2020 period, have a focus on health related
 issues: PolyProx Therapeutics (focuses on the discovery and development of a proteostatic
 drugs to treat cancer and neurodegenerative diseases); DefiniGEN (provides a wide range of
 human cell products); Congenica Ltd. (aims to revolutionise how diseases are characterised to
 inform treatment decisions by providing end-to-end genomic analysis in as little as 5-minutes);
 Swift Molecular Diagnostics (produces DNA test strips that are as simple to use and as cost
 effective as a pregnancy test); CellCentric (focuses on small molecule inhibitors of epigenetic-
 related pathways to treat cancers); STORM Therapeutics (aims to tackle disease through the
 modulation of RNA modifying enzymes); Qkine (an enabler of regenerative medicine). These
 companies exemplify how the transfer of knowledge is supporting industrial research and directly
 contributing to the economy and job creation.


 4.3.3 Conservation and the Environment
 Conservation and biodiversity research in the University has demonstrably improved the
 environment, for example by working with the Indonesian Government to establish ways to monitor
 carbon stocks in forests (Coomes). Closer to home, demonstration by plant scientists (Glover,
 Moyroud) that colour generated by petal surface nanostructures enhances signalling to pollinating
 bees (widely reported in the press as bee ‘Sat Nav’ (e.g. The Guardian 18 Oct 2017; ITV News 18
 Oct 2017)), led to a collaboration with Mole Seeds U.K. Ltd, a major UK supplier of professional
 quality flower seeds. They formulated a seed mix aimed at strengthening pollinator populations by
 providing honeybees and wild bumblebees with a steady diet of flowers throughout the spring,
 summer and early autumn. The seed mix, which was trialled over two years at the University
 Botanic Garden, was developed by taking into account flower reward, timing, accessibility, visibility
 and texture, and is now commercially available.


 4.4 How the unit engages with diverse communities and publics through its research


 4.4.1 Collections
 A unique feature for the research landscape in Cambridge is the presence of world-renowned
 collections within UoA5, which provide an outstanding resource for our researchers and for those
 from other UK institutions and globally. They also play a key role in outreach and public
 engagement activities.
      • The refurbished Museum of Zoology, a key aim of REF2014, has vastly improved
          outward-facing facilities that have supported new education and outreach activities, both
          in person and online. The Museum attracted 150,000 visitors in its first year of reopening
          (>50% more than forecast). In 2019, it was awarded ‘Best Large Museum in
          Cambridgeshire’ by Museums in Cambridge and was one of six museums (out of 80)


                                                                                              Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         shortlisted nationally for a Kids in Museum award. Its free ‘Discovery Talks’ provide
         monthly lunchtime sessions exploring themes from the history of the collection to current
         zoological research. The Museum also participates in the “Curiosities and Conversations”
         initiative with Addenbrooke’s hospital, engaging dialysis patients in conversations based
         on specimens from the Museum, as they undergo treatment, and has run specific events
         for Dementia Compass, Winter Comfort and Cambridge City Council’s Children’s and
         Young Persons Participation Services.
     •   The Botanic Garden houses 14,000 accessions and over 8,000 plant species, distributed
         across a 40-acre landscape and is an exceptional amenity in the heart of the city, with
         over 300,000 visitors annually (although numbers are currently restricted due to the
         pandemic), additionally hosting the annual Festival of Plants and many special events.
         Since REF2014, there has been a major emphasis on providing more direct links and
         explanations to the work of plant scientists, for example ‘How do plants tell the time?’
         explaining plant circadian biology research (Webb). The Rising Path project, funded by
         the Monument Trust, led to a complete overhaul of the Systematics bed for effective
         research and public communication of the importance of plant variation. In 2019 the
         Living Collections Strategy was launched, which further underpins knowledge of the
         plant kingdom and efforts to conserve botanical diversity.
     •   The Herbarium, the fourth largest in the UK housing over a million accessions, with
         >50,000 type specimens, supports research and lends specimens globally. It was
         recognised as a national and international treasure in the 2019 Strategic Research Review
         of plant science in Cambridge. Currently supported by the recent appointment of a fixed-
         term Curator with funds from Plant Sciences, a road-map to identify appropriate research
         links and a funding model for future sustainability is being developed with CambPlants
         and BIT. Achieving this will be an aim over the next reporting period.

 4.4.2 Public Engagement
 Bioscientists actively contribute to University efforts to promote excellence in public engagement,
 with many researcher-led activities in a range of formats that aim to share information with the
 public and inspire young people to take up science as a career. A major annual event is the
 Cambridge Science Festival, with talks, events and exhibits staged across a week in mid-March.
 This can attract upwards of 10,000 visitors, with >2000 visitors to the Plant and Life Science
 Marquee recorded on one day in 2016. This won the “Customer Experience, Cambridge Business
 Improvement Districts Award” the same year. One attendee remarked “Long live the Cambridge
 Science Festival as a window for the general public to have new insights into our changing world.”

 UoA5 researchers also contribute to the Festival of Ideas, engaging in a range of public debates
 and discussions to consult and listen to public views, for example on Synthetic Biology or climate
 change. From 2021 these two festivals will be united in an interdisciplinary Cambridge Festival,
 which will nevertheless retain strong and distinct platforms for the sciences.




                                                                                            Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the Festivals other major avenues for public engagement include:

   •   Conversazione, organised by the Cambridge Natural
       History Society, an annual exhibition with displays covering
       all aspects of Natural History. Thousands of community
       members, students and academics attend the event over 2
       days. A Student Prize is awarded annually for “best student
       exhibit”.
   •   BlueSci, a science magazine written and produced by
       Cambridge students that highlights recent exciting
       discoveries,    often     achievements       of   Cambridge
       researchers, in a publicly digestible mode. BlueSci also produces short films for social media
       about various biological subjects from molecular biology to biodiversity.
   •   Public visits and activities arranged within Departments and Institutes, such as the
       engagement opportunities organized by the Gurdon Institute throughout the year. These
       enable its students and staff to work with the public on a variety of skills including film, sound
       or photo editing, social media, project management, creativity, team-work and strategic
       thinking.
   •   SoapBox Science (2016, 2018 and 2020) involved leading women scientists in the
       University who presented their work to the public in Cambridge’s main shopping area.
       These highly successful events lead to discussion and lively debate with members of the
       public.
   •   Many UoA5 researchers have worked with “Pint of Science”, a grassroots non-profit
       organisation enabling researchers to share their research in the pub. The aim is to provide
       a space for researchers and members of the public to come together, be curious, and chat
       about research in a relaxed manner.

 In addition, individual scientists regularly write blogs, post on social media and speak with
 broadcast and print media about their work. When a paper on Antarctic snow algae and their
 response to climate change was published in May 2020, tweets from corresponding author Davey
 were picked by ~500 online or print news outlets worldwide, with 27 news broadcasts and
 interviews, including the Telegraph, Guardian, BBC, National Geographic, New York Times, CNN
 and Fox News. Media monitoring software Cision estimates it reached 1.7Bn people globally, with
 the paper now ranked by Altmetric in the top 5% of all research outputs ever tracked. In 2016,
 studies on the development of implantation-stage mouse and human embryos (Zernicka-Goetz),
 reported as “a breakthrough in human embryo research” (The Sunday Times, July 23rd 2017)
 “new milestone studies have managed to keep embryos growing for 12 to 13 days” (New Scientist,
 May 2016), was winner of Science magazine’s ‘People's Vote for Scientific Breakthrough‘.

 4.4.3 Interactions with Primary and Secondary Schools
 Encouragement and support for interactions with Schools has led to many initiatives across the
 range of UoA5 topics:
   •   The Gatsby Plant Science Education Programme (GPSEP), a joint initiative between the
       Botanic Garden and SLCU, aims to make a demonstrable difference to the teaching and
       learning of plant science at all ages in the UK. It advocates for inclusion of relevant and


                                                                                                 Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           inspiring contemporary plant science in the school curriculum and develops teaching
           resources to support this.
   •       “Young Pharmas” was initiated in 2019 with 16 sixth-formers from local secondary schools
           who carried out scientific experiments investigating key concepts in pharmacology over a
           3-month period. Young Pharmas continues as an exciting annual outreach scheme
           providing hands-on practical sessions, to give students studying biology and chemistry the
           opportunity to experience what a career in science might be like.
   •       Innovative teaching ‘Toolkits’ (e.g. Cell explorer, Unlocking genetic editing), designed to
           bring contemporary research into GCSE and A-level classrooms in ways that support the
           biology curriculum, have been co-created by Gurdon Institute scientists. In recognition, in
           2020 the Institute was awarded a Silver Engage Watermark from the National Co-ordinating
           Centre for Public Engagement.
   •        An extensive programme with over 168 local primary and secondary schools is run by the
           Museum of Zoology, based in a dedicated ‘Learning Lab’. In a project funded by the Esme
           Fairbairn Trust, three primary schools in North Cambridgeshire engaged with specific
           butterfly-themed conservation projects. During the lockdown in Spring 2020, the Museum
           published new resources every fortnight on its blog for home-educating primary school-age
           children. In June 2020, it staged Zoology Live! – a week-long online interactive event for
           all the family about the animal kingdom. Zoology Live! was Highly Commended in the "Best
           Film" category at the Family Friendly Museum Awards, the only university museum among
           the 20 shortlisted nationally for these awards.


 4.5 Indicators of wider influence and contributions
 Researchers working within UoA5 make a major contribution to the research base by membership,
 including leadership roles, in UKRI and charity strategic committees, other funders, government
 committees and industry. Recognition comes from extensive honours, awards and prizes, election
 to Learned Societies, and invitations to present major lectures. Examples of note since 2014 are
 listed below (women scientists are indicated with *).


 4.5.1 Honours & Prizes
     • Dame Commander of the British Empire, for ‘services to plant science, science in society
        and equality and diversity in science’: Leyser*
     • CBE, for ‘services to plant health in the field of plant epidemiology’: Gilligan
       •    OBE, for ‘services to biomedical sciences and supporting the careers of women scientists’:
            Willis*
       •    Royal Society Medals: Gabor – B.Simons, Durbin; Ferrier – Holt*, Francis Crick - Jefferis
       •    Genetics Society Mendel Medal: Baulcombe, Leyser*
       •    Canada Gairdner International Award - Surani
       •    RSPB Centre for Conservation Award: Gilligan
       •    Palaeontological Association Lapworth Medal: Clack*
       •    Mortyn Jones Medal: Herbison
       •    The Zoological Society Frink Medal: Akam
       •    Genetics Society of America George W Beadle Award: Ahringer*
       •    British Society Developmental Biology Medals: Waddington – Harris; Cheryll Tickle –
            Nichols*, Sanson*

                                                                                              Page 39
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Champalimaud Vision Award: Holt*
    •    S.Jackson: FNRS Gagna A. & Ch. Van Heck prize; King Faisal International Prize for
         Science; Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Science Heineken Prize; Fondation ARC
         Léopold Griffuel Award in Translational and Clinical Research


 4.5.2 Honorary Degrees
     • Baulcombe (Leeds, Edinburgh, Dundee, Helsinki)
     •   Gurdon (Rockefeller)
     •   S.Jackson (Leeds)
     •   Leyser* (Aberdeen, Guelph, Norwegian U Science & Technology, Swedish Agricultural)


 4.5.3 Election to Learned Societies
     • Royal Society: Ferguson-Smith*, Oldroyd
    •    Honorary Membership of British Ecological Society: Sutherland
    •    Academy of Medical Science: Bray*, Taylor
    •    EMBO members: Willis*, Oldroyd, Paszkowski*, Philpott*, Lilley*, Frye, Paluch*, B.Simons,
         Brakefield, Nédélec, Zegerman
    •    Linnean Society: Griffiths, Glover*
    •    British Toxicology Society: Willis*
    •    Marine Biological Association: AG.Smith*
    •    Leopoldina (German National Academy of Sciences): Leyser*
    •    Belgian Academy: Webb
    •    American Academy of Arts and Sciences: Kouzarides, Durbin
    •    US National Academy of Sciences: Holt*
    •    Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences: Clack*


 4.5.4 Major invited lectures
 Davies: Royal Society Croonian Lecture; S.Jackson: Sir Anthony Epstein Annual Lecture, the
 Sackler Lecture; Oliver: Marjorie Stephenson prize lecture; Guissani, The Physiological Society
 GL Brown Prize Lecture; Spottiswoode*: the Stamford Raffles Lecture at the Zoology Society.


 4.5.5 Advisory/strategic roles and Board Chairs
     • Leyser*, Director of UKRI (June 2020), BBSRC Council Member
     • Ferguson Smith*: Chair MRC Molecular and Cellular Medicine Board Funding Board,
        BBSRC Council Member, MRC Strategy Board
    •    Lilley*: Chair, BBSRC Transformative Technologies Strategic Advisory panel
    •    Hibberd: Member, BBSRC advisory panel Agriculture and Food Security security,
    •    Ahringer*, Durbin, N.Brown: Scientific advisory board of Max Planck Institutes
    •    Kouzarides: Scientific Board of the UK Institute of Cancer Research
    •    Baulcombe: Science Advisory Board of Boyce Thompson Institute (Cornell University),
         BBSRC Council Member
    •    Gilligan: Chair, Biomathematics and Statistics Scotland
    •    AG.Smith*: Member, BBSRC Strategic advisory panel Industrial Biotechnology &
         Bioenergy


                                                                                          Page 40
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Willis*: Member, National Mesothelioma Centre Advisory Board; MRC-PHE Centre for
        Environment and Health; MRC Strategy Board.
    •   Howe: AHRC advisory group


 4.5.6 Research Council and other Review Panels
 During the assessment period, many UoA5 individuals served on committees of national and
 international funding agencies, Government and policy committees, and interacted with industry.
 Such collaborations often lead to impact beyond academia; additional examples are given in our
 Impact case studies and elsewhere Section 4.

 Funding agencies
    •   Wellcome: Rawlins, (Wellcome interview committee); Miska, Ferguson-Smith*, Willis*,
        Livesy, Vassiliou (Wellcome Expert Review group); Brand* (Wellcome Sir Henry Dale
        Fellowships), Sanson* (Wellcome Henry Wellcome Fellowships)
    •   CRUK Science Committee: Evan
    •   BBSRC: Russell (Chair, Comm D), Lilley* (Transformative Technologies Strategy Advisory
        Panel) Landgraf, Carr, Lummis*, Mata, Mott*, Weyand *(pool of experts)
    •   MRC: Frye (Research committee); Taylor (MCMB); Ferguson-Smith* (Chair, MCMB)
    •   Leverhulme: Brand* (Philip Leverhulme Prizes)
    •   Action Medical Research: Bray* (Chair)
    •   European Research Council: Bray* (Chair, LS3 Starting grants), N.Brown (Chair LS3
        Consolidators), St Johnston, (Chair, LS3 Starting Grants)
    •   Human Frontiers Science Program: Herbison, (2018, Chair, Council of Scientists), Glover*
        (2018 Council of Scientists)
    •   Independent Research Fund Denmark: Bray* (Chair, Stem Cells/Cell biology)
    •   European Space Agency and NASA: Murray (Panel review, human spaceflight
        programme):

 Government agencies
    • Aldridge: expert witness to the Environmental Audit Select Committee on invasive species
       control.
    • Baulcombe: report to the Council for Science and Technology about genetic modification.
    • Gilligan: chair of the Nature Conservation Committee for UK and Defra Science Advisory
       Council, Advisor on disease and pest management to Defra, USDA, Ethiopian Institute of
       Agricultural Research, Hort Innovation Australia, and Mars Inc.
    •   Leyser* has extensive science policy engagement, serving on the Prime Minister’s Council
        for Science and Technology and chairs the Royal Society’s Science Policy Expert Advisory
        Group.
    •   MacFarlane: All-Party Parliamentary Group for Healthy Homes and Buildings
    •   Sutherland, Aldridge: engagement with the UK parliament’s Environmental Audit
        Committee
    •   Willis*: Cross sector Government Committee on the safety of medicines in pregnancy and
        medicines

 Strategic Collaborations with Industry

                                                                                        Page 41
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Colledge: scientific consultant for Medimmune and Alloy Pharmaceuticals
 •   Durbin: consultant for Dovetail Inc
 •   Ferguson-Smith*: advisory board at Swift Molecular Diagnostics, and consultant with Sanofi
     SA
 •   Herbison: Consultant to Que Oncology
 •   Kouzarides: Scientific Board of Foghorn (Biotech company in Boston)
 •   Krupic: Strategic collaboration with Integrated Fiber Optic Ltd on developing new generation
     two-photon microscopy for bioimaging sciences
 •   O’Holleran: 3D super-resolution methods now being commercialised (EPSRC & Cairn
     Research Ltd).
 •   Willis*: AZ Drug Safety Metabolism Committee


 4.6 Evidence of the Unit’s contribution to the discipline of Biological Sciences
 Underpinning the sustainability of the discipline, our research is tightly linked to teaching and
 research training of both undergraduate and postgraduate students, and of highly skilled
 researchers. Many of these go on to develop careers in biology, ensuring the sustainability of the
 subject into the future, and the diverse, successful careers they pursue enhance the knowledge
 economy. As illustration, more than 20 of our early career researchers have moved into research
 leader positions in academia and industry in the UK and worldwide since 2014 (Section 2.2).

 Further demonstration of our impact over the reporting period is the graduation of ~1750
 undergraduates in biological subjects associated with UoA5, where the final year modules are all
 grounded in cutting-edge research carried out by the lecturers. Overwhelmingly positive feedback
 from students, 98% overall satisfaction in 2020, evidences the excellence of our teaching. Of our
 final year students, 95% received “Good Honours” and a substantial proportion of them, ~40%,
 continued to postgraduate study. Similarly, more than half of the 1300 postgraduates since 2014
 report next destinations as continuing in research positions. We also regularly contribute to
 continuing education via the Institute of Continuing Education, and through mounting research
 skills-based courses in bioinformatics, genomics, biotechnology and natural history, supporting
 life-long learning and professional development of academic and industrial colleagues, as well as
 members of the public.

 The formation of interdisciplinary interfaces is also important to stimulate progress. For example,
 in Cambridge the physics and mathematical modelling of biological processes has formed into a
 sub-discipline of biology. Thus, consistent with a strategic aim in REF2014, mathematical
 modelling now forms an important component of much of our work, e.g. in understanding plant
 development, the genetics of populations, dynamic modelling the properties of chromatin, and
 stochastic models of cell division for tissue maintenance during development. Indeed, there has
 been a longstanding interest in research at boundaries of physics and biology, with the
 establishment of the Physics of Living Matter seminar series 17 years ago, which has now grown
 to a series of international events that attract interdisciplinary scientists from around the world.

 The flexibility and innovation of UoA5 researchers enables rapid development of biological
 solutions to emerging national and international challenges that impact on health, the environment
 and food security. A pertinent example is the MRC Toxicology Unit collaborating with two NIHR

                                                                                             Page 42
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health Protection Research Units (run from Imperial College London) on Chemical and Radiation
 Threats and Hazards and Environmental Exposures and Health, particularly as a result of
 emergencies. The Unit (MacFarlane, Willis), in collaboration with Engineering (BoiesUoA12), are
 studying the impact of brake and tyre wear on human health, and, with clinicians in London, the
 effect of the Grenfell Tower fire on the health of the firefighter cohort who attended the fire.

 To end, a timely example of how the Cambridge research environment supports excellent science
 with significant societal impact comes from Derek Smith (Zoology). Since the emergence of
 antigenic variants of SARS-CoV-2, his group have applied their pioneering antigenic cartography
 approach to these viruses. The group is part of a US NIH-CDC-BARDA consortium generating
 data intended to inform vaccine choice, with discussions about to start at WHO, and he will chair
 a Vaccine Science Coordination subgroup of SAGE to consider how to determine when the COVID
 vaccines need to be updated.




                                                                                          Page 43
