Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 12: Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure
 The University of Kent’s School of Engineering and Digital Arts (EDA), located in the Division of
 Computing, Engineering, and Mathematical Sciences (CEMS), comprises three well-established
 and highly regarded research groups: Communications; Instrumentation and Control; and
 Intelligent Interactions. In addition to these established groups, since 2019 the School took the
 strategic decision to expand into the field of Mechanical Engineering, recruiting two new staff and
 the development of new laboratory space costing over £3 million. The overarching strategic aim
 of EDA over the REF2021 period has been to engage in research of the highest quality that will
 have a beneficial impact on industry and society, through fulfilling the three core objectives set out
 in our REF2014 submission: (1) growing core capability in our three established areas of research
 excellence; (2) expanding multi-disciplinary research through external and internal collaborations;
 and (3) impacting positively through our unique combination of technological and design expertise.

 We are proud of our achievements since 2014 with respect to all three objectives. We have grown
 core capability by increasing the number of Category A staff to 29 FTE (up from 24 FTE) across
 our three established research groups, and we have doubled our externally funded research
 awards from £1.5 million in REF2014 to £3.1 million in REF2021. We have also increased multi-
 disciplinary research through enhanced collaborations with industry and the private sector, public
 sector organisations, other universities nationally and internationally, as well as with Kent
 researchers beyond EDA (see Section 4). The impact of our research has been demonstrated in
 the areas of cyber security, process instrumentation, and mobile communications, as shown in
 our impact case studies and the further examples provided below. Much of this impact has been
 driven by our unique blend of design-informed technology.

 Underpinning our three strategic objectives has been a strong commitment to sustainability and
 the development of researchers at all career levels. This is reflected by the fact that four of the
 eight new staff appointed in this REF period were former PhD students and researchers in the
 School.

 The activities of the three groups are overseen by the School Research and Innovation Committee,
 chaired by the School Director of Research. Working closely with staff, this committee sets the
 groups’ research priorities and identifies new opportunities.

 Communications. This group comprises 10 staff: J. Wang (Chair), Assimakopoulos, Batchelor,
 Gao, Gomes, Horne, Sanz-Izquierdo, C. Wang, Young, and Zhu. It explores the theory, design,
 and manufacture of advanced communications technologies and systems for high-frequency
 and/or high-data-rate wireless systems operating from radio frequency (RF) to Terahertz (THz)
 frequencies to support new and emerging applications. The group has established collaborations
 with industries and academic institutes globally (see Section 4), and plays a leading international
 role in the fields of mobile communication systems, microwave photonics, RFID antennas, low-
 cost smart antennas, and space antennas.

 Since 2014, the Communications group has been actively involved in a number of national and
 international projects, cementing its international reputation. Recent projects reflect the areas
 stated in the group’s objectives in REF2014, involving work on high-data-rate, ‘fifth-generation
 (5G) and beyond’ mobile communications; microwave photonics and fibre-wireless convergence;
 RF/microwave/mm-wave circuit design; RF identification (RFID) antenna and frequency selective
 surface (FSS); and smart antennas, microwave, millimetre-wave and sub-THz phased arrays and
 space antennas. In the REF2021 period, the group’s achievements in the field of 5G (and beyond)
 mobile communications have included:


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   Proposing a novel beam allocation algorithm in massive multiuser MIMO systems to
        achieve maximum throughput, (Zhu, Gomes, J. Wang, 2018).
    •   For the first time, proposing a user-centric optimisation algorithm in cloud radio access
        networks by dividing the optimisation problem into two stages (Zhu, Gomes, J. Wang,
        2017).
    •   Presenting a new performance evaluation method for emerging mobile multiuser device-
        to-device (D2D) communications to mitigate interference between cellular and D2D users
        (Zhu, J. Wang, 2019).
    •   Leading a European project for the use of Ethernet optical fibre transport for the support
        of future mobile/wireless networks (Gomes, Assimakopoulos, 2014-17).
    •   Demonstrating the first millimetre-wave frequency distributed MIMO system using radio
        over fibre transport (Gomes, 2017).
    •   Proposing and demonstrating novel digital signal processing to support analogue radio
        over fibre (Gomes, Assimakopoulos, 2018).
    •   Proposing and demonstrating novel analogue all-optical signal processing for microwave
        photonic systems that tackle bandwidth and data challenges (C. Wang, 2018).
    •   Performing 5G harmonised research and trials for service evolution between EU and China
        (Zhu, Gomes, Assimakopoulos, J. Wang, 2018-21).

 In the field of antennas and RF devices for mobile and satellite communications, IoT,
 biomonitoring, and space-borne remote sensing, the group’s achievements in this REF period
 include:

    •   Proposing new techniques for the design of ultra-wideband reflectarray antennas and
        transmitarrays for satellite communications, demonstrating a printed reflectarray with the
        widest bandwidth reported (Gao, 2017).
    •   Pioneering the development of planar duplex filtering antennas (Gao, 2016).
    •   Proposing and demonstrating a wide range of low-cost electronically beam-scanning smart
        antennas using technology from our patent filing on active FSS (Sanz-Izquierdo, Gao,
        Batchelor, 2017).
    •   Proposing novel printed FSS for 5G and THz frequencies (Sanz-Izquierdo, Gao; 2020) and
        developing 3D printed wearable antennas (Batchelor, 2019).
    •   Developing nanowire transistor devices for beam-steerable antennas and, subsequently,
        smart printable surfaces for the control of radio waves inside buildings, with application in
        RF energy harvesting and signal strength improvement (Young, 2017).
    •   Demonstrating skin mountable sensing technologies with battery-free communications
        (Batchelor, 2020).

 The group’s research over the next five years will focus on theory, techniques, and technologies
 to underpin next-generation, high-data-rate wireless communication systems, which, owing to
 spectral congestion, will increasingly be required to operate at higher frequencies with greater
 spectral efficiency. The systems will also need to efficiently and dynamically adapt and support
 end-user applications with vastly different service requirements and traffic characteristics. The
 group’s strategic objectives in the forthcoming period include:

    •   Enhancing our work in radio resource allocation, ultra-massive MIMO, and multiple access
        for high-data-rate wireless communications by applying artificial intelligence technologies.
        This work will be undertaken at a critical and opportune phase, with the emergence of new
        international standards for 6G mobile communications.
    •   Extending our work on the use of analogue and digital fronthaul transport by integrating
        with software-defined networking, network slicing, and orchestration functions, important
        for future networks, and with the use of distributed deep learning algorithms.
    •   Developing further our microwave photonics research, particularly in on-chip photonic
        signal processing, and exploring interdisciplinary applications of microwave photonics.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Translating our flexible skin-mounted wireless sensing platforms to millimetre-wavebands
        offering multiple channel access for sensors and monitored individuals.
    •   Continuing our innovation of manufacturing processes for lifecycle engineering with the
        development and incorporation of transient materials to our sensing platforms and
        batteries.
    •   Developing miniaturised wideband/multi-band beam-scanning intelligent antenna and
        circuits at microwave, millimetre-wave and THz frequencies for terrestrial (5G/6G mobile
        communications, smart sensors for self-driving cars) and space applications (satellite
        communications, Internet of Space).

 Instrumentation and Control (IC). This research group comprises nine staff: Y. Yan (Chair),
 Hussain, Lu, Marcelli, Oven, Sakhaei, Shafiee, L. Wang, X. Yan. Formerly known as the
 Instrumentation, Control, and Embedded Systems group, it changed its name in 2018 to reflect a
 more concentrated focus on applied instrumentation and control. The group has had considerable
 success in solving challenging measurement, monitoring, and control problems through applied
 research programmes, with support from a range of funding bodies and industry. It has established
 long-term partnerships with power generation and manufacturing industries such as EDF Energy,
 RJM International, and KROHNE Ltd (see Section 4). The IC group’s expertise lies primarily in
 industrial process sensors, intelligent instrumentation, smart condition monitoring, digital image
 processing, data fusion, data modelling, and robust control and estimation. Since 2014, the group
 has published more than 100 research papers in leading journals and over 130 refereed
 conference papers in the field of instrumentation and control. In addition to a well-equipped
 Instrumentation Laboratory on the University’s Canterbury campus, the group has regular access
 to industrial-scale test facilities and full-scale power plants for demonstration trials.

 The IC group has made significant advances in a number of externally funded projects with
 industrial and international partners, sustaining its international reputation in its field. Its
 achievements in this REF period include:

    •   Flame imaging technology capable of providing the quantitative measurement of flame
        characteristics such as temperature distribution, free radical concentration, and stability
        under a diverse range of combustion conditions (biomass flame, coal flame, oxy-biomass
        flames, gas turbine flames, etc.). This area of work (Y. Yan, Lu, 2014-20; Hossain, 2018-
        20) has been supported by Doonsan Babcock, British Sugar, EDF Energy, RJM
        International, Walsn Energy Limited, and the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research
        Centre (UKCCSRC).
    •   New solutions to mass flow metering and online particle sizing of pulverised fuel (coal and
        biomass) by combining piezoelectric sensing techniques and electrostatic sensor arrays.
        On-plant demonstration trials have been conducted on three coal-fired power stations in
        China in collaboration with Walsn Energy Limited and North China Electric Power
        University (Y. Yan, 2017-20). The pulverised fuel flow metering technology has resulted in
        the installation of full-scale systems in operation at over 20 power stations across China
        (Y. Yan, 2014-20), as detailed in the impact case study (Y. Yan et al.) in this submission.
    •   The development of Coriolis flow metering technology for the measurement of multiphase
        flow. The Coriolis technology, though well established for single-phase flow measurement,
        has been extended to measure gas-liquid flows by incorporating multi-modal sensing and
        soft computing models (Y. Yan, L. Wang, 2018-20). It has been successfully deployed for
        the measurement of CO2 under both static and dynamic CCS conditions. This area of
        research is supported by KROHNE Ltd and North China Electric Power University.
    •   Advances in fundamental theoretical research in relation to robust decentralised control
        and fault diagnosis. A systematic methodology has been developed for robust control of
        nonlinear systems using limited measurement information (X. Yan, 2014-17). Significant
        achievements have been made in dealing with nonlinear interconnections under complex
        surroundings. Sliding mode technique-based fault diagnosis has been developed to
        enhance the system performance and safety (X. Yan, 2016-20). These methods have been
        deployed in real systems such as robots, high-speed trains, and industrial processes in


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        collaboration with Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics and China University
        of Petroleum.
    •   Computational modelling applied to understand physical properties of biological cells to
        identify differences between normal and diseased bloods. This area of work was funded
        by an EPSRC grant and in collaboration with University of Exeter and King’s College
        London (Marcelli, 2015-19).
    •   Development of electronic devices to achieve diagnosis of medical conditions in speech-
        swallowing therapy with support from RoseMedical (Marcelli, 2017-20).

 Post-REF2021, a subset of the IC team will lead the future Mechanical Engineering group (see
 Section 3). The remaining IC group members will continue to focus on Instrumentation and
 Control, sustaining research that is beneficial to the power-generation, renewable-energy,
 manufacturing, and healthcare industries. The IC group will continue with its applied research
 programmes in sensing, instrumentation, imaging, robust control and estimation, and plans to
 further develop its research in the following core areas:

    •   Multiphase flow metering, in particular, coal/air and biomass/air two-phase and
        coal/biomass/air three-phase flow metering and online sizing of coal and biomass particles.
    •   Mass flow rate and gas fraction measurement and leak detection of carbon dioxide under
        Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) conditions.
    •   Monitoring and characterisation of burner flames in the power-generation and other
        industries.
    •   Structural health monitoring of mechanical systems such as wind turbines.
    •   Automated quality inspection of recycled plastic waste bales.
    •   Fundamental nonlinear control paradigms with intelligence consideration applicable to
        networked systems and multi-agent systems, with a focus on control mechanisms in
        engineering applications.
    •   Deep learning techniques to perform image-based cell profiling to enable the quantification
        of phenotypic differences on large-scale biological systems, to automate the process of
        discrimination between cell lines with the same genetic origin, and to perform functional
        and mechanistic investigations.

 Intelligent Interactions (II). This research group comprises 10 staff: Howells (Chair), Ang,
 Covaci, Deravi, De Wilde, Efstratiou, Guest, Hoque, Sirlantzis, and Von Jungenfeld. The group’s
 research focus encompasses all aspects of information engineering, digital media, and human-
 machine interactions, and successfully blends these themes to address fundamental current
 issues in how artificial intelligence, robotic systems, and digital media can be efficiently exploited
 within the engineering and security domains. The group has an international reputation for its work
 in a number of key application areas in pattern recognition, interaction design, social, ubiquitous
 and mobile computing, device authentication, security and biometrics, healthcare, e-learning,
 computer games, interactive media environments, digital film, and animation. The group’s principal
 achievements in the REF2021 period have included:

    •   Biometric verification technologies (Guest, Deravi, 2014-20; see impact case study), which
        has impacted the algorithmic performance of biometric implementations, increasing rates
        of accuracy in recognition and protection against attacks, thereby ultimately enhancing the
        experience and convenience for end users. This work has also provided multiple worldwide
        standards since 2007 for the interchange of data, directly used by implementers of systems
        worldwide, and also contributed to understanding the use of these systems in novel
        implementations, in particular on mobile devices, increasing the security of devices for the
        general public and service providers.
    •   Device authentication which has led to the development of ICMetrics (Howells 2014-20;
        see impact case study), a highly novel technology for deriving secure, uniquely identifying
        encryption keys from the properties of digital systems, which enables the establishment of
        trust and provenance in the identity and integrity of electronic devices via their inherent



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         physical and behavioural characteristics. This research has led to the creation of a spin-
         out company, Metrarc Ltd.
     •   Health-related robotics where the group developed and tested the UK’s first and only
         (currently) fully actuated wheelchair-driving virtual-reality-enabled simulation platform. This
         work focuses on the fusion of computer vision, pattern recognition, artificial intelligence,
         and robotic control for assistive technology (AT) systems. The team also successfully
         developed and trialled with wheelchair users technology for autonomous and semi-
         autonomous navigation of wheelchairs able to provide environment contextual information
         (e.g. avoiding obstacles, and semantically characterising objects in the environment such
         as door-handle types and electric switches, as well as potholes in the road). This
         represents a fundamental requirement for patients to practically employ such systems
         (Sirlantzis, Hoque, Howells, 2014-20).
     •   Human-centred healthcare innovations where the group has pioneered the design of virtual
         reality (VR) in dementia care over the past seven years. This work has led to a pilot trial in
         a psychiatric hospital (St Andrew’s Healthcare). The team has also designed the first multi-
         user remote VR system for eating-disorder therapy.
     •   The group also has a strong interest in the use of artificial intelligence for art creation, and
         for this research it has received the BCS AI Award at the Lumen Prize (Von Jungenfeld,
         2019).

 Over the next five years, the II group plans to build on its strong knowledge base and the increasing
 successes of our industrial collaborations, maximising the impact from existing research themes.
 The focus of II will be to:

     •   Extend its work linking the areas of biometrics and forensics, including interdisciplinary
         studies of interpretation and use, connect work in the security domain to new analyses of
         user interaction, and explore new applications in extended realities and social networks.
     •   Extend its work on device authentication into the development of practical exploitable
         systems.
     •   Increase the reach and visibility of its work on assistive robotics and other healthcare
         technologies, with a focus on usability and functionality, aiming to achieve large-scale
         practical uptake of the technology. This work will be augmented via a collaboration with
         the new Mechanical Engineering research group.
     •   Link technologies that understand and generate new ‘art’ with healthcare-centred
         applications, making use of sensors and machine learning.

 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 Our three research groups work flexibly together and with other Schools at Kent, with
 interdisciplinary research strongly encouraged. There has been a strategic emphasis throughout
 the REF2021 period at both School and institutional level on supporting a wider engineering
 provision than the traditional electronic-based disciplines at Kent, and on nurturing increased
 interdisciplinary activity by encouraging participation in University initiatives and joint studentships.
 As well as fully integrating within the initiatives outlined in REF5a, our disciplinary base has been
 enhanced throughout the REF period by involvement with a number of research centres operating
 at both Faculty (now Divisional) and institutional level, including the Institute of Biotechnology and
 Molecular Medicine (iBaMM), the Signature Research Themes ‘Future Human’ and ‘Migration and
 Movement’, and the Kent Interdisciplinary Research Centre in Cyber Security (KirCCS), which has
 been recognised by the EPSRC and NCSC as an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber
 Security Research (ACE-CSR). Following on from the success of KirCCS, the School has played
 a leading role in the University’s plan to establish an Institute of Cyber Security for Society (iCSS),
 which is being launched in 2020-21. This Institute, one of only four at the University, involves
 interdisciplinary research with disciplines such as Computing, Sociology, Law, Business, Politics,
 and Psychology.

 We have a strong research track record in new wireless communications sensing through
 Manufacturing the Future, sensing and instrumentation technologies, and autonomous and robotic

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 platforms, as exemplified by our wheelchair research. For further interdisciplinary collaboration,
 we will strengthen research links with the Materials for Energy and Electronics group in the School
 of Physical Sciences, and grow our longstanding activities in healthcare technologies in
 collaboration with the new Kent and Medway Medical School (KMMS). The interdisciplinary growth
 areas that we will be prioritising are all included in the UK Industrial Strategy and the Research
 Council priority themes for a Prosperous Nation.

 Impact Strategy
 Impact has always been a core strand in EDA’s research and innovation strategy. Each of our
 research groups has strong and well-established links with industry (see Section 4), and impact is
 an essential part of the annual Individual Research Planning (IRP) meetings with our staff. We
 actively involve industry and other stakeholders from the early stages of our research activities,
 and the benefits of these close relations are demonstrated in our impact case studies and in the
 project examples provided in Section 1 above. Collaborations with industries are exploited through
 internationally funded projects, KTPs, and industry-funded studentships. Spin-out companies and
 consultancy work are also actively encouraged and supported. Research planning in the School
 is geared towards the translation of research outputs to achieve a strong impact across the
 spectrum, in particular the generation of new industrial products and services, as evidenced in our
 impact case studies.

 Research Integrity
 EDA nurtures a strong culture of research integrity. The fundamentals of research ethics are
 reinforced annually through information sessions for all staff, together with dedicated training
 sessions for PGR students. EDA’s Research Ethics and Governance Officer is responsible for
 providing advice and guidance for academic staff as they develop research projects. The School
 has a robust ethics approval process that guarantees rigorous and timely review. The School is a
 member of the Research Ethics and Governance Committee. Alongside a formal reporting and
 accountability function, this Committee is an important venue for sharing best practice and
 addressing difficult cases, while also providing external ethics reviews for large grant applications.
 The University’s Research Ethics and Governance Manager works within this framework to
 provide advice and to share knowledge on emerging best practice. We have also developed a
 legally compliant infrastructure for collecting and sharing research data, including data that
 contains personal information as defined in GDPR. Together, these procedures drive a proactive
 culture of research integrity that combines a strong knowledge base with a rigorous, timely, and
 well-supported administrative process.

 Open Research
 EDA is fully committed to open research, and is supported by the University to achieve Gold rather
 than Green Open Access (for further information, see REF5a). Through the University’s Research
 and Innovation Services team, as well as the Office for Scholarly Communication, all members of
 staff in EDA have benefited in the REF2021 period from dedicated training opportunities on Open
 Access, research metrics, dissemination planning, and copyright.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 Our staffing strategy is to recruit, develop, and retain high-quality researchers, focusing on areas
 where we can build critical mass and increase visibility, and appointing early career researchers
 (ECRs) whenever possible in order to support the next generation of research leaders in
 Engineering. Over the REF2021 period, we have strengthened established areas of research
 excellence and invested in emerging areas (in particular, Mechanical Engineering), while
 maintaining strong succession planning. We have sought to: maintain appropriate growth and
 balance in our staff numbers; focus on recruiting and nurturing highly skilled ECRs; support and
 develop the potential and capabilities of all our staff; and ensure our environment is conducive to
 international quality research. During the REF period, we have appointed six new staff to existing

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 groups and two additional staff to our new Mechanical Engineering research group. Additionally,
 two new technical posts have been created to support Mechanical Engineering. We have focused
 on building a strong network of talented ECRs in order to recognise new talent and ensure a
 vibrant and sustainable research culture. Of the eight new staff appointed during the REF2021
 period, six had not previously held established academic positions.

 While our academic recruitment strategy focuses on building our strength in the School’s research
 groups, we also seek to enable multidisciplinary connections. For example, the appointment of
 Hossain (2018) and L. Wang (2018) aligned with our succession planning strategy for the IC group,
 while their work on sensors, computer vision, and deep learning helped to strengthen connections
 across all the research groups. The II group recruited Von Jungenfeld (2016) and Covaci (2018)
 to build links between research on human-machine interaction, AI, and mechanical engineering.
 The appointments of Assimakopoulos (2019) and Horne (2020) complemented the strengths of
 the Communications group through their expertise on smart antenna technologies for wireless
 communications.

 Staff Development
 The EDA staff development process is designed to create an open, inclusive, and supportive
 working environment. We look to develop the potential and capabilities of all our staff through a
 range of development opportunities, including:

    •   A supportive and rigorous probation procedure.
    •   One-to-one mentoring for new staff. Annual individual research planning (IRP) and
        performance development (‘Reflect, Plan, Develop’) reviews.
    •   Transparent and equitable time management through our work allocation model (WAM).
    •   A supportive peer-review system.
    •   Inclusive platforms and events for knowledge sharing.
    •   Internal funding for travel and conference attendance.
    •   Flexible and family-friendly working patterns.

 The School is a vibrant and supportive workplace with a strong culture of celebrating successes.
 We actively seek ‘good news’ stories about our staff and students, and we publicise achievements
 through the School website, social media, and on public display screens within the School.

 Probation and support for ECRs. All new staff are required to undertake a rigorous and supportive
 three-year probation process. ECRs are assigned a mentor from among the senior staff for the
 duration of their probationary period and are actively supported to plan their short- and long-term
 career, with a view to achieving promotion within five years of appointment. New staff are given a
 reduced teaching load (a 50% reduction in year 1; 25% in year 2), as well as significantly reduced
 administrative duties. Additional support is provided to our ECRs through the integration of the
 various training development mechanisms with opportunities to network and share best practice
 across the institution. ECRs have priority for the allocation of internally and externally funded PhD
 studentships, and at least one studentship has been allocated to each of our ECR in recent years.
 ECRs who are new to PhD supervision are mentored by more experienced supervisors and are
 encouraged to join PhD supervisory teams to help with their development as independent
 research supervisors. The School also supports ECRs by funding six additional months of PDRA
 time for New Investigator Award winners, attaching PhD studentships to most successful funding
 proposals and providing additional travel support for attending conferences and other networking
 activities.

 Appraisal and career development. The School undertakes an annual appraisal process with each
 staff member, conducted by a senior academic and complementing the School’s Individual
 Research Planning (IRP) process (see below), and the University’s ‘Reflect, Plan, Develop’ (RPD)
 process. The RPD serves the purpose of identifying the needs of each member of staff, including
 training, pathways to promotion, and career development. For staff at an early stage of their
 academic careers, the School has fully embraced the Concordat to Support the Career

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development of Researchers to ensure holistic support for our ECRs. The RPD and IRP
 processes provide staff with mentoring and support to help disseminate research and maximise
 impact, and ensure that resources are targeted appropriately and effectively. The career
 development needs of more established academic staff are also identified through the annual
 appraisal and IRP processes. These annual reviews are monitored by the Head of School and the
 Heads of the research groups, to ensure that individual staff are supported and encouraged, and
 that their research fits the strategic direction of the unit. Staff development needs, career guidance,
 and training are also supported at University level through its Staff Development Policy (see
 REF5a).

 Promotion and reward. The School Promotions Committee takes a proactive approach to the
 career development of our staff, identifying potential candidates early in the annual promotion
 cycle and encouraging and assisting them in their applications. This has resulted in considerable
 success in career development for our staff since REF2014, with five promotions to Senior
 Lecturer, three to Reader, and four to Professor. Promotion to Reader and Professor requires
 evidence of international research reputation, supported by objective criteria and external support.
 Final decisions on promotions are made by the University Promotions Committee, chaired by the
 Vice-Chancellor, with supportive written feedback provided to all applicants. Since 2014, a number
 of our research students and Research Associates have secured academic positions, either within
 the School (four) or elsewhere (eight). The School has also attracted a large number of highly
 qualified overseas Visiting Scholars and research students over the REF period, and we will
 continue to make use of the advice and input of our Visiting Scholars in the development of high-
 quality outputs.

 Supporting funding applications. In line with University policy, the School has a strongly supportive
 internal peer-review process to help our staff produce high-quality grant proposals, with particular
 mentoring and reviewing assigned to UKRI New Investigator awards. Additionally, frequent
 internal workshops and staff forums are organised on the preparation of high-quality applications
 by senior academics with extensive experience of success in funding applications. The
 University’s Graduate and Researcher College also runs a regular Grants Factory programme for
 staff applying for research funding, and this includes regular mock panels to provide feedback to
 less-experienced staff on how to write strong applications. The University also provides funding to
 pump-prime research and innovation projects on a competitive basis, the allocation of these funds
 prioritising ECRs. In the REF2021 period, staff in EDA were successful in obtaining these funds
 on several occations; for example, Von Jungenfeld’s work on interactive projections on the
 Gulbenkian façade (£5,350) and Covaci’s work on multisensory stimulation for masking quality
 degradation (£3,867).

 Workload allocation. The School workload allocation model (WAM) is designed to provide support
 for research, with an additional 10% of research time over and above the time allocated to the
 project to any project investigator. This serves to both reward any successful proposal investigator
 and to release time for them to devote to the preparation of further project proposals.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusivity
 EDA is committed to incorporating the principles of equality and diversity in every aspect of our
 recruitment and promotion processes, working patterns, teaching, and research. All our staff are
 required to undertake equality and diversity training on, for example, unconscious bias awareness
 and diversity and inclusion in Higher Education. The School is actively engaged in the University’s
 Equality Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) Network, and is represented on the forum by our EDI
 representative (Deravi). The School has established its own EDI Committee to ensure that EDI
 principles are embedded in all of our activities. We were particularly proud to have won the
 Workplace of the Year award at the Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Awards
 (THELMAs) in 2018. The award recognised the creation of a bespoke EDI participatory calendar
 focused on the theme of identity, culture, and celebration to recognise numerous important issues
 and events such as International Women’s Day, LGBT History Month, Chinese New Year, and
 Mental Health Awareness.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gender equality. In recognition of its achievements in working towards gender equality, EDA
 secured an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2015, and this was renewed in 2018. We are now
 preparing an application for a Silver Award. The School takes proactive steps to ensure that female
 colleagues are represented in all areas of School governance, including appointment and
 promotion panels.

 Working patterns. The School prides itself on being an open, fair, and democratic workplace.
 Workloads are allocated on a transparent basis, with a WAM that includes credit for a range of
 activities, including leadership roles and PGR supervision. We very much appreciate that staff
 need to balance often conflicting demands with regards to teaching, research, and personal lives,
 and we look to ensure a good work/life balance for all our staff. We embrace family-friendly
 policies, including flexible working and the potential for job sharing. We follow the University’s
 policies concerning support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave
 (including parental leave) or ill health, or with caring responsibilities.

 In preparing our submission to REF2021, all staff directly involved in the submission, including the
 Unit’s REF Working Group members and the REF Coordinator, were required to undertake
 additional EDI training as part of Kent’s Code of Practice. Furthermore, we ensured that all staff
 were able to participate in the process of output selection, encouraging staff to propose which
 outputs they would like to have considered for submission and ensuring as fair a balance as
 possible in the final selection.

 Research Students
 Recruitment. Our PhD programmes attract high-quality applicants that reflect and enhance the
 School’s research environment. We have been successful in our strategy to grow our
 postgraduate research student (PGR) population, with an increase in student numbers of 25%
 over the REF2021 assessment period, our current cohort being 50 PGRs. To support more PGR
 scholarships, our focus has been to work with industry in order to explore new partnerships and
 funding (see Section 4). Academic staff are encouraged to apply for large external funding (e.g.,
 EU/EPSRC), making it possible for the School to support PhD scholarships either as part of the
 award or through School funds. Awards which have been supported by PhD studentships include
 5G-DRIVE, AMBER and PriMa (EU), and Multisense (EPSRC). To enable for the creation of more
 studentships, external funds have, on occasion, been combined with internal match-funding
 through University scholarships. School and University policy is to offer 50% funding for
 studentships that are match-funded by industry, together with several fully funded industrial
 studentships.

 Training and supervision. The training and management of our PGRs is led by the School Director
 of Graduate Studies and our School Graduate Studies Committee. Support for research students
 is well resourced, and includes both personal direction and group support. The Graduate and
 Researcher College (formerly the Graduate School) provides a formal Researcher Development
 Programme for all PGRs and RAs. This is delivered partly at University level (transferable skills)
 and partly through the School’s specialist training programme. Each PGR is supervised by a
 supervisory panel consisting of first and second supervisors and a supervisory chair. Newly
 appointed early career staff are trained in research supervision and associated student care. All
 PGRs attend regular research seminars organised by each research group, give internal seminars
 at least once a year, and attend the biennial School research conferences. Each student is
 financially supported by the School to participate in at least one major international conference
 over their registration period. Students benefit greatly from increasing numbers of international
 visitors to the School, broadening their horizons and enhancing opportunities for cross-topic
 discussion.

 The University has implemented a robust progress monitoring system. Each student must have
 an induction review at the end of the first month of their registration, a probation review by the end
 of the tenth month of registration, and a review at the end of years two and three. In the writing-
 up year, students may request an extension from a few months to one year. Only under
 exceptional circumstances is an extension given for more than one year. Progress is monitored

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with assistance from the institutional Student Data System, which sends email reminders to
 students and supervisors of deadlines for submission of reports and outcomes of assessments.
 This high-quality support, combined with a rigorous first-year evaluation, helps to ensure excellent
 progress for the great majority of our PGRs, and our completion rates are excellent.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 Since REF2014, the School has been very successful in increasing the income it has received
 from its research activity, income having almost doubled: from £1,135,993 in 2013-14 to
 £1,943,171 in 2019-20. This has been achieved through an increase in the cumulative value of
 both grant applications and awards since 2013-14. In 2016-17, the value of the School’s share of
 awards from externally funded competitive sources reached £3.1 million – the highest annual
 figure on record for the School. The awards we received throughout the REF2021 period have
 come from a varied portfolio of funding sources, ranging from standard research funders –
 research councils (EPSRC, ESRC, AHRC), EU, Innovate UK, DSTL, and Newton Fund – to direct
 industrial funding, including Huawei, Leonardo, and KROHNE Ltd. We have set ourselves new
 and ambitious income targets for the next five years, with a view to achieving £3 million per annum
 by 2023, with incremental increases thereafter. These targets will help to ensure the sustainability
 of our research, as well as our standing in the field.

 The School also has a good record of innovation grant applications and awards from a portfolio of
 industrial and business contacts. Since 2014, we have worked with more than 50 regional,
 national, and international industrial organisations in consultancy, postgraduate studentships,
 KTPs, and other forms of collaborative projects (see Section 4). The School will continue to
 actively engage with industry-linked high-impact funding streams such as KTPs via Innovate UK
 and Keep+, as well as encouraging consultancy work.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 EDA resources a well-founded laboratory infrastructure across its three established research
 groups, concentrating investment in both its leading and its niche experimental areas. During the
 REF2021 period, the Communications group significantly enhanced its experimental laboratories.
 Benefiting from a combination of EU funding (5G-DRIVE) and University support, we have
 invested £55k in a new SDR-based MIMO testbed to assist our theoretical work on massive, multi-
 user, and distributed MIMO schemes. An Ethernet fronthaul testbed, with high-performance
 FPGAs, switches, servers, precision time measurement, hardware and virtual probes, to a total
 value of £100k, has been built using EU/UK funding (iCIRRUS, NIRVANA, 5G-DRIVE), University
 funds, and in-kind support from VIAVI (£34k). Our microwave photonics work has benefited from
 a new optical wireless transmission testbed, including new laser sources, spatial light modulator,
 high-speed photodetector, and free-space optics, which has been supported by EU/UK funding
 (Marie Curie CIG, Royal Society, Catapult RiR). In our antennas laboratory, in-house 3D printing
 equipment for the manufacture of antennas and frequency selective surfaces has been developed
 through Royal Society funding (£15k), and a £20k upgraded RFID system was developed in 2017.

 For the Instrumentation and Control group, a state-of-the-art slurry flow test-rig was constructed
 with support from industrial partners KROHNE Ltd. During the REF period, the instrumentation
 laboratory has seen an investment of £22k in a high-speed camera and fibre-optic imaging for its
 flame research activities, including a significant portion directly from the University. The IC group
 also maintains a long-term working relationship with power-generation organisations, which
 provide access to industrial-scale combustion test facilities and full-scale power plants. For the
 Intelligent Interactions group, a new virtual reality laboratory funded by Santander (£10k) was
 established in 2020. To support biometrics usability research, the group benefited from a flexible
 image and data acquisition and processing facility, supported directly from University QR funds
 (£10k) in 2018.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the REF2021 period, the University committed to a £3 million modernisation programme to
 develop a new Engineering and Design Hub, providing a multi-purpose design studio, heavy and
 light machinery workshops, maker space/skills centre, and modern production facilities. State-of-
 the-art facilities include material testing machines, CNC and 3D printing machines, wind tunnel,
 collaborative robots, and a dedicated makerspace. The Hub provides extensive technical support
 facilities and also enables complementary activities that will enhance research activity across all
 of our research groups.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research Collaborations, Networks, and Partnerships
 EDA has a well-established track record of successfully collaborations with industrial partners
 regionally, nationally, and internationally, as well as with a range of academic institutions
 worldwide. We are well-connected to multiple European academic and industrial communities,
 and we also maintain strong connections in China and the US, which will help to minimise the
 impact of Brexit on our research income. There has been a significant increase in KTP awards
 since 2017, and we are now collaborating in projects with Dyrhoff Ltd, KROHNE Ltd, PlanSnap
 Ltd, and Shearwater Systems Ltd. Since 2014, our staff have undertaken consultancy work for a
 range of companies, including Applied Nanodetectors Ltd, Centre for Process Innovation Ltd,
 Cobham CTS Ltd, Doosan Babcock Ltd, Emmerich Ltd, Givaudan UK Ltd, Haag-Streit UK Ltd,
 Megger Instruments Ltd, Smilepass Ltd, Vislink PLC, and Worldwide Fruit Ltd. The School is linked
 to three active spin-out companies: Metrarc Ltd (Howells); GreenTech Automation Ltd (Y. Yan and
 Lu); and Evidentia Ltd (Batchelor and Horne).

 In the field of 5G and beyond mobile networks, the Communications group has collaborated with
 a number of overseas universities, including Southeast University, Xidian University, and City
 University of Hong Kong, producing four joint research projects funded by the Royal Society, EU
 Horizon 2020, and the Chinese Government, and 36 joint papers, including four outputs included
 in this REF submission. The group participated in the EU 5G-DRIVE project, which focused on
 early 5G trials and the lessons that can be learnt, and is twinned with a China Mobile-led trials
 project. This has resulted in joint publications with partners from both projects, including the
 University of Surrey, VTT, OTE, Orange (PL), China Mobile, and Eurescom.

 The group has pioneered the proposal for the use of Ethernet in the fronthaul of future mobile
 networks in Europe, with Gomes leading two projects: iCIRRUS (Orange [France], ADVA, VIAVI,
 Interdigital, Telekom Slovenije, Primetel, Wellness Telecom, IAF GmbH, Fraunhofer-HHI,
 University of Essex); and NIRVANA (Kent/Essex, with industry support from BT, EE, VIAVI, NEC,
 among others). The iCIRRUS project liaised with other EU projects, and one of the results was a
 contribution on Ethernet fronthaul to the Wiley book on 5G, led by the EU 5G PPP projects.

 The Communications group is heavily involved in the integrated microwave photonics COST
 network, with Gomes being one of the two UK general committee members. Our participation in
 the EU-Japan RAPID-5G project on radio over fibre for millimetre-wave 5G resulted in joint work
 and publications with University Duisburg-Essen, Siklu, Exatel, Corning, and the Japan partners
 Hitachi, ENRI, Koden, and Osaka University. New international collaborations with the Chinese
 Academy of Sciences, Tianjin University (China), National Tsing Hua University (Taiwan), and
 McGill University (USA) were supported by three Royal Society International Exchange grants,
 leading to joint work and publications.

 Antennas work concerning the integration into printed and scaled-up manufacturing processes is
 carried out in collaboration with the High Value Manufacturing Catapult for Printed Electronics and
 CPI, making available roll-to-roll integration tools to create batch and roll-to-roll scaled-up
 demonstrators of wireless passive-sensing labels integrated with printable flexible polymer
 batteries at UHF and mmWave bands. The work is in partnership with the University of
 Manchester, Northwestern University Chicago, University Roma tor Vergata, Great Ormond Street
 Children’s Hospital, AgeUK, PragmatIC printing, Givaudan Ltd, NeuDrive, and DSTL. In the areas
 of space antennas and smart antennas, the group has collaborated with over 30 institutes and
                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 companies across Europe, including Airbus UK, Airbus France, German Aerospace Agency, IHP
 Microelectronics, Germany, University of Calabria, Italy, Institute of Telecommunications,
 Portugal, KU Leuven, Belgium, TU Graz Austria, University of Warwick, University of
 Southampton, and University of Sheffield. The collaboration has been centred around several
 multi-disciplinary projects funded by the EU and EPSRC (GaNSat, DIFFERENT, WISDOM, LN
 Tunable, LPUWB). The projects led to many innovative concepts and the development of
 antennas for applications in space and terrestrial mobile communications, partly summarised in
 an invited paper in the Proceedings of the IEEE (March 2018). For example, the WISDOM project
 led to the first 3D-printed high-gain wideband Fabry-Perot antenna at 140 GHz. The DIFFERENT
 project led to the development of the first Ka/X dual-band digital beamforming synthetic aperture
 radar for space-borne earth observation. Results of DIFFERENT have been exploited by DLR
 Germany for the development of a new radar demonstrator for future missions, including NASA’s
 NISAR Mission and ESA’s Rose-L Mission. The group has also collaborated with ESIGELEC,
 GreenSysTech, Intrinsiq materials and the University of Surrey on two EU-funded Interreg projects
 (HOMES and SURFAS), both on printed electronics for smart antennas and surfaces for future
 mm-wave systems. This has resulted in a number of joint publications. A novel calibration
 technique for mmWave and THz measurements has been developed and published with the UK’s
 National Physical Laboratory. The group has recently been awarded funds from the Royal Society
 International Exchanges cost share scheme to collaborate with the Beijing University of Post and
 Telecommunications on the development of 3D printed dielectric resonator antennas (DRA) for
 5G millimetre wave applications and beyond.

 The IC group has established strong partnerships with leading power-generation and associate
 service organisations, including EDF Energy, British Sugar, Doosan Babcock, RJM International,
 Moneypoint Power Station (Ireland), Enlanda Instrumentation, and Walsn Energy Ltd, through
 projects funded by Innovate UK, BF2RA (Biomass and Fossil Fuel Research Alliance), and
 UKCCSRC, as well as industrial consultancy and studentships. Close interactions with industrial
 partners have influenced the IC group’s research direction and strategy, as evidenced in our
 impact case study (Y. Yan et al.). Other examples of this include our collaboration with EDF Energy
 and British Sugar to develop a smart technology for the flexible operation of biomass/fossil fuel-
 fired power plants since 2015. We also work closely with industrial firms locally and nationally
 through KTP programmes funded by Innovate UK. For example, as a result of a recently
 completed KTP project with KROHNE Ltd, the IC group developed a new series of smart
 multiphase flow meters, using Coriolis flow meters incorporating soft computing algorithms. In an
 ongoing KTP project, the IC group is working with DYRHOFF Ltd to achieve smart condition
 monitoring of large-scale inflatable rubber dams for hydraulic power and other industries. The IC
 Group has also been working with RoseMedical in the development of electronic devices for
 medical diagnosis in speech-swallowing therapy. Collaboration with Haag-Streit UK, a
 manufacturer of medical instruments, has led to the development of a digital version of their
 tonometer – an instrument that measures internal eye pressure.

 The II group has developed excellent collaborative project teams with institutions nationally and
 internationally. Ongoing contacts include BT, threeUK, GlobalSign, KeyTalk, Ericsson,
 TrendMicro, BAEsystems, Chelmsford, Apurba Inc., and Ames Grid Services. There is also a
 strong research relationship with the East Kent Hospitals University Foundation Trust (EKHUFT),
 which has directly collaborated with us on several research projects. The group’s biometric privacy
 work is carried out in partnership with the universities of Twente (Netherlands), Oslo (Norway),
 Würzburg (Germany), and Leuven (Belgium), whilst our mobile biometric work is a direct
 collaboration with UAM (Spain), UniRoma3 (Italy), University of Magdeburg (Germany), and WUT
 (Poland). In the area of human/computer interaction, we continue to collaborate with the University
 of Southampton and IBM. In the area of human/computer decision making, there has also been
 significant work with collaborators in Georgia Tech to push the boundary of wearable technology.
 New skin-like flexible sensors have been developed, powered by machine learning, for Dysphagia
 therapy, brain–machine interaction for wheelchair control, and VR eye-tracking for ocular disorder
 therapy. The group has benefited from PhD studentship funding from CallSign Ltd and
 GCHQ/NCSC in the areas of novel swipe interaction authentication and performance evaluation,
 respectively. We have also undertaken mobile device work on forensic knuckle identification with

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Purdue (US) and Lancaster universities. Through our role in the European Association for
 Biometrics, we have delivered training courses to over 70 organisations, including police forces,
 border agencies, industry, and other academic organisations. We continue to work with Ingenium
 Biometrics Labs (a team of consultants to the Cabinet Office), with whom we plan to develop
 Europe’s first FIDO Alliance-certified biometrics testing facility with Ingenium biometrics by 2021.

 The Mechanical Engineering team, which is currently in the process of being established, already
 benefits from strong research collaboration with Rolls-Royce, London Array, Network Rail, EDF,
 Babcock International, TWI, Siemens, and Vattenfall.

 To build and support all of these relationships and networks over the REF2021 period, 18
 members of the School have either chaired or been programme committee members for over 60
 conferences or events, of which 32 were IEEE.

 Contributions to, and Recognition by, the Research Base
 EDA staff play an important international disciplinary leadership role, demonstrated by the range
 of indicators of influence, contributions to, and recognition by, the research base. Over the
 REF2021 period, our staff have either organised or served as session chairs at 106 events.
 Nineteen members of staff have been invited to engage through 98 presentations and guest
 lectures, 53 of which were overseas. Six members have served on national and international
 committees (UK Government, EU, etc.), or given evidence as expert witnesses. For example,
 Guest was appointed by the Home Secretary (through a competitive process) as a member of the
 UK Home Office’s Biometric and Forensics Ethics Group (BFEG), an independent group of 10
 leading multidisciplinary experts providing advice to Government on issues of biometric and
 forensic data-use and systems implementation.

 The following examples illustrate how members of the School have contributed to, and been
 recognised by, their research base over the REF2021 period:

 Expert panel member/witness. J. Wang: Selection Committee, Royal Academy of Engineering;
 Gao: Panel member of Award Committee, IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society; Guest:
 evidence given to UK Parliamentary Science and Technology Select Committee, and member of
 UK Government Home Office Biometrics and Forensics Ethics Group; Deravi/Guest: Principal UK
 Expert to ISO/IEC JTC1 SC37 WG2/WG3; Gomes: expert on British Standards Institute committee
 EPL/103.

 Learned societies or professional bodies. Y. Yan: Council Member of International Flame
 Research Foundation (IFRF), and member of the Executive Committee of the Fuel and Energy
 Research Forum (FERF); Guest: Chair of BSI IST/44 WG2; Shafiee: Institution of Mechanical
 Engineers (IMechE), UK Manufacturing Advisory Committee (MAC), RenewableUK, EERA JP
 Wind, and European Safety and Reliability Association (ESRA); Gao: UK Representative in
 European Association on Antennas and Propagation.

 Conference programme chairs. Ang: Co-Chair, INTERACT 2019; C. Wang: Co-Chair of OGC
 2019; Efstratiou: Chair of WristSense 2015, 2016, 2017; Batchelor: organiser, IET Symposium on
 Wideband Antennas; J. Wang: Executive Chair, and Gomes, TPC Chair: IEEE ICC 2015;
 Sirlantzis: Chair, CareTech, 2015; and Howells: Co-Chair, EST 2014, 2015, 2017.

 Invited keynote lectures. Gao: ConTEL, 2019; Gomes: EEE MWP Topical Meeting workshop on
 MWP for 5G, Optical Fiber Communications conference, 2016; X. Yan: TCCT Workshop on
 Modelling, Control and Applications; Y. Yan: 3rd Clean Coal Technology (CCT), 2014, IEEE
 SCOReD, 2016, IEEE CASS, 2017, IEEE ISCTE-IUL, 2018, 40th Annual Congress of China
 Instrument and Control Society, 2019, ISTM, 2019.

 Fellowships. FREng (J. Wang. Y Yan); FIEEE (Gao, J. Wang, Y. Yan); FIET (Batchelor, Deravi,
 Gao, Gomes, Howells, J. Wang, Y. Yan); FInstP (Y. Yan); FInstMC (Y. Yan); FBCS (Guest).


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Journal editorships. Measurement, Measurement: Sensors, Flow Measurement and
 Instrumentation, Industrial Combustion Journal, IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and
 Measurement (Y. Yan); IEEE Photonics Technology Letters (C. Wang); IEEE Access (Hossain);
 IET Electronic Letters (Gao, Young); IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, Radio
 Science, Chinese Journal of Electronics, Chinese Journal of Radio Science (Gao); SCIENCE
 CHINA Information Sciences, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology (Zhu); Research in
 Applied Mathematics (X. Yan); Journal of Advanced Intelligence Paradigms (Sirlantzis); Journal
 of Forensic Document Examination (Guest).

 Awards, prizes, and other indications of recognition. Ang: Best Paper, Georgia Tech BioEnginering
 2020; Y. Yan: Gold Medal for the most published author of all time from the UK by IEEE
 Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement 2020, Best Application Award at IEEE
 I2MTC2017, Best Paper Award at IEEE I2MTC 2016; Von Jungenfeld: Lumen Prize BCS in AI
 2019, Best Paper EvoMUSART 2015; Sans-Izquierdo: Best Contributions to the 4th IET Enterprise
 Workshop; Marcelli: Best Paper, 5th International Conference of the Financial Engineering and
 Banking Society, Banking, Financial Markets, Risk and Financial Vulnerability; Gao: Distinguished
 Lecturer of IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society, 2016, IET Premium Award for Best Paper in
 IET Microwave, Antennas and Propagation; Y. Yan: Distinguished Lecturer, IEEE Instrumentation
 and Measurement Society.

 Contribution to the Wider Economy and Society
 Staff in EDA are outward-facing in approach and seek to engage the wider public in our research
 wherever possible. For example, several members of staff have undertaken media activities,
 including Batchelor, who has appeared on BBC Radio 4 Costing the Earth; Guest, who has been
 interviewed for The Register, the Sunday Times, BBC News and CityAM; and Ang, who has
 appeared on the BBC World Service and been interviewed in the Telegraph, together with
 numerous interviews in specialised trade publications.

 The School prides itself on its responsiveness to national and international priorities, and to
 emerging engineering challenges. We seek to involve a variety of relevant stakeholders at the
 heart of our research activities. Many projects involve collaboration with stakeholders in the public
 sector, especially with the NHS, Government departments, and the European Commission, as
 well as extensive ongoing partnerships with industry and the private sector. Examples of our
 contributions to industry, society, and the economy, nationally and internationally, are
 demonstrated in our impact case studies, and in the examples described in Section 1 and 4 above.
 The significance and range of the impact of our research has been underpinned by a strong record
 of interdisciplinarity and collaboration, and by our outward-facing, responsive approach. It is
 demonstrated by our increasing success in grant applications and awards, and it reflects our
 ongoing investment in resources, infrastructure, and development opportunities, and the high
 international standing of our staff.




                                                                                              Page 14
