Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Institution: Middlesex University

 Unit of Assessment: 33


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Mission and Overview
 Our mission is to provide outstanding leadership in creative practice leading to understandings of
 performance, music and screen works and their potential to transform lives. Spanning from the
 distinctly local to the international, our research strategy emphasises the production of high quality,
 multi-modal outputs and the building of strong partnerships, enhancing the impact in and of the
 creative industries on society.

 This strategy is manifest in our research outputs, which evidence the vitality of our research culture
 via the variety of modalities they encompass and the quality of our partners. These features are
 exemplified by three sector-leading, collaboratively curated events in 2019: ‘Beyond the Clouds –
 10 years of ArtsCross’ (with Beijing Dance Academy, Taipei National University of the Arts and
 Hong Kong Academy, alongside academics from Queen Mary University of London and University
 of Exeter); ‘Global Improvisation Initiative Symposium’ (with Global Improvisation Initiative,
 Improbable’s International Institute of Improvisation and University of California); and ‘Per/Forming
 Futures’ (with ADiE partnership) [see 1.4 & 4.1].

 1.2 Context and structures
 UoA33 at Middlesex University resides within the Faculty of Arts and Creative Industries (ACI),
 which resulted from the merger, in 2016, of the School of Art and Design with the School of Media
 and Performing Arts. Researchers in this submission are in the Department of Performing Arts
 and its disciplinary Directorates in Dance, Music and Theatre Arts, alongside researchers in the
 Departments of Media and Visual Arts. Research leadership, organisational structures, strategies
 and funding are Faculty-wide and cognate across Departments encompassing UoA 32, 33 and
 34.

 The Faculty’s research governance and structures reflect the strategic importance of research,
 promote research-led teaching, build capacity, and enhance its leadership and management. Prof
 Upton, Executive Dean and Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research, provides strategic leadership in
 ACI and across the University, supported in ACI by two Deputy Deans: Research and Knowledge
 Exchange [Igweonu] and Teaching and Learning [Hunter]. The structure ensures that research is
 an integrated feature of the Faculty strategy, and that the mutually interdependent links to
 teaching, knowledge exchange and impact are fully realised in ways that underpin the
 sustainability of our entire provision. The Deputy Dean for RKE works closely with the ACI Director
 of Research [Cobley UoA34] and Director of Research Degrees and Chair of Ethics review group
 [Midgelow] who together lead and facilitate research.

 At UoA level our research is organised via ResCen – Centre for Research into Creation in the
 Performing Arts, and internally/externally funded research groups/projects, facilitating
 inter/transdisciplinary research. These structures frame/are integral to our five areas of research
 distinction, which are matrixed in approach [see 1.4]. ResCen, founded and directed by
 Bannerman has, since 1999, continuously provided leadership, researching arts processes,
 practices and contexts. In June 2019, the centre was significantly reorganised, having
 encompassed until this point the same core group of world-leading research fellows for 19 years.
 This reorganisation reflects changes in the nature of the sector whilst enabling a more direct focus
 on new research imperatives and partnerships that cohere around issues of identity/ies and
 diversity, as manifest in Middlesex Values and RCUK/Arts Council England policies, addressing
 artistic practices evolving in a post-Brexit context.


                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Realising our REF 2014 aims
 As detailed in REF2014, we have effectively integrated teaching, research and impact, as
 evidenced in our investments in specialist infrastructures and strategic partnerships. Synergies
 are also evident in new MA programmes that emerged from research specialisms in scriptwriting,
 theatre arts, dance pedagogy and somatics, with particular emphasis on practice research and
 professional practices respectively [see 3.2].

 Building on strengths in 2014, our engagements with stakeholders have been sustained and
 increased through (inter)national partnerships [see 1.4, 4.1, 4.2 & REF3] reaching beyond
 academia and including significant interactions with artists and audiences in community arts
 practice.

 Our commitment to interdisciplinary research means our research increasingly coheres around
 inter/transdisciplinary themes [see 1.4]. This thematic approach simultaneously develops
 established areas of research concentration and distinction while also enhancing our doctoral
 community enabling connectivity and cross-disciplinary supervision, both features that fulfill aims
 identified in REF2014. This approach is set to be further developed via the University 2031
 strategy [see 1.8].

 As noted in the REF2014 report, support for our researchers has increasingly been the focus
 of attention. Such support is now well-established and integrated across the Faculty with key
 developments including: a clear route to internal funding to enable practice research, data
 collection and dissemination, and an extensive training programme, targeting PGR and ECRs [see
 2.2 and 2.3].

 We aimed to increase our research funding and have had notable successes with EU, ACE,
 British Council and trusts/foundations [see 3.1], yet RC funding remains a challenge. Addressing
 this, we established internal review processes, supported by our AHRC college members, and
 refreshed our ‘Researcher Development Programme’, including ‘Bid Writing Groups’ to improve
 our application/success rate and follow-on research capacity. Current applications suggest this
 approach will see successes in the coming years [see 2.2].

 1.4. Research Leadership and Distinction
 Our research strengths continue to be located in the practice-oriented and collaborative nature
 of our work. These features characterise our approach while simultaneously being the subject of
 our research, establishing communities of research practice, resulting in paradigm shifts in
 practice and discourse.

 To elaborate, our practice-oriented submission encompasses nuanced approaches within and
 across disciplines. Impett considers artistic research at a generational stage of development and
 has nurtured ethical understandings and practices in relation to musical projects, investigating
 relations between epistemology of music and its cultural consciousness (Artistic Research in
 Music). Midgelow has proposed methodologies, explicating embodied ways of knowing in and as
 research (in Dance Studies Handbook), devising the novel ‘Creative Articulations Process’.
 Akinelye has articulated approaches through which movement can be used as a source to
 generate and make visible narratives, activating personal experience through movement. Dwyer,
 Bannerman and formerly Miller have manifest acts of performance as research, foregrounding the
 little-discussed knowings of performers as researchers in improvised music (The Blue Shroud),
 dance performance by elders (Elixir Ensemble) and exploring location (Counterpointer)
 respectively.

 Our long history of collaboration is clear in our substantive research partnerships and outputs.
 Reaching inter/nationally we formed sustained partnerships with: Venues/professional
 organisations (e.g. Compagnie L’Instant Même, Improbable, International Institute for
 Improvisation, Dance4, Kiasma National Museum, LADA, Kings Place, Royal National Scottish
 Orchestra, Sadler’s Wells, One Dance UK, Dance Umbrella, Complicité, Turner Contemporary,
 V&A Museum of Childhood, Royal Academy of Arts); other Universities/educational institutions

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e.g. Beijing Dance Academy, Taipei National University of the Arts, Hong Kong Academy for the
 Performing Arts, UFBA, UNICAMP, UniArts Stockholm, UniArts Finland, Academy of Arts Novi
 Sad, Serbia) and local communities and councils (e.g. Newham, Barnet).

 We also lead discourse on collaboration, with Sachsenmaier’s co-curated events and edited
 collection (2016) which features Middlesex researchers De Senna, Melrose, Kolb, addressing the
 nature and politics of collaborative practices.

 Within this twofold umbrella of practice and collaboration we have advanced five, often interwoven,
 areas of research distinction:

 East Asia-UK inter/transcultural dialogues
 ResCen, led by Bannerman, with Midgelow, Sachsenmaier and previously Kolb, Johansson, has
 developed ArtsCross as a site for questions of history, translation and intercultural meaning-
 making. This flagship collaboration with Beijing Dance Academy, TNUA and Hong Kong Academy
 for the Performing Arts, alongside academics at Queen Mary University of London and University
 of Exeter, has given rise to intercultural practices and insights, manifest in a journal special issue
 (2017), ‘Shift of Balance’ (2015-17) and ‘Beyond the Clouds’ (2019), which generated eight dance
 works and research presentations/publications.

 Creative practice and process
 Initiated through ResCen and supported by research groups, our work in this area has a long
 history and encompasses all disciplines, incorporating the analysis and making of practice, with
 performance/screenings across the UK and internationally, including venues in Belgium, Brazil,
 Germany, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Poland, Ireland, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan and USA.

 In music, significant developments have taken place in the areas of composition and performance
 and includes Fribbins, Dwyer, Impett, Keegan-Bole and former staff Wallen. Fribbins’ Violin
 Concerto has been performed with soloist Phillipe Graffin and numerous major orchestras
 including the English Chamber Orchestra; the Berlin Kammersymphonie; and the Royal Scottish
 National Orchestra, who recorded the Concerto for the Resonus record label. Dwyer’s
 compositions have been released on the Diatribe and Farpoint record labels including his
 Umbilical, Scenes from Crow, KnowingUnknowing with Middlesex colleagues/PhD candidates
 dancer Kindred and filmmaker Gomes, and what is the word, which was premiered at the New
 Music Dublin contemporary music festival in 2019. Impett’s work, combining live performance with
 electronic and visual media, is deeply rooted in his multiple perspectives as an historically-
 informed trumpet player, his theoretical research and his contemporary hybrid approach to
 composition, with performances throughout Europe. Wallen’s innovative opera ANON (2014)
 contemporises Manon Lescaut by focusing on people trafficking using text contributed by
 Birmingham sex workers and teenagers.

 Musicological research at Middlesex casts a wide net. Dack has published extensively on sonic
 arts. Impett published the extensive Luigi Nono and Musical Thought, the first major study about
 this leading composer. Palermo investigates British composer and inventor Hugh Davies. Dwyer’s
 publication, Britten and the Guitar, emerges out of his practice as a performing classical guitarist
 while his Different Voices is an overview of the development of classical music in Ireland through
 a postcolonial lens. Again within the context of postcolonial theory and identity, Inglis has written
 on the life and work of composer Kaikhosru Sorabji.

 Making important contributions to creative practice in the field of dance and somatics, Akinleye,
 leading our Dance and Choreography research group, has curated a successful series of
 somatically focused conferences (2016, 2018 & 2019), expanding somatics to reveal Black, queer,
 and feminist perspectives, leading to the special issue, ‘Wright-ing the Somatic’, Journal of Dance
 and Somatic Practices. Akinleye also edited Narratives in British Black Dance (Palgrave 2018) –
 widening conceptions of what British Black dance looks like, where it appears, and who is involved
 in its creation.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Exploring modes of creation and differing relationships to history and culture, Main curated
 ‘Transmissions: A Performance symposium’ (Dec 2014), leading to an edited book (Palgrave
 2017) including chapters from Salgado Llopis and Sachsenmaier. This work extends her
 contribution to the field of restagings. Woodhouse & Sandiland worked with Wollaton Hall,
 Nottingham, reimagining spaces and objects though an installation of dance video miniatures.
 Former staff Butcher curated two retrospectives of her work alongside revivals and new
 choreographies in partnership with Dance4 and Tanz im August/Akademie der Künste; and
 Jeyasingh created a radical reimagining, Bayadère – The Ninth Life, interrogating the Eurocentric
 representation of the bayadère temple dancer (The Lowry & Sadler’s Wells 2017).

 In Theatre and Performance and the Directing and Dramaturgy group (led by de Senna)
 Machon works closely with Coney, Kit Theatre, Lundahl & Seitl and Punchdrunk, authoring
 numerous articles/chapters and The Punchdrunk Encyclopaedia, an innovative and definitive
 articulation of the company’s creative practice and history (Routledge 2018). Igweonu, leading
 author on African and Black British theatre, reveals the work of Talawa Theatre Company (2014,
 2015, 2016), while Beale’s monograph looks to women’s history, using extensive archival material
 to examine the significance of their previously overlooked contributions to British comic traditions
 (Palgrave 2020).

 Researching through practice, Diedrich’s My Heart, My Heart: Live Poetry Jukebox (2017) used
 innovative methods to create intimate and personalised experiences. Bacon’s work, located in
 performance art and phenomenology, focuses on body art, conceiving a multiplicity of Self/s.
 Artistic director of ‘Tempting Failure, the London Biennial of International Performance Art’, Bacon
 curates sonic/noise art alongside transgressive performance art practices. As a core member of
 Live Art UK, ‘Tempting Failure’, since 2014, has also been permanently archived at the British
 Library. We also have group of director/scriptwriters; Charlton, Cottis, de Senna and Kenworth
 whose work also aligns with developments in creative writing (UoA34).

 Crossovers with the TV and Film Group (led by Kerr UoA34) supports researchers working
 in/through digital practices. Sandiland, Bendon and Moar explore digital modes to create
 audience experiences that challenge or enhance perceptions, with Moar testing 360 video in
 relation to narrative, and Bendon (2015) and Sandiland (2017) creating audio tour/location apps.
 Lukic (2019) uses film to revisit histories – interrogating traditional Holocaust research through
 experimental research practice including rephotography and split-screen, while Thompson’s book,
 Film Light: Meaning and Emotion (Manchester UP 2015), considers the way light informs the
 cinematic experience.

 Improvisation
 Concerned with the discourse, practices and politics of improvisation within and beyond the
 performing arts, researchers in this grouping include: Dwyer, Midgelow, Impett, Machon and PhD
 candidates Kindred, Vesty, Gomes and Zhao. Debates have been collectively activated via our
 Transdisciplinary Improvisation Network (TIN), launched in 2015 by a research
 intensive/symposium with Julyen Hamilton and Billie Hanne, leading to the journal special issue
 ‘Words and Dance’, Choreographic Practices (2017). We have convened two international
 conferences – ‘What’s in a Name?’ (2015) & ‘Global Improvisation Initiative Symposium’ with the
 Global Improvisation Initiative (GII) (2019). The GII partnership supports the Annual Summer
 Academy, informing Machon’s research on Improbable Theatre and participatory
 improvisation. Dwyer has devised distinct methodologies from historically-informed performance,
 extended techniques and improvised-compositional processes and collaborated to generate
 improvised music/dance/film works. In dance, Midgelow’s large, edited collection, the Oxford
 Handbook on Improvisation in Dance (OUP 2019), expands the field, encompassing practices
 across dance forms/contexts. This, alongside other publications by this research grouping,
 articulates the aesthetic, epistemic and methodological features of improvisatory forms.

 Socially Engaged research
 A significant area of growth are research enquiries into arts practice as social intervention, and we
 seek to enhance this further in the light of the new University strategy [1.8]. These include

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigations of politics and conflict [Hussein, Sachsenmaier, Beale, and formerly Kolb and
 Johansson], disability and aging [De Senna, Bannerman and formerly Layzell, Lee], and
 supporting community engagement and pedagogy [Akinelye, Charlton, De Senna, Lee, Harris,
 Hunter and Kenworth].

 Spearheading this research area, Performing Solidarity [Sachsenmaier, with Live Art
 Development Agency] has co-curated a series of panel discussions, and the Politicised Artistic
 Practices initiative [Hussein, Morariu (UoA32) and Sachsenmaier], critically exploring creative
 practices in view of their socio-political investment and impact.

 Considering theatre as practice for change, Diedrich co-developed the EU Creative Europe funded
 Instant Mix Theatre Lab Founding Project to produce the multilingual and multicultural theatre
 Global warming and how we do (not) respond to it (2016-17). Working in Palestine, Beale co-
 created Showtime from the Frontline, and former staff Johannson documented the work of
 Freedom Theatre (2018). De Senna used applied theatre with asylum-seeking minors in Greece
 (Conception, 2019). Hussein focuses on performance, politics and activism in relation to issues of
 agency, identity and belonging, co-editing ‘Cultural Practices/Resistant Acts’ for Contention, The
 Multidisciplinary Journal of Social Protest (2017).

 Celebrating the local, Harris, Kenworth and Charlton [ICS2], and formerly Lee, bring communities
 together through their research practices with a community garden in the centre of Lambeth’s
 Brockwell Park (2017-18), young people in Newham Borough, London (2014-19), and cross-
 generational cast in Milton Keynes (2014), respectively.

 Artistic research in doctoral education
 Initiated in 2016, Artistic Doctorates in Europe (ADiE, Erasmus+) led by Midgelow, with
 Sachsenmaier, Machon, Melrose, Akinleye, was developed with seven inter/national partners: UK
 – Chichester University and Dance4, Sweden – UniArts and Weld, and Finland – UniArts, Zodiak
 and Kiasma Museum. Investigating the experience and perceptions of candidates and
 stakeholders, ADiE generated case studies, addressed research methodologies and published
 best practice guidance. Impett’s innovative MOOC, ‘Artistic Research in Music’, with the
 Orpheus Institute, Ghent, elaborates epistemologies and enhances methodological insights, with
 particular emphasis on the development of research proposals. Impett also leads the ‘Feedback’
 strand of the ELIA Advancing Supervision project.

 1.5 Achieving and sustaining impact from our research
 As stated in 2014, our approach interweaves research and impact such that impacts arise in
 multidirectional, non-linear ways. Our aims have been to: produce research relevant to our
 identified core beneficiaries, namely, professional arts organisations, arts practitioners, young
 people, the public and (increasingly) policy makers and HE providers; define and respond to social
 and cultural issues; routinely involve stakeholders as partners in our work; and develop new
 researchers through internal funds and training to enhance and evidence their impactful research.

 The selected case studies demonstrate this approach to impact, reaching our target beneficiaries
 and building partnerships. They are embedded within our well-established domain of excellence
 in research practice, as realised in intercultural arts contexts, with young people, professional
 artists and more recently in doctoral studies. Building on 10 years of ArtsCross in intercultural
 exchange [ICS1], Bannerman’s work has changed cultural perceptions, advanced arts practice
 and formed new networks, which have stimulated sectoral change. Through a series of plays
 [ICS2], Kenworth and Charlton have improved the lives of young people and promoted community
 pride in a deprived area of London. Midgelow’s research [ICS3] has enhanced the work of
 movement practitioners, generated changes within professional dance organisations and
 improved dance education at a doctoral level.

 Beyond the case studies, our research has benefited: professional arts
 organisations/companies (e.g. Machon with PunchDrunk, Kit Theatre via Paul Hamlyn Trust,
 Fribbins with Kings Place, de Senna with SignDance); vulnerable communities (e.g. de Senna

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with asylum seekers/Futures Literacy project, Beale, women in Palestine through stand-up
 comedy); and children/educators (e.g. Akinelye with Turner Contemporary Margate, Bristol
 Museum and V&A Museum of Childhood, bringing young children into museums/informing
 practices in schools). Aligned with our strategy, these impacts have practice at their centre;
 recognise and address gaps in awareness, provision and/or connectivity; and are generated and
 manifest from sustained research partnerships, with sector benefits developing simultaneously to
 the research outputs related to them.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 The University’s well-established and comprehensive Code of Practice for Research enshrines
 the highest standards of research conduct and integrity with principles and practices based on the
 Research Councils’ Statement on Safeguarding Good Scientific Practice (2000) and the
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (2012). Governance by the Research Ethics Committee
 ensures that high standards of integrity are upheld through well-established approval processes,
 overseen by a Faculty-based ethics group, with all research by staff, doctoral candidates and
 taught programmes requiring ethical review, risk assessment and GDPR compliance.

 Within the period, our ethical approval process has significantly improved through instigating the
 ‘Middlesex Online Research Ethics’ (MORE) system across the Faculty. MORE enables
 standardised application and assessment processes, and robust, regularly updated,
 guidance/compliance information shared across disciplines. All applications are assigned clear
 risk levels, with corresponding procedures. Ethical competences are enhanced via workshops for
 staff and PgR, accompanied by training/refresher sessions for those engaged in ethics review
 assessments.

 Beyond governance and procedure, our research contributes to and elaborates ethics in relation
 to our disciplinary fields. The Performing Ethos journal, founded in 2010 by Pro V-C Upton,
 continues to offer space for considering the ethical dimensions of a wide range of performance
 practices, and Midgelow has promoted ethics within the frame of Artistic Research and Artistic
 Doctorates – opening discourses around nomadism and ethics of care, as well as producing
 guidance for PgR candidates/supervisors.

 1.7 Progressing towards open research environment
 Throughout this REF period, awareness, requirements, and issues surrounding open access and
 data management have increased via working closely with the University Repository team. While
 the Unit’s practice orientation means most of our research falls outside the open access
 requirements for REF, the larger principle of open research is fully embraced. We have strongly
 enhanced engagement with our repository, ORCID registration and open access journals that use
 open peer-review. Our researchers use creative commons licenses (e.g. ‘Creative Articulations
 Process’) and explore open-source processes (e.g. TCCE, Doing Arts Research in a Pandemic).
 In addition, web-based documentation, blogging and the like have been used to present creative
 and intellectual processes, as exemplified by the ArtsCross website pages [Bannerman]. The site
 ensures access to the research in China, also a key consideration when producing the ArtsCross
 special issue of Choreographic Practices (2016), translated into Mandarin and available for free
 download (the only issue of this journal to have been translated, funded by ACI).

 We have used internal research funds to support open research, and, in the next period, we will
 further our open research training, make more use of Figshare, and continue to work with the
 University repository to enhance its capacities for practice-research.

 1.8 Future goals for research with impact
 We look forward to an exciting period for research under the leadership of our new Vice-
 Chancellor, Nic Beech, who is leading the formulation of an ambitious research strategy to 2031.
 A key feature of this strategy is knowledge-producing and practice-leading research, with
 paradigms of EDI, community, and collaboration to the fore. Transdisciplinary themes identified
 by the University comprise Socio-Economic Development; Health and Wellbeing; People, Place,


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Communities; Environment and Sustainability. Each theme will be led by newly appointed pan-
 university Dean.

 Within this University strategy and related themes, our unit will continue its mission [1.1] and work
 to:

   i.    Strengthen research structures and infrastructures, deepen existing research initiatives
         and enhance emergent research
   ii.   Enhance our research environment and researcher development training through fostering
         open research, with specific commitments to diverse and inclusive approaches, cultivating
         a wide ecology of knowledges.
  iii.   Strengthen and diversify our research community through collaborations/networks, with a
         focus on outward-facing and impactful research
  iv.    Further enhance our postgraduate community via offering supervision and training
         programmes that address the challenges faced by early career researchers in the twenty-
         first century
  v.     Better position researchers to access and diversify external income
  vi.    Be responsive to the rapid transformations prompted by COVID.

 Our areas of research distinction [1.4] and the ICSs provide a strong base for future research with
 impact and specific developments will be: ArtsCross 2022 in Hong Kong and Bannerman’s
 curation of a ‘Producers Toolbox’ in association with British Council China & Chinese Arts Now,
 new UK partnerships to enhance dance ecologies and policy in a post-Brexit Britain.
 ADiE/Midgelow will continue to advocate best practice in doctoral education, developing new
 networks, and informing supervisory/examination processes. Machon will research immersive
 theatres in relation to touch, access and privilege drawing on her current membership of the
 Playing with Intimacy and Intensity Network (AHRC, PI CSSD) to extend her research in
 collaboration with Access all Areas and ZU:UK. At the same time, we seek to broaden our scope,
 developing new research with impact [see also 4.2]. Plans include de Senna’s newly funded
 Erasmus+ project examining theatre practices and futures studies with young people in
 educational contexts (€400K). In addition, Akinleye, will explore dance and cities with Theatre
 Mundi and MIT, Midgelow will work with publics to find their embodied voices (£14K ACE,
 Breathbone), Sandiland will explore COVID secure performance-installations practices and
 geographical displacement (£43K ACE, Imaging Otherwise) and Charlton, Cottis and Moar will
 develop virtual reality theatre (£4-10K, Just Some Theatre commission).

 Other developments include books contracted/under review with Routledge, Leuven University
 Press, Bloomsbury and Intellect. These incorporate investigations into how dance and architecture
 can contribute to decolonising the production of place [Akinleye], performance art and
 phenomenology [Bacon], and critical technical practices in music as research [Impett].

 We will continue to integrate research, teaching and knowledge exchange. Indeed, our experience
 suggests that this promotes sustainability and meaningful engagement with beneficiaries, as
 evidenced in the case studies and other activities. We will further seek to deepen and expand our
 international reach, drawing on existing partnerships and using internal funding to leverage
 external income and other funding opportunities.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing
 Our UoA’s consistently inclusive approach to research means that this submission comprises
 almost the same number of current staff as in 2014 (32 head count compared to 31 previously).
 Our UoA is 47% female, 50% male and 3% non-binary, of which 13% are BAME, 6% have a
 disability (compared to a 47% female and 18% BAME national average, HESA 2019/20). The UoA
 represents 60%fte of the relevant departments, with the remaining staff enrolled on doctoral
 programmes or focused towards teaching and knowledge exchange as per the University-wide
 staff mapping exercise undertaken in 2014, which ensured that all staff were correctly placed in

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 terms of level and development pathway. Development pathways comprised either ‘teaching &
 research’ (returned in our REF submission) or ‘teaching & professional practice’ (knowledge
 exchange focused). Scope exists to move between these pathways depending on staff members’
 developing interests and career trajectories. All staff make an important contribution to the overall
 teaching, research and knowledge exchange environment and can draw on faculty resources to
 pursue their endeavours.

 We seek to develop early career staff with high potential and enhance individual and collective
 research capacities and career prospects through our development programmes [2.2 & 2.3]. In
 2014, we submitted 4 ECRs. All these staff have been able to progress and remain in post at
 Middlesex, successfully developing their research or professional practice. Of note is
 Sachsenmaier, now Senior Lecturer, undertaking programme and research leadership roles. In
 the period she published an edited collection, curated events on Rosemary Butcher’s work and
 collaborates with LADA. She is currently supported to complete the Aurora programme. This
 submission sees an increase in the number of early career staff to 7, all new appointments,
 evidencing our commitment to increasing future research capacity and ability to attract excellent
 research active new colleagues. Indicating the quality of the ECRs, Harris is an award-winning
 filmmaker and Bacon has two books contracted.

 The progress and aims of research staff are discussed in annual reviews undertaken by Heads of
 Department. Career progression at all levels is focused on the individual and their achievements
 rather than any quotas within the department. Clear criteria regarding teaching and leadership,
 research outputs, external funding, PhD completions and excellence in scholarship and research
 determine progression from Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor/Professor, with Machon and
 Fribbins being promoted to Associate/Full Professor respectively.

 We regularly host visiting researchers accepted via an open application process, enhancing
 specific areas of research/partnership and diversifying our environment. In this regard, we have
 established relationships with Beijing Dance Academy, China National Academy of Arts Research,
 Taipei National University of the Arts, Universities in Greater China, Federal University of Bahia
 and University of Campinas. We hosted 12 researchers for periods of 3-12 months, funded for
 example by CAPES (Brazil), Art Visiting Scholar project, China Scholarship Council and Teacher
 Development project, Zhejiang University (China).

 Long-term research fellow/artist-in-residence appointments include Boddington, Jeyasingh,
 Layzell, Lee, Miller, Wallen (to 2019), Butcher (to 2016) and Holmes (current). Holmes leads the
 Ancient Brass Team within the EU-funded European Music Archaeology Project (c.€4M) and
 works with Lukic in film. Guest Professors Kleiman, Cohan (to 2020) and Xu Rui, contribute to
 specific research projects, offer guest lectures and act as advisors.

 2.2 Staff development, mentoring and support
 Our research is integrated with developments in our taught programmes, informing a staffing
 strategy designed to recruit individuals with strong teaching portfolios who are committed to, and
 capable of delivering research outputs that strengthen the research/teaching synergy. Heads of
 Department ensure an appropriate balance between research, teaching and administrative duties
 through a workload allocation model (including PgR supervision). This transparent managerial
 system aims to empower individuals so that they understand their role in the Department’s
 research strategy.

 As noted in REF5a, our staff development strategies are informed by the Concordat to Support
 the Career Development of Researchers. Mentors support all new staff in their probationary
 year and all staff undertake training in EDI, H&S, Cyber Security and Ethics. Further staff
 development is provided by the Centre for Academic Practice and Enhancement. Ongoing staff
 training needs are identified in annual appraisals, supported through Staff Development budgets
 [£10k per annum/per dept]. In addition, all departmental/subject-area bi-annual ‘away days’
 feature research, sharing best practices.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research mentoring of staff, previously undertaken by the faculty Director of Research and other
 research leaders, has evolved into a Faculty Peer Review Group and split into two bodies: one for
 outputs mentoring and one for external grant applications and development of larger research
 projects. The group includes both senior and EC researchers, who gain peer review experience,
 reflecting the Faculty’s succession planning in research. A recent initiative is termly bid-writing
 workshops / peer-support groups facilitating the development of research applications through
 a co-generative approach from idea to submission. Also open to all academic staff is the Faculty
 Researcher and Knowledge Exchange Programme (2-3 events per term), with topics such as
 conceiving impact in research, using social media in networks, etc. Integral to all these Faculty
 events is ACI’s commitment to, and analysis of, practice and collaboration as routes to impact. In
 addition, staff can partake the research training and initiatives designed for ECRs and PhD
 students [2.3].

 We encourage staff to undertake doctorates, investing in individual long-term development, and
 enhancing the research capacity of the Faculty. Five staff members are currently following
 PhDs/DArts: Adams, Foster-Paul, Heinemann, Kindred and Vesty – with Heinemann winning the
 2020 AHRC Best Doctoral or Early Career Film Award. In addition, Charlton, Kenworth and
 Sandiland are being supported to complete PhDs by Public Works. Bendon and Beale completed
 in the period, with a monograph arising from Beale’s PhD, The Comedy and Legacy of Music-Hall
 Women 1880-1920 (Palgrave 2020).

 Whole sabbaticals, periods of research leave, and reduced teaching commitments are negotiated
 between the Dean, Heads of Department and Human Resources. In the period, these were
 awarded to Machon and Beale to undertake large scale projects and complete monographs.
 Research achievements are celebrated via the Middlesex Staff Awards, with Midgelow shortlisted
 in 2020, following an open call for nominations and peer judging panel.

 2.3 Research Degrees
 PgR is overseen at University level by Director of Research [Comley] and at Faculty level by
 Director of Research Degrees [Midgelow], alongside a research degrees administration team. We
 operate fully in accordance with the QAA's Code of Practice for the assurance of academic
 quality and standards.

 We have full/part funded 11 studentships and completions reported in REF4 show an increase of
 25% compared to REF2014, including two AHRC-funded candidates (and if all doctorates are
 included this increases further). 61% of our PgR community are currently studying part-time and
 44% are non-UK residents. Through this REF period, we have increased the number of female
 candidates from 50% to 67% and BAME candidates from 17% to 28%. Those reporting disabilities
 has remained on average at 8.5%.

 Our PgR community reflects and enhances key research areas with strengths in music
 composition, performance/dance practices and pedagogy. Specialising in practice-oriented
 approaches, we offer both traditional PhDs, and two routes that emphasise research practice: PhD
 including creative practice (in which 40-60% of the thesis is practice) and the DArts, an innovative
 doctorate in which the practice is paramount with its documentation/articulation presented in any
 modality. We have attracted leading professional artists to these programmes, as our candidates
 in the field of music demonstrate. They include Europe’s leading Irish harpist [Armstrong], Violist
 [Knox], Percussionist [Limbrick] and Flautist [Craig]. These highly experienced musicians
 exemplify our approach in which expert practices extend into research, giving rise to
 methodological insights, techniques and expanded technologies.

 Recruitment, supervision and progression
 We have enhanced our PgR provision via improved application, tracking/progression processes
 and innovative forms of doctoral training. We promote equality, diversity and inclusion in PgR
 student recruitment and support through: staff training in fair selection/interview practices and
 effective supervision; Advice & Counselling services, Disability & Dyslexia services and Learning
 Support services; identifying/supporting students with specific learning difficulties, especially

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dyslexia; and supporting students in interrupting and returning to study (currently with COVID-
 related special measures in place). We encourage applicants with varied backgrounds through
 the additional submission of portfolios to evidence capacities in research practice.

 Candidates in the Faculty report above-sector averages for satisfaction with their supervision,
 with 92.5% reporting good contact and 86% reporting they receive helpful feedback/specialist
 knowledge (PRES survey avg. 2019&20). Our progression processes, bolstered throughout the
 period, include careful monitoring via bi-annual progression boards and core milestone events,
 which echo the viva process. Due to Covid, we have established clear and well-received protocols
 for online milestone panels/vivas, including specialist support for disabled students.

 Training and provision for PgR and ECRs
 The Faculty has sought to develop PgR candidates, alongside in-post ECRs, whose experience,
 learning and research career objectives frequently align. The weekly ‘Research Common Room’
 event provides a space for regular discussion of generic research topics (e.g. How can we
 decolonise research? How does your practice constitute research?). Likewise, the weekly writing
 sessions, ‘Shut up and write’, offer mutual support. We curate weeklong Research intensives
 (c.five per annum), which focus on particular transdisciplinary issues (e.g. ‘Kick starting your
 research degree’, ‘Research Methods in the Arts’, ‘Insider and Participatory Research’, ‘Writing as
 thinking – language in/as research’). These give researchers the opportunity not just to focus on
 the topics but also to foster skills in collaboration (including remotely) and conference presentation.
 Our annual Faculty ‘Winter Research Conference’ for researchers at all levels brings PgR
 candidates into the wider research community. Artistic Doctorates in Europe also offered
 training, presentation and international networking opportunities for our candidates, including fully
 funding five candidates to participate in two unique five-day intensives (Stockholm and Chichester
 2018).

 In addition, the annual two-day University wide conference offers opportunities to network and
 present across disciplines. This event has been enhanced by practice-led approaches, leading to
 the option for alternative forms of presentation for all disciplines. The University-wide Researcher
 Development Programme (26 thematically clustered sessions per year) covers generic research
 processes (including Ethics & GDPR), methodologies and career development. Students also
 regularly participate in writing retreats, wellbeing sessions and benefit from an introduction to
 teaching and learning courses – specifically designed for those wishing to teach at Middlesex
 alongside their studies. An academic shadowing scheme provides CV enhancing opportunities
 [see REF5a]. The coordination of disability provision has also been improved by a raised
 awareness of specific PgR learning support needs and establishing clear routes of
 communication.

 Resources, facilities and futures
 In addition to facilities and equipment outlined in 3.3, PgR candidates have a ‘base room’ with
 desk, computing and printing facilities, as well as sofas and coffee facilities for social and research
 meetings. Students are supplied with computers for use throughout their studies and have access
 to a full suite of specialist software (with virtual access enabled throughout Covid). A technical
 manager for PgR facilitates specialist practice – ensuring suitable training, space and equipment,
 with technical planning integrated into the PgR core milestones. Candidates receive funding for
 conference presentations (e.g., Gomes, ‘New Materialisms’, South Africa), fieldwork (e.g., Zhibo,
 improvisation pedagogy, China) and practice research (e.g. Armstrong, sound recording) via an
 internal system of up to £750.00 per request.

 Candidates have successfully disseminated their research, including monographs by Martin and
 Beale, and further engage in academic communities (e.g. Dryburgh, DanceHE Board) and mobility
 opportunities via Erasmus (e.g. Baybutt researching contemporary festivals in Serbia). Follow-on
 successes are also visible in their career development, e.g. Colin (graduating 2015) now Dept.
 Director of Research, University of Winchester; Fossey (2018) Programme Leader, Lincoln
 University and Dryburgh (2020) recently appointed Director of Higher Education, Central School
 of Ballet.

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 EDI - Training and Initiatives
 Equality, diversity and inclusion are core Middlesex values, embedded both in the university and
 in the Faculty/UoA. Middlesex was the first UK university to receive Corporate Gold/Embedded
 Charter Mark from UK Investor in Equality & Diversity. We promote equality and diversity through
 fair selection and interview practices (with required and improved training for all panellists);
 prioritising permanent contracts, standardised workloads and transparent promotion processes;
 reverse mentoring and training (including new compulsory online courses in EDI and Unconscious
 Bias); and supporting networks and initiatives/mapping against external markers.

 We also actively pursue research that engages with issues of difference in socially engaged
 practice [see 1.4]. This includes work with young, disadvantaged and disabled people in the UK,
 and participation in debates and membership of UK-wide movements to promote Global Majority
 backgrounds in the performing arts [see 4.2], and support for visiting scholars from Asia and South
 America [2.1].

 At University Executive level, EDI is headed by Kyprianou [Exec. Dean Business], with specific
 initiatives addressing the gender pay gap (such as supporting Aurora women in leadership and
 working toward Athena Swan awards), LGBT+ rights and becoming a Stonewall 'Global Diversity
 Champion’ (we were a top 200 employer in 2018). Various staff Equalities Fora provide an
 integrated and supportive environment for both staff and students, embracing the rich diversity of
 our community. These include, Race, Interfaith, LGBT+, Gender, Disability, and Carers Networks.
 UoA33 researchers are highly active in these fora, with de Senna and Bendon on the Athena
 SWAN Self-Assessment Team, de Senna and Hussein steering the Race Network, and Bacon a
 member of the Disability and Gender networks.

 EDI - REF submission
 Our UoA33 submission was developed by a working group of six staff (2 male/4 female, including
 3 professors, 2 mid-career and 1 ERC). In line with Middlesex University REF CoP, all six group
 members (plus all additional specialist outputs reviewers) received targeted Unconscious Bias
 training. This training informed our peer-reviewing processes for both output and ICS selections.
 All eligible staff were invited to self-nominate their strongest research outputs, noting if items might
 be suitable for double weighting and proposing examples of impact. These items were then all
 scored against REF criteria by two reviewers without the use of citation data or other metrics (as
 per the UoA working methods). Our selection process entailed the inclusion of the highest scoring
 output for each member of staff, and the inclusion of outputs, up to the max. of 5 per individual,
 on a quality basis to complete the output pool. Of the resulting pool 47% of our submitted outputs,
 and 1 of the 3 ICS, are by women.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research income
 Research income supports the enhancement of our research through targeted academic
 appointments, material support and the development of new initiatives, with a focus on
 collaborative projects emphasising academic excellence and public engagement. As noted in 1.2
 and 2.2, we have initiatives in place to increase our external funding. Through the period, we
 evidence improvements in the number/value of applications made, with applications for grants
 valuing c.£100K in 2014-15 rising to c.£1.5M in 2019-2020.

 Research income is summarized as follows:

 Awarding body.                        Sum of Awards.           % of total.
 EU Government/Charity                 £338,569.00              27%
 Arts Councils (England/Ireland)       £322,475.00              25%
 International (Non-EU)                £289,360.00              23%

                                                                                                 Page 11
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     UK Foundations/Trusts/Charities     £226,229.70              18%
     Research Councils (UK)              £84,781.00               7%
     Total income                        £1,261,414.70

     External income of note is gained through Bannerman, who has won £37.9K from Research
     Council and £281.8K from international partners, including China National Arts Fund and Beijing
     Municipal Commission of Education, a strong indication of the international significance of the
     ArtsCross research partnership. Two EU-funded projects are Artistic Doctorates in Europe
     (Erasmus+ £316K) and partnership in a Creative Europe project (£13K). Trusts and Foundations
     show repeated investment by the Royal Docks Trust in Kenworth and Charlton’s Newham plays
     (totaling £58.5K).

     We continue to be successful in winning Arts Council England awards to support our public-
     facing research. These include: Bacon, £68K for the research-led Tempting Failure Festivals,
     leading to a forthcoming monograph; Sandiland, £93K research/production funding to undertake
     dance/technology projects with children and publics; and Woodhouse, £54.6K to research site-
     responsive dance/video installations. Akinleye, Diedrich, Butcher, Midgelow, Dwyer and Kenworth
     all received awards of £12-15K from ACE.

     The faculty internal research fund of c.£180K per annum is administered by a team of senior
     researchers from each department and the faculty leadership. This fund is used both strategically
     and through an open competitive application process for all researchers, including PGR. UoA33
     has successfully secured £346.9K over the period, including strategic funds awarded to ArtsCross
     £82.8K, and funding to seed/bolster externally funded projects such as £9K toward ADiE (including
     grants for PgR candidate participation). £16K has been awarded to seed fund the curation of
     events/conferences, which make an extensive contribution to the field [4.1], and c.£100.7K has
     been awarded to individuals to support PaR projects, in line with our practice emphasis. In
     addition, £8K was awarded to the Elixir Ensemble documentation as part of c.£120K total budget
     from Sadler’s Wells, and research assistants were funded to track impact and support editorial
     projects, e.g. £13K for PgR candidate Dyburgh to work with Midgelow.

     3.2 Operational infrastructures
     Research is led at a University level by Pro-VC Upton, and a centralised research infrastructure is
     focused through the well-established Research and Knowledge Transfer Office (RKTO). Led
     by the University Director of Research [Comley] and Director of Knowledge Transfer [Gray], the
     RKTO provides a ‘one-stop shop’ that delivers a highly visible, supportive and authoritative
     resource for research active staff in relation to research funding, delivering impact, finance,
     managing research projects and knowledge transfer activities. PgR systems and data are
     maintained by Research Degrees Administrative Team (RDAT), who also work closely with
     candidates and supervisors to ensure effective progression and coordinate University wide PgR
     training/events.

     University level Committees such as Research and Knowledge Transfer, Research Degrees and
     Research Ethics, amongst others, ensure representation and consistency across Faculties. Lead
     UoA33 researchers are committee members, plus representation from the Student Union/Doctoral
     Candidates, providing a direct UoA engagement with University policy. At Faculty level, research
     leadership was enhanced in 2019 with the strategic appointment of Deputy Deans for Research
     in all Faculties, enabling a coordinated approach and visibility for research. Within the UoA,
     Bannerman directs ResCen, and mid-to-senior career colleagues lead the research
     groupings/projects.

     3.3 Buildings and specialist resources
-    The unit benefits from access to high-specification technical facilities for craft-based art-making
     and technological production in the bespoke state-of-the-art Grove Building and the creation of
     additional new dance studio facilities in the Ritterman Building. Specialist facilities include
     professional standard broadcast and editing studios, camera and sound equipment (also
     hardwired within the dance theatre), sound studios, concert and rehearsal rooms, a large flexible

                                                                                                Page 12
    Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     black-box theatre, two further fully rigged studio theatres and six rehearsal studios, five well-
     equipped dance studio spaces with specialist flooring, and a dance theatre. These technical
     facilities are staffed by 51.4fte specialist technicians (increased from 41fte in 2014), shared with
     UoA32 and 34, reporting via a Senior Technical Manager to the Executive Dean, with the remit of
     supporting research, teaching and knowledge transfer across disciplines.
-
     Significant capital investment annually ensures the currency of advanced specialist equipment
     and facilities. Infrastructural investments in the REF period include the opening of the
     Ritterman Building for arts, technology and dance in 2016 (£18M) and extensive technology
     upgrades including: a new music recording studio (£330K), specialist equipment for
     performing arts spaces (£112K), audio and visual equipment (£369K) and editing suites/media
     spaces (Digital Media Workshops £404K, Grove digital media £355K, Newsroom and Avid suites
     £725K). These investments encourage interdisciplinary research made possible through the
     University restructure and forming of ACI in 2016, and mean researchers and students have
     access to the most current technologies and high-quality spaces.

     The new Ritterman building, like the arts Grove Building, has environmental sustainability at its
     heart, incorporating a large living wall, photovoltaic panels and energy efficient lighting controls.
     Also promoting well-being, The Pavilion is a low-cost outdoor construction led by Architectural
     Technology students. This outdoor space, opened in 2019, is adjacent to the dance theatre spaces
     and has been used as a summer rehearsal space by dance researchers, and has much potential
     as a model for outdoor working in a Covid world.

     The state-of-the-art Sheppard Library provides access to over 150,000 serial titles, a collection
     of over 250,000 print and 50,000 electronic books, and 40,000 journals. This represents a
     significant increase in serial titles since 2014 as a result of further investment in library resources,
     the introduction of a new discovery tool, an increase in the number of titles provided by the larger
     journal packages and the growth of open access. A specialist subject librarian works proactively
     with the Faculty to ensure research and teaching needs are balanced. Librarians provide expert
     subject support and termly training sessions on citation searching and RefWorks for all Research
     candidates, as part of the expanded Researcher Development Programme [2.3]. The Library’s
     Research Support Services Team manages the Figshare Data Repository and the Eprints
     Research Repository supporting discovery of research by Middlesex and Middlesex-affiliated
     authors. They also provide information and support around the REF, Open Access publishing and
     research data. All research outputs by staff are added to the University’s public e-repository,
     further promoting impact.

     4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

     4.1 Indicators of contributions to the discipline and wider research base
     We have a long history of shaping the discipline not only through our research outputs but also
     through our many and varied research activities. We place great emphasis on supporting the
     discipline, as is evident through the extensive number of events and editorial activities. In addition,
     we encourage service to the field, evident in the number of board and peer review roles our
     researchers hold with leading research associations, arts organisations and funding bodies.

     We have convened more than 25 conferences/symposia of inter/national standing, and
     undertaken with our collaborative partners, as exemplified in 1.1. In addition, selected conferences
     are: Transmission: A Performance Symposium (Main, 2014), leading to an edited book collection.
     This event included both danced and academic presentations by the leading US researcher in this
     field, Mark Franko, and restagings by Robert Cohan/Yorke Dance Project. 2016 saw us
     collaborating with University of Winchester for ‘The Politics of Collaboration: European Currents’
     conference – associated to the edited collection ‘On Collaboration’ by Sachsenmaier and ‘The
     Punchdrunk Enrichment Symposium’, co-convened by Machon, also leading to a publication: The
     Punchdrunk Encyclopedia. In the same year Bannerman and the ArtsCross partnership, convened
     ‘A Shift of Balance Conference’ at China National Academy of Arts and in 2019 a conference,
     ‘Beyond the Clouds’, at Beijing Dance Academy. The Artistic Doctorates in Europe project has

                                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 convened nine conferences/symposia between 2016-2019. These include events at Venice
 Biennale; ‘Talking Thinking Dancing’, hosted by Dance4, Nottingham; ‘Per/Forming Futures’ and
 ‘Future Manifestos’ at Zodiak Centre for new Dance and Kiasma Museum, Helsinki. Together
 these ADiE events have reached c.4600 people encompassing artists, researchers, cultural sector
 leaders and research degree providers. As noted in 1.4, three somatically focused conferences
 (2016, 2018 and 2019) expand the narrative of somatics to black and queer discourses, leading
 to a special issue of Dance and Somatic Practices Journal. These events reached beyond the
 frame of academia, often foregrounding the voices of practitioners. This emphasis is also evident
 in the ‘Re:Generations Conference’, with One Dance UK, The Lowry, Irie Dance Theatre, Dance
 Immersion (Canada) and Arts Council England (2019). Other selected events are: ‘From Human
 Experience to Radical Experiments: Animation, 3D and VR’ (2017) and ResCen’s ‘Dance
 Umbrella at 40’ (2018). Through 2020 and due to COViD-19, we continued this work, moving to
 shorter online gatherings: ArtsCross ‘Producers Forum’, Beijing Dance Academy, ‘ResCen/Dance
 Umbrella Studio Sessions’ and the Covid-delayed ‘Kinesthesia: Somatics and Film’, with
 Independent Dance, now planned for July 2021.

 Board memberships: Guiding developments in academic realms with leading organisations
 inter/nationally, de Senna chaired the SCUDD diversity working group, authoring Diversity in the
 Discipline, following 954 survey responses from the sector (2017); Salgado served the on the
 executive for Society for Dance Research (2016-2019); Igweonu is President of the African
 Theatre Association and is the founding/co-convener of the African and African-Caribbean Theatre
 and the Performance Working Group of the International Federation for Theatre Research;
 Midgelow was founder/chair the PaR Working Group, Dance Studies Association (until 2019).

 Similarly, we apply our research expertise to enhance the arts profession with, for example,
 Fribbins using his curatorial role at Kings Place to offer a re-appraisal of women’s music in the 19th
 century as part ‘Venus Unwrapped Festival’. Machon leads the Punchdrunk Enrichment project
 and is Chair for Kit Theatres, leading a Paul Hamlyn Trust research/evaluation project. Midgelow
 served until 2019 as Vice-Chair for Dance4 and is an inaugural board member for Jaivant Patel
 Dance; Main uses her expertise to enhance the Chickenshed Education Committee; Inglis is
 Trustee/board member of Nonclassical new music charity and member of the selection panel for
 2019-21 Composers-in-Association scheme.

 Peer Funding Review: Igweonu, Machon and Midgelow are members of the AHRC peer review
 college. Others include: The Arab Fund for Arts and Culture [Hussein], South Africa Research
 Foundation [Igweonu], Leverhulme, British Academy and Austrian Science Foundation
 [Bannerman & Midgelow].

 Editorial positions relating to book collections and leading journals have facilitated the
 development of new knowledge in our disciplines. These include six edited books: Collaboration
 in Performance Practice [Sachsenmaier], Artistic Research [Impett], Transmissions in Dance
 [Main], Music and Sonic Arts [Dack], Handbook on Improvisation in Dance [Midgelow], and
 Narratives in British Black Dance [Akinleye], while Machon, as Series Joint Editor of Studies in
 Performance and Technology, Palgrave, has guided ten books to publication in the period.
 Hussein, Bannerman and Vesty [Staff/PhD candidate] have all edited journal special issues and
 Sachsenmaier joined the Contemporary Theatre Review Interventions editorial team in 2020.
 Midgelow is founder/co-editor of Choreographic Practices (2010-2020), supporting some 148
 authors to reach publication in the period.

 We contribute to editorial activities further through peer-reviewing activities for 17+ journals –
 incorporating all leading UK theatre and dance publications, and act as reviewers for publishers
 including OUP, Peter Lang, Routledge, Palgrave, Bloomsbury, Methuen Drama, Intellect and
 Dance Studies Association.

 Our researchers have international reputations and present their work widely. Indicators
 include some 20 keynotes by Midgelow, over 80 concerts of Fribbins work, national tours by
 Sandiland and repeated invitations to perform with The Blue Shroud Band for Dwyer. Guest

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 professorships/associate roles held by Bannerman, Professor, Beijing Dance Academy; and
 Midgelow, Professor, University of Toronto, Canada, and Associate artist, Dance4, Nottingham.
 Impett holds a substantive responsibility as Director of Research at Orpheus Institute, Ghent; and
 Akinleye holds a research fellowship with Theatrum Mundi, including a residency at MIT, USA.
 Our researchers regularly examine research degrees including international examining at
 University of Toronto, Deakin University, Stellenbosch University, University of Fort Hare.

 Prizes/awards include: Akinleye, One Dance UK’s ‘Dance Writing Award’ shortlist (2018), Harris,
 Earth photo award (2018) and Aesthetica Art Prize, longlist (2019). Machon nominated for the
 Society of Theatre Research’s Theatre Book Prize and winner of the Outstanding Academic Title,
 CHOICE Award (2014). Whilst at Middlesex, former staff Kolb received Lippincott SDHS (2014),
 Butcher and visiting professor Cohan both received the Bonnie Bird Lifetime Contribution to
 Choreography Award (2015 and 2017 respectively), Butcher was awarded an MBE (2014) and
 Cohan was knighted in 2019.

 4.2 Collaborations and Engagements with key research users, society and diverse
 communities
 As evidenced in 1.4, 1.5, 1.7 and 4.1, the Faculty’s extensive networks feature a wealth of research
 encounters with industry, public and third sector organizations, providing individual and societal
 benefits. These networks have informed and enabled our responsiveness to inter/national
 priorities and diverse communities. Engaging distinctly locally and inter/nationally, we have
 addressed governmental and societal challenges with particular research in UK-China exchange,
 wellbeing, healthy ageing, hate crime and diversity.

 Core examples are: ICS2 evidencing research that supports local regeneration addressing the
 needs of deprived and culturally diverse communities. ICS1 enables collaborations with
 China and was selected by China-UK (2015) to exemplify a model of sustained, trusting
 partnership, leading to mutual benefits for dance artists, and more recently producers in the UK
 and in China. Furthering the visibility of global majority arts, Igweonu, Hussein and Akinelye
 foreground underrepresented voices through their publications. We promote wider debate via
 events that address race, class, ability and gender, e.g. Performing Solidarity [Sachsenmaier]
 and Dance of the African Diaspora, Re:Generations Conference [One Dance UK, Main and
 Akinleye].

 We contribute to wellbeing through performative projects such as Midgelow’s BreathBone [15K
 ACE/ COViD delayed] and, addressing ageing, Bannerman performs and documents his work
 with Elixir Ensemble, Sadler’s Wells, and works with JF Oberlin, Japan’s Gerontology Research
 Centre on a Daiwa Anglo-Japan Foundation-funded Healthy Ageing initiative.

 The Changing the Culture Initiative [Bendon], addresses violence against women, harassment
 and hate crime. In partnership with AVA, Universities UK, Office for Students, Advance HE and
 the Universities of Aberdeen, Anglia Ruskin, Cambridge, Leicester, St. George’s, Queen’s Belfast,
 and Warwick, we are developing an impact assessment matrix.

 4.3 Supporting collaborations, partnerships and networks
 The examples above arise from an outward-facing research culture and the building of
 inter/national synergistic relationships within and beyond the academy. Our modes of engagement
 are sustained via:

 Joint projects with academic colleagues and other professionals as co-authors/editors/makers,
 co-researcher relationships framed by funded projects, and/or Faculty/University partnerships.

 Co-design and collaboration with third sector and arts organisations. These partnerships are
 bolstered through formal partnership agreements with research activities designed to be of mutual
 benefit. Impacts arise through sustained periods of working, making a difference via shared
 knowledge-spaces, simultaneously with the generation of research outputs.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Benefiting people via participation and spectatorship, with beneficiaries including children,
 professional artists, local communities and the public. Here encounters are varied – from
 sustained periods of creative facilitation, in which teaching and research come into close
 relationship, to singular experiences of performance which are designed to generate significant
 perceptual change.

 The distinctive contribution of our research activity detailed here reflects the vitality and
 sustainability of our research environment. The substantive investments, staff development
 programmes and our plans, in line with the University 2031 strategy, mean we are well-placed to
 build on the achievements presented here in the future.




                                                                                        Page 16
