Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University College London (UCL)

 Unit of Assessment: 13 (Architecture, Built Environment and Planning)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview: faculty context and approach

 The Bartlett is UCL’s Faculty of the Built Environment. UCL is distinctive in devoting one of
 its 11 faculties to the built environment as a domain, placing the Dean within the Provost’s
 Senior Management Team, giving The Bartlett a voice in the direction of the university and
 conferring full budgetary responsibility to the faculty. This Environment Statement speaks to the
 work of the whole Bartlett research community including academics, professional services staff,
 doctoral students and external stakeholders – a chorus of voices from a broad set of disciplines,
 with the shared aim of building a better future together.

 The built environment is about the places where people exist – the spaces inhabited from
 day to day. It includes physical structures such as homes, towns and cities, and the way people
 move, work, shop, learn, talk, eat, and sleep within them. The built environment also
 encompasses invisible structures: political and legal systems, professional codes of practice,
 financial frameworks, digital media and social norms, and understandings of the past, present
 and future.

 Research at The Bartlett explores how these structures shape lives, and how lives
 influence the structures that are created. It engages with, understands, and improves upon,
 the spaces that humans inhabit and influence, going beyond ‘the built’ to include natural, social
 and virtual environments. This expansive definition recognises that these ideas are interrelated,
 stimulating research that takes cross-cutting and interdisciplinary approaches to local, national
 and global challenges, whether these are in response to immediate concerns or built on issues
 spanning decades and even centuries.

 Across 11 schools and institutes, The Bartlett hosts a dynamic and forward-looking research
 environment that is thoughtfully developed and informed by six research principles:
    ●   Diversity – The Bartlett welcomes and creates a variety of methodologies, philosophies,
        ideas and people, giving everyone space to develop and flourish.
    ●   Excellence – the faculty values and challenges ideas of research excellence, confidently
        including experimental, alternative and non-traditional forms of research strategies and
        methodologies alongside the more known and established.
    ●   Freedom – schools and institutes have the autonomy and responsibility to support
        individuals to develop their research as appropriate, e.g. via space, study leave, or
        funding.
    ●   Inclusion – a research community that studies and influences the built environment
        should be representative of all those who live and work in it, so the faculty takes action to
        build scholarship and governance structures that directly tackle inequity.
    ●   Partnership – by engaging with partners in civil society, government, academia and
        industry, knowledge is advanced and informed by diverse perspectives.
    ●   Reflection – a self-reflexive environment emboldens staff and students to consider their
        own needs and aspirations, helping them contribute to the university and society at large.

 In line with these principles, The Bartlett has a clear impact identity, drawing on a diversity of
 voices. This is evident in the 12 Impact Case Studies, which exemplify the faculty’s research
 across the built environment domain and beyond. Framed within the United Nations Sustainable
 Development Goals and UCL Grand Challenges, together they demonstrate how the faculty is
 tackling global health, sustainable cities, cultural understanding, human wellbeing, justice and
 equality, shedding light on challenges faced by both the Global South and Global North, and
 day-to-day threats faced by policy-makers, businesses and citizens.


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The cases have been selected to illustrate how the faculty produces impact, e.g. through
 consultation with professional practitioners, under-represented groups, stakeholders in decision-
 making institutions, building data users and other communities and publics.

 This context defines The Bartlett Faculty of the Built Environment, giving it structure,
 orientation and drive to build a better future.



 1.2 How research is structured across The Bartlett

 Research strategy and governance structure are framed by UCL’s institutional governance
 structures and policies, including the UCL 2034 Strategy and the UCL 2019 Research
 Strategy. The Dean of the Faculty is principally accountable for research, but delegates
 leadership to a Vice Dean for Research (VDR). The post-holders of Dean and VDR,
 respectively, are Lindner and Glass; Penn and Fraser held those posts until mid-2019. The
 VDR chairs The Bartlett Research Advisory Group, which brings together Directors of
 Research from schools and institutes. Research is supported by more than 20FTE research-
 related professional services posts (see Section 1.4), and stimulated through numerous cross-
 faculty and interdisciplinary mechanisms (see Sections 2 and 3).

 For doctoral students, the Faculty Graduate Tutor (FGT) has delegated authority. The post-
 holder is Marshall, who chairs the Faculty Research Degrees Committee, attended by
 Departmental Graduate Tutors (DGT). The VDR & FGT work closely with Vice Deans for
 Education (Borden), Innovation & Enterprise (Raslan), Equality, Diversity & Inclusion, EDI
 (Patel), and International (Allen), and Faculty leads for Health (Mills), Impact (Zerjav), Policy
 (Roll) and Climate Action (Hughes).

 Since REF2014, The Bartlett has grown. As of November 2020, it hosted 3,634 students and
 729 academic and professional services staff; women represent 45% of its staff and 56% of the
 student body. The REF2021 submission is based on 290.69FTE eligible research-active staff
 (up from 135.93FTE in 2014), from a headcount of 320. With more than double the FTE in 2021
 compared to 2014, there are corresponding increases in key metrics, indicating a sustained
 degree of ambition in the faculty over the period (e.g. doctoral awards have increased from
 138.5 to 357.82). Importantly, total research income has more than tripled (from £23.96m to
 £77.94m), with per capita research income increasing from £176k to £268k (see Section 3.1),
 indicating that Bartlett staff are well-supported and able to thrive in its research environment.

 This growth and outcome has been influenced significantly by two key strategic decisions made
 by UCL, affirming its commitment to the vitality of built-environment research:

    1. To stimulate collaborative research by investing in research infrastructure. This has
       included a £15.8m institutional investment, for the 6,000m2 facility at Here East at the
       Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, in Stratford East London. This expansion in laboratories
       and experimental spaces has led to several new research lines. For example, with civil
       engineers, computer scientists and biochemical engineers from UCL Faculty of
       Engineering Sciences, new research in advanced prototyping, automation, robotics,
       and bio-integrated design has been initiated, and new collaborations have led to
       significant funding, e.g. the Global Disability Innovation Hub (see Section 3).

    2. To create new entities that build research capacity and diversify capabilities, and
       exemplify interdisciplinary research and scholarship. Having a single faculty of the built
       environment creates the opportunity to cover multiple aspects of the domain, so the
       faculty has worked strategically to identify areas which were missing, and to fill these
       primarily by establishing three new institutes: The Bartlett Real Estate Institute (BREI),
       UCL Institute for Global Prosperity (IGP), and UCL Institute for Innovation and
       Public Purpose (IIPP). The Bartlett has funded more than 30FTE new academic and

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        research posts within these institutes, and financial sustainability has been leveraged by
        launching new postgraduate taught programmes, bringing fee income and creating a
        pipeline for doctoral students and staff.

 As a result, the Bartlett has extended its research capabilities and increased its research
 capacity in key areas. The scale and scope of research has been boosted to create significant
 new opportunities.

 The Bartlett has 11 schools and institutes, including the new research institutes (BREI, IGP
 and IIPP). These are all described below, noting the staff numbers (FTE and headcount) being
 submitted for REF2021. Gender and ethnicity of the submitted staff, including a comparison with
 the overall population in the faculty, is noted in Section 2C.

 The Bartlett School of Architecture (BSA; 67.69FTE, headcount 86) produces experimental
 scientific and humanities-based research, with design-led scholarship and critical thinking across
 the core themes of: history and theory of architecture; building projects; sustainable urbanism;
 craft, technology and computation; histories and practices of ecology; and speculative and
 performative design. BSA hosts research groups such as the Space Syntax Lab, the Survey of
 London, and CLOUD – the Centre for London Urban Design. Research laboratories cover:
 design computation; interactive architecture; material architecture; urban morphogenesis; and
 bio-integrated design.

 The Bartlett School of Construction & Project Management (CPM; 40.0FTE, headcount 41)
 covers core themes in: infrastructure finance and the economics of the built environment;
 programme, portfolio management and firms; construction and technology management; plus,
 climate change, economics and finance. Digitisation of projects is a strong growth area, following
 the merger with the Institute for Digital Innovation in the Built Environment (IDIBE).
 Established in 2018, The Bartlett Real Estate Institute (BREI) joined CPM in 2020, expanding
 the School’s capabilities on the non-financial aspects of value, and extending the scope of
 CPM’s infrastructure delivery expertise.

 The Bartlett School of Planning (BSP; 34.7FTE, headcount 37) hosts four departmental
 research groups: cities, governance and planning; real estate and economic development;
 sustainable transport and infrastructure; and urban design. Emergent groupings have formed
 around major research projects, such as: the China Cities Group; Circular Cities Hub; OMEGA;
 The Place Alliance; Socially Just Planning; The Socially Just Transport Network; and the What is
 Governed Network.

 The Bartlett School of Energy, Environment and Resources (BSEER; 88.6FTE, headcount
 93) is a grouping of four institutes:

    ●   The UCL Energy Institute (EI) focuses on the challenges of climate change and energy
        security. Its research is structured into two domain themes (energy and buildings, energy
        and transport) and two cross-cutting themes (energy and environmental systems, energy
        and artificial intelligence). It has hosted the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC4) since
        2019.

    ●   The UCL Institute for Sustainable Resources (ISR) has a mission to generate
        knowledge to promote the globally sustainable use of natural resources, drawing on
        economic modelling capabilities. Research focuses on sustainable economies,
        innovation, energy transitions, finance, development and the water-food-land nexus.

    ●   The UCL Institute for Environmental Design and Engineering (IEDE) explores how
        different elements interact to create buildings and spaces where people can live healthy,
        fulfilling lives. It has five research themes: health, wellbeing and sustainability; light and
        lighting; energy, moisture and air quality; acoustics and soundscapes; and systems
        thinking.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ●   The UCL Institute for Sustainable Heritage (ISH) has four research themes: heritage
        risk and resilience; modern and contemporary heritage; heritage science and future
        heritage. It works at the interface of arts, humanities, social and physical science
        disciplines, and aims to advance heritage research theory, practice and policy.

 The Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis (CASA; 14.8FTE, headcount 16) develops novel
 analytical and modelling approaches to understand and visualise urban dynamics. It uses spatial
 analysis, digital technologies and data science across these research themes: urban
 sustainability, complexity, transport and mobility; health and well-being; and digitally connected
 environments.

 The Development Planning Unit (DPU; 29.5FTE, headcount 31) has, for more than 65 years,
 been working on research towards economically sustainable, socio-environmentally just, and
 healthy cities in the Global South. It has four research clusters: environmental justice;
 urbanisation and resilience; urban transformations; diversity, social complexity and planned
 intervention; and state and market.

 The UCL Institute for Global Prosperity (IGP; 8.4FTE, headcount 9). IGP was formed in 2014,
 and aims to: challenge the understanding of prosperity by developing alternative models and
 ways of thinking; use robust empirical evidence, innovative policies and emerging technologies
 to secure future prosperity; and develop broad and compelling public discussions for credible
 human future flourishing. Moore was recruited by The Bartlett to be Director of IGP.

 The UCL Institute for Innovation and Public Purpose (IIPP; 7.0FTE, headcount 7). IIPP was
 launched in 2017. All research supports its mission to change how public value is imagined,
 practiced and evaluated, tackling societal challenges to achieve sustainable, inclusive and
 innovation-led growth. It has four research pillars (rethinking value, shaping innovation, directing
 finance and transforming institutions). Mazzucato was recruited by The Bartlett to be Director of
 IIPP.



 1.3 Research objectives during this REF period and over the next five years, including a
 review of plans from REF2014.

 The Bartlett’s REF2014 submission stated two objectives: to ‘invest in the excellence of our
 parts’ and to ‘make the whole greater than the sum of the parts’ – to be delivered through cross-
 disciplinary research and research leadership, addressing major real-world challenges,
 strengthening links to practice, and increasing impact.

 Throughout this Environment Statement, reference is made to the various new developments
 and adjustments to existing practices that have been made by the Bartlett during this REF
 period, to attend to these objectives. They include cross-faculty initiatives and major investments
 in people, infrastructure and support mechanisms, as explored in detail in Sections 2 and 3, and
 illustrate the extensive international reach of the faculty’s research and impact over this REF
 period.

 To give a sense of the ways in which these objectives have been addressed along scholarly and
 disciplinary lines, the Bartlett has been developing its research strengths across four areas (also
 stated in REF2014): 1. Energy and sustainability; 2. Digital technology for architectural design
 and urban analysis; 3. Governance, regeneration and property; and 4. Architectural history and
 cultural heritage.

 Under Area (1), success in energy and climate change research (e.g. in BSEER) leveraged
 external income, new partnerships and institutional support. For example, the £18m fourth phase
 of the UK Energy Research Centre – the flagship UKRI centre on transitions to sustainable,
 net-zero energy systems, with 20 partner institutions – moved to The Bartlett in 2019. BSEER

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and CPM have expanded expertise in econometric analysis and macroeconomic modelling, and
 are influencing national and international energy and climate policy (see Section 4). Key
 appointments include: Guan, bringing expertise in climate change economics and low carbon
 transitions, and Dalin, who holds a NERC Fellowship on environmental sustainability of global
 food systems. Heaviside was appointed from a climate change leadership role in Public Health
 England.

 In relation to Area (2), research in the fields of digital design, spatial analytics and smart cities,
 has grown significantly in BSA and CASA, stemming in part from Space Syntax (a REF2014
 impact case study). This research is influencing policy and practice on how urban street layouts
 affect socio-economic vitality, social exclusion, and physical and mental health. Tewdwr-Jones
 joined as Professor of Cities and Regions, and Wilson joined from Intel Labs Europe. CPM has
 extended its activity on digitisation and digitalisation of project operations and total asset
 management through the integration of IDIBE.

 Working in Area (3), BSP is tackling planning problems that are intertwined in governance,
 accountability, transparency, quality (notably in design environments), and finance/real estate. It
 won 33 externally-funded research projects to address financialisation and urban governance in
 Chinese cities, national sustainable infrastructure provision, and the governance and
 management of urban diversity. Staff are also driving the UCL-University of Toronto Anchor
 Partnership.

 Under Area (4), ISH has grown, opening up two novel areas for research: future heritage, and
 data science for cultural heritage. Its achievements are exemplified in the Academic-Heritage
 Partnership with Historic England, which tackles shortcomings in research and training in the
 field. ISH also secured the EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in Science and Engineering
 in Arts, Heritage and Archaeology (SEAHA) (noted in REF2014 as a centre for ‘scientific
 cultural heritage’) and hired Sandford, as Chair in Heritage Evidence, Foresight and Policy. In
 BSA, architectural history scholarship was boosted when the faculty welcomed The Survey of
 London Group (SoL), which has since attracted new funding for its deeply-contextual research,
 e.g. £568k from AHRC for research on the diverse histories of Whitechapel (Guillery).

 Research plans for the next five years: Building a Better Future

 The Bartlett’s research is embedded in a long-term timescale, beyond the next REF, that
 frames a vision for a built environment that will be built, rebuilt and de-built, for hundreds
 of years to come. There is a strong, collective interest in being able to imagine radically
 new futures.

 The Bartlett is well-placed to build on its strengths and leverage its distinctive research base. In
 line with UCL strategy – the faculty will continue to undertake innovative, world-leading research
 and deliver enduring impact over the next five years, promoting the six research principles of
 diversity, excellence, freedom, partnership, inclusion, and reflection, which will remain a
 touchstone in the faculty’s research structure, orientation and drive.

 The faculty has used a collaborative and experimental approach to inform and shape the
 development of its strategic objectives – with the express aim to reflect ‘what matters most’. In
 May 2019, an interactive exhibition called The Next 100 Years was hosted as part of The
 Bartlett’s centenary celebrations. Over two weeks, staff, students, visitors to the exhibition and
 social media followers identified what they thought were the big questions facing the built
 environment over the next century. From the hundreds of responses, 12 core themes emerged
 which are building blocks of The Bartlett’s Commitment to Change, called Build a Better
 Future. These covered climate change; resilience; equality; recycling and reuse; housing; public
 goods; design education; inclusivity; planning policy; nature; data and technology; and health
 and wellbeing. Build a Better Future is a suitable framing for the next five years and beyond,
 notwithstanding the additional urgency and significance of new challenges created by the Covid-
 19 pandemic.

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The themes in Build a Better Future will be pursued through four broad faculty priorities, each
 advancing work on a combination of themes, recognising important interrelationships and
 sensitivities, and in some cases, co-mingled threats. The faculty priorities are:

    1. Action on the climate crisis. Climate change and sustainability are already well-
       represented across The Bartlett’s teaching, research and external engagement, as
       evidenced through related, significant research (Section 3; UCLUoA13_MDAV, see
       UCLUoA13_ORE and UCLUoA13_SMI). This priority will connect deep, specific
       knowledge with broader interdisciplinary inquiry to activate future research. The Bartlett
       is crafting a climate change strategy to inform future research directions, taught
       programmes and operational plans, and a new leadership role, the Faculty Lead for
       Climate Action, to take this priority forward.
    2. Significant, collective engagement with policy and policy-making. This will continue
       building on the portfolio of national and international collaborations (Section 4 and
       Impact Case Studies, e.g. UCLUoA13_MAZ), and contributions to policy-relevant
       debates with governments and other stakeholders. This priority will underpin efforts to
       develop the faculty’s impact identity, by stimulating and cross-pollinating novel
       collaboration and engagement mechanisms. The Faculty Lead for Public Policy has a
       mandate to progress this priority. There is momentum to expand The Bartlett’s influence
       into new policy spaces, so the faculty will support early and mid-career academics to be
       the next generation of policy influencers.
    3. Stimulating new thinking on the post-pandemic built environment. The scholarly
       community is pivoting to consider new understandings of the built environment and its
       capacity to change. There is no more important time to be developing imaginative and
       radical visions, following a period when people’s livelihoods, economy, behaviour, travel,
       energy use, and wellbeing have been so profoundly disrupted. The Faculty Lead for
       Health will play a key role in developing research in this area and how it relates to race
       and gender equality.

    4. Creating momentum on race and spatial justice. The Bartlett has an established track
       record of user-informed research and engaged scholarship, and a shared sense of
       responsibility to be open, inclusive and receptive for the benefit of all those in the built
       environment. This priority underlines the faculty’s commitment to the development of its
       scholarly community. With leadership from the VD-EDI, the faculty is taking steps to undo
       the harm of racism through its teaching, research and public engagement (Section 2C).
       The Race & Spatial Justice recruitment focus will attract new scholars working on race,
       space and equity.

 Finally, as UCL’s first cross-disciplinary hub in Stratford, Here East has been an influential
 testbed for UCL EAST (Experiments, Arts, Society and Technology). The Bartlett will have a
 strong presence in research and teaching at UCL East, when the 180,000m2 campus opens in
 2022/23 academic year.



 1.4 Supporting and facilitating research and impact

 The Bartlett creates organisational infrastructure and opportunities for research and
 impact through various means.

 Operational responsibility for allocation of funding from the faculty’s core budget to supporting
 research and impact lies with the Dean and the Director of Operations, who work with a Finance
 Business Partner to manage the fair and transparent distribution of QR income, and support
 directors of schools and institutes to configure annual budgets (including staff and non-staff
 expenditure for research, and research support initiatives).


                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The faculty allocates core funding for 22.5FTE professional services posts that directly
 support research and impact (approximately 1.0FTE per 13 FTE staff in this REF2021
 submission) [this figure does not include posts funded wholly by grant income or centres for
 doctoral training]. These colleagues are based in this faculty, and are complemented in their
 expertise by groups of research facilitation staff located within UCL Office for the Vice Provost
 Research and Research Services.

 Of these, two 1.0FTE Grade 8 staff are based in the Faculty Office, comprising the core faculty
 research and impact team. Together with the VDR, they initiate and support faculty-wide
 programmes and activities, and act as team leaders to other core-funded professional services
 staff in this area.

 The Faculty Research and Enterprise Manager (FREM) works closely with VDR to promote a
 thriving, diverse and equitable research environment.
    ●   FREM tracks funders’ priorities, calls and assessment methods, and aligns these with
        Faculty research areas, as well as providing project management support, proposal
        development/review, and specialist advice, particularly for complex cross-faculty and
        multi-institution applications.
    ●   One-to-one career development and support is offered to researchers at all career
        stages, particularly those applying for fellowships and first grants.
    ●   The VDR oversees a portion of the core budget, including seed-funding worth more than
        £600k since 2014 (see Section 3). FREM is responsible for managing all stages of the
        distribution and management of these funds, from call preparation, panel recruitment and
        progress monitoring, to budget oversight and reporting.
    ●   FREM is the key liaison point with OVPR/BEAMS Research Facilitators, augmenting
        their specialist support at Faculty level to help colleagues generate research income.
    ●   FREM also coordinates local support via research managers/administrators (see below),
        developing this community through The Bartlett Research Coordination and Support
        group that facilitates information sharing and learning.

 The Faculty Impact Manager (FIM) is a core-funded post (created in 2018), boosting The
 Bartlett’s impact capabilities and helping to develop its overall impact identity. Strategic lead in
 this area is provided by the Faculty Impact Lead (FIL) – an academic enabling role, involving
 close liaison with the Dean, VDR and VD-IE, who oversee distinctive impact programmes in their
 own portfolios. The FIL post-holder (Zerjav) is supported by the FIM to coordinate the Impact
 Case Studies.
    ●   FIM supports FIL, developing practical processes and co-ordinating faculty-wide impact
        initiatives, providing diverse, tailored training and support (e.g. through presentations,
        feedback on research proposals), and signposting to funding from UCL Culture.
    ●   FIM has led over 20 impact sessions across The Bartlett, liaising with colleagues to
        provide insight and support across a variety of impact pathways (e.g. public engagement,
        community engagement, innovation and enterprise, outreach, and/or public policy
        engagement).
    ●   FIM & FIL coordinate The Bartlett’s Impact Steering Group (ISG). ISG was formed in
        July 2019, and has representatives from across the faculty. It advocates for impact as a
        collective sense of purpose, to establish a consistent and creative approach to
        encouraging and evidencing impact, and to harness and promote The Bartlett’s impact
        expertise.
    ●   FIM established the university-wide UCL Impact Network, co-chairing this network with
        the central UCL Research Impact and Curation Support team. Initiated and co-chaired
        by the FIM, The Bartlett has also catalysed a UCL Impact Network, This emerging
        community of practice – with more than 50 members – is a peer-support space, sharing
        ideas and refining approaches to creating meaningful external impact.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Other research-related professional services staff are based locally in schools and institutes,
 with around half based in BSEER (reflecting the volume of externally-funded research project
 activity there). They are responsible for management, support, and coordination of research and
 impact activities, working closely with Directors of Research. There is a near equal split between
 staff grades, i.e. researcher manager posts and research administrator posts. Importantly, this
 staffing strategy enables: local operational agility to meet the needs of disciplinary communities;
 development of strong local working relationships; and progression opportunities in the faculty.

 The presence and support of technical staff is vital to the pursuit of certain strands of research
 in the faculty, namely in BSA, and some in BSEER and CPM. More than 18FTE technical staff
 are located principally in the faculty’s major laboratory and fabrication spaces in 22 Gordon
 Street and at Here East. Design, fabrication, materials, and production research are directly
 supported by a variety of technicians, technical specialists and laboratory managers.

 The Bartlett also funds six core-funded professional services posts to support doctoral
 research across the faculty (with a further 20+ colleagues in schools and institutes who have
 broad teaching and learning support roles, which include PhD cohorts). There are also 20
 communications and engagement staff based across the faculty who support research and
 impact activities, as required.

 Recognition of achievements is amplified through communication channels, such as The
 Bartlett Annual Review, newsletters and social media posts. Beyond the extensive record of
 recognition for research (see Section 4), colleagues are regularly nominated for impact and
 engagement award schemes. In 2020, Bell won a UCL Provost’s Public Engagement Award
 for work involving communities with major infrastructure projects, and in 2019 Grau-Bove was
 nominated for the Mobile Heritage Laboratory. Others whose work have been recognised
 through this scheme include: Apsan Frediani (2016) and Teh (with a colleague from UCL
 Engineering Sciences, 2019).



 1.5 Supporting and enhancing interdisciplinary research (IDR)

 The Bartlett adopts and sustains a sensitive and distinct interdisciplinary approach to
 studying the built environment.

 The scale and nature of some of the challenges faced in the built environment, such as social
 justice and climate change, require research that is not constrained by disciplinary boundaries.
 The faculty’s expertise is founded on interdisciplinarity and a motive to collaborate with
 complementary disciplines.

 Strong IDR emerges from the presence of The Bartlett’s broader community of scholars – the
 faculty draws on the strengths of multiple disciplines to be ‘greater than the sum of the parts’. A
 full range of epistemologies, research methods, and practices are supported, so that staff can
 participate in various modes of co-production of research, including interdisciplinary inquiry, and
 there is a fertile ground for all. For example, UCL Urban Laboratory, led by Melhuish, supports
 urban research scholars from the Bartlett and three other UCL faculties, actively bringing
 disciplines together to collaborate on research, engagement and impact activities. Urban Lab
 has expanded during this REF period; it has launched a new journal (The Urban Pamphleteer)
 and has 11 affiliate interdisciplinary PhD students.

 In line with The Bartlett’s aim, in REF2014, to ‘invest in research excellence’, new opportunities
 and spaces have been created for IDR. These include Bartlett Synergy Grants (see Section
 3), conferences and other dialogue spaces (e.g. Bartlett Research Exchanges), to stimulate
 interdisciplinarity and develop new contributions to knowledge. It is also apparent in co-
 supervision and co-location of staff and doctoral students (encouraging them to practise
 interdisciplinary thinking and working).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The £15.8m investment in research infrastructure at Here East is host to BREI, enabling it to
 convene inter-sectoral (e.g. industry, health, education), as well as interdisciplinary research
 collaborations. The interdisciplinary vitality and sustainability of the research environment was
 substantially boosted by the other new institutes (IGP and IIPP). Focussing on engagement with
 policy, government, and community voices, they demonstrate that The Bartlett is initiating and
 hosting large-scale transdisciplinary research (i.e. where questions, as well as answers, are
 defined collaboratively). As an example of how the faculty stimulates this, IGP founded
 Prosperity Co-Laboratories (PROCOL) as a means to build up transdisciplinary teams with
 citizens, policy-makers, businesses, and NGOs. The Bartlett Innovation Fund (see Section 3)
 helped IGP to co-design a toolkit that would enable policy-makers to adopt and adapt the IGP
 Prosperity Index methodology to new PROCOL contexts (notably in Cuba, Kenya, Lebanon,
 Tanzania and Vietnam). The team established a time-limited cross-sectoral Community of
 Practice to co-design the toolkit, which is being used in collaborative partnerships with Camden
 Council and Liverpool City Council.

 That all this is broadly effective as an approach may be inferred from the range of scholarly
 backgrounds represented within REF2. It is also evident across the faculty’s projects, sources of
 funding and output destinations.



 1.6 Committing to an open research environment

 Bartlett staff pursue appropriate open science routes towards their research and users,
 and take an expansive view on how audiences prefer to access research.

 UCL organises policy and support for open access (OA) and research integrity on the eight
 pillars of Open Science, as identified by the European Commission. UCL is a signatory of the
 San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA), and The European Open Science
 Cloud (EOSC). Bartlett staff have access to extensive guidance and training on OA, research
 data, and bibliometrics. They are rewarded for engaging with Open Science through the UCL
 Academic Careers Framework. The faculty recognises the shift towards fully OA publication:
 as of December 2020, 95% of the 2,901 articles and conference proceedings accepted from 1
 April 2016 (not only those submitted to REF) have been deposited in an OA repository or have
 an exception to the REF OA policy. That this is effective is illustrated in download data.
 Research on megaproject performance (Denicol) achieved the highest-ever number of
 downloads in Project Management Journal; an article on conservation of plastic and rubber
 (Curran & Strlic) achieved the second-highest-ever reads in Studies in Conservation; and
 Huebner edited a special collection of open data on occupants and the effects of climate change
 for Nature Scientific Data.

 Findable, accessible, interoperable and reusable (FAIR) research data and outputs help lower
 barriers and facilitate others to realise new opportunities. The faculty embraces this via open,
 scholarly communication routes (e.g. blogs, podcasts and reports), which receive hundreds or
 thousands of views per month. As an illustration, in its first three years, IIPP published 127
 blogs, 33 working papers and 13 policy briefs, achieving over 90k reads. The Bartlett is also
 driving scholarship, collaboration and citizen science in this area, for example:
    ●   BSA pioneered fully OA design research in The Bartlett Design Research Folios.
        Since 2015, the 38 folios have been accessed by more than 50k people in 22 countries.
        The latest 28 folios expand the series to 66 volumes.
    ●   ISH is leading the Monument Monitor project with Historic Environment Scotland, where
        citizen science supports heritage management of historic sites. Visitors submit
        photographs, which combined with other datasets, evaluate physical change, informing
        conservation and monitoring. A ‘monitor from home’ campaign was launched during
        Covid-19.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Bartlett researchers work with stakeholders and funders to release urban and local city
        data: the underpinning research for the ‘Colouring London’ platform was undertaken in
        CASA; and in BSA, Depthmap, the analytic platform for Space Syntax, is available via
        GitHub and has been downloaded more than 100k times to date.

 Staff are using UCL’s online fully OA publishing facility, UCL Press to make their research
 accessible. For example, Sheil and colleagues published three proceedings of the Fabricate
 international conference, which have been downloaded over >123k times by users in 156
 countries. Other authors with UCL Press publications include Biel, Vaughan, Sendra
 Fernandez and Fitzpatrick.



 1.7 Sustaining research integrity and standards.

 Bartlett staff have played a leading role in informing, piloting and operationalising UCL’s
 policy and approach on research integrity, and demonstrated significant leadership on
 ethics in the built environment as a discipline.

 Colleagues have extensive experience in carrying out research in geographical or cultural
 settings that warrant nuanced and sensitive research designs. Scholars develop expertise in
 ‘situated ethics’, for instance, when working with people living and working in risky situations.
 Illustrative examples include: KNOW: Knowledge in Action for Urban Equality (Levy); diversity,
 burials and deathscapes (Beebeejuan); and corruption in construction companies and cartels
 (Castro). This kind of underpinning scholarship has informed how the faculty instigates activities
 around ethics, leading to a broader engagement with metadisciplinarity (where a discipline
 reflects back on itself through its theory and practice).

 The Bartlett’s Ethics Working Group generated ethical guidelines for built-environment
 researchers, reading lists, and a critical overview of relevant professional and institutional
 protocols and codes. Individual staff have made substantial contributions to ethics research and
 practice, which have been held up as good practice in UCL and beyond:
    ●   Rendell, who, between 2015 and 2020, directed The Bartlett Ethics Commission,
        which considered questions of ethics in built environment research, in a discipline-
        sensitive way, through events, projects, reports and publications.
    ●   Roberts, who received the RIBA President’s Award for Research in 2018 for Reflect
        Critically and Act Fearlessly: A Survey of Ethical Codes, Guidance and Access in Built
        Environment Practice.
    ●   Shipworth, who was the first person in UCL to be appointed as a Director of Ethics,
        has played a leading role in UCL reviews and committees, ensuring that UCL policy
        aligns with national requirements and professional frameworks. She created an exemplar
        local, low-risk ethics review process with a team of trained ethics reviewers, using
        innovative, comprehensive materials for speedy, rigorous and consistent ethics reviews.

 UCL supports researchers to maintain the highest standards of research integrity by acting
 honestly, reliably, respectfully and being held accountable for their actions. Ethics approval for
 low-risk research is largely carried out locally, with high-risk and externally-funded research
 approved at UCL Research Ethics Committee, which is governed and steered by UCL’s
 General Code of Ethical Principles. Within this, the safe and responsible management, access
 and security of research data is paramount.

 Bartlett staff and students are supported to comply with legislation and funder requirements, and
 to make best use of resources, including the UCL Data Safe Haven, particularly for participant
 data relating to the nine protected characteristics.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People


 2A: STAFF

 2A.1 Developing and supporting staff

 In line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, The
 Bartlett supports people through its environment, culture and development opportunities.

 The Bartlett is afforded significant autonomy in the way in which it organises its support
 for research, and opts to do so through schools and institutes. Across all of these spaces,
 the faculty takes a strong leadership position on dignity at work, mental health and wellbeing,
 anti-bullying and anti-racism (see Section 2C).

 In line with UCL 2019 Research Strategy, The Bartlett strives to be the destination and home of
 choice for the very best researchers. The faculty is an attractive employer: between 2014–15
 and 2018–19 it received 7,139 applications, shortlisted 1,038 and appointed 505 academics
 (research and teaching, research-only and teaching-only), a 7% appointment rate. In total, 101
 academic staff achieved promotions over this period, more than 42% of whom were women.

 The Bartlett approach considers individuals’ needs and career ambitions, alongside support to
 progress through the UCL Academic Careers Framework (and equivalent for professional
 services). These emphasise promotion through achievement against universal criteria. The UCL
 Academic Career Framework establishes how staff are recognised and rewarded for research
 and achieving impact from research, doing so in an inclusive and expansive manner, with
 examples of appropriate ambitions for progression from Grades 7–10.

 On appointment, staff are directed to the UCL Welcome Space, information on employee
 benefits (including work-life balance policies), staff support networks, and mandatory training. All
 UCL staff complete mandatory training (in diversity, unconscious bias, safety, information
 security and GDPR, freedom of information, and sustainability). Academic staff also cover:
 research supervision, e-learning, personal tutoring, and fair recruitment practices and policy.
 This is completed within six months and tied to probation. Completion is monitored by line and
 local managers who report 100% completion for The Bartlett since 2016. 100% of Bartlett staff
 have an induction. All academic staff and post-docs at Grade 7 or above are offered a mentor.
 Mentoring is an informal arrangement – managers can help to identify a mentor. BAME
 academic staff are encouraged to join a tri-university scheme called BMentor. Training needs
 are identified through annual appraisals and career conversations between appraisals, with
 signposting to local, faculty-wide and institutional programmes.

 Strategic support, policy and governance for staff lies at university level, so liaison via UCL HR
 & Organisational Development, Finance, and Research Services Business Partners is also
 helpful in enabling staff to access and make best use of central services. Effective
 communication of research updates and policy developments is key, and DoRs and research
 coordinators at faculty and local levels work to ensure equity of access. This is a substantial
 task, supported by the Faculty Communications Team and the Faculty Director of
 Operations.

 Beyond the faculty and university support structures described in Section 1, schools and
 institutes have a range of local research and impact support mechanisms, designed in
 consultation with their communities to best meet their needs and respond to emerging priorities.
 Different disciplinary norms, user audiences and contexts are respected, and funds are made
 available for projects, conferences, networking, travel, and training and development. Schools
 and institutes have autonomy to allocate research allowances as lump sums (e.g. to support
 interdisciplinary discussions and collaborative research in research groups and clusters) and/or
 as annual personal allowances to individual scholars (e.g. for conferences, training or software).


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As an illustration of how one school approaches this, BSA has supported: 1) Architectural
 Research Fund, for research projects and PhD student projects (£450k). 2) Individual Research
 Fund, for academic staff (£400k). 3) Sabbatical Fund, for 32 sabbaticals (£235k).

 Importantly, for staff and research students with caring responsibilities, individuals’ needs
 are taken into account when travel approval is requested, before bookings are made. This
 enables those with childcare and other caring responsibilities, as well as physical disabilities and
 mobility impairments, to benefit from packages designed around their needs. The faculty has
 supported multiple requests in this way, improving researcher mobility by paying for childcare,
 and additional travel support or accommodation for staff with mobility or accessibility needs.



 2A.2 Staffing and recruitment policy (including part-time and fixed-term staff)

 The number of staff submitted (290.69FTE) is more than double that of REF2014, which
 reflects the overall growth in The Bartlett staff and student population.

 Schools and institutes have substantial autonomy to propose new posts that attend to scholarly
 directions and long-term aspirations, so patterns of staff recruitment vary. Some areas have
 used succession planning to stimulate research activity, whereas others have widened
 interdisciplinarity. Many appointments have been made to secure academics who are emerging
 or established leaders in their fields, bringing expertise from disciplines such as: culture and
 philosophy, statistics, climate finance, sustainability science, economics of public value, machine
 learning, urban studies, and transport planning. Staff from non-academic backgrounds
 (practitioner-academics) have also been strategically recruited, acting as highly-valued
 interlocutors between research and impact.

 The formation of three new institutes (BREI, IGP and IIPP) has created more than 30FTE new
 academic and research posts (and 22FTE professional service roles), and BSA has increased
 the size of its academic community, such that over 80% of its 67.69FTE submitted staff are
 active in research and teaching (i.e. HESA3).

 The Bartlett’s demographic profile had previously indicated a gender imbalance at some staff
 grades, as indicated in REF2014 (which included 64.32% men, based on 88.35FTE, and
 35.68% women, from 47.58FTE). For REF2021, The Bartlett’s submission includes 112.21FTE
 women (headcount 154). This is 2.3 times more women by FTE than in 2014, and a net increase
 in the share of women in the composition of the submission (to 38.6%). This is described further
 in Section 2C.

 The Bartlett has been active in piloting and implementing new recruitment practices. In 2018,
 UCL created a Fair Recruitment Specialists (FRS) service, with a view to enhancing
 recruitment and selection of academic, research and professional services staff. FRS is a
 voluntary cadre of highly-trained BAME staff who participate in recruitment rounds. The Bartlett
 has engaged extensively with this service, making the most requests of any of UCL’s 11
 faculties, 83 in total. Further to this, in early 2021, The Bartlett launched the Race and Spatial
 Justice recruitment focus, bringing forward new posts to foster scholarship in this area, and take
 steps to undo the harm of racism through its educational offering and research activity, and
 public engagement – including through the use of positive action. The faculty continues to attend
 to the lower proportion of women in senior posts. Recent efforts to address underlying reasons
 have resulted in a 7% increase in the representation of women in senior academic positions by
 2019, compared with 2016.

 There is parity between staff holding part-time (fractional) appointments, those with fixed-
 term posts, and colleagues with full-time, open-ended contracts – both in principle and in
 practice.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 UCL does not employ staff on fixed-term contracts of less than nine months (unless they work
 on a specific project, or are on secondment or maternity leave cover). The Bartlett does not use
 zero-hour contracts. Academic contracts are all open-ended/permanent. Research staff on fixed-
 term contracts are eligible for redeployment (into fixed-term or open-ended contracts) under
 UCL HR policy.

 The faculty’s REF2021 submission includes 31.69 FTE part-time/fractional staff (62 by
 headcount). This is just over 10% of submitted staff by FTE and almost 20% by headcount,
 indicating the significance of this particular group among The Bartlett research community. The
 faculty is therefore deeply committed to understanding the challenges faced by people working
 in part-time roles (and those in fixed-term posts). The line management relationship is a key
 space to emphasise equity, regardless of contractual status, by supporting staff with advice, for
 instance, on the drive to publish, seek funding, and build a CV (fixed-term posts), and how to
 remain in contact with discipline trends and access skills development (part-time posts).



 2A.3 Supporting and integrating individuals at the beginning of their research careers

 The Bartlett aims to support, integrate and develop early-career researchers (ECRs)
 across all its schools and institutes – giving them a voice and place in the faculty.

 The number of ECR in this submission by headcount is 68 (61.92FTE), up from 44 in 2014. ECR
 colleagues are a significant and vital feature of daily life in the faculty, acting as lead authors on
 88 outputs and co-authors of 37 outputs in this submission. The faculty strives to give a voice to
 ECRs, for example, by seeking designated involvement and leadership in committees, so they
 are part of decision-making. ECRs benefit from a range of training and skills development
 opportunities covering the core elements of academic research.

 All staff can access local funds for individual research and scholarship, and there is additional
 dedicated support for ECRs. A key example is 1-2-1 support for funded fellowship
 applications. Individuals are mentored assiduously by the FREM and previous recipients, and
 The Bartlett has had several successes. For example, Basiri won a UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship (£1.2m) to collaborate with the Alan Turing Institute and industry on 3D models of
 cities (cited in UKRI’s delivery plan as an example of capacity building for research leaders), and
 secured a Professorship in Geospatial Data Science at the University of Glasgow in 2020. In
 respect of mentoring and peer support, this is much valued and widespread. Senior
 colleagues provide mentoring and ECRs can access training on impact, writing skills, proposal
 development and career planning.

 BSP makes a substantial investment in ECRs through post-doctoral fellowships. These allow
 consolidation (writing papers) and a programme of work that stimulates new research directions.
 A teaching component and a budget for conferences are included. BSA’s ECR approach
 supports architects and part-time practitioner staff, through a BSA Staff PhD Award. Successes
 include: Beckett, who secured £202k from AHRC to explore bio-augmented design; Claypool,
 who received £75k from ESRC via the Transforming Construction Network Plus; Matthews, who
 won the Panufnik Composers’ Scheme award; and Bavister, whose soundscapes won awards
 from the RIBA and World Architecture Festival.

 The Bartlett commits to furthering ECR development internationally, e.g. through InnoChain – a
 research training environment examining how advances in digital design tools enable
 sustainable, informed and materially smart design solutions. BSA hosted three InnoChain
 researchers, including Stefanescu, who developed Speckle software – adopted by HOK, SOM,
 Arup and others, and being developed through a £1m award from Innovate UK, led by
 Papadonikolaki.



                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ECRs are empowered and resourced to lead research and impact activities. For instance,
 by providing: funding for ECR staff working without or between externally-funded projects;
 mentoring to be able to take the lead on running events; and skills development for particular
 audiences. Indeed, participation and dialogue are present throughout the ECR community via
 research seminars. While many focus on specific interests, cross-unit all-faculty events
 address broad or far-reaching themes, research methodology, and funding calls. ECRs in DPU
 have organised multiple online dialogue events, recently on the effects of Covid-19 in the Global
 South. Other ECR-led events have included:
     ● Gasperin and MacPharlane collaborated with the US Institute for New Economic
        Thinking’s Young Scholars Initiative to host a workshop on Rethinking the State in the 21st
        Century.
     ● Milcheva, Papadonikolaki and Zerjav convened keynote lecture programmes on
        infrastructure and digital innovation, with speakers from Cambridge, LSE, Imperial, Penn
        State, Stanford, and industry (e.g. Arup, IBM, KPMG, and TfL).

 In respect of access to research-leadership roles, while senior posts in The Bartlett (e.g. VDR,
 VD-EDI) normally require professorial level experience, post-holders of Director of Research
 roles, and the Deputy Directors of Research and Faculty Leads, can all be recruited from the
 Associate Professor pool, which includes early- and mid-career staff. Local research and ethics
 committees also include ECR staff.

 ECR colleagues trained at The Bartlett have taken up positions across the world. The
 scale of transfer of this emergent research expertise is evidence of how ECRs are supported to
 thrive, sustaining the vitality of many academic disciplines. More than 30 PhD and ECR from
 BSP progressed to post-doctoral fellowships and lecturing posts. Around half secured posts
 internationally (e.g. University of Auckland, Nanjing University, Politecnico di Milano, Shanghai
 Jiaotong University, TU Berlin, TU Delft and the University of Hong Kong), and others were
 recruited by UK universities (including Oxford Brookes, Queen’s University Belfast and
 Sheffield).



 2A.4 Supporting the wellbeing of staff and doctoral students

 The Bartlett takes a wellbeing-first approach, drawing on a strong institutional culture
 around wellbeing in UCL, applied sensitively and creatively across the faculty.

 Wellbeing in the research environment is a broad term, encompassing work-life balance, health
 at work, physical and mental health, collegiality and a sense of community, as well as
 sustainability. For an individual, the wellbeing conversation starts at induction, and continues
 through line management and mentoring relationships – with signposting to UCL staff and
 student policies (e.g. Staff Mental Health and Wellbeing Plan, Menopause Policy, and
 Dignity at Work) and central support services.

 Underpinning this, schools and institutes design and manage wellbeing concerns into workload
 models. By taking the view that everyone has equal opportunity to develop their research,
 workload can be shared such that staff can be supported appropriately. Responsibilities are
 spread as equitably as possible, with consideration of fractional posts and those working
 flexibly/remotely, e.g. by adjusting teaching to concentrate activities into specific days. Care is
 taken to enable everyone to participate in the life of The Bartlett. 100% of local and faculty
 meetings are held in UCL core hours (10-4pm) (vs. 89% in 2016) and social activities are
 considerate of staff with caring responsibilities, with a range of activities within and outside core
 hours.

 Anti-bullying and harassment training (in line with UCL Student Harassment and Bullying
 Policy) is championed at The Bartlett. Since 2018, ‘Where do you draw the line?’ workshops


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been held eight times, attended by staff and doctoral students. The faculty piloted the
 Racialised Biases in Higher Education workshop for senior staff and held Taking the Lead
 workshops for managers.

 Staff and student access to wellbeing support has been boosted through: mental health first
 aiders, who connect people with wellbeing support services (such as UCL Employee
 Assistance Programme, and UCL Report and Support); and wellbeing champions, who
 disseminate information, arrange wellbeing events and convene training (e.g. on harassment
 and bullying).

 All UCL staff have the right to request flexible/remote working as part of the UCL Dignity at
 Work and Work Life Balance policies. Options for flexible working include condensed
 working hours, early/late starts/finishes, job shares, and working from home, and with advice
 from UCL HR, schools and institutes develop creative and respectful local operational solutions.
 Staff have always been actively supported to work from home/remotely. UCL typically approves
 equipment requests for staff to work safely at home, allowing them to set up a healthy and
 suitable home workspace. Remote working overseas, e.g. for fieldwork, or to be with family, is
 also supported, on a case-by-case basis.

 The above principles helped shape an enhanced approach to wellbeing during Covid-19.
 Schools and institutes adapted practices to instil a sense of belonging, and promote mental and
 physical health. This included adjustments to workloads/working hours, and adapted
 communications to enhance transparency of decision-making. In line with UCL’s approach on
 equity and inclusion, the disproportionate (gendered and raced) impact of the pandemic was
 overtly recognised through the UCL Covid-19 Career Support Scheme, directing resources to
 those who were most disadvantaged.



 2A.5 Supporting special and sabbatical leave for all staff at all stages of their careers

 The Bartlett accords with UCL HR Policy on leave, drawing support from a dedicated HR
 Business Partner to aid with consistency, fairness, EDI and protected characteristics.

 UCL HR policy contains the overarching principles for special leave and sabbatical/study
 leave – empowering The Bartlett to support colleagues and respect individuals’ aspirations. This
 gives schools and institutes in The Bartlett sufficient scope to develop management practices
 collaboratively, respecting each area’s size, population and ambitions. Staff are supported
 through life events by local management teams, namely Departmental Managers and/or
 Directors.

 Study leave is vital to stimulate growth, collaboration and invention in The Bartlett’s
 research. This is available to all staff, irrespective of grade and percentage FTE. Doctoral
 research students can apply for study leave and permission to work away from UCL. These
 periods enable colleagues to extend research networks and collaborations, write books and
 papers, submit research funding bids, visit internationally-leading groups, and develop new
 research lines.

 A balanced group of 70 women and men, from all grades have taken study leave (not
 including post-parental/post-carer study leave). There were more sabbaticals in larger, more
 established schools, compared to the smaller institutes, but this will gradually rebalance.
 Workload models help manage the sequence of sabbaticals and negotiate adjustments to roles
 and responsibilities in a fair, agile and transparent manner. Local arrangements are designed to
 suit schools and institutes: for example, flexibility underpins BSA’s sabbatical model for design
 scholars, allowing them greater freedom, if delivering international exhibitions or projects with
 phased production schedules.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The Bartlett follows UCL policy on cover and support during parental leave, which
 continually improves in its provision to parents.

 There is a growing normalisation of parental leave, especially paternity leave, as a result of
 awareness-raising exercises to foreground equality. The Bartlett adheres to UCL’s package of
 family-friendly support before, during and after pregnancy and adoption, regardless of length of
 service. All schools and institutes have active Inclusion Leads who share notices of staff
 networks, e.g. UCL Parents and Carers Together. During the period, 32 academics took
 maternity leave with a 100% return rate (except in 2015/16 when one did not return). In line with
 UCL policy, academic staff are offered a one term sabbatical, without teaching, upon their return.

 The faculty supports working from home and time off to support caring responsibilities
 during crisis points. Where funders place a cap on childcare and caring funds, additional carer
 funds are released to enable staff to travel and attend international conferences. Such funds
 also support the cost of care when staff are invited to universities outside the UK for extended
 periods of time, e.g., to undertake scholarly collaborations, research and networking.
 Considering carer or parental leave, and enabling those returning to work to have space to
 re-engage, there are many instances where staff with particular caring responsibilities have
 received customised and personal leave arrangements. These have included adjustments of
 responsibilities to enable staff to offer end-of-life care to relatives and extended periods of
 working remotely to maintain family relationships.

 Formal procedures for staff and research students returning from periods of leave reside at
 college level in UCL HR policy. Staff on, or returning from, periods of leave due to ill health are
 supported by local management teams, along with UCL Human Resources staff, and expert
 advice is also sought from UCL Occupational Health.


 2B: DOCTORAL STUDENTS

 2B.1 Creating a diverse, vibrant doctoral research community

 If The Bartlett is a crucible for innovation, then its diverse, engaged cohort of doctoral
 students are at the heart of this.

 The Bartlett’s research principles are strongly reflected in the research environment for
 postgraduate research (PGR) students, doctoral education and support. They are embodied in
 the annual Faculty Doctoral Strategy, which is curated by the Faculty Graduate Tutor
 (Marshall). It is refreshed through extensive consultation across the faculty and takes account of
 college-level direction (from UCL Doctoral School) as well as the UCL Doctoral Education
 Strategy. The strategy focuses on delivering improvements to the doctoral training environment,
 paying close attention to The Bartlett’s diverse research culture. For example, the 2019-20
 Bartlett Postgraduate Strategy targeted actions on space, diversity, timeliness, supervision
 training, and visibility of doctoral achievement and impact. These themes arose from student
 feedback, captured via PRES and New to UCL student surveys, as well as strategic drivers in
 UCL’s strategy, UCL2034.

 The faculty offers 14 doctoral degree programmes, with an MPhil and PhD route. New PhD
 programmes were launched in 2017 on Global Prosperity (IGP), and Innovation and Public
 Policy (IIPP) and in Energy Resilience and the Built Environment, within the ERBE CDT (EI).
 More than 350 doctoral awards have been made in this REF period (see REF4a).

 Doctoral students join The Bartlett from around the world, bringing knowledge and experience
 from a diversity of disciplines to the research culture. International students consistently account
 for more than a third of the faculty’s PGR population. There is gender parity in the PGR
 community. There is no meaningful gender difference in PGR applications, offers and
 acceptances, nor in completion rates (47% female to 53% male for the period), although these

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 vary by year. Women accounted for 59% of doctoral awards in 2013/14 (20 individuals), and
 more than 65% in 2019/20. Importantly, the number has doubled, rising to 42 female award-
 holders, and outperforming the HESA national average by 8%. Viewed by ethnicity, UK-
 domiciled PGR are predominantly white women and men, with BAME women and men
 accounting for 32% of the faculty’s UK PGR cohort in 2018/19 and almost 36% in 2019/20. This
 is better than the UK sector average, but The Bartlett’s Athena SWAN plan aims to bring this
 figure in line with inner London’s BAME profile (43%). The Bartlett Promise (see Section 2C)
 further aims to address under-representation of UK BAME scholars – from 2021-22, it will award
 five PhD scholarships (four years’ fees and stipend), every year.

 PGR recruitment and selection are largely managed within schools and institutes, or centres for
 doctoral training. Advertising occurs across many online channels to improve equity of access
 and maximise reach. Once applications have cleared checks (in UCL Graduate Admissions
 Office), they are assessed by local Departmental Graduate Tutors (DGT) and PGR support
 staff, and, if going forward, by at least two further members of academic staff. Applicants are
 interviewed by both prospective supervisors.

 The faculty recognises the potential inequities and privilege in the traditional PhD
 application process, and is taking multiple actions to address this. For instance, BSP
 foreground research on race and spatial justice in its advertising; the LoLo CDT moved to a
 fully-anonymised pre-application process; and CPM re-designed its approach to interviews,
 convening them with renewed sensitivity to applicant needs and preferences.

 Targeted schemes to support under-represented groups exist across the Faculty. For
 example, DPU offers opportunities to students from backgrounds and countries where there is
 little or no institutional funding, through the DPU60 scheme, which has awarded eight PhD
 scholarships (worth £800k). It also launched a new Health in Urban Development Scholarship in
 2019.



 2B.2 Securing studentships from a range of major funding bodies

 Beyond studentship awards from UCL block grants (from EPSRC, AHRC and other
 funders), The Bartlett has a stake in a number of major centres for doctoral training
 (CDT).

    ●   BSEER has hosted two CDT, led by Lowe. The £4.3m London-Loughborough EPSRC
        Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy Demand (LoLo) is recognised by UKRI peer
        reviewers as an ‘effective collaboration’, leading to ‘high quality doctoral students with
        excellent academic outputs and real world impacts’. LoLo benefited from £300k cash
        from 16 partners, including Arup, BEIS, and Public Health England.

    ●   LoLo was followed by the £5.7m EPSRC-SFI in Ireland Centre for Doctoral Training
        in Energy Resilience and the Built Environment (ERBE). ERBE commenced in 2019,
        and has over £300k cash from 11 partners, including FeildenCleggBradley, Bentley
        Systems, and the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings.

    ●   ISH holds a significant stake as lead of the £4.7m EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training
        on Science and Engineering for Arts, Heritage and Archaeology (SEAHA). It hosts
        22 of the 36 students at UCL (partners Oxford University and the University of Brighton
        host the remainder). SEAHA has over £1.6m of support from the industry and heritage
        sectors; 73 of SEAHA’s 87 UK and international partnerships are with ISH.

    ●   BSA is a member of the AHRC London Arts and Humanities Doctoral Training
        Partnership (LAHP). This supports eight higher education institutions across London. It
        grants 1-3 AHRC Doctoral awards to BSA per annum.


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ●   The Bartlett is part of the ESRC UCL, Bloomsbury and East London Doctoral
        Training Partnership (UBEL), led by UCL’s IoE. The faculty’s involvement has
        historically been in the ‘Cities, Environment and Development’ pathway, and in 2020,
        faculty staff instigated a new ‘Prosperity, Innovation, Technology and Politics’ pathway.

 Schools and institutes have secured multiple studentships from CDTs based outside the
 faculty, evidencing collaboration and interdisciplinary activity. These include: AHRC Gardens,
 Libraries and Museums DTC (IGP); EPSRC Industrial Doctorate Centre on Virtual
 Environments, Imaging and Visualisation (BSA); ESPRC Urban Sustainability and Resilience
 DTC (BSP); Leverhulme DTP on the Ecological Brain (BSA and CASA); and Wellcome Trust
 DTP on Data Science and Health (CASA).

 The faculty also attracts support for doctoral research through government, policy-makers,
 and non-governmental organisations (such as charities and trusts). More than £500k has
 been received from sponsors such as: BEIS, Commonwealth Scholarship Commission, DFID,
 European Commission, European Space Agency, Humanities in the European Research Area,
 and the OECD, and numerous charitable trusts and foundations.

 Leveraging support from UCL European Research & Innovation Office, The Bartlett is partner
 of choice in Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions. Rawes, Sheil and Vaughan have
 between them received over £800k to host five Marie Sklodowska-Curie scholars, stimulating
 collaborations with 14 universities (e.g. ETH Zurich, Hebrew University of Jerusalem, KTH
 Sweden, Politecnico di Milano, TU Delft, and TU Vienna). Penner hosted a scholar funded
 through the Humanities in the European Research Area, led by the Oslo School of Architecture.

 Over £1.6m of direct funding has been secured from more than 25 industrial and
 corporate/private-sector organisations for part or full sponsorship of PGR research, including
 from: Architype, Atkins, Bouygues, BRE, Buro Happold, Costain, Cushman & Wakefield, Edf
 Energy, E.On, European Investment Bank, Llewelyn-Davies, Osram, Philips Electronics, and
 Skanska.

 Many PGR are supported by national government scholarships. While these awards are not
 routinely disclosed to UCL, based on known amounts in the largest centres, BSEER and BSA,
 this is estimated at more than £2m, and includes funding from 24 countries, with multiple awards
 from Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Mexico, Portugal, Taiwan, and Thailand.



 2B.3 Monitoring progress and successful completions

 Overall responsibility for monitoring and completion rests with the FGT, who ensures that the
 extensive disciplinary and scholarly breadth in The Bartlett is reflected within related
 governance. While day-to-day decision-making rests with schools and institutes, DGTs come
 together with key staff at the Faculty Research Degrees Committee to monitor progress and
 share good practice.

 The Bartlett encourages the use of UCL Research Log for recording and monitoring progress
 online, but many areas have also developed local approaches co-produced with students. An
 example can be found in BSP, where twice-yearly monitoring is based on a three-way meeting
 with the student and both supervisors. BSP also hosts a PGR day each June, where pre-
 upgrade students make presentations and those approaching completion present to the public at
 the Annual BSP Expo.

 The faculty publicises completions via @TheBartlettPhD social media account and graduates
 are invited to write for the Bartlett Doctoral Blog. Doctoral projects are showcased in an annual
 exhibition and conference. Communicating success recognises and encourages timely
 completion, and enhanced by recognition of doctoral research in national awards. For

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 example, BSA students regularly feature in awards from the Royal Institute of British Architects:
 Cheatle (Highly Commended, 2014, Outstanding PhD Thesis); Jordan (Shortlisted, 2016,
 Research: History and Theory); Capille (Shortlisted, 2017, Research: Cities and Community);
 Roberts (Commended, 2017, Research: Ethics and Sustainable Development); Pearson
 (Shortlisted, 2018, Research (Design and Technical); and, Pachilova (with Sailer), won the
 2019 President’s Award for Research (Building in Quality).



 2B.4 Supporting skills development and career preparations.

 Responsibility for PGR development resides in UCL Doctoral School and UCL
 Organisational Development, bolstered by Bartlett programmes that provide a
 disciplinary lens.

 The faculty supports PGR development through conference attendance and pedagogical or
 skills training to assist academic networking and career development. Targeted skills and
 career-related events, such as ‘Lunch and Learn’ sessions, explain doctoral timescale and
 procedure. The Bartlett’s Student Experience Manager convenes intensive writing workshops,
 called ‘Shut Up and Write’, and the faculty organises heats of the UCL Three Minute Thesis
 competition. PGR students are supported through The Bartlett Doctoral Hub, a space for
 news, funding and networking opportunities. Bartlett students can also access multiple UCL-
 level PGR development programmes. For example, since 2018, more than 50 Bartlett PGR
 students have joined the UCL SPERO Entrepreneurship Programme, with eight going on to
 launch start-ups.

 Events that promote collaboration and cooperation, emphasise inclusion, and foreground
 disciplinary interests are an important part of the calendar. With support from the faculty, BSA,
 for example hosts a major interdisciplinary conference where PGR students present their work
 and receive feedback from international guests, such as: Perry Kulper (University of
 Michigan), Lesley Lokko (University of Johannesburg), and Barbara Maria Stafford (University of
 Chicago).

 The faculty allocates core funding to Bartlett Doctoral Initiative Fund (overseen by the FGT).
 This funds students to shape Bartlett Doctoral Networks, with themes like: Culture, Socially
 Just, and Water. Outputs include conferences, workshops and publications – all essential for
 building an academic profile. The fund has also supported EDI initiatives relating to
 decolonialising the curriculum and experiences of women researchers. Similarly, in CPM, PhD
 students self-organised Scholarly Life, which was the culmination of a programme designed to
 grow an inclusive, academic community.

 Schools and institutes ring-fence resources to support PGR students to attend academic
 conferences. There are discretionary funds for fieldwork expenses, consumables, networking
 and training, and activities initiated by the PGR community. The faculty also provides teaching
 opportunities through the PGTA Programme: annually, about 30 PGTA posts are funded, and
 supported through teacher-training towards recognition by the Higher Education Academy, via
 UCL Arena Centre. No gender bias is apparent in the allocation of teaching opportunities for
 PGR.
 PGR students benefit from funding and support for enrichment activities, internships and
 residency programmes. The university funds UCL-Yale Exchange Fellowships – four Bartlett
 students have won these awards, and BSA match-funds one PhD student per year to have a
 residency at the Canadian Center for Architecture. Students also take advantage of
 secondments and consultancy opportunities (e.g. with Department for Transport, HM Treasury
 Inter-American Development Bank, World Bank), and some secured internships (e.g. Alan
 Turing Institute, BEIS, Buro Happold, DNV-GL, and the International Energy Agency).




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2C: EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION

 2C.1 Overview of EDI in the Bartlett

 The Bartlett is embedding gender and racial equity in teaching and research content,
 alongside operational processes, and including REF preparations.

 The university’s thinking on EDI is captured in the UCL Equity & Inclusion Plan 2020-21. It
 offers a clearly defined approach and framework for pursuing equity and inclusion. These terms
 are key, and while both concepts promote fairness, equality achieves this by treating everyone
 the same regardless of need, whereas equity achieves this by treating people differently
 depending on need. Inclusion is being attentive to the impact of social identities and putting the
 most disadvantaged people at the centre of design and planning. Inclusion values ‘difference’ as
 an asset, but understands that it can require more thought, time and resources to accommodate
 meaningfully.

 This thinking informs The Bartlett’s path to acknowledge, understand, and tackle structural
 inequities and unjust social power imbalances that affect communities. Where UCL is taking an
 equity-based approach by targeting resources to those who are most disadvantaged by Covid-
 19, the Bartlett EDI strategy reflects this, by instituting an ethic of care. It is amplified by the
 Dean and leadership teams, who convey a flexible and empathetic approach to lower
 productivity, reduced availability, and other challenges arising from working at home.

 The Bartlett’s 2020 Athena SWAN Silver submission, which builds on an Athena SWAN Bronze
 awarded in 2016, echoes the need to embed EDI into the university by empowering everyone to
 advance equity and inclusion, while recognising the specific actions that are needed to progress
 our focus on intersectionality (gender and race equality). The aim is for the research base that
 studies and influences the built environment to be representative of all those who live
 and work in it.

 As of November 2020, The Bartlett comprised 729 staff and 3,634 students. In brief:

    ●   On gender: There were 562 academic staff, of which 38% were women; 167
        professional services staff, of which 71% were women; and 379 PGR students, of which
        53% women. In all, 45% of the faculty’s staff were women and 56% of the student body.
        Of those appointed into academic roles, 36% were women, up from 27% in 2016, which
        aligns with numbers applying. Of staff promoted to professor (Grade 10), 46% were
        women (up from 43% in 2016). In 2020, 28% of The Bartlett’s professors were women
        (up from 18% in 2016); the faculty aims to grow this to 40% by 2025 and 50% by 2030.

    ●   On race: BAME women and men represented 8% and 7% respectively of faculty staff,
        which matches the sector average for staff. While the faculty’s first BAME woman
        professor was appointed in 2017, by ethnicity, the proportion of BAME women
        academics has remained static at 6% since 2015. BAME women are under-represented
        at all stages of recruitment, with an application to appointment ratio of 3.3%, compared to
        9.6% for white women. The faculty aims to improve BAME representation in the staff and
        student body, so the faculty EDI plan includes outreach, recruitment and scholarship
        actions to prioritise these groups.

 The gender and ethnicity of staff submitted to REF2021 is outlined in Section 2C5. Since
 REF2014, progress has been made on EDI, and ongoing support will ensure it continues to be
 foregrounded.




                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2C.2 Supporting research, engagement and impact that foregrounds EDI

 The Bartlett has a strong academic profile and agenda in its research portfolio that is
 influencing broader debates of equity and social justice.

 Research that considers the wellbeing, representation and diverse histories of different
 communities can be seen across The Bartlett (see also Section 4). The faculty hosts many
 researchers whose work focuses on equity and issues that lie at the interstices of protected
 characteristics, inequalities and global societal concerns.

 Research with partners from the Global South covers gendered experiences of climate change,
 intersectional policy development, how children are affected by displacement, and lived
 experiences of health, life and death. Levy leads the £6.3m UKRI/GCRF KNOW: Knowledge in
 Action for Urban Equity project, which is transforming urban equality in the Global South through
 the creation of urban learning hubs. The faculty’s influence on equity in urban policy is evident in
 DIVERCITIES, a €6.7m EUFP7 project on relationships between diverse populations, social
 cohesion, and competitiveness; the UK team, led by Raco, has published a handbook on hyper-
 diverse cities.

 CASA is exploring age and ageing, through interaction design, via exhibitions at the V&A and
 workshops with schools in London, Sheffield, Aberdeen and Cardiff. Chrysikou worked with
 Osaka University on Design for Ageing: East meets West, a study on the spatial policies for
 people in care, in two geographical contexts, and Boys created the Matrix Open Online feminist
 architecture archive, aiming to make practices more equitable. Supported with AHRC funding,
 Rawes and Lord produced an open access film, Equal by Design, and The Bartlett funded a
 conference on gender-neutral toilets, their politics and inclusive design.

 Scholars in DPU and IIPP are working with The AT2030 Life Changing Assistive Technology for
 All (part of a £10m project funded by FCDO), exploring evaluation and market and innovation
 structures. The Global Disability Innovation Hub (based at Here East) coordinates delivery of
 AT to over three million people by testing new approaches and providing evidence of ‘what
 works’. Boys also instigated the influential Architecture Beyond Sight project, which focused on
 design, prototyping and considering entry routes into the architecture profession for blind and
 visually-impaired people.

 There is a strong programme of engagement and engaged scholarship around EDI and
 intersectional concerns. Egbo and Campkin won a Communities and University Partnership
 Initiative Award from the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public Engagement to study
 regeneration and diversity, comparing BAME experiences across three London boroughs. Aided
 by the UCL East Listen and Respond fund, IGP assessed how well BAME communities with
 multiple disadvantages were being supported with money, education, and advice during the
 Covid-19 pandemic.



 2C.3 Leadership and originality in faculty EDI structure and practices

 The Bartlett’s commitment to EDI is shown in its creation of a Vice Dean EDI role, a
 recurring budget, and strong governance and support structures.

 In 2018, The Bartlett was the first faculty in UCL to establish a Vice-Dean for Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (VD-EDI) role, supported by 1.2 FTE over four staff, across Grades 6-
 9. The impact of this post has been to formalise governance and reporting of equality work;
 secure recurrent funding from the faculty’s core budget; and support senior leadership to pilot
 equity initiatives. The Bartlett beaconed the possibilities of a VD-EDI, sharing the approach and
 job description with other faculties. Post-holder, Patel, was recognised in UCL’s 2020 Annual
 Inclusion Awards, receiving the Sir Stephen Wall Award – Inspiring Role Model. During Covid-

                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 19, the VD-EDI championed awareness of the gendered impact of the pandemic, lobbying for
 the disproportionate impact on women to be recognised. This resulted in a change to the UCL
 promotion process, adding an inclusive expectation for everyone to comment on how Covid-19
 had impacted them.

 The faculty has four EDI Working Groups and a Coordination group chaired by the VD-EDI.
 The 29 members of the faculty’s EDI team include professional services staff and academics
 across all grades, and UG and PGT students. The Dean co-Chairs, with the VD-EDI, termly EDI
 meetings (open to staff and PGR students) to communicate progress and consult on actions for
 gender and race equity. Every part of the faculty has an active Inclusion Lead.

 Driven by EDI leadership and working groups, many of The Bartlett’s EDI initiatives go beyond
 institutional expectations, and in some cases are sector-leading. The most significant is The
 Bartlett Promise. This major investment from the faculty’s core budget of over £1m (for the
 initial three academic years), addresses under-representation in the student pipeline. It aims to
 award full fees and stipend scholarships to 10% of all UG, PGT and PGR students. The first
 intake was in 2020, with 10 scholarships for UK/EU undergraduate students.

 Further examples of the faculty’s collaborative approach to embed EDI include:
    ● B.Queer: in 2020, the faculty launched this LGTBQA+ staff and student group founded
        on scholarship and lived experiences.
    ● Bartlett BAME Network: launched in March 2021, a faculty-wide support network for
        BAME staff and students.
    ● Inclusive Spaces: the faculty launched this monthly seminar series in early 2021,
        adding to the calendar of events convened at key points in the year, such as Black
        History Month.
    ● Queering the Curriculum: a cross-faculty project to think beyond gender binaries for
        gender equity.
    ● Race & Space: in 2020 a cross-faculty group of staff and PGR students published an
        open access curriculum designed for staff and student self-directed study.

 Individual scholars have pioneered EDI in relevant disciplinary or institutional settings,
 evidencing the faculty’s commitment to beacon good practice. For example: Rawes was
 UCL’s lead on the BAUHOW5 EDI knowledge transfer group, sharing awareness of institutional
 charters to good practices in gender, diversity and inclusion provision with peer universities (TU
 Delft, ETH Zurich, TU Munich and Chalmers); and through his leadership in the UKERC,
 Watson championed EDI in the EPSRC energy research community through a £1.5m Whole
 Systems Networking Fund, which supported 18 small projects (most led by women) and created
 a network of BAME researchers.

 The faculty embeds EDI in its support around research funding applications, highlighting
 fair access and inclusivity.

 Staff have access to internal funds for research projects and equipment, as outlined in Section
 3. These seed-funds for research, impact, innovation and equipment are typically managed at
 the faculty level, coordinated by the VDR and FREM. They are very important to ECRs and
 those working in disciplines for which funding is not readily available. Fair access to funding, and
 fairness in the operation of panels which allocate funding, are strongly emphasised throughout
 the process, i.e.:
     ● Call documents are peer reviewed by a range of colleagues for clarity (particularly
         around evaluation criteria), inclusivity, and equity of opportunity to apply.
     ● Launch deadlines are checked for fairness and to avoid clashes with holidays, major
         institutional deadlines and marking periods.
     ● Applicant demographic data is collected after submission to inform future targeting.
     ● Selection panel members/reviewers are drawn from across the faculty, from a range of
         disciplines, career levels, and backgrounds, with gender and racial diversity in mind.



                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   A different mix of people is recruited for each panel to encourage a mix of views, share
        knowledge, and also share citizenship workload.
    ●   Panels only review information provided in applications, rather than any contextual
        information, allowing fairer comparison of applicants.
    ●   While evaluation follows criteria for a given scheme, at the point of ranking, protected
        characteristic data may be used in decision making if bids are equal on all other aspects.
    ●   Research-related professional services staff may observe panel meetings, enabling them
        to better support staff preparing bids, and understand how EDI is framed within this
        setting.



 2C.4 Preparing colleagues for promotion and reward, and leadership roles

 The Bartlett’s practices around the inclusion of EDI matters in promotion and reward are
 informed by UCL Ways of Working and UCL Academic Careers Framework.

 These UCL policies have EDI strongly embedded. The Academic Careers Framework
 recognises that individual scholars may develop different portfolios of work – it welcomes a
 variety of approaches to undertaking research and impact, and articulates the value of
 institutional citizenship. This approach, introduced in 2017/18, directly tackles potential bias
 within progression by removing metrics that are known to result in structural disadvantages,
 particularly for women. Indeed, since 2017, The Bartlett has seen more women being promoted
 – in 2020, 28% of professors were women (vs. 18% in 2016).

 There are many research-related leadership roles within schools and institutes, the faculty,
 and UCL, and multiple, fair opportunities to participate in, and also to progress towards, these
 roles. Terms of office are defined carefully and appointments made using open recruitment
 processes. The proportion of women in leadership roles has improved. In 2020, The Bartlett
 had three women heads of department (of eight) (vs. one of seven in 2016), and four women
 Vice-Deans (of five) (vs. three of seven in 2016). There is an overall gender balance of 50:50
 across the faculty’s leadership.

 Protected characteristics vary from one person to another, so support is also designed
 around individuals, in the full knowledge that everyone has their own, multiple
 intersectionalities.

 This is an important principle valued by The Bartlett – diversity in protected characteristics
 creates vitality and brings a diversity in research perspectives and scholarship. It is also strongly
 reflected in the way that UCL Equalities Office and UCL Occupational Health provide
 reasonable adjustments, specialist equipment and financial support to allow staff to work
 productively.

 The nine protected characteristics, and associated obligations under the Equality Act 2010,
 underpin The Bartlett’s approach for organising support for people in groups who may be
 characterised as a minority or under-represented in the faculty, or in society more widely. This
 helps schools and institutes develop annual EDI action plans and local support environments,
 and coupled with UCL’s mandatory training, faculty staff are able to confidently recognise
 equality, diversity and inclusion in everyday practice and create safe spaces to work.

 The Bartlett is committed to actively tackling the effects of multiple disadvantage which can
 prevent staff working productively on research, and focus efforts around specific intersections of
 the protected characteristics, such as gender-race, i.e. the under-representation of Black
 women in staff Grades 9-10 and BAME participation in PGR research. The faculty’s 2020
 Athena SWAN submission showed that women, notably Black/BAME women, continue to be
 disadvantaged in respect of academic career opportunities. In response, schools and institutes



                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have diversity action plans for local staff recruitment and promotion, and positive action waivers
 are being sought routinely.

 Promotion for BAME women and men to senior levels is a priority matter, so The Bartlett is
 providing targeted intersectional support. In 2019, The Bartlett piloted a cross-faculty senior
 Promotion Surgery for eight academics from under-represented groups (self-identified BAME,
 women, disabled, LGBTQA+). All those who attended were promoted. In 2020, 18 academics
 from under-represented groups took part; the outcome will be known in August.



 2C.5 Constructing the REF2021 submission

 Across The Bartlett, opening up inclusive and equitable conversations around research
 has been a vital step in engaging with individuals and groups in REF.

 The UCL Code of Practice for REF2021 (CoP) was an important point of reference,
 encouraging inclusive working methods. It aligned with the faculty’s preference for light touch
 central governance, respectful of local arrangements. Extensive consultation led to a highly
 devolved day-to-day operating mode, with schools and institutes empowered to organise their
 work in the way that they felt worked best for their size, scale and discipline base.

 This engaged virtually all staff in REF preparations.

 The CoP reinforced inclusivity in staff selection. The faculty had grown substantially, a major
 part of which was in HESA 2 staff (researchers), so it was felt strongly that the submission
 should represent this community inclusively. The faculty developed a process to do so, based on
 a fair and inclusive assessment of individual researchers’ contextual independence statements.

 A REF Review & Selection Group (RSG) was designed to best reflect The Bartlett community.
 Membership was composed of 39 people from across the faculty, with a balance of gender and
 race, and a mix of academic and professional services staff, and staff grades. The VD-EDI was
 an invited member.

 The faculty embedded gender and race equality at all selection stages, bolstered by
 support for staff with relatively fewer outputs (e.g. due to career breaks, parental or carers
 leave). Tactics to engage colleagues constructively in the REF preparations included:
     ● not using outputs as a criterion for selection;
     ● not using citation metrics as a criterion for selection;
     ● holding two EDI workshops with the Review & Selection group;
     ● hosting meetings with individuals, to understand their research context, contribution, and
         aspirations – whether or not they would ultimately be submitted; and
     ● organising peer reviewing of potential outputs in a way that actively included ECRs and
         those transitioning into academic positions.


 UCL central REF team produced Equality Impact Assessments. The faculty team reviewed
 the initial EDI Impact Assessment, and shared the results with representatives from schools
 and institutes in the Research Advisory Group. The data were then discussed in RSG. At that
 point, colleagues were asked to consider staff selections in closer detail. This process led
 iteratively to the final composition, which is an improvement on The Bartlett’s staff profile in
 REF2014.

 The output distribution broadly reflects the overall profile of staff being submitted. Although
 outputs attributed to women are slightly less well represented, the proportion of women
 academic staff in this submission matches the proportion of women in the faculty as a
 whole. The selection of staff for REF2021, by gender, is 38% women and 62% men. It includes
 3% more women compared to REF2014. There has been a 4.14% increase in BAME

                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 headcount (male and female) since the last REF. While outputs attributed to BME men are
 more likely to be included, BME women are the least well presented. The faculty has committed
 to a number of race-equity initiatives to strengthen and expand the BAME community in coming
 years. Finally, the number of European and international staff in this submission is more
 than double that submitted to REF2014. With over 30% indicating their nationality as EU/EEA,
 and 20% from the rest of the world, The Bartlett research community has a strong global
 outlook.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1 Research income: generating a thriving, diverse research base

 The Bartlett stimulates growth, development and collaboration in research, leading to
 significant external research income.

 The research community is supported to pursue funding that attends to research problems in the
 built environment that span disciplinary boundaries, extend across multiple scales, and satisfy
 personal interests and goals. In line with its research principles, the faculty maintains a fair and
 expansive approach to the deployment of related support – all researchers are afforded the
 utmost respect for their identity and autonomy, both as individuals, and as groups of scholars
 working collaboratively. Overall, this creates a productive research community that is far ‘more
 than a sum of the parts’.

 As evidenced below, and in REF4b and REF4c, the positive outcomes from this approach show
 that: 1) A range of subject, disciplinary and interdisciplinary interests are supported to grow and
 thrive – reflected in over 200 different funding sources, all with different core values and scope.
 2) A range of scales of endeavour are being supported – illustrated by the range in project sizes,
 from £3k to £18m, from individual scholarship to multi-institution consortia. 3) Research is taking
 place in a range of settings – as shown in the distribution across local, regional, national and
 international locations.

 As noted in Section 1, perhaps the most significant investment The Bartlett makes in stimulating
 research income is in seed-funding for research and impact (worth over £600k in this REF
 period). With strategic steer from the VDR, the Faculty Research & Enterprise Manager
 (FREM) manages the distribution of this core funding, via:
     ● Bartlett Research Challenges Grants (£70k, 2014-17) and Bartlett Synergy Grants
         (£90k, 2018-20): seed-funding for innovative cross-disciplinary collaborations involving at
         least two members of academic staff from different schools and institutes.
     ● Bartlett Research Materialisation Grant (£200k, 2013-19) has funded biannual awards
         of £50k, bringing together expertise from different fields for cross-disciplinary research.
     ● Bartlett Research Grants Scheme (£50k per annum, 2020-date): a pilot scheme of five
         awards of £10k, for ECRs, individually or in small teams, to kick-start new ideas,
         collaborations, and develop larger external research proposals.
     ● Bartlett Innovation Fund (£200k, 2016-date): the Faculty Impact Manager leads on
         this funding stream, with input from FREM, for activities which generate, or support:
         enterprise collaborations, impact-related activities, and innovation learning initiatives.

 As an example of how such funds stimulate activity and generate research income, a DPU-led
 team that was awarded a £50k Bartlett Research Materialisation Grant (ReMap Lima-
 Mapping beyond the palimpsest), went on to secure £8m funding, from ESRC-GCRF, UKRI-
 GCRF and others. The project enabled local community mappers to influence policy-making and
 stimulate public debate, and by strengthening relationships with local partners in Peru (see
 UCLUoA13_ALL).




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 FREM is also a key liaison point with UCL research support services (such as UCL Office of the
 Vice Provost Research, OVPR), augmenting their specialist support at faculty level and
 leveraging various mechanisms for local support for research (see Sections 1 and 2).
 Colleagues developing collaborative proposals are supported by OVPR Research Facilitators,
 enabling them to draw on knowledge gained from the breadth of UCL’s success in securing
 research funding. OVPR provides support for fellowship applications, large grants, and arranges
 mock panels and training on major funding schemes, and 1-2-1 meetings, for advice on any
 stage in a research application process.

 Research funding during the REF period exceeded £77.94m (up from £23.96m in 2014);
 doctoral training centres are included within this figure (see Section 2B). Showing the growth of
 research at The Bartlett and the effectiveness of strategies to secure research income:
    ● the faculty has won 325% more research income in total, and 152% more research
        income by FTE since 2014;
    ● average research income per annum has more than doubled (from £4.79m in 2014, to
        £11.13m by 2021), and average research income per FTE over the period has increased
        from just over £176k in 2014, to £268k by 2021.

 Over 60% (£46.98m) of research income came from UKRI, via a number of its research
 councils, principally AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, and NERC, indicating clearly the breadth of subject
 coverage in the faculty. A further £15m was awarded from EU-funding sources (including the
 ERC and Horizon 2020). Income from industry, commerce and public corporations totalled over
 £5.75m; support from the UK central government (including local and health authorities)
 exceeded £5m; and a further £2.5m was secured from UK-based charities (through open
 competitive processes).

 While it is not possible to provide a detailed account of the grant portfolio, the examples below
 illustrate The Bartlett’s leadership and participation in major consortia and doctoral training
 centres.
      ● The Bartlett hosts: UK Energy Research Centre Phase 4 (£18m); UKRI/GCRF
          Knowledge in Action for Urban Equity (£6.3m); EPSRC UK Regions Digital Research
          Facility (£4m); EPSRC Platform on Complex Built Environment Systems (two phases,
          £3m); and ISCF Transforming Construction Network Plus (£2.5m).
      ● It is a partner in: The Centre for Energy Demand Solutions (£19m, led by University of
          Oxford); EPSRC AI for Science and Government (£38m, led by the Alan Turing Institute).
      ● The faculty leads: The London-Loughborough EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training in
          Energy Demand (£4.3m); EPSRC-SFI in Ireland Centre for Doctoral Training in Energy
          Resilience and the Built Environment (£5.7m); and EPSRC Centre for Doctoral Training
          on Science and Engineering for Arts, Heritage and Archaeology (£4.7m).

 The Bartlett has also received over £5m in donations and sponsorship from charitable
 bodies, foundations, and corporates. This further reinforces the faculty’s role as an expansive
 and inclusive convenor of research and scholarly endeavour. Examples of this type of funding
 and in-kind are:
    ● In DPU an award from Comic Relief for the Sierra Leone Urban Research Centre (see
        UCLUoA13_WAL) is improving lives in Sierra Leone through a permanent research
        centre for public debate on equitable urban development. More than 25 UCL staff have
        collaborated with SLURC, which has led to further collaborative international research.
    ● IIPP received £4m from funders such as The Open Society Foundation, William and
        Flora Hewlett Foundation, and the Omidyar Network, for work on innovation and mission
        thinking.
    ● BSA received funding from more than 30 organisations for lab-based research and
        individual scholarship, leveraging other funding sources. For example, £85k of materials
        and staff expertise enabled Wilton to leverage £190k EPSRC/Innovate UK funding to
        create the Cork House (which won multiple awards including the 2019 RIBA President’s
        Award for Research, the RIBA Stephen Lawrence Prize, and was shortlisted for the 2019

                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        RIBA Stirling Prize). Also, Culture Ireland, Department of Arts, Heritage and the
        Gaeltacht, Irish Arts Council, Royal Institute of Ireland awarded €340k to Manolopoulou
        and McLaughlin to build the Irish Pavilion at the 2016 Venice Biennale, drawing on their
        research on dementia.
    ●   In BSEER, funding from the Sun Foundation, the Foreign and Commonwealth Office,
        and Chartered Institution of Building Services Engineers supported user and policy
        engagement events on energy epidemiology, indoor environment and health (see
        UCLUoA13_MUM and UCLUoA13_ORE).
    ●   The Bartlett’s expertise in applied urban informatics attracted the MacArthur Foundation
        to support CASA to translate new digital tools and technologies into practical applications
        in cities, leading to publications on new urban analytics.



 3.2 Organisational infrastructure and investment

 The distinctiveness and diversity of the organisational infrastructure at The Bartlett
 contribute to the vitality and sustainability of research.

 Along with an overview of the faculty’s research structure and support infrastructure, the creation
 of three new institutes, BREI, IGP and IIPP was described in Section 1. These have stimulated
 several new areas of research and impact activity, and taken in combination with investments in
 physical infrastructure (also noted previously) are contributing significantly to the change in the
 size and shape of the Bartlett as a research community since REF2014.

 The Bartlett’s expansion at Here East in 2018 enables BREI to initiate new interdisciplinary
 research in areas that are deeply-grounded in user communities (such as healthcare, learning
 environments and housing). Here East also includes a 2000m2 high-bay laboratory space
 (including large-scale robotics, a motion capture arena and advanced manufacturing, metrology
 and testing facilities, used by BSA and CPM). There is a full-storey height environmental
 chamber, and an artificial sky, for studying the impact of the outdoor environment on building
 materials and the human experience of the indoor environment, benefitting research in IEDE and
 heritage scholars in ISH. More broadly, the facility enables scholars to explore new areas and
 collaborate readily, not least because research laboratories are co-located with event spaces
 and workshops. Examples led by BSA include bio-engineering (Cruz); robotics, dance and
 space (Glynn); and manufacturing, prototyping and production (Sheil). Early diffusion of
 research outcomes into taught programmes in the facilities is evident in the new MEng in
 Architectural and Engineering Design.

 The £22m expansion of 22 Gordon Street, completed in 2016 (see also next sub-section), has
 enhanced the vitality of The Bartlett’s research community. It is also a demonstration of the
 integrated relationship between research and the places and spaces in which it is undertaken.
 The project won national industry awards, including Retrofit Project of the Year at the CIBSE
 Building Performance Awards 2020, which recognises excellence in both user satisfaction and
 building performance. 22 Gordon Street is the home of the Faculty Office and BSA, which as a
 result, has been able to both consolidate its research strengths but also extend its collaborations
 and capabilities. For example, in 2016, it established The Centre for London Urban Design,
 CLOUD, which carries out research with partners, such as Camden Council, GLA, and
 internationally with the Beijing Institute of Architecture and Design. CLOUD has secured an EU-
 funded Erasmus+ grant (with Chalmers University) to design structures using innovative clay
 construction.

 3.3 Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

 The Bartlett continues to invest in specialist research infrastructure, stimulating new
 research collaborations and supporting interdisciplinary investigations.



                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Laboratory and equipment design at The Bartlett is often a technical exemplar in itself, as
 evidenced in sector awards for the 22 Gordon Street refurbishment and extension (previously
 Wates House). The investment enabled BSA to create The Bartlett Manufacturing and Design
 Exchange (BMADE) in 2017 – one of the ‘innovative projects’, noted in REF2014. The 900m2
 BMADE@22GS Workshop is an integrated studio, workshop and laboratory space, supported by
 5.0FTE core-funded technical staff. It houses full-scale prototyping and assembling experiments
 that underpin design research through the affordance of manufacturing, materials and process.
 Around £6m has been invested in BMADE facilities, including £4m for 3D printing, CNC
 machining, robotics, electronic systems and associated computational equipment. This facility
 was the centre for The Bartlett’s PPE production during Covid-19. BMADE opened up new lines
 in fabrication and structural research, leveraged by recruitment of practitioner-academics such
 as de Rycke (Bollinger + Grohmann) and Solly (Format Engineers).

 The faculty receives a share of UCL’s Research England Research Capital Investment Fund
 (RCIF) for investment in research equipment. Since 2018-19, it has awarded £1m via open
 competition to equipment that supports cross-faculty, interdisciplinary research. A faculty panel,
 comprising reviewers with different disciplinary perspectives, aims to identify synergies between
 proposals and maximise access to equipment. For example, in 2019, two state-of-the-art gas
 chromatography-mass spectrometry systems were secured with £198k from RCIF to support
 research in ISH and IEDE. These systems form part of the Heritage Science Laboratories (at
 Here East and Bloomsbury), which are accessible to staff from UCL and other universities. The
 lab hosts analytical facilities for studying heritage material-environment interactions, co-located
 with specialised imaging (a unique 3D hyperspectral imaging system with robotic arm), and a
 Materials Reference Collection.



 3.4 Collaborative use of research infrastructure

 The Bartlett is active in consolidating and expanding cross-HEI collaborations. Many are
 cross-UCL groups, and longstanding relationships and connections with other
 universities.

 There have been notable developments in urban and spatial data and analytics, principally
 involving CASA and BSA. This was stimulated by UCL’s involvement in the 13-university UK
 Collaboratorium for Research on Infrastructure and Cities (UKCRIC) and the Data &
 Analytics Facility for National Infrastructure (DAFNI), championed by Batty, combined with
 expertise developed in ‘space syntax’. A £4m award from the EPSRC Digital Economy
 programme initiated the UCL Urban Dynamics Lab, led by Penn, explores the intersection of
 city and regional development and spatial analytics, data science and computing. It aims to
 create shared research infrastructure, leveraging multiple research IT infrastructures at UCL and
 project partners (e.g. Bank of England, Greater London Authority, and Intel). Batty, Manley &
 Kandt are involved in the £11m ESRC Consumer Data Research Centre. This social science
 data infrastructure houses a large array of consumer data, offering access to researchers,
 business and policy-makers. A further example is the faculty’s connection with the Alan Turing
 Institute, having hosted three Alan Turing Fellows.

 There are many major collaborations in BSEER: 1) The UK Centre for Moisture in Buildings
 in IEDE is a collaboration with Heriot-Watt University and the London School of Hygiene and
 Tropical Medicine, and the Building Research Establishment. It aims to create a moisture-safe
 built environment in the UK by substantially improving the understanding of moisture risk. 2) ISH
 led a group of UK heritage science laboratories to join IPERION HS, a consortium of 24 partners
 from 23 countries establishing pan-European research infrastructure on heritage science. ISH
 became the UK national coordinator for the European Research Infrastructure for Heritage
 Science in 2017. 3) The Smart Energy Research Lab in EI hosts smart meter data from
 participating households, giving the UK research community access to a large dataset for energy

                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. 4) EI and ISR organise and co-chair the UCL Energy and Development Group,
 which has enhanced the faculty’s position to bid for major funds, and resulted in a central role in
 a £38m programme funded by the FCDO (Climate Compatible Growth).



 3.5 Using infrastructure, facilities and expertise for impact

 The Bartlett brings together its infrastructure, facilities and expertise to ensure that
 research has the widest impact possible, on campus and beyond.

 There is a sustained, intensive utilisation of places and spaces, for a range of purposes,
 including exhibitions, public seminars and public lectures. The faculty communities are
 constantly reinventing how spaces are put to use to create dialogue and invention, and generate
 impact.

 Numerous events are hosted on campus to open new disciplinary discourses and convene
 existing or traditional narratives, whether these are inspired by academic disciplines, or as a
 conscious and scholarly response to events in policy, industry, or society. These frequent and
 diverse interactions enable staff to identify radical new spaces for cross-disciplinary
 collaboration. Representatives from non-academic organisations are widely regarded as core
 stakeholders. Public lectures and events are held regularly, attracting large audiences from
 diverse groups and communities. On average, the faculty hosts more than 100 public events
 every year, stimulating knowledge exchange, public engagement in research, and accelerating
 impact.

 The longstanding BSA Summer Show draws more than 8k visitors every year. It has been
 enhanced through the expansion of 22 Gordon Street in 2017. Having about 70% more space
 (8,887m2, up from 5,260m2) has also allowed design scholars to curate more exhibitions, starting
 with Peter Cook’s 80 at 80 exhibition, and including ground-breaking activities such as Architecture
 beyond sight, a young people and future-city-making exhibition Accelerate, and Look/Think/Do, a
 short course considering architecture from the perspective of visually-impaired people.

 During 2018-19, more than 2k people attended BSEER’s public events, and since the launch of
 BREI in 2018, more than 3k people participated in events in Here East. Examples of BSA
 events hosted at Here East include the Design for Performance Interaction Project Fair and The
 Architects’ Journal Student Prize Ceremony. Some events have led to UCL institutional
 support to develop capabilities, including the UCL Islands Laboratory (Spataru), and the UCL
 Off World Living Institute (Edkins), the latter having been welcomed into the European
 Space Agency laboratory at UCL in 2019.

 Beyond campus, The Bartlett uses its infrastructure to bring research to diverse publics,
 supported by communication channels such as podcasts and social media. The faculty supports
 the Mobile Heritage Laboratory, which is a unique resource for impact and engagement,
 managed by ISH. It uses portable scientific equipment to engage the public- and heritage-sector
 stakeholders in research. By 2020, it had hosted more than 2k unique visitors, as part of over
 100 events, across the UK, including in Belfast, Cardiff, Hereford, Oxford, Portsmouth, plus the
 British and Cheltenham Science Festivals.

 In 2015, The Bartlett (with UCL Faculty of Engineering Sciences) established The
 Engineering Exchange (EngEx), to enable staff, students and community groups to work
 together on engineering and built environment challenges. EngEx is a space for dialogue around
 disciplinary interests, and has created impact on topics such as air quality, transport and
 housing. It has become an important institutional lever, securing >£6m for research, impact and
 public engagement and enabling new connections with groups in the USA, Chile and Australia.




                                                                                             Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Building scholarly research collaborations, networks and partnerships

 Leadership teams in The Bartlett encourage colleagues to pursue collaboration and to
 think of research as a collaborative act, while remaining deeply respectful of individual
 scholarship.

 The faculty’s Vice Dean International (0.2FTE enabling post held by Allen) provides staff with
 advice on establishing links with international peers. The Bartlett has Memoranda of
 Understanding (MoU) with peer organisations, supported by UCL Global Engagement Office
 and UCL Research Contracts Office. These are instigated in response to international
 priorities and emerging opportunities, enabling schools and institutes to forge long-term
 collaborative relationships. For example, following extensive input to the United Nations
 Environment Programme International Resource Panel (Ekins), the MoU between UCL and
 UNEP stimulated activity to develop a Strong Environmental Sustainability Index, informing
 UNEP’s Measuring Progress programme. Other MoU support mobility of doctoral students and
 postgraduate researchers, and are set up along disciplinary lines, e.g. BSP has MoU with urban
 studies centres (Paris and Leuven) and CPM has MoU with climate change experts (Beijing,
 Renmin, and Tianjin). Oversight lies with the Dean and VDR who approve risk assessments for
 global research partnerships, ensuring consistency.

 Honorary and visiting staff are often the genesis of partnerships. Schools and institutes have
 hosted more than 50 early and mature stage scholars for research stays of up to one year. CPM
 has welcomed visitors from China, Australia and the USA; BSA hosted scholars from Australia,
 China, Germany, Iraq, Japan, and Spain. DPU was instrumental in the research exchange of 30
 scholars to and from Asian universities, under the Urban Knowledge Network Asia scheme. Its
 visitors reflect the research focus on the Global South, coming from Brazil, Colombia, Mexico,
 and Somaliland.

 The faculty has been instrumental in shaping UCL’s Global Engagement strategy, based on
 the concept and practice of partnerships of equivalence, initiated by Levy. This has attracted
 support from UCL Global Engagement Office, which has awarded over £145k to 47 Bartlett
 staff to mobilise international links. More than three-quarters was won by early to mid-career
 scholars, enabling them to collaborate with partners across Africa and the Middle East, Europe,
 Latin America, Asia, and Australia. A further £222k has been awarded to the faculty to support
 more than 50 projects under the UCL Grand Challenges programme.



 4.2 Building relationships with key research users: influencing policy and practice

 Bartlett staff regularly engage with built environment professionals, policy-makers and
 civil society groups, and share knowledge through secondments.

 The faculty takes an inclusive and broad, values-based view of impact, such that as a whole,
 and in its constituent parts, enduring change can be created. Staff and doctoral students are
 supported to be able to recognise and interact with diverse publics. Relationships are stewarded
 by individuals or small teams, with cross-disciplinary activity flourishing, supported by hundreds
 of engagement events (more than 130 public lectures, keynote talks, etc, per annum). Each
 school and institute hosts a flagship lecture series (in 2019/20, more than 40% of speakers were
 women, up from 23% in 2015/16). Advisory boards in schools and institutes further encourage
 dialogue with stakeholders.

 Staff participate in multiple external policy, industry, professional and advisory groups or
 networks, as appropriate to their discipline, expertise and personal motivations. For example:
 British Standards committees (Glass, Raynham); Construction Industry Council (Pineo); Mayor
 of London Smart London Board (Wilson and Hudson-Smith); Parliamentary committees

                                                                                            Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Davies and others); United Nations Environment Programme (Ekins); World Economic Forum
 CEO Council on Transformational Megaprojects (Dimitriou); and World Health Organisation
 (Davies).

 Staff have secured over £200k via HEIF, principally for knowledge exchange and innovation
 activities, and £1.1m from UCL EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account. The latter supported
 more than 50 projects in user engagement, public policy, business engagement and early stage
 commercialisation, including 11 policy and/or enterprise secondments.

 The Bartlett pursues secondments to boost staff exposure, deepen collaborations with
 stakeholders and develop staff towards policy, advisory and impact roles. Penn was seconded
 to the Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government, as Chief Scientific Adviser, and
 other substantial secondments have been taken by more than 10 staff, many supported through
 UCL Policy Secondment Scheme. These included six posts at the Department for Business
 Energy & Industrial Strategy (BEIS) contributing to, for example: Grand Challenges, Industrial
 Strategy, National Housing Model, and the National Infrastructure Strategy (Bennett, Broad,
 Cassar, Fell, Krystallis, and Symonds). Others secured roles in the Alan Turing Institute
 (Milton), Department for International Development (FCDO) (Tomei), Institute for Government
 (McDowall), International Energy Agency (Hamilton), and the Tideway project (Bell).

 As these secondments demonstrate, the faculty sustains multiple contact points with key
 research users, such as government departments, devolved administrations, international
 governments and agencies. Relationships with these beneficiaries are nurtured to develop a
 sense of shared purpose around national and international priorities, for example:

    ●   Energy and climate change: The Bartlett hosts many scholars specialising in systems
        modelling. Having undertaken research to create the UK TIMES (UKTM) Energy System
        model, EI used the model to engage with the Department for Business, Energy and
        Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and the Committee on Climate Change (CCC). UKTM is used
        by BEIS and CCC for strategic policy modelling, and features in key policy documents,
        such as Net Zero emission report, and carbon budget reports (see UCLUoA13_DOD).
        Ekins and Watson chaired UK Climate Change Committee Advisory groups on the
        macro-economic implications and the pathway to ‘net-zero’ respectively (see
        UCLUoA13_EKI); Ekins co-chaired the UN Sixth Global Environmental Assessment,
        and chairs DEFRA’s Resources and Waste Targets Expert Advisory Group; Grubb led
        the UK government’s Panel of Technical Experts on Electricity Market Reform, and was
        lead author of the IPCC 6th Assessment Report; Watson is a member of BEIS panels on
        Fossil Fuel Price Assumptions and Heat and Buildings Strategy.

    ●   Industrial and economic strategy: During the UCL Commission on Mission-Oriented
        Innovation and Industrial Strategy (MOIIS) in 2018, IIPP worked closely with BEIS. This
        was both a working relationship (where IIPP stood to learn from the BEIS Industrial
        Strategy team through implementation of mission-oriented policies), but also an
        influencing relationship. MOIIS was co-chaired by Mazzucato and Lord Willetts, former
        minister for science and innovation. Mazzucato also holds a number of global advisory
        and commissioner roles, including Chair of the WHO Council on the Economics of Health
        for All and Vice-Chair of the World Economic Forum Global Future Council – New
        Economic Agenda; she is a Special Advisor to the Prime Minister of Italy and the EC
        Commissioner for Research and Innovation (see UCLUoA13_MAZ)

    ●   International development: ISR has a close working relationship with the Department
        for International Development (DFID, now the FCDO). It is forming long-term
        relationships with key civil servants, and has opened up new opportunities for scholars to
        take part in funded research and knowledge exchange. Watson advised two major DFID
        energy research programmes, and was joined by Tomei to develop a DFID programme
        on Climate Compatible Growth; Tomei was seconded to the DFID climate and
        environment division in 2020.

                                                                                           Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The faculty has actively supported other colleagues to contribute as members or advisors to the
 following: All Party Parliamentary Working Group on Smart Cities (Hudson Smith); Cabinet
 Office Government Property Unit, Property Advisory Panel (Marmot); BEIS Consultative
 Committee on Construction Industry Statistics (Kelsey); DCMS Science Advisory Panel
 (Cassar); DEFRA Scientific Advisory Council (Moore); DFID Strategy Advisory Board, Cities
 and Infrastructure for Growth Programme (Levy); House of Lords Select Committee on National
 Policy for the Built Environment (Carmona); UK Government Building Regulations Part E
 Review (Kang).



 4.3 Contributing to economy and society: engaging with diverse communities and publics

 Bartlett researchers are situating their research in different settings and communities,
 working in support of local and regional agendas across the UK and beyond.

 The Bartlett takes a research approach that is both respectful of localities, and enables scholars
 to understand what matters most. The faculty has a lengthy track record of engagement with
 local communities and publics, documenting experiences and understandings of urban planning,
 place-making and regeneration, and informing national policy priorities, stimulating cross-
 fertilisation of ideas and interdisciplinary inquiry with scholars and policy-makers elsewhere. This
 is strongly demonstrated in UCLUoA13_HIC.

 Once in place, mechanisms to promulgate collaborations and relationships are legion, highly
 sensitive to context, and informed by what matters most to partners. Scholars working with ODA
 countries on a regular basis (e.g. in DPU) maintain links with networks of local researchers on
 the ground, who use knowledge of a local area to inform and shape the research. IGP is
 developing novel modes of collaboration and knowledge sharing, such as Citizen Science
 Teams, Citizen Observatories, and the London Prosperity Board. The Bartlett is also building
 scholarship around community-focused relationships and their formalisation, via collaborative
 mechanisms, such as the Prosperity Co-Laboratories (IGP) and the Just Space network (BSP).
 Outcomes from the latter have included the UCL Just Space Research Protocol, which
 empowers civil society groups to shape and influence the development of built environments;
 and, an open access book, ‘Community-Led Regeneration: A Toolkit for Residents and
 Planners’ (Sendra Fernandez and Fitzpatrick), which supports social housing residents
 defending homes from demolition.

 Staff are leading collaborations and conversations around many major societal and
 environmental issues (such as climate change, health, and social justice) in, and around, a
 diverse range of settings. For instance: Ferm is a member of the Greater London Authority,
 Economics Roundtable for London; Tomaney is a Commissioner to The UK2070 Commission –
 an independent inquiry into city and regional inequalities in the UK, contributing to policy
 development in cities in the north of England; Watson, one of four expert leads for the 2020 UK
 national citizens’ assembly on climate change; and, Milcheva, who has reported to the National
 Housing Federation and Shelter on affordable housing, and provided evidence to the Welsh
 government and Kent County Council.

 The faculty’s contribution across the UK’s regions is also shown in examples where local
 authorities are key partners:
    ● CASA, working with West Midlands Combined Authority and Greater Manchester, to
         analyse data on diverse topics (e.g. electric vehicles, green space, and leisure). A
         collaboration with Westminster Council was shortlisted for the Local Government Awards
         2020.
    ● O’Clery, who supported the Greater Manchester Combined Authority and Sheffield City
         Region with knowledge of network modelling to map ‘the potential of place’.



                                                                                             Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Dhanani, invited by the Department for Transport to inform the 10-year walking and
        cycling infrastructure plans – his nationwide walkability model was trialled with six local
        authorities: Greater Manchester, Liverpool, Tees Valley, Essex, Plymouth, and Leicester.
    ●   The mission and roadmap created by IIPP for the Greater Manchester Combined
        Authority, informing its five-year Environment Plan and approach for carbon neutrality by
        2038.

 On an international scale, the UCL Cities Partnership Programme, was launched in 2018 to
 develop sustainable, multidisciplinary research and teaching partnerships in a selected set of
 global cities. Faculty staff serve as Academic Directors for relationships with Paris (Colomb) and
 Stockholm (Turcu); Raco and Moore contribute to the UCL-University of Toronto Anchor
 Partnership.

 The Bartlett is committed to equitably draw in communities and publics to inform and
 shape research. There is a shared aspiration to listen and hear, address and include, the
 voices of others, bringing diversity to research and engagement. Constituent diversity is defined
 carefully, along disciplinary, epistemological, theoretical, or other scholarly lines. This creates a
 subtle, nuanced, in-study construct of diversity – enduringly or temporally linked to issues of
 place, people or practices.

 During the period, Bartlett staff and doctoral students have won £138k of funding for public
 engagement projects from UCL Culture, supporting bursaries, training, fellowships and festivals.
 In general, the engagement practices deployed by staff and students in The Bartlett are
 increasingly countering historic exclusionary practices, such that research becomes a voice for
 under-represented or excluded groups, e.g.:
     ● Targeting infrequently heard voices in the local general publics who live around major
        infrastructure projects, Bell pioneered community co-design, bringing together
        environmental, engineering, urban planning and organisational experts with institutional
        and industry stakeholders and citizens to co-develop approaches to urban water
        management.
     ● Supported by a Bartlett Materialisation Grant, Hay and Vaughan collaborated with
        artist Rachel Lichtenstein to produce the ‘Memory Map of the Jewish East End’. This
        lasting resource contains interviews, testimony and photos from Sandys Row Synagogue
        (the oldest Ashkenazi Synagogue in London), and essays by The Bartlett’s Survey of
        London group.
     ● Campkin engaged with London’s LGBTQ+ nightlife via performances, charrettes, public
        history conversations, and a community co-design workshop. UCL Urban Lab’s ‘Queer
        Infrastructure’ priority area was created, raising the profile of protection of minority
        heritage and social infrastructure. The work has now extended to European cities,
        through a €200k award from Humanities in the European Research Area (led by the
        University of Leiden).



 4.4 Contributing to the built environment disciplines and disciplinary communities

 The Bartlett is convening thought and stimulating new debate in multiple disciplinary
 communities.

 Staff hold leadership roles in scholarly and professional groups and associations, chairing
 influential groups such as: The Place Alliance (Carmona) see UCLUoA13_CAR; Society of
 Architectural Historians of Great Britain (Fraser and Penner); UK Indoor Environment Group
 (Ucci); and the Urban Affairs Association (Beebeejaun). Broyd was President of the Institution
 of Civil Engineers (2016–17) and Vice President (2015–16); Orezcszyn served as Vice
 President of the Chartered Institute of Building Services Engineers (2015–17); and, Gallent
 chaired the Royal Town Planning Institute’s Partnership & Accreditation Panel from 2016–2018.



                                                                                               Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Many staff participate in national and international working groups and committees. For
 instance, colleagues in EI and IEDE lead or contribute to International Energy Agency Annexes
 on building energy epidemiology; building energy performance assessment based on in situ
 measurements; and, data-driven smart buildings. Batty contributed to a Royal Society Steering
 Committee (Rapid Assessment of Pandemic Modelling), leading on Human Dynamics in Small
 Spaces. The 2019 Royal Institution lectures featuring Fry were viewed by more than 2.3 million
 people.

 Early to mid-career staff are encouraged to chair committees and working groups in
 disciplinary areas, such as: Architects for Health (Chrysikou); The Association of Project
 Management (Addyman); British Academy of Management (Konstantinou); IEEE Power and
 Energy Society (Spataru); International Project Management Association (Denicol); and the
 International Network of Transport and Accessibility in Low-income Communities (Oviedo
 Hernandez).

 Staff are active in reviewing and evaluating research proposals, and chairing and
 participating in selection panels. This includes all UKRI councils, the British Academy, Innovate
 UK, and NIHR. Staff support assessment of research funded by the EC and ERC, as well as
 national funding bodies and science foundations in 27 countries, more than half of which are
 outside Europe. The Bartlett is present on strategic advisory boards for research funding
 bodies, e.g. Batty was an Executive Board member for the STFC Data and Analytics Facility for
 National Infrastructure, and Watson served on UKRI’s GCRF Strategic Advisory Group.

 Staff support a raft of disciplinary communities by chairing and serving on scientific
 committees. While these are too numerous to list, examples include: Pineo serves on the
 Programme Committee for The Lancet UK Public Health Science Conference, and Rovas
 chaired the 2019 European Conference on Computing in Construction. The faculty hosts
 disciplinary conferences, such as:
     ● 2014: 2nd Building Simulation and Optimization Conference (160 delegates)
     ● 2015: 10th International Space Syntax Symposium (250 delegates)
     ● 2015: International Research Network on Organizing by Projects Conference (130
         delegates)
     ● 2016: Drawing Futures Conference (200 delegates)
     ● 2017: International Conference on China Urban Development (230 delegates)
     ● 2017: European Conference of Landscape Architecture ECLAS (400 delegates)
     ● 2019: UCL Urban Laboratory: Beyond the Frontiers of the Urban (192 delegates)

 The Bartlett responds to changing priorities by instigating new interdisciplinary networks. For
 example: the Architectural Research European Network Association (ARENA) was co-founded
 in 2013 by Fraser to promote interdisciplinary research collaborations between universities and
 architectural practices – it now includes 33 institutions from 14 countries; Borden created the
 first international network and symposium for skateboarding, involving academics, industry,
 professional athletes, city authorities, charities and NGOs, supported by The Bartlett
 Innovation Fund; and, Davies founded the annual Megaproject Workshop in 2014, since held
 at UCL, Stanford and Tongji.

 Recognition of contributions to academic disciplines include best paper prizes from:
 Administrative Science Quarterly, American Real Estate Society, Asian Real Estate Society,
 Association of European Schools of Planning, Chartered Institute of Building Services
 Engineering, International Conference of Asian Planning Schools Association, Institute of Marine
 Engineering, Science and Technology, Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. Other awards
 have been received from: Austrian Academy of Sciences, Complex Systems Society,
 Economic History Society, International Project Management Association, International Society
 for Photogrammetry and Surveying Regional Science Association Society of Architectural
 Historians of Great Britain and the UK Institute of Acoustics.



                                                                                           Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Several BSA colleagues have had research recognised through the Royal Institute of British
 Architects (RIBA) President’s Awards – given within a research theme (Grigoriadis, Penner,
 Rendell, Roberts, Sailer); some went on to receive the highest accolade, the RIBA President’s
 Medal for Research (Denison – 2016 and 2017 – see UCLUoA13_DEN, Sengupta – 2019, and
 Beckett – 2020). In design practice, staff have won RIBA National Awards (Barnett Howland
 and Wilton, Lucas, Manolopoulou, McLaughlin) and international architecture competitions
 (Chinchilla, Krolikowski, Miàs). Staff in BSP secured the Royal Town Planning Institute
 (RTPI) Academic Award for Research Excellence in 2015 (Carmona, who also won the RTPI Sir
 Peter Hall Award for Engagement in 2016), and in 2018 (Clifford, Ferm, Livingstone and
 Canelas). In 2015, Batty received the Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society, followed
 by the Gold Medal of the Royal Town Planning Institute in 2016.



 4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to, and recognition by, the research base

 This final section presents a non-exhaustive overview of achievements that speak to the
 significance, reach and impact of Bartlett research. It further evidences how the faculty is
 forging new scholarly directions and influencing those outside of the research base.

 Editor-in-chief (or equivalent) positions have been held at established journals, such as:
    ● Architecture Beyond Europe 2275-6639 (Sengupta)
    ● ARENA Journal of Architectural Research 2397-0820 (Fraser)
    ● Atmospheric Research 0169-8095 (Dessens)
    ● Climate Policy 1469-3062 (Grubb) Founding Editor, and EIC until 2016
    ● Environment and Planning B: Urban Analytics and City Science 2399-8083 (Batty)
    ● Future Internet 1999-5903 (Hudson Smith) Founding Editor
    ● International Journal of Urban and Regional Research 0309-1317 (Wu)
    ● International Journal of Urban Sciences 1226-5934 (Son)
    ● Journal of Cleaner Production 0959-6526 (Mi)
    ● Journal of Facilities Management 1472-5967 (Pitt)
    ● Progress in Planning 0305-9006 (Rydin and Gallent)
    ● Structural Change and Economic Dynamics 0954-349X (Coffman and Mi)
    ● The Journal of Architecture 1360-2365 (Giamarelos)
    ● Urban Pamphleteer 2052-8647 (Campkin)

 The faculty stimulates new fields and interdisciplinary debate, by founding new journals,
 including:
     ● Acoustics 2624-599X (Kang, 2018)
     ● Journal of Race, Ethnicity and the City 2688-4674 (Beebeejaun, 2019).
     ● Radical Housing Journal 2632-2870 (Cociña, 2017).
     ● Urban Planning 2183-7635 (Hudson Smith, 2016).

 Staff provide peer mentorship, as associate and deputy journal editors, e.g. for:
     ● Applied Energy 0306-2619 (Guan)
     ● Energy and Buildings 0378-7788 (Mavrogianni)
     ● European Urban and Regional Studies 0969-7764 (Raco)
     ● Indoor and Built Environment Journal 1420-326X (Ucci)
     ● Intelligent Buildings International 1756-6942 (Mumovic)
     ● Journal of Mega Infrastructure & Sustainable Development 2472-4718 (Dimitrou and
         Ward)

 The Bartlett supports scholars at all grades to be special issue editors and co-editors. More
 than 60 special issues have been published, showing the faculty’s breadth of disciplinary
 interests and foothold in multiple fields, for example:



                                                                                         Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ●   Architecture, buildings and the built environment: Architectural Design, ACM
        Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction, Building Research & Information,
        Buildings & Cities, Built Environment, Historic Environment: Policy and Practice, Journal
        of Architecture.

    ●   Planning, cities, projects and development: Environment and Planning B, European
        Journal of Development Research, Geoforum, Industrial and Corporate Change,
        International Journal of Geographic Information Science, Land Use Policy, Project
        Management Journal, Research in Transportation Economics, Travel Behaviour and
        Society, Urban Studies.

    ●   Energy, climate and sustainability: Advances in Building Energy Research, Ecological
        Economics, Energy Policy, Environmental Research Letters, Journal of Cleaner
        Production, Mitigation and Adaptation Strategies for Global Change, Resources
        Conservation and Recycling.

 In addition, 80 staff have served as editorial board members for more than 150 academic
 journals.

 Awards for individual scholars: Moore, Dame Commander of the British Empire for
 contribution to social science (2016); Marmot, Lifetime Achievement in Facility Management
 Award (2017); and, in 2019, Mazzucato received the All European Academies Madame de Staël
 Prize for Cultural Values, and the Wassily Leontieff Prize in Economics, for the book The Value
 of Everything.

 International honorary and visiting positions: more than 90 positions held, around half by
 early to mid-career colleagues, who held posts at: CEPT, Chongqing University, Cornell
 University, Humboldt Universität zu Berlin, Tongji University, University of Auckland, University
 of California Berkeley, University of Johannesburg, Universidad de Los Andes, University of
 Melbourne, University of Tokyo, University of Toronto, and Vrije Universiteit Brussels.

 Honorary Professorships: University of Amsterdam (Lindner), University of Hong Kong
 (Gallent), and the universities of Shenyang, Tsinghua, & Tongji (Batty).

 Visiting Professorships: Two staff hold posts at Yale: Vincent Scully Visiting Professor of
 Architectural History (Carpo), and Lord Norman Foster Visiting Professor of Architecture
 (McLaughlin). Others have roles at: Aarhus School of Architecture, Chalmers University of
 Technology, China Academy of Arts, Hangzhou, TU Delft, University of Applied Arts, Vienna,
 Hong Kong Polytechnic University, National University of Singapore, Politecnico di Milano,
 Shanghai Jiaotong University, South China University of Technology, Stanford University, Tianjin
 University, Tsinghua University, University of Madrid, University of Malaya, University of Sydney.

 Keynote addresses at international policy-making fora: the International Monetary Fund,
 Organisation for Economic Security and Development, United Nations Economic and Social
 Commission for Asia Pacific, United Nations Environment Assembly, UN Habitat’s World Urban
 Forum; World Bank, and the World Economic Forum. European level: the European
 Commission, European Bank For Reconstruction And Development, and the European
 Investment Bank. National authorities: Argentinian Ministry of Science, Austrian Ministry for
 Transport, Innovation and Technology, Nordic Investment Bank, Norwegian Ministry for Climate
 and Environment, Spanish Ministry of Culture and Sports, and the National Climate Change
 Secretariat of The Singapore Government.

 Parliamentary presentations and oral evidence: All-Party Parliamentary Group for Civic
 Societies, House of Commons Committees (Business, Energy and Climate Change,
 Environmental Audit, Science and Technology, Scottish Affairs, Treasury and Transport), Joint
 HMT-BEIS Roundtable on Analysis for UK Industrial Strategy Grand Challenges and Missions,


                                                                                            Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 House of Lords Select Committee on Ageing, National Infrastructure Commission, and Treasury
 Select Committee enquiry on the economic impact of Covid-19.

 Keynote speeches and presentations: including at: Aarhus University, Aalto University,
 Beijing Normal University, Chongqing University, Cornell University, Harvard, Leiden University,
 KU Leuven, Lund University, McGill University, Nanjing University, New York University, Peking
 University, Renmin University of China, Science-Po Paris, Seoul National University, TU Berlin,
 Tianjin University, Universita di Torino, Universidad de Chile, University of Helsinki, University of
 Lisbon, University of Melbourne, University of São Paulo, University of Santiago de Compostela,
 University of Stockholm, University of Sydney, Yale University, ETH Zurich.




                                                                                               Page 37
