Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Achievement of Aims
 Since 2014, History has consolidated its research profile and successfully built on its existing
 and new areas of research expertise. The History UoA has submitted to all research exercises to
 date and has achieved world leading and international significance rankings in its outputs. The
 History UoA is now a small, cohesive and highly effective research team delivering high-level
 outcomes.

 One of the UoA’s strategic development goals focuses on the generation of research that fosters
 and promotes impact delivery through the design of projects that have social, cultural and
 community resonance and that will bring benefit to others. This goal is embedded in and
 enhanced by the values of environmental and community sustainability and of equality, inclusion
 and diversity by giving voice in historical study to formerly excluded, marginalised, minority,
 disadvantaged and underrepresented groups and individuals. The activities of the UoA promote
 community resilience, cultural heritage and historical legacy. Members of the UoA staff team
 have organised a series of external-facing events, including seminar series and active festival
 participation (detailed in section 4).


                                        Research Strategy

 Overall research strategy and management at institutional and school levels is subject to the
 University’s administrative structures, processes and committees. The university’s research
 procedures are overseen by the Academic Development Unit |(ADU), headed by the Dean of
 Academic Development. The University Research Committee (URC) has responsibility for the
 development and implementation of policies and practices relating to research across the
 institution. University Research Degrees Committee (URDC) approves PGR research proposals
 and monitors individual student progress through the research degree programmes. At subject
 level, in History, Ilic leads the Unit’s research oversight, strategic development and management
 in regular consultation with all members of the staff team. Ilic sits on the UoA Development
 Group, URC, URDC and the Being Human RPA (see below).

 The School Research Administrator has responsibility for providing administrative support to the
 chairs of the various research committees, to staff in leading roles in research management and
 to the processes governing the monitoring and progress of PGR students. The administrator
 disseminates information relating to research supervisor and PGR training programmes,
 maintains the local records of PGR students from original application to final award by Academic
 Board, and is responsible for overseeing the administration relating to the appointment of
 External Examiners and the practical arrangements for PGR examinations.

 History UoA research activity is informed and underpinned by the University’s 2017-22 strategy
 that aims to produce research that has ‘impact and benefit for others’. In aligning with this aim,
 members of staff in History work closely with external individuals, groups and institutions
 extending from representatives of the local community to national and international collaborative
 organisations and specialist research networks. This is evidenced in the UoA’s active
 participation in external events ranging, for example, from the annual Gloucester History Festival
 to specialist World Congresses, and the organisation of in-house events to support Black History
 Month, LGBT+ History Month and Women’s History Month. The University hosts the regular
 meetings of the local branch of the Historical Association.




                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Members of the History staff team participate in School-wide activities, such as day-long
 research symposia and writing workshops, designed both to promote internal research culture
 and good practice, and to foster collaboration, inter-disciplinarity and externality in research.

 In the current round, the History UoA’s strategy focuses on maximising the delivery of high-
 quality outputs with emphasis on research monographs. In addition, the publication of ground-
 breaking journal articles and book chapters promotes the goal of close engagement with
 international collaborative networks that aim to establish new research trends. These ambitions
 are coupled with the strategic aim of promoting research impact by close engagement with key
 target audiences ranging from the local community to global academic end-users. In publicising
 its on-going research projects, History runs its own seminar series, to which external speakers
 are invited in addition to staff and PGR students making presentations of their own current
 research. History also runs its own Facebook page and an online blog accessible to external
 readers: https://uniofglos.blog/history/. Members of the UoA are actively engaged in the national
 and international academic organisations of their core research discipline.

                                   Unit Context and Structure:

 UoA28 is based in the multi-disciplinary School of Education and Humanities. History sits
 alongside cognate Humanities disciplines with shared access to infrastructure, administrative
 support and amenities. Alongside Humanities colleagues, members of the History UoA are
 active in a number of inter-disciplinary research centres hosted by the University of
 Gloucestershire, most notably the Centre for Being Human: Past, Present and Future.

 In terms of facilities, the History UoA has access to the University’s thriving and expanding
 archive based at Hardwick, near to Francis Close Hall (FCH) campus (detailed in section 3). The
 History UoA also collaborates closely with staff at the Gloucestershire Archives and Heritage
 Hub, and makes use of local repositories, including The Wilson, the Local and Family History
 Centre and the Holst Museum.

 History staff are actively engaged with the Gloucestershire branch of the Historical Association
 (HA) and members of the UoA have given talks to meetings of the HA around the country.
 Peters is a current committee member of the Gloucestershire HA executive committee.
 O’Connell sits on the organising committee for the annual Gloucester History Festival.

 Internal funding
 Since REF2014, oversight of the University research processes has been streamlined. Six
 Research Priority Areas (RPA) were developed extending across the institution with the strategic
 aim of promoting excellence in research. Each RPA scrutinises competitive research project bids
 as part of on-going centrally supported QR funded programmes and it works to extend capacity
 for impact. History falls under the ‘Being Human: Past, Present and Future’ RPA (BH RPA),
 which brings colleagues together from across disciplines in the Humanities, Arts and Media. Its
 remit fosters inter-disciplinarity and collaborative research. BH RPA has an Impact Co-Ordinator,
 who mentors staff and works with colleagues to maximise the potential and broaden the scope
 for demonstrable impact from research projects. BH RPA supports staff in making external
 funding bids and promotes collaboration with external organisations. The History UoA has been
 successful in bidding to the BH RPA for funds to establish and promote its impact case studies.



 Future Research and Impact Strategy focuses on:
      • improving the UoA’s overall REF ranking by emphasising high quality research
          outputs over quantity, supported with the targeted deployment of QR funding;
      • extending and formalising established close working relationships with key local
          stakeholders, community groups and education providers to enhance collaborative
          funding bids and to promote research impact that has social benefit;


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      •      enhancing environmental metrics by formalising the UoA’s basis for bidding to external
             funding bodies and to promote a culture of successful external grant capture;
      •      extending active participation, management and leadership of international
             collaborative academic networks;
      •      the further promotion of research and impact through active engagement with local,
             national and international media outlets (online forums, hard copy publications and
             broadcast media).

 2. People

                                         Staffing Strategy

 The University of Gloucestershire’s School of Education and Humanities provides a supportive
 environment for staff to contribute to the high-quality research outputs of its staff teams. In
 History, staffing strategy is geared towards ensuring that all members of the permanent staff
 team, from professorial level to early career appointments, are research active, publish outputs
 that can be submitted to REF, are mindful of the impact of their research and actively contribute
 to the UoA’s broader research environmental activities. The emphasis is on permanent posts
 rather than fixed-term appointments, though part-time and temporary appointments have been
 made to cover the teaching of permanent staff members who have been successful in bidding
 for periods of sabbatical leave to facilitate successful completion of monograph-length research
 projects and to progress ICS. This strategy has served to produce and underpin a small, tight
 knit, mutually supportive team. 100% of the History staff team has submitted outputs to
 REF2021.

 The History team has undergone significant change to its permanent staffing since REF2014.
 Ilic (promoted to Professor in 2012) and Randall (formerly Morrisroe) (promoted to Senior
 Lecturer in 2013) remain in post.

 Wynn retired in 2015; Robertson left to take up a post at the University of the Highlands and
 Islands in July 2015; French left to take up a post at the University of Liverpool in September
 2015.

 The following new staff appointments, all with successful PhD awards prior to confirmation of
 appointment, have been made since REF2014: O’Connell (American History) joined the team in
 September 2013 initially as a 0.5 early-career lecturer to deliver teaching in American history;
 the post was increased to 0.7 from January 2014 and was made full-time from September 2015
 to accommodate the Academic Course Leader role; O’Connell was promoted to Senior Lecturer
 in 2015 and recognised by appointment as University Teaching Fellow in 2019. Peters (Early
 Modern History) joined the team in September 2015, initially as a temporary fractional
 appointment; the post was made permanent full-time from September 2017. Peters was
 promoted to Senior Lecturer in 2020. Howell (Modern European History) joined the team in
 2015, initially to provide PTHP cover, then on 0.2 contract from 2018/19.

 O’Connell has served as History Academic Course Leader (for undergraduate programmes)
 since August 2015 (taking over from Robertson); Randall served as Acting History Course
 Leader during the period of O’Connell’s Visiting Fellowship in the United States in Spring 2016.

 Academic staff

 The History UoA is part of the multi-disciplinary School of Education and Humanities based at
 the University’s Frances Close Hall campus in Cheltenham. All members of the History staff
 team have offices and teach on this site. All History staff team members are active in research
 and publication and all but one are part of postgraduate research degree supervision teams. In
 addition to producing research outputs, all staff members have considerable responsibility for
 delivering substantial amounts of undergraduate teaching, postgraduate supervision and

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic-related administration. Ilic, as chair of the History UoA, works closely with other UoA
 coordinators in Humanities, the chair of the BH RPA and is guided by the University’s Dean of
 Academic Development and ADU support team in REF-related management activities.

 The History team has specialisms in early modern British and European political, social and
 cultural history (Peters), late modern British and intellectual history (Randall), modern European
 history (Howell), twentieth-century American social, cultural and political history (O’Connell)
 and late modern Russian / Soviet history (Ilic). Staff research interests include topics relating to:
 women’s and gender history; the history of print culture; historical studies of trauma; social
 protest and civil rights; black history and the history of race relations; intellectual history and the
 history of ideas; landscape, environment and heritage; public history, national identities and
 citizenship; transatlantic music; Cold War studies; international relations and transnational
 histories; oral history, life stories and memory studies. Teaching responsibilities for Historical
 methodologies, undergraduate and postgraduate research training are shared across the staff
 team.

 The current staff cohort is 4.2 FTE (compared to 4.8 submitted for REF2014), with a gender
 balance of 3F:1.2M. All staff members are entered in REF2021. The History staff team is
 compact and consists of: one professor (Ilic); three Senior Lecturers (O’Connell, Peters and
 Randall); and one Lecturer (Howell). The team has an interest in revealing the untold histories,
 cultural significance and hidden heritage of marginalised and underrepresented groups. This is
 particularly reflected in the two Impact Case Studies, which explore the histories of
 Cheltenham’s working-class community and immigrant populations, often excluded from the
 published accounts of the town’s Regency past.


                                          Staff Development

 All University of Gloucestershire academic staff members have the opportunity to set out their
 career progression aspirations and professional training needs at a mandatory annual review
 and development meeting with their operational and / or line manager. This also provides the
 opportunity for staff to outline their research and publication achievements against identified
 targets from the past year and to set research priorities and goals for the current year. Within the
 History UoA, a quarterly monitoring update is made of research progress for each member of the
 team with updates entered on a spreadsheet maintained by Ilic as the UoA coordinator.
 Individual staff members are responsible for uploading their publications to the University
 Research Repository once they have been accepted for publication.

 A mentoring system operates to support new staff appointees, the development of early-career
 researchers and to foster a vibrant publication culture. This is particularly important for
 underpinning the research undertaken by staff new to the institution as they become integrated
 into the relevant UoA. In the History UoA, peer mentoring is in evidence in: the internal review of
 draft publications and funding bids by providing critical feedback before submission;
 encouragement given to disseminate research findings externally beyond initial publication; the
 collaborative approach taken to the promotion and assessment of impact; the mutual support
 and advice provided in the area of career progression and seeking promotion; and ensuring that
 all members of the team have the opportunity to take part in PGR student supervision and that
 the opportunities for and demands of PGR supervision are appropriately balanced across the
 team. This peer mentoring scheme is important to the successful and mutually supportive
 working practices of the UoA and to the research career progression of its individual staff
 members.


 Research management



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At University level, Ilic provides regular updates to the central ADU and to URC on research
 progress in the History UoA. URC is chaired by the Vice Chancellor, and the Dean of Academic
 Development has the specific remit to oversee the University’s research strategy in progress
 towards REF submission. A RAG rating system operates at central level as part of the overall
 monitoring process to track UoA progress against targets and to identify examples of good
 practice. UoA coordinators report on a range of issues: gender balance and diversity of the staff
 members to be entered to REF; progress on research and outputs, charted against the
 maximum submission allowance for the UoA with commentary on preliminary quality ratings;
 progress of the required number of Impact Case Studies and the implementation strategy for
 progressing and capturing impact; progress in the Environment implementation strategy,
 including targets for external funding bids and records of successful awards; successful doctoral
 completions and PhDs in process; and a final ranking against overall UoA targets.

 At School level, the allocation of research time and access to short-term research leave is
 overseen by the Head of School and is negotiated in consultation with the relevant Academic
 Subject Group Leader. A mandatory time allowance for ‘research and scholarly activity’ and
 additional time allocations for externally-funded research projects are provided in the University’s
 Workload Allocation Model, which underpins individual staff balance of duties. The balance of
 duties is reviewed annually in discussion with the appropriate line or operational manager.

 Progress in the research achievements of the History UoA and updates of its budgetary
 expenditure are regularly reported to the BH RPA co-ordinator, who is responsible for
 overseeing the smooth running of the RPA, including forecasting budget needs and auditing the
 expenditures of funding allocated to individual UoAs. As History UoA coordinator, Ilic sits on the
 BH RPA Steering Group. Internal funding to support research activities, including conference
 organisation and attendance and expenses incurred in field work, research data collection and
 finalising outputs for publication, are available through monies disbursed through the BH RPA,
 including supplementary allowances for each member of the UoA with enhanced allocations for
 Professors and Readers.

 BH RPA funding is also available to relieve staff of their teaching duties on a rotational basis by
 providing partial sabbatical leave, teaching remission and short-term buy-outs in order to
 advance research towards final publication. Such disbursement of funds has allowed staff in the
 History UoA to generate high quality monographs and additional research outputs.

 Randall benefitted from one semester of sabbatical leave during 2016/17 to complete the writing
 of a monograph, Empire, Islam and History, and to progress research on a number of journal
 articles.
 Ilic benefitted from one semester of sabbatical leave during 2017/18 to progress writing a
 monograph on Soviet Women - Everyday Lives and to oversee the final stages of production of
 two further substantive volumes: (co-author) Women’s Experiences of Repression in the Soviet
 Union and Eastern Europe; (editor and contributor) Palgrave Handbook of Women and Gender
 in Twentieth-Century Russia and the Soviet Union.
 Peters benefitted from one semester of sabbatical leave in 2018/19 to support development of
 impact and to complete work on research outputs.
 Howell benefitted from research funding to develop and promote research projects geared
 towards impact generation.

 In addition, staff have been successful in securing periods of externally funded research
 fellowships providing for semester-long teaching remission and sabbatical leave:

 O’Connell was awarded a British Association of American Studies and UCL Institute of the
 Americas Visiting Fellowship, January to March 2015, to research the Black American South in
 British TV programming; and a prestigious Fulbright-Elon Scholar Award (January to May 2016)
 to conduct research and work at Elon University in North Carolina on African American Culture
 in Italy.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peters was Visiting Scholar at the University of Northern Colorado (January to May 2020) to
 develop plans for an international summer student exchange programme and to set the
 foundations for establishing an international research centre for the study of cultural trauma. This
 visit was cut short when Covid-19 travel restrictions were put in place.

 During these periods of sabbatical leave, part-time hourly paid staff members were employed to
 cover undergraduate teaching.

 In addition, staff have secured short-term visiting fellowship abroad, have hosted visiting
 researchers at the University of Gloucestershire and hold honorary research posts in the UK:

 Ilic (who has an interest in transnational Cold War history) hosted Dr Pia Koivunen (University of
 Turku, Finland) during a visit to the UK in June 2016 to consult on the Soviet Union’s use of ‘soft
 power’ diplomacy at mega events.
 Ilic holds an on-going Honorary Senior Research Fellowship at the University of Birmingham
 Centre for Russian, European and Eurasian Studies, which provides access to the Centre’s
 extensive Soviet Studies source materials held in the Baykov Collection.
 Peters was a Visiting Scholar at University of Ottawa (July to September 2016), and Research
 Fellow at the University of Toronto Centre for Reformation and Renaissance Studies (July to
 September 2016) providing access to their libraries and research collections.

 These Fellowships provide access to specialist research collections, engagement with high-level
 research seminars and conferences, and opportunities to collaborate in international research
 projects.

 The History UoA encourages team members to utilise their weekly ‘research day’, when
 available, and ‘research and scholarly activity’ time allowance to progress their data collection
 and writing. Staff are encouraged to attend research training, planning and writing workshops.

 Decision-making on the final submission of outputs to REF is informed in part by feedback
 provided annually by an external assessor and by the summary feedback provided by a second
 external assessor who was tasked to offer responses to all of the potential research outputs
 determined internally to be in scope for submission. The final selection of outputs for inclusion,
 double weighting and exclusion was made by collective agreement of all staff members in the
 History UoA. These decisions have meant that not all outputs produced during this round have
 been submitted for REF review.

 Oversight of staff and PGR student research ethics is coordinated centrally and at School level.
 Ilic, a former member of the University’s Research Ethics Sub-Committee, sits on the School of
 Education and Humanities Research Ethics Committee, which scrutinises and provides
 feedback on staff and PGR research projects that require formal ethical approval.


                                        Research students

 Since REF2014, the History UoA has witnessed an increase in the number of students
 registered for postgraduate research degrees (PhD and MA by Research) and has increased the
 scope of PGR supervision across a range of subject disciplines. Since REF2014, PGR student
 ages have ranged from early 20s (registering on completion of their undergraduate programme)
 to 70s (pursuing academic research post-retirement).

 Postgraduate research topics are often, but not exclusively, linked to areas of staff research,
 publication and teaching. PGR students are mostly self-funding, with some internal financial
 support available to staff members registered for advanced postgraduate degrees. All History
 PGR students are expected to contribute to the research activity and environmental culture of
 the subject discipline. Applications for PGR degrees are centralised in the University’s


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Communications, Marketing and Student Recruitment Admissions Team, and then devolved to
 School Postgraduate Research Leads to arrange interview, acceptance and induction. PGR
 progress is rigorously monitored at university level by the Postgraduate Research Centre (PRC,
 located in the ADU), locally by the School Postgraduate Research Lead and individually by the
 allocated subject-level supervisory team.

 All PGR students are expected to complete recent and relevant research degree training at
 Masters level (provided in-house if not already achieved) before embarking on PhD-level
 research. PhD students are able to access a broad range of academic and vocational training,
 some designed specifically for PGR students, and all of the professional development activities
 provided for academic staff. PGR students complete an annual Training Needs Analysis Form
 and Joint Annual Progress Report in collaboration with their supervisors. Their research project
 must be formally approved at University level before the thesis is submitted for examination.

 The PRC provides administrative oversight of PGR admissions, progression, training and award.
 It has links with Vitae South West (as part of the Researcher Development Framework) and the
 Midlands Hub networks. PGR students are encouraged to engage fully with the Postgraduate
 Research Experience Survey (PRES). The University of Gloucestershire achieved the excellent
 outcome of being ranked sixth overall and seventh in terms of postgraduate research skills in
 PRES 2019. The PRC organises annual PGR conferences and summer schools, where
 students present papers to their peers and engage in specialist research training. The PRC also
 oversees the mandatory training programmes for all PGR supervisors and ensures that
 supervisor training remains up-to-date.

 The University offers training to PGR students preparing for a career in teaching in Higher
 Education and opportunity is sometimes available for students to gain in-class teaching
 experience. Externally, PGR students in History are referred to the seminar series and research
 and vocational training offered by the Institute of Historical Research in London and specialist
 training courses and seminar series elsewhere. PGR students are eligible to apply for research
 expenses covered by the University to the value of £300 per annum for full-time students and
 £200 per annum for part-time students. Further financial support is accessible through
 discretionary bids to other funds.

 In History, Ilic coordinates PGR activities by: advising potential recruits and talking them through
 the application process; allocating new recruits to supervisory teams; running regular PGR
 seminars and meetings; and encouraging PGR students to participate in School, University and
 external (national and international) conferences, networks and training programmes relevant to
 their thesis. All full-time members of the History staff team sit on PGR supervisory teams. History
 PGR students have participated in University-wide and subject-level ‘Three Minute Thesis’
 competitions and PGR poster displays. Ilic sits on URDC, has extensive experience of chairing
 PhD vivas, and has acted as internal assessor on upgrade panels for PGR students advancing
 from MA by Research or MPhil to PhD.

 All PGR students have at least two supervisors, and the supervisory team sometimes includes a
 staff member from another subject area or an external expert. Similarly, History staff members
 sometimes sit on PGR supervisory teams for students registered in other disciplines: Ilic in
 Creative Writing (post-Yugoslav diasporic writing), English Literature (life story interviewing of
 Polish migrants), and Illustration (History research methodologies in illustrative output); and
 Randall in Sociology (local public housing policy initiatives and outcomes). In constituting the
 supervisory team, at least one member must have previously supervised to successful
 completion at least two students, at least one of which must be at the level of the award being
 sought or higher. Experienced supervisors (with at least two successful PGR completions and
 experience of at least two PGR examinations) serve as mentors to staff new to supervision. Ilic
 and Randall hold ‘experienced supervisor’ status.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students, including former University of Gloucestershire students studying elsewhere,
 publicise their research projects, findings and publications via the ‘Postgraduate Profiles’ and
 ‘Alumni Stories’ pages of the History blog and Facebook.

 Since 2014, staff in History have supervised to successful PhD completion TWO students
 registered in History and ONE student registered in Sociology: 1F:2M.

 The award of MA by Research was made to SIX History students: 2F:4M.

 Staff members in History are currently on supervision teams of 12 PGR students: 5 PhD and 7
 MA by Research: 8F:4M. Barnes was successful in 2020 in securing a £500 research grant from
 the Society for Army Historical Research and £250 grant from the British Commission for Military
 History for his MA project on defaults in early modern Hampshire.

                                       Equality and Diversity:

 Equality, diversity and inclusion are intrinsic not only to the values of the University as a whole,
 but also to the History UoA. The University of Gloucestershire was shortlisted for its outstanding
 contribution in the Times Higher Education ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Awards’ in 2020.
 The University is committed to the aims of the Athena Swan Charter in its culture, policies and
 practices, and it adheres to the Charter’s principles in its support for and the advancement of
 gender equality across the institution. The University is taking action to narrow the gender pay
 gap across all grades of staffing through its Gender Pay Gap Action Plan. In addition, it has
 introduced a number of practices to facilitate gender inclusivity in its day-to-day activities. One of
 the most important examples of this is reflected in the way that the university supports working
 parents / guardians, staff and students with childcare responsibilities, most of whom are women,
 by timing the start of the working day from 9.15. This provides time for drop-off at school and
 childcare before teaching and meetings start. This policy also has environmental benefits by
 providing for more sustainable commuting opportunities that avoid the morning rush-hour peak
 traffic flow. Working parents / guardians are provided with the opportunity to select flexible
 working hours to meet their childcare needs.

 The University provides specific mechanisms to promote the on-going support and mentoring of
 female and early career members of staff and other under-represented groups, as reflected in its
 Women Professors Group, Women’s Network, BAME Network and Early Career Network. Ilic is
 one of the founder members of and sits on the Women Professors Group, which has an explicit
 remit to support and mentor female academic staff in their career progression and promotion.
 The Women Professors Group actively seeks to rectify the gender imbalance currently evident in
 senior and executive academic leadership across the sector, as well as in areas of access to
 research opportunities, research funding allocation and publication. In a recent example, in
 collaboration with the university’s Women’s Network and individual members of staff, the
 Women Professors Group organised a series of informal interviews and an open online plenary
 focusing on ‘Women Negotiating Academia: Empowerment and Challenges’ as part of the
 University Festival in 2020. A representative of the Women Professors Group sits on the
 University’s Professorial Appointments Panel and the Women Professors Group is spearheading
 a culture shift in practices aiming towards academic career progression and leadership.

 Members of the History staff team have attended university-wide training programmes on issues
 relating to equality, diversity and inclusion. One example of this is the compulsory unconscious
 bias training for all UoA coordinators, attended by Ilic for History, with other members of the
 team attending similar training events. At institutional level, Equal Opportunities training forms
 part of the induction programme for all new members of staff and it is also required for anyone
 involved in the selection and interviewing processes for new appointments. All members of the
 History staff team have been provided on an equal basis with the opportunity to bid for internal
 research funds, to apply in rotation for periods of sabbatical leave and teaching remission, to
 lead and take an active part in impact case study projects and to supervise research students.


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Equality, diversity and inclusion are embedded in the History UoA’s strategic aims as the specific
 focus of individual staff research projects, impact case studies, impact generation and teaching
 delivery. External events, outward-facing activities with local community groups and recruitment
 activities are geared towards the active promotion of inclusion. History staff work in tandem with
 the University’s Equality and Diversity Manager, who provides support and funding for subject-
 level initiatives. This includes providing administrative support and making finance available to
 fund external speakers to present guest lectures during Black History Month (October; organised
 by O’Connell), LGBTQ History Month (February; organised by Randall) and Women’s History
 Month (March; organised by Ilic and Peters).

 Recent appointments to the History staff team, part-time teaching cover and paid research
 assistants have tended to reflect the local demographic make-up, which has more limited ethnic
 diversity in comparison with the national average. As such, staff members make every effort to
 reflect issues of equality, diversity and inclusion in their teaching delivery, personal tutor and
 supervisory support, and research outputs. As a counterweight to the limited diversity of the
 small staff team, prominent external speakers are regularly invited to give guest lectures to
 which members of the local community are invited. The History staff team is actively working
 towards decolonising the teaching curriculum, with Randall currently leading this initiative.
 Likewise, issues relating to environmental awareness, community sustainability and cultural
 sensitivity are embedded in the History UoA’s aspirations, values and delivery.

 All members of academic staff on fractional appointments are allocated pro-rata equivalent
 mandatory ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours on their annual balance of duties as set out in
 the Work Allocation Model. Additional hours may be allocated to allow fractional and part-time
 members of staff to undertake funded research projects. Early career academic staff members
 are paired with a colleague who provides on-the-spot mentoring and they are also allocated
 extra hours on their balance of duties to allow for initial teaching preparation and professional
 training.

 The University promotes the welfare of all staff and students through a variety of avenues,
 including Workplace Wellbeing and Time for Change, and protects staff and students through
 the provisions of the 2010 Equality Act. The University has achieved Level 3 of ‘Disability
 Confident’ recognising it as a Leader. Students with notified disabilities and specific learning
 needs are well supported at University, School and subject level and every effort is made to
 ensure that they are not disadvantaged in their educational access and achievement. Access to
 specialist equipment, ICT hardware and software programmes, guided support and safeguarding
 measures are in place to facilitate the day-to-day work of staff and students with notified
 disabilities. The University took an early initiative during the 2020 Covid-19 lockdown,
 significantly in advance of the formal institutional shutdown, to allow shielding and vulnerable
 staff and students to work exclusively from home, and support to do so was quickly made
 available online.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

                                              Income

 At central level, REF QR income and other monies are devolved to Research Priority Areas for
 disbursement to UoAs. This money is used to promote on-going research activity leading to high
 quality outputs, to kick-start new collaborative research projects and to increase the significance
 and reach of research impact. The History UoA is aligned to the BH RPA, an interdisciplinary
 grouping, identified by the University as one of six areas for research-focused investment. Ilic is
 a member of the BH RPA Steering Group, which oversees internal competitive funding bids. The
 History UoA has a successful record of securing internal research funding and this experience is



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 built upon to support and encourage further bidding to external national funding bodies. External
 funding bids are supported and facilitated by a central University Funding Office.


 Funding, Grants and Awards

 The expansion of successful external applications for research funding, drawing on support from
 the University Funding Office, is a strategic future research aim for the University and academic
 Schools, as is the expansion of research student numbers. In the current round, the History UoA
 has been successful in securing the following external funding:

 Howell secured a £5000 award from the Heritage Lottery Fund for the Cheltenham: Diaspora
 project (ICS2)

 Howell’s research liaison work with Cheltenham Borough Council, supported by a £1500 award
 from the BH RPA, to develop a national funding bid on local heritage promotion was put on hold
 in 2020 once lockdown was put in place.

 O’Connell was awarded £1500 by International History Review to conduct research for a
 proposed project on Black American GIs in Italy to undertake a field trip for archival research in
 Tuscany and Liguria (initially planned for summer 2020, but postponed because of Covid-19
 travel restrictions).

 Unsuccessful bids were submitted to: AHRC (national collaborative project on Transatlantic
 Blues Music); British Academy / Leverhulme Small Research Grants fund; Somerfield Charitable
 Trust.

 In terms of internal financial support, the History UoA has benefitted from annual allocations and
 been successful in securing internal funding through competitive bids to the BH RPA to support
 and extend its activities. Yearly funding allocations to all UoA members are available to support
 staff attendance at national and international conferences and to fund other research costs (such
 as short research trips and travel for field work data collection, indexing, bibliographic
 compilation and book illustrations), as well as the periods of teaching remission (as described
 above).

 In addition, the History UoA was successful in its competitive bids to underpin the development
 and enhancements of its ICS activities through application to the BH RPA collaborative projects
 funds: Cheltenham Lower High Street: Past, Present and Future (total £9000); and Cheltenham:
 Diaspora (£8000).

 Internal funding was also secured through competitive bids to centrally disbursed funds.
 Activities to support the promotion and dissemination of Impact Case Study project findings and
 participation in Gloucester History Festival have been partially supported by funding awards from
 the University’s Learning Innovation for Tomorrow (LIFT) initiative and the Janet Trotter Trust.

 The History UoA has benefitted from non-financial support in kind from a number of local
 organisations and community support groups to publicise and disseminate research findings,
 particularly in relation to its two ICS, but also in other areas of project work geared towards
 presentation at the Gloucester History Festival. The History team has been provided with free
 access to exhibition and display space in Cheltenham (particularly by Chapel Arts Gallery, The
 Wilson, West End Project community resource centre, and the Frog and Fiddle pub) and in
 Gloucester (to display space in the Eastgate shopping centre and Discover DeCrypt). These
 venues have been utilised to stage exhibitions of work and a short film relating to the UoAs
 Impact Case Studies and to display the project outcomes prepared for Gloucester History
 Festival.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                    Infrastructure and Facilities

 The History staff team has access to provision that forms part of the University’s infrastructure
 across three campuses in Cheltenham and Gloucester. This includes access to the institutional
 archive, library facilities, specialist assistance provided by the University archivist and a
 designated experienced Humanities library staff member, and to inter-library loan services.
 Research and publication are further facilitated by the support provided by a dedicated
 Information and Computer Services team and to specialist ICT software training to enhance
 research and teaching delivery. The History staff team has received training and makes use of
 Talis Aspire and Talis Elevate.

 The History UoA makes use of the research support provided by staff at the University of
 Gloucestershire Special Collection and Archives (UGA) and at Gloucestershire Archives and
 Heritage Hub, with whom it works closely in the preparation of the annual Gloucester History
 Festival (held mostly online in September 2020). In addition to the archive of the University’s
 institutional history, UGA holds the library collection of the Bristol and Gloucestershire
 Archaeological Society (BGAS), Local Heritage Initiative Archive and Independent Television
 News Image Archive. It also houses the ‘Gloucestershire Poets, Writers and Artists Collection’,
 including papers relating to the Dymock Poets and the Dennis Potter Archive. The History UoA
 also makes use of collections held in Cheltenham by the Local and Family History Library, which
 provides access to the British Newspaper Archive.

 The Humanities library stock, built up over many decades, is housed on the ground floor of Quad
 West on FCH Campus in Cheltenham, where staff offices are also located on the floors above.
 The library allows 24-hour access, 7 days a week. Purchases of new books take place regularly
 across the year reflecting the requests of History staff and student recommendations;
 subscriptions to journals are renewed on a rolling annual basis. The library is steadily building its
 collection of ebooks, publisher ‘bundles’, journals and specialist subscription collections making
 materials available to online users. These materials are identified (since 2017) through the
 Library Discovery search facility, which also provides indications of holdings worldwide. Staff,
 PGR and undergraduate students have access to the following collections:

        Archival Sound Recordings, linking to oral history, radio and sound recordings
        British Periodicals Collections
        Cambridge Core
        Census Services
        Digimap OS and Historic Map Collection
        Humanities Source
        JSTOR Arts and Sciences V
        JISC Historical Texts, providing access to Early English Books Online (EEBO),
             Eighteenth Century Collection Online (ECCO) and British Library Nineteenth Century
             Collection
        Lexis Library, with access to historical law reports and legal cases
        Oxford Academic Journals Online, including Historical Research
        Project Muse Humanities Collection
        Sage Premier Collection for Arts and Humanities


 Staff members have generous access to hard copy library loans, ready access to e-books and
 journals, and an allowance of up to 50 inter-library loan requests per annum. The on-going
 process of digitisation and advances in scanning facilities are speeding up access to external
 research materials as well as to online archive collections.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Overview


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The research activities of the History UoA are embedded in external collaborations and extend
 across the international academy. In its engagement with local stakeholders and community
 groups, it serves to bring specific reciprocal benefit and recognition to an underrepresented
 section of Cheltenham’s population living in close proximity to the University’s FCH campus. At
 national level, members of the staff team are actively engaged in the executive organisation and
 on-going activities of academic and related bodies relevant to their core research discipline.
 Internationally, team members are active in a range of collaborative research projects and have
 been strategic in leading initiatives to enhance the global reach of their academic discipline.

 Much of the research output of the History UoA is focused on bringing to the fore the history of
 previously underrepresented and marginalised groups generally excluded from the historical
 narrative. This has often involved innovative research methods, with staff engaging closely with
 local community representative and uncovering untold stories from a variety of historical
 sources, to investigate such issues as the hidden and intangible heritage of migration and
 resettlement (Howell), critical readings of women’s everyday life narratives (Ilic), the role of
 music in the transatlantic cultural conveyor belt (O’Connell), early modern trauma (Peters), and
 critical intellectual and popular discourse analysis of attitudes towards Islam in Britain (Randall).


 External Research Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 External national and international collaborations and participation in research networks add
 vibrancy to the History UoA and provide access to additional funding to support fieldwork, data
 collection and research activities as well as important forums for the dissemination of research
 findings.

 Ilic’s expertise in Soviet women’s history and life stories led to an invitation to participate in two
 international collaborative research projects funded by the Research Council of Lithuania: The
 Last Soviet Generation in Lithuania in the Context of Changing Modernity and Lithuanian
 Families and Migration: Everyday Life Experiences and Return Policies, both based at the
 University of Vilnius. Ilic was also co-organiser of the BASEES regional conference in Uppsala,
 Sweden, in 2018, an event that attracted speakers and participants from around the world.
 Peters’ expertise in the English Civil Wars led her appointment as Academic Advisor for the
 ‘Battle Scarred: Surgery, Medicine and Military Welfare during the British Civil Wars’ exhibition at
 the National Civil War Centre, UK (2016).


 Links with other UoAs
 The History UoA has benefited from working alongside UoA32 Art and Design to consult on
 projects linked to the changing retail landscape of the local high street, and with UoA34
 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies in discussions concerning interviews with local
 immigrant communities.


 Relationships with key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences
 As important indicators of academic esteem, members of the UoA have established and
 maintained relationships with a broad range of key research users and related organisations that
 disseminate research findings. The research work and published outputs of the History UoA are
 publicised through the dedicated publicly accessible website of the Cotswold Centre for History
 and Heritage (cc4hh.co.uk) and via blogposts on the UG History Facebook page
 (uniofglos/history), as well as on Instagram and Twitter. The History UoA is in regular contact
 with a number of key local organisations such as Cheltenham Borough Council, Cheltenham
 Civic Society, Cheltenham Local History Society, Gloucester Heritage Hub, Gloucestershire
 Historical Association, Gloucestershire Victoria County History, Pittville History Works and St
 Paul’s Road Area Residents Association. These organisations provide forums for external


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultation on research matters as well as the dissemination and debate of research findings
 beyond academic audiences.

 History staff have organised public-facing events and activities for:
       • Black History Month, including talks by: (in 2015) Bonnie Greer and Gary Younge; (in
            2016) Seyi Rhodes and Dr Madge Dresser; (in 2017) Prof David Olusoga; (in 2018)
            Louisa Adjoa-Parker; (in 2019) Prof Kehinde Andrews; (in 2020, online) Dr Yvonne
            Battle-Felton.
       • LGBT+ History Month, support materials for public talks and exhibitions
       • Women’s History Month, including talks by: (in 2017) Helen Rappaport; (in 2019) Dr
            Rachel Century.
       • Gloucester History Festival, exhibition at Chapel Arts Gallery, September 2018 that
            attracted over 1000 visitors in its two-week run; exhibitions at Eastgate Centre in
            Gloucester and Chapel Arts in Cheltenham, September 2019; exhibition at Discover
            de Crypt in 2020 and online on the Cotswold Centre for History and Heritage website:
            cc4hh.co.uk.

 Members of the UoA hold positions on the editorial boards of prestigious academic journals and
 governing bodies of important historical organisations:

 Howell is a trustee of the Cistercian Way project.

 Ilic sits on the National Advisory Board of Europe-Asia Studies. Ilic was Membership Secretary
 of the British Association for Slavonic and East European Studies Association (BASEES) for four
 years from 2014 to 2017, and remained as a co-opted member of the BASEES executive
 committee in 2018. Ilic is a founder member of BASEES Women’s Forum, launched in 2015.

 O’Connell is a trustee of the European Blues Association (www.euroblues.org).

 Peters sits on the executive committee of the Gloucestershire branch of the Historical
 Association. In 2020, Peters was commissioned by the Canadian government to write a report
 on the impact of cultural trauma on Canadian society, democracy and national security.

 Members of the staff team have been invited to take part in TV and radio broadcasts, reporting
 on topics related to their research interests:

 Howell took part in a live broadcast Brexit debate on TV Wales in 2019. Howell has also spoken
 on BBC Radio Gloucestershire discussing the Queen’s 90th birthday, and BBC Radio 4 Today
 programme discussing the results of the national ‘happiness’ survey.

 O’Connell was filmed as part of ITV’s Coronations Street’s DNA Secrets, broadcast in
 September 2018. O’Connell has also spoken on BBC Radio Gloucestershire, Heart Radio
 (Gloucestershire) and Heart Swindon on topics relating to Black History Month, the US elections
 and Brexit, the Trump / Biden presidential election and the work of the Cotswold Centre for
 History and Heritage. O’Connell was invited to speak at the prestigious and internationally
 renowned Cheltenham Literature Festival (sponsored by The Times and Sunday Times) on ‘New
 Orleans: a portrait of a City’ in 2016, and ‘How History is Taught in Schools’ in 2017.

 Peters was interviewed by BBC Radio Gloucestershire on 5 November 2017 discussing the
 500-year anniversary of the Protestant Reformation in Europe, and on Radio Winchcombe in
 November 2017 discussing the anniversary of Gunpowder Treason.

 The academic esteem in which members of the History UoA are held is reflected also in
 invitations to serve as external examiners of PhD theses. During the current census period, Ilic
 has examined PhDs at Queen Mary University of London, University of East Anglia, University of
 Glasgow and University of Sheffield. O’Connell has examined two PhDs at University of

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Northumbria. In addition, Ilic and Randall have both served as internal examiner on PGR
 theses.


 Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 History UOA members have contributed in many ways to the wider research base since 2014.
 Within this census period, History staff members have engaged in activities that are critical to the
 on-going vitality of academia and to the dissemination of research findings, in terms of both their
 own research and that of others.

 In connection with his work on intangible cultural heritage, Howell has delivered conference
 papers in the UK (USW) and France (ICOHTEC, Saint Etienne, 2018), and served as
 anonymous reviewer for manuscripts submitted to Bloomsbury and Cambridge University Press.
 Howell has also worked closely with a number of organisations in Wales to sustain and promote
 Welsh cultural heritage and history.

 In relation to pioneering research in Soviet women’s history and victim studies of the Great
 Terror under Stalin, Ilic has delivered papers and guest lectures, served as discussant and
 chaired panels nationally in Belfast (ESSHC 2018), Birmingham, Cambridge, Leeds and Oxford,
 and internationally in Chicago (ASEEES 2017), Dublin (2014), Estonia (2017), Japan (ICCEES
 World Congress, 2015), Korea (EWHA, 2016), Lithuania (University of Vilnius, 2018, 2019) and
 Sweden (2021 online); scheduled delivery of a paper at the ICCEES World Congress in
 Montreal, Canada, in 2020 was postponed due to Covid-related travel restrictions. Ilic has
 served as anonymous peer review reader for book proposals and manuscripts submitted to the
 following publishers: Palgrave Macmillan, Routledge, Springer Verlag, and IB Tauris; for article
 submissions to the following journals: Europe-Asia Studies, Journal of Baltic Studies, Journal of
 the European Society of Women in Theological Research, Journal of Women’s History, Kritika,
 Region, Russian Review, and Slavonic and East European Review; and for funding and
 fellowship applications submitted to: British Academy, Czech Science Foundation, FRIAS
 Cofund Fellowship Programme (Freiberg Institute of Advanced Studies), Leverhulme Trust, and
 Newnham College, Cambridge. In the course of this census period, Ilic has provided book
 reviews to the following journals: Ab Imperio, History, Journal of Military History, Slavic Review
 and Slavonic and East European Review. Ilic was awarded the BASEES Women’s Forum best
 article / chapter prize in 2015 for her research on Soviet-era beauty contests.

 O’Connell’s innovative research in transatlantic blues music has provided the foundation for
 delivery of papers nationally at BAAS (Newcastle 2015, Canterbury 2017), European and British
 Association for American Studies (London, 2018), HOTCUS (Norwich 2015; Cambridge 2018;
 Liverpool 2019), Transatlantic Studies Association (Lancaster 2019), and internationally in
 Dublin (HOTCUS 2017), and Toronto, Canada (ASA 2015). In addition, O’Connell has provided
 anonymous peer review reader reports for the following publishers: University of Michigan Press,
 and Taylor and Francis, and journals: Journal of American Studies, The Public Historian, and
 Southern Cultures. O’Connell has also been invited guest speaker in Cheltenham (Historical
 Association, 2018), and Leeds (2104). O’Connell gave the Distinguished Samuel Shannon
 Lecture at Tennessee State University in 2016 and gave an invited lecture at Elon University,
 South Carolina, in 2016.

 In relation to research in early modern trauma, Peters has delivered papers nationally in
 Cheltenham, Leicester, London (LSE closed workshop on contemporary and historical post-
 conflict trauma, 2019), Nottingham, Worcester, and York; and internationally in the US at
 ASECS conferences in Denver, Los Angeles, Orlando, Pittsburgh and Williamsburg; and at
 NACBS conferences in Providence and Washington DC; further papers were delivered at
 international conferences in France and Italy. In addition, Peters served as Outer International
 Assessor for the Government of Ireland Postdoctoral Fellowship Scheme. Peters’ work on early
 modern national shame has been translated into French (Dix-septième Siècle, 275:2, 2017, 269-
 284).
                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 As a leading scholar in nineteenth century intellectual history, Randall has served as
 anonymous peer reviewer for the publisher Bloomsbury and the journal Modern Intellectual
 History.




                                                                                       Page 15
