Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds
 Unit of Assessment: 11
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  Our research ranges from fundamental advances in algorithms and models of computation,
  through to highly applied research into new display technologies for clinical diagnosis, energy-
  efficient data centres, and profound insight into data across domains. We collaborate
  extensively with industry, have many joint projects with one of Europe’s largest teaching
  hospitals(Leeds Teaching Hospitals Trust: LTHT), and have excellent connections with leading
  researchers and institutions worldwide(Figures-2/3). Our vision is to deliver sustainable, high-
  impact, long-term research excellence as demonstrated by outstanding outputs and the
  benefits which accrue to our disciplines, partners, industry, the local and wider economy, and
  society.
  Our research continues to be organised using the five REF-2014 Themes which reflect our
  distinctive approaches to computational thinking: Algorithms and Complexity(AC),
  Distributed Systems and Services(DSS), Artificial Intelligence(AI), Computational
  Science and Engineering(CSE) and a “cross-cutting” theme: Applied Computing in
  Biology, Medicine and Health(BMH). Many staff are members of several themes(Figure-1).
  We have strong interdisciplinary links across the University(UoL), including strategic
  partnerships (e.g. LIDA(Leeds Institute for Data Analytics, lida.leeds.ac.uk, REF5a). The UoA
  aligns with the School of Computing(SoC) within the newly merged Faculty of Engineering and
  Physical Sciences. While finances are devolved to SoC, much of our administration and
  support is at Faculty level.
  Research-related highlights include:
  [H1] £96M new building(§4), realising REF14 plans for new research facilities and
  environment.
  [H2] 30% journal articles in top 10% journal percentile(Scopus), greatly increased international
  collaboration (Figure-2); 1181 publications in institutional repository(322,600 downloads from
  196 countries, averaging 176/working-day).
  [H3] 2.4 best/runner-up paper awards per-annum and IEEE SciVis Test-of-Time award(§4).
  [H4] Major expansion of AI (planned in REF-14) with six new staff(Figure-1), including three
  supporting growing robotics activity in SoC/across UoL.
  [H5] CSE: commencement and subsequent renewal of EPSRC CDT (£8.34M,
  director:Jimack) on Fluid Dynamics(FD). Petriva Ltd spinout based on visualisation software
  for the petroleum industry. To support our vision, we have recruited in graphics (Kelly,
  H.Wang,+two arriving after 31/7/20) and in numerical computation (Lassila, Ranner). New
  international collaborations as subcontractor on US DOE/NNSA ECP Alpine Exascale
  Computing Project. CSE/BMH: Leeds Virtual Microscope(LVM) research led to REF3-UOA11-
  3. Qualdash software(NIHR-funded) deployed into five NHS hospitals’ paediatric intensive-
  care/cardiology units.
  [H6] DSS, appointment of two new Associate Professors(APs): Pournaras, Z.Wang). Two
  spinouts with £2M external investment: Edgetic, resulting from award-winning research in
  algorithms for efficient cloud computing; Slingshot-Simulations(digital-twin technologies), in
  collaboration with Jaguar-LandRover(JLR), EP/K014226/1.
  [H7] BMH/AI: major new focus on AI and Health/Medicine: celebrated our 60 th
  anniversary(2017) appointing a Diamond Jubilee Chair, Frangi and two supporting lecturers,
  creating a cross-faculty Centre for Computational Imaging and Simulation Technologies in
  Biomedicine(CISTIB), enhanced by Frangi’s 10-year RAEng Chair in Emerging
  Technologies(CiET)(£2.68M); £5.9M UKRI AI+Medical-Diagnosis CDT



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  (Directors:Hogg/Dimitrova); lead partner with LTHT in Northern Pathology Imaging
  Collaborative(£17M).
  [H8] AC: two new lecturers appointed(Figure-1) +1 in 2020-Q4; successful industrial trials on
  train-unit scheduling optimisation research(Kwan:EP/M007243/1), in collaboration with our
  spinout Tracsis Plc; the results are embedded in a commercial system used by >50% of UK
  train operating companies making significant savings from optimised schedules(REF3:UOA11-
  1). Publication of series of seminal papers, e.g. on (theta-wheel)-free graphs[REF2:UOA11-
  1133/4280], realising REF-14 plans to advance foundations of complexity and graph theory.
  [H9] Active membership of the Alan Turing Institute(ATI): election of three SoC Fellows: Cohn,
  Ruddle, Hogg(also on University Partners Board).




  Figure-1. Theme members/overlaps.
  Key: ECRs: underlined(6=17.5%)
         Theme leaders: emboldened.
         Professors(BULPITT & CARR promoted 10/ 2020): UPPERCASE.
         Appointments since 2014(14=40.8%): Italic.
         Text-colour indicates primary Theme membership(black=BMH).
         BMH-Theme: Grey-highlighting.
         Theme-subgroups: Dashed-ellipses.

 We have implemented and surpassed our REF2014 plans (marked below(see [H4,5,7,8] and
 Theme descriptions below), substantially enhancing our international standing, rising 37.5% from
 24.9 to 34.25FTE and increased research income(§3). Accordingly, we have produced more
 higher-impact research within Theme, inter-Theme, and in collaboration with UoL/external
 partners.
 AC-Theme
 Vision: We use techniques from graph theory, logic, and operations research to address the
 theory/complexity of algorithms, including problems in scheduling and combinatorial


                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 optimization. Our scope includes randomized and approximation algorithms, probabilistic
 algorithm analysis.
 Highlights/REF-14 plan achievement: We have embarked on exciting new directions linking
 different domains within AC (e.g. Dyer/Muller:EP/S016562/1, bringing together two previously
 distinct areas: algorithms for random generation and approximate counting, and structural graph
 theory()[REF2:UOA11-96]) and across themes, e.g. AC/DSS: Shaklevich(EP/T01461X/1)
 connected scheduling and cloud computing(and industry) building on her new exact world-
 leading algorithm for the important problem of energy optimisation in distributed systems, while
 Kwan has focussed on train scheduling[H8,REF2:UOA11-63]. Our 2020 appointment Hellmuth
 brings powerful graph theoretic algorithms to bioinformatics with evolutionary insights[REF2:
 UOA11-4115].
 Vušković gained new insights into hereditary graph classes, producing new structural results
 with important algorithmic consequences(EP/K016423/1, EP/N019660/1)[H8,REF2:UOA11-
 1131/1132/1133/4280]. Adler’s research combines logic and graph structure theory, e.g. to
 find the fastest known parametrised algorithm on planar graphs for the classical Disjoint-Paths
 Problem[REF2:UOA11-3343], and lower bounds for linkages, with applications in databases,
 machine learning, and sublinear time algorithms for querying big-data. Adler also leads a
 White-Rose funded collaboration with Sheffield/York “Foundations and Guarantees for
 Algorithms and AI”, aiming to provide new algorithms for big data sets and networks that are
 extremely fast and come with accuracy and performance guarantees. PDRA Salfelder won
 Track-A(Tree-width) of the PACE-17(Parameterized Algorithms and Computational
 Experiments) challenge.
 AI-Theme
 Vision: Six new staff[H4] support our broad vision to conduct fundamental and applied research
 spanning and integrating the modalities of language, vision, reasoning, learning, and robotics.
 Highlights/REF-14 plan achievement: We planned “to chart new territory integrating learning,
 reasoning, language, and personalisation … with insights from animal behaviour to deliver
 robust, adaptive autonomous systems”; we have made substantial progress on thise.g.:
 REF2:UOA11-4643/699/159/158/331/698/4688]. As well as continuing our fundamental research
 in and between AI modalities[e.g.:REF2:UOA11-4643], we continued to develop collaborations
 across UoL: health[H7], infrastructure engineering, Financial Technologies(Fintech)(Omidvar),
 science, environment/climate, humanities(further details below).
 The growth of AI is strongly supported by two cross-University platforms: Robotics@Leeds(§3)
 and LIDA. Our ATI membership[H9] links us into a national AI community that greatly benefits
 our staff and PGRs alike.
 Research on Decision Support Systems(D.S.S.)[REF2:UOA11-4644/4661] in the EU NetTUN
 project on Tunnelling(joint with SNCF) led to a ESWC-15 “best in-use” paper[journal version:
 REF2:UOA11-4644], and a keynote at the major tunnelling conference CTTU-20. The
 interdisciplinary Assessing-the-Underworld Project(EP/K021699/1), with major stakeholders in
 the sector (e.g. Balfour-Beatty/Costain) prototyped a D.S.S.[REF2:UOA11-4661] which has been
 well received in industry (new funding from Highways England) and runner-up best ISWC-16
 resources paper.
 Our research on robotics has grown[H4,REF2:UOA11-3269/32673268/158/4088/4487/]:
 many new grants including two Marie-Skłodowska-Curie Incoming-Fellowships(Dogar & PDRA
 Figueredo), co-investigators(Cohen/Cohn) on the £4M EPSRC National Centre for Innovative
 Robotics, and two interdisciplinary EPSRC Programme grants(£4.3M-EP/N010523/1,£7.29M-
 EP/S016813/1) on infrastructure robotics; these build on Cohen’s EPSRC Leadership
 Fellowship(EP/J004057/1) to study neural control behaviour[REF2:UOA11-1406]whose
 models are now used on robots to find cracks in roads(BeCurious-2020:
 https://youtu.be/2avPQxqMC58, attracting industrial interest) and follow-on robotics project for
 pipe/sewer inspection(EP/S016813/1).


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Six of the awards/prizes summarised in §4 reflect the quality of our robotics work, including
 those stemming from our involvement in the €8M STRANDS FP7-project focussing on long term
 autonomy in robots, where our results in activity recognition and grounding language to vision
 were an important part of this success[REF2:UOA11-4643]. We are the only UK partner in the
 €20M AI4EU platform project, where we contribute to collaborative robotics research.
 CSE-Theme
 Vision: Our two-pronged mission is to advance the analysis/implementation of fast, efficient,
 correct, and reliable numerical algorithms for physical problems, simulation, graphics, rendering,
 animation and visualisation, while embedding fundamental developments in algorithms and
 cutting-edge computational techniques within end-user driven frameworks. A key part of our
 vision has been for our graphics group to take a leading position in the UK, underpinned by
 growth[H5](and new degrees in High-Performance Graphics/Games-Engineering).
 Highlights/REF-14 plan achievement: Key pillars of our REF-14 strategy remain: extreme-
 scale computing (relying heavily on computational geometry/topology, Carr[H5,REF2:UOA11-
 2391/2390/2394/3603/3862/2392]); algorithms for modelling and simulation (especially
 computational FD); and interdisciplinary collaboration(e.g., Ranner tackling free-boundary
 problems in biologyUOA11-2951/2949,Leverhulme Fellowship(§4)]). New industry/external
 collaborations(ECP-Alpine (LANL/LBNL; UPMC-6 Paris; Kyushu/Riken, six Chinese
 Universities…) and applications within computer science and beyond, exemplified by
 collaborations with 10 Schools in our FD-CDT alone. New directions include integrating deep
 learning into computational frameworks in engineering(Jimack,doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-
 50420-5_14, new monthly seminar-series), biology/medicine(Ranner/Cohen[EP/S01540X/1],
 Frangi[RAEng:CiET £2.68M).
 Strong recruitment in both sub-groups(Figure-1)[H5] including Lassila(CISTIB, with FD
 expertise), Ranner(with fluid-structure interactions expertise), Kelly, H.Wang +2 appointments
 arriving after 31/7/20)(graphics) is bringing new opportunities in scientific computation,
 contributing to our interdisciplinary research in biology, medicine and surgical robotics (see
 BMH), and to graphics (e.g. our leading role in the development of the new University Centre for
 Immersive Technologies(CfIT; co-director:H.Wang ) as well as in the Virtuocity centre(§3). In
 2019, after 10 years as Faculty-Dean, Jimack brought renewed leadership. Ruddle was
 appointed as an ATI-Fellow and his visualisation work has led to
 commercialisation[H5,REF3:UOA11-3,REF2:UOA11-315/11-1185].
 DSS-Theme
 Vision: Our mission is to investigate large-scale systems spanning communities, organisations,
 industries, and nations bringing together computational power, big data and human knowledge
 and thus to play a leading role in designing the next generation of systems and tools for: evaluating
 the performance of cloud services; flexible software abstractions; heterogeneous hardware
 platforms; massive-scale simulation; virtual systems engineering; data centre scheduling and
 analysis.
 Highlights/REF-14 plan achievement: We achieved our 2014 plans to develop energy-efficient
 cloud data-centresREF2:UOA11-1588/1586/729/1585/1587/729/4063]: one unused ICS
 combines work in Djemame’s ASCETiC project (being exploited by ATOS Spain and HP Italy) and
 Xu’s Edgetic spinout; the TANGO project(EU:€3.1M) has taken this research forward, with the
 TANGO software toolkit, being exploited by Bull(France) and Deltatec(Belgium) and founding the
 Heterogeneous Hardware & Software Alliance(http://heterogeneityalliance.eu/). Our research into
 massive-scale distributed systems has broadened(EP/T01461X/1,£1M) with AC-
 Theme(Shaklevich), Alibaba, and Edgetic.
 We planned major innovation in advanced systems engineering, which, through partnership with
 JLR(Xu-EP/K014226/1), has been realised in the Slingshot spinout[H6].
 BMH-Theme
 Vision: BMH is a cross-cutting(Figure-1) interdisciplinary theme. Advances in computing are
 revolutionizing thinking, experimental set-ups and understanding across the life sciences as well

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as in medicine and in healthcare domains. Our vision is to position ourselves as leaders of this
 revolution, across the BMH area.
 Highlights/REF-14 plan achievement:
 BMH has seen particular success[H7]. Our 2014 plans to (i) develop systems and tools for
 biomedical data analysis[REF3:UOA11-3], (ii) deliver cutting edge computational models and
 algorithms (e.g. REF2:UOA11-3861/4623/3871/3872/3874/3873), (iii) grow collaboration across
 SoC, the NHS and industry (e.g. through CISTIB) have been dramatically exceeded: our long-
 term strong LTHT collaborations have allowed us to position ourselves at the forefront of
 computing applied to medicine/health[H7]. This investment in computational medicine, our
 leadership in LIDA(Ruddle:Research-Technology Director), growing links and leadership in the
 ATI and the new CDT[H7] will underpin our future growth.
 SoC Research Plans
 SoC's 5-year plans are to capitalize on our FTE growth, facilities/infrastructure and collaboration
 opportunities afforded by the new building’s colocation with cognate schools(§3) to grow income
 and tackle major open and societal problems in our areas of strength. We plan strategic
 investment in staff across all Themes (with 1AC, two 2CSE, 2AI/BMH faculty already
 advertised within the REF period). Through our new integrated robotics laboratory(§3) we will
 consolidate/grow our research in manipulation, bio-robotics, infrastructure applications, and
 learning. We will also embrace broader collaboration opportunities to address national/global
 challenges (in smart-cities/infrastructure, biomedicine, energy and climate change, robotics and
 fairness). We will work to deliver societal impact, e.g. through DSS research in energy efficiency,
 internet-of-things and smart-cities, robotics and AI for the built environment. Biomedicine/health
 will be a major focus, already supported by extensive funding[H7].
 We aim to strengthen and broaden our existing external collaborations(Figure-3). A major focus
 will be to build on and benefit from our membership both the ATI and LIDA. We will continue our
 collaborations in infrastructure robotics, e.g. through a new Programme Grant(EP/S016813/1)
 joint with national/international/industrial partners. Spearheading UoL’s internationalisation
 focus, we will consolidate and grow our extensive international collaborations(§4,Figure-3) with
 11 live international grants(31/7/20).
 Impact Strategy
 SoC’s impact strategy is overseen by its Research and Innovation(R&I) Committee(CRIC), and
 supported by the Faculty’s team. We have continued to build on our previous strategy and
 success, using the Business Engagement Framework(REF5a) to support:
       Partnership with end-users: Our success builds both on long-standing relationships (e.g.
        LTHT) and on identifying and developing new relationships with industry (e.g. JLR), often
        via our many CDT partners. Our engagement with end-users is very broad, ranging from:
        hospitals (e.g. REF3:UOA11-3) and cardiac modelling, and in joint AI+Medical-Diagnosis
        CDT PhD projects; the utility/street-works sectors in the Pipebots
        project(EP/S016813/1,28 non-academic partners), Assessing-the-Underworld
        project(EP/K021699/1,57 partners) and a follow-on Highways England project, while
        REF3:UOA11-2 arose from the earlier EPSRC and InnovateUK Mapping-the-Underworld
        projects); the cloud-computing sector (Flexiant, Atos, Edgetic); the transport
        sector(REF3:UOA11-1), and an EU funded collaboration with French train operator
        SNCF on a tunnel maintenance D.S.S; the defence sector (e.g. DSTL CASE
        studentship). It ranges from start-ups, Vet-AI or pinpointdatascience.com (Hogg is on
        Scientific AB), to international names(e.g.:Burberry).
       Innovation driven research: We support staff in developing applied and translational
        research through funding of professional activities, strategic appointments, and mentoring
        for Fellowships (e.g. an RAEng Enterprise Fellowship for PDRA McKee(DSS), now
        CEO/CTO of Slingshot spinout). We support an agile approach to opportunities by actively
        seeking new partnerships and new application domains. These may arise from industrial
        stakeholder engagement events, or via direct contacts from industry in particular via our


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        commercialisation arm and the new Nexus facility(see §3/REF5a), e.g. VET-AI.
       Spin-outs, licensing, other commercialisation: Our track record in developing successful
        applications, from concept to product, is underpinned by cross-disciplinary collaborations
        and end-user input and evaluation, e.g. demonstrated by three new spin-outs(Edgetic,
        Slingshot, Petriva), whilst we continue innovation with our earlier spin-out, Tracsis
        (REF3:UOA11-1). REF3:UOA11-3 arose from licensing of BMH/CSE research on the
        LVM. REF3:UOA11-2 stems from EPSRC/TSB/InnovateUK funded spatial data integration
        research leading to licensed adoption by the Scottish Road-Works Commissioner. We
        support knowledge transfer through memberships in external advisory-boards (e.g.
        Geospatial Commission NUAR: REF3:UOA11-2). We provide excellent training for a
        career in industry, with many now leading labs (e.g. PGR Alomari: Rolls-Royce).
       Impact through outreach/dissemination: We disseminate tools and research capabilities to
        the public, potential end-users, industry/government organisations, through publications,
        open-source software(§4) and licensing. See §4 for outreach activities.
 Institutional facilities, expertise and resources support our impact strategy at every stage of the
 above pipeline. UoL’s R&I Service provides a route for staff to undertake specific consultancy
 projects, with a share of the income made available to staff for funding personal development.
 UoL invested heavily in the Leeds Innovation Centre and its reincarnation as Nexus (£40M, see
 REF5a/§3); our Tracsis and Slingshot spinouts have offices in Nexus, and we collaborate with two
 other Nexus-companies: KTP with VET-AI exploiting our computer vision expertise; Scaled
 Insights who employed PGR Piotrkowicz. A Faculty-wide Innovation Hub serves as the point of
 contact for industry (offering business support, liaison services, knowledge transfer facilitation),
 and provides internal enterprise and organisational support for staff to apply their research and
 collaborate with industry. Successful applications to UoL’s EPSRC Impact Acceleration Account
 have underpinned several of our impact activities(Petriva, REF3:UOA11-3, Edgetic, Slingshot,
 D.S.S. for streetworks).
 Developing our strategy for impact: a culture in which staff view outreach, translation, and
 knowledge transfer as integral to research informs the strategic activities described above, our
 research and our training of future researchers. Support for the translation of our research through
 licensing and commercialisation activities involves a range of mechanisms and processes, from
 preliminary proof-of-concept funds, to advanced seed-corn funds, specialist input, business advice
 and more. We reward staff for their achievements through promotion(§2). Staff are encouraged to
 take courses on impact generation offered by the Organisational Development and Professional
 Learning(OD&PL) unit. Our Industrial Advisory Board helps inform and develop our strategy.
 Promoting a culture of innovation and collaboration: We encourage staff/PGRs to take an active
 part in activities/networks that focus efforts around real-world problems and grand challenges. To
 grow the already substantial body of user-driven research, we run networking activities, including
 joint workshops with users, and mentoring, e.g. through alumni, UoL designated Business-
 Development Managers (one per priority area) provide dedicated support.
 Focussed investment: We identified strategic priority areas – aligned with national/international
 challenges and EPSRC priorities – in which we have invested (via sabbaticals, appointments, large
 equipment(§3). These helped inform UoL priority areas for innovation (Stratified Medicine, Medical
 Technologies, Digital Technologies, Robotics, AI) that are earmarked for strategic investment. We
 will continue to incentivise impact generation (e.g. through reduced workload-allocation, seed-corn
 funding).
 Impact Case Studies: REF3:UOA11-1 extends a 2014-ICS, Tracsis, which featured in the
 UKCRC/CPHC brochure on REF-2014 ICS, and is an AIM-listed spinout from the AC-theme,
 including both a spinout and licensed software as delivery mechanisms. The other two ICS rely
 primarily on software licensing:REF3:UOA11-3 arises out of BMH/CSE research, and
 REF3:UOA11-2 from AI – thus our three ICS arise from four themes, demonstrating the breadth
 of our approach to impact. Future ICS are already developing well in anticipation of the next REF,
 e.g. based on our Edgetic, Slingshot(both DSS) and Petriva(BMH) spinouts.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
    Support of interdisciplinary research is a central pillar of SoC’s strategy(~30% REF-2 flagged
    interdisciplinary). We have already noted our commitment to LIDA and both of our CDTs are highly
    interdisciplinary: all new students have a second supervisor (in Medicine for the AI+Medical-
    Diagnosis CDT and across 10 other Schools for the FD-CDT). The Theme descriptions give
    examples of interdisciplinary strengths. During the REF period 62% of our PhDs have been joint
    with another School, actively directing studentships to facilitate this. We have encouraged and
    targeted interdisciplinary funding sources, having received funding from all 10 UKRI councils as
    well as the NIHR, Nuffield, Welcome, CRUK, Kidney Research UK, LTHT, MOD, British-Academy,
    Royal-Society and RAEng. We appointed Frangi 60%-40% with Medicine to help grow our health
    research, as well as seconding Dimitrova 50% for two years. Ruddle is 20% seconded to LIDA.
    We have invested in facilities (e.g. “Wormery”(§3) which has facilitated interdisciplinary research
    with biology/physics(e.g. https://doi.org/10.1007/s10404-020-02362-2). Our advertising for new
    faculty explicitly states interdisciplinary research as a desirable attribute.
    In Fintech, we are a key contributor to UoL’s strategic focus in this sector, bringing us together
    with researchers in Business, Mathematics, Law and Applied Ethics. There is growing
    collaboration with organisations such as Barclays and Ernst&Young, centred on the
    transformative potential for AI within financial services, supported by Visiting Professors1. We
    created a new 50%-50% UAF2 position with the Business School(Omidvar, winner of EEE CEC-
    2019 large-scale global optimization competition) to help grow this area.
    In Science, Engineering and Humanities research, we are exploring the potential for machine
    learning across all disciplines. The momentum behind the adoption of AI across Leeds has
    resulted in new research collaborations, projects, and proposals in many areas, including
    Mechanical Engineering, Geophysics, Atmospheric Sciences, Psychology, Medicine,
    Philosophy, Transport Studies and Geography. In the Digital Humanities, Stell co-led an AHRC
    network(AH/R006482/1) Space and Narrative in the Digital Humanities, joint with History at
    Lancaster and the POLIS centre(Indianapolis), exploring how Qualitative Spatial
    Representations (a research area SoC co-founded), can be used to help analyse texts where
    spatial information is vague/imprecise/missing/ambiguous.
    There are regular joint seminars with other Schools/Centres/Institutes (e.g. LIDA, Maths,
    Languages Cultures and Societies, robotics). SoC actively participates in/co-leads a variety of
    joint Centres, e.g. Robotics@Leeds (robotics.leeds.ac.uk), Virtuocity
    (https://lida.leeds.ac.uk/research-projects/virtuocity/), LIDA, CfIT. External interdisciplinary
    collaborations are common, see examples above.
    Progress towards an Open research environment
    SoC adopted a robust approach to open research in 3/2014, following the REF-2021 Open-
    Access(OA) policy announcement. Going beyond these requirements, from this date authors
    were required to deposit all outcomes (not just anticipated “REF papers”), ahead of the
    mandatory deadline. Quarterly monitoring facilitates compliance, with one-to-one support
    available.
    This approach has led to >90% of papers published since 3/2014 deposited in our Institutional
    Repository(total:1161 up from 260 on 31/7/13), with >322,600 downloads(from 196 countries)
    from the repository, i.e. >126/day. All REF-submitted outputs, and published while an author was
    employed at Leeds, are available openly except where a publisher’s policy intervenes. We have
    made 134 articles available via Gold-access, and 98 Bronze-access.
    SoC had 219 PhD theses in the White Rose repository on 31/7/2020(81% increase
    since1/1/2014) with >129,000 downloads(~1760/working-day).


1
  Chris Sier: Fintech Envoy for HM Treasury/Chairman of Fintech North. Adam Beaumont, CEO of
telecommunications provider aql, Visiting Professor of cyber security@UoL. Matthew Gould: CEO
for NHSX, Government Director-General for Digital and Media Policy until 2019.
2
  University Academic Fellow – see REF5a.
                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoL implemented its Research Data Management Policy in 2017 though many SoC researchers
 had already been sharing data and code, thus complying with funder policies and ensuring it can
 be shared, reused and cited beyond the project end. Data is archived either in the Institutional
 Data Repository, with DOIs(26 datasets in period, with 2178 page-views and 1373 downloads
 since analytics started on 1/1/2019) or elsewhere. Open repositories of code are the norm.
 ORCiDs are required for all, ensuring our work is clearly identified by individual/organisation.
 Research Integrity:
 We uphold the principles in the concordat to support research integrity, which are embedded in
 staff inductions, and reinforced/refreshed through staff meetings, CRIC, and in SRDS/AAM(§2).
 Principles in the EPSRC’s Framework for Responsible Innovation are taught to PGRs and
 embedded into training programmes associated with large projects. Our academics play a
 leading role in promoting ethical innovation(e.g. Pournaras leads the White-Rose project Socially
 Responsible AI for Distributed Autonomous Systems).
 Staff with managerial responsibilities undertake appropriate training led by the OD&PL unit,
 and must follow UoL’s leadership excellence behaviours(REF5a).
 Our formal OA and Research Data Management policies support transparency in the open
 sharing of research results and research data, which themselves comply with the requirements
 of major research funders and best practice.
 A Faculty ethics committee provides guidance, audits compliance, and appraises proposals with
 significant ethical dimensions. Research grants/contracts make a risk review declaration before
 submission, including ethics appraisal, safety, data management, anti-bribery, export control
 legislation, and potential conflicts of interest. For PGRs this forms part of their annual review.
 We uphold professional standards by encouraging (and financially supporting) obtaining and
 maintaining professional membership and CEng/CITP/Fellow status(§4).
 2. People
 Investment in individuals and supporting activities is an essential part of delivering our vision.
 Early in the period we developed a plan for significant growth to encompass staff at all levels.
 Of the staff returned, 14FTE are new(40.8%): 11 Lecturer/UAF, 2 AP, and the
 Diamond Jubilee chair[H7](dowry £111.4K + 2xLecturer + 3PGR). Following our 2014 plans,
 we identified key areas to bid for University-supported UAFs to: Robotics(Dogar, Huang),
 DSS(Townend), and in 9/2019, FinTech/AI(Omidvar); Dogar and Townend’s research
 progressed so well that Dogar passed probation 2 years early, while Townend became CTO
 of our Edgetic spinout. We supported Leng in her successful bid for an EPSRC Research
 Software Engineer(RSE) Fellowship, Ranner for his Leverhulme Fellowship and both Marie-
 Skłodowska-Curie Fellows(§4). To protect our research (that helps draw students to Leeds),
 we also made two strategic appointments of new lecturers to support our large educational
 offer and growing class sizes.
 Recruitment always aims to recruit the very best we can, from broad backgrounds, across
 areas where possible, and re-advertising if necessary. Targeted recruitment (into specific
 areas) takes into account critical mass and strategic objectives; e.g. following Lau’s
 retirement and Townend’s move to Edgetic, we advertised specifically to recruit into DSS[H6].
 Other strategic appointments during the REF period to strengthen our existing research
 themes are: CSE in graphics (H.Wang, Kelly) scientific computation(Ranner); AC(Adler,
 Hellmuth); AI(Leonetti, Dogar, Huang). All academic staff are appointed to open-ended
 contracts.
 We implement the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, in line with
 UoL’s Employment Policy(REF5a). We support career development through: an Annual
 Academic Meeting(AAM) and access to funded staff development. AAMs identify academic
 and developmental needs, mechanisms for support and opportunities to adjust workload, e.g.
 increasing buy-out to provide time to lead a substantial research/admin activity. In addition,
 longer-term career plans, promotion and development are reviewed in individual annual Staff

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Review and Development meetings(SRDS). Outside of annual meetings, regular reviews with
 mentors and SoC’s Director of R&I(DoRI) allow staff to discuss research progress and plans.
 Heads of Research Theme support staff both individually and in Theme meetings and “away
 days”.
 Promotions are by self-application, with no University-imposed financial constraints; all staff
 are encouraged to apply for promotion and are mentored individually and at Faculty
 workshops which include previously successful SoC applicants. Seven staff have achieved
 professorial promotions(bringing our female professoriate to 21%, and two disabled), and four
 to AP. Senior staff annually consider recommendations for accelerated and discretionary
 increments as well as those from self-application.
 Support for ECRs, including PDRAs
 Themes aim to provide a critical mass of staff and shared research infrastructure that delivers
 support that particularly benefits individuals at the start of their careers and helps them integrate
 into the research culture. They provide: a forum for interaction between staff at different career
 stages; researcher collaboration; support for grant and fellowship applications including peer
 review. Seminar series, at Theme and School level, delivered by national and international
 speakers (continued remotely during Covid-19), cover a wide range of contemporary topics and
 help staff/PGRs develop contacts.
 Individuals at the start of their careers are helped with reduced teaching/administration duties
 (UAFs normally have no modules until year 4) and receive a customised start-up package
 including travel & at least one studentship. The package may include capital support(§3). We
 attract, support and retain researchers by providing: dedicated research labs with specialised
 equipment, particularly for Robotics and Graphics/Visualisation; ongoing contributions to their
 staff account coming from an allocated percentage of the gross amount of research income;
 funding for attendance at conferences and visiting academic/industrial partners as required; and,
 support/funding in patenting and commercialising research.
 Every ECR (including PDRAs) has a probationary supervisor, and separate mentor. Theme
 leaders take an active role in mentoring and supporting ECRs and PGRs. The annual
 AAM/SRDS identify and agree needs, goals, support, and methods to achieve ambitions for all
 staff, but are particularly valuable to ECRs, as are the probation meetings for new recruits. ECRs
 particularly benefit from UoL’s training and development opportunities led by the OD&PL,
 Research & Innovation Service (RIS) and the Library, and include targeted support for
 grant/fellowship applications, interview practice, and research impact. ECR networks provide
 opportunities to share experience/best practice, and to have a combined voice. We have had
 continuous ECR representation on: Robotics@Leeds Executive Committee(Dogar, Leonetti);
 CfIT(H.Wang); CRIC and the Faculty R&I Committee include an ECR. Two SoC PDRAs are on
 the Faculty Equality and Inclusion(E&I) committee.
 We develop individual career paths for our PDRAs through regular academic/pastoral
 meetings, and via training/development activities. University, Faculty and School
 international mobility funds, introduced in 2019, allow PDRAs/ECRs to apply
 independently to attend conferences and for collaborative visits. They are encouraged
 to take responsibility for various aspects of our research environment (e.g. helping to
 manage lab facilities; organisation of seminars, student mentoring, helping to write
 grant proposals, as well as teaching). We encourage and support PDRAs to obtain
 their own grants/fellowships (e.g. McKee: RAEng Entrepreneurship Fellowship;
 Figueredo: Marie-Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship). Our PDRAs predominantly go onto
 further PDRA positions, Tenure-track academic positions, or industrial research
 labs(e.g. Garraghan: Lecturer@Lancaster; Clement: Technical lead of Edgetic).
 PDRAs are supported by their academic mentor/probation advisor and HoS to achieve their
 academic targets and develop independence. Support in applying for, and securing, fellowships
 is provided (see above), and we mentor PDRAs to be named as a researcher co-investigator on
 applications(e.g. McInerney on NIHR129483). We organise specific events e.g. a 1-day White-


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rose" Symposium for early career researchers", including discussion on how to shape your
 research and 1-1 mentoring academic-PGR/PDRA.
 A formal HR meeting six months before the end of each PDRA’s contract explores future
 opportunities (including priority for positions in UoL via the redeployment register), and to give
 the candidate good notice. Bridging funding is available when appropriate.
 This support and integration is evidenced by ECR retention: only two tenure-track ECRs have
 resigned since 1/1/14: Townend to co-found the Edgetic spinout, and Shao who returned to his
 native country for personal reasons.
 Sabbatical policy
 Our sabbatical policy is intended to support research and provide the seed for larger,
 longer-term collaborations with major impact. E.g. Carr's 2015 sabbatical at Los
 Alamos(LANL) and Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories (LBNL), which not only
 supported an existing collaboration with LBNL, but also sparked Carr's involvement in the
 US Exascale Computing Project(ECP-Alpine), including developing and delivering nearly
 10% of the next-generation vtk-m visualisation toolkit(REF2:UOA11-2391), and already
 running on Summit (the world’s #2 supercomputer).
 Applications can be flexible (e.g. whole year vs one semester; or specific teaching/admin
 duties relief). Moreover, our workload model aims to keep teaching loads low for research
 active staff, normally 2x10/15 credit modules per-annum, with relief for major administrative
 duties, and 5% for service activities. All applications are considered equally, according to
 the same criteria (benefit for the individual and SoC), irrespective of contract status. We try
 to take account of staff preferences in the timetable regarding scheduling their teaching so
 as to maximise effective research time (e.g. all teaching in one semester, or on particular
 days of the week, or to teach our short block 2 week modules in our joint School in
 China(REF5a)).
 Stimulating and facilitating exchanges with industry etc.
 SoC encourages links and an active dialogue between staff and third-party organisations,
 including industry, and the health sector. We have Visiting Professors (e.g. Davies from
 BAES and footnote-1) and RFs from industry who interact with staff and give seminars. We
 supported PDRA McKee to gain an RAEng Entrepreneurship Fellowship who has
 subsequently helped spin out a company (Slingshot Simulation, joint with Xu). We have
 actively sought to recruit staff with industrial experience (e.g. H.Wang from Disney Labs in
 Los Angles, Kelly(Strobee startup and ESRI). We aim to maintain contact with staff who
 have moved on to the industrial sector, e.g. by inviting them back for one-off
 events/appointing them to our industrial advisory board. Most of our research grants have
 at least one industrial/third sector partner and these provide very useful two-way
 exchanges. We actively seek to co-create research grant proposals with industry(e.g.
 EP/N010523/1, EP/R031193/1, EP/S016813/1, EP/T01461X/1).
 Supporting Impact generation and rewarding staff
 We reward staff for their achievements: through promotion for innovation and impact(Ruddle,
 Kwan promoted to Professor), allocated workload (e.g. Cohn, Kwan, Ruddle, Xu), sabbaticals
 and salary increments. The Faculty’s R&I Service offers staff tailored advice and help with
 impact, from initial proposals, through to negotiating contracts, NDAs and attracting VC: indeed
 impact such as Petriva, Slingshot and Edgetic would not have come to fruition without this. The
 AAM discusses opportunities for impact development and what School resources would help in
 achieving this. SRDS meetings discuss aims in impact development and how they can be
 supported.
 PGRs
 Our PGR numbers have nearly quadrupled: at 31/7/20 there were 210 PGRs(129.21FTE), up
 from 45(32.95FTE) registered on 31/7/13, with 51.5% female registrations over the period). As
 the CDT cohorts finish, this will yield greatly increased graduations.


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR recruitment is administered by the Faculty Graduate Office, which ensures a consistent
 process and fair assessment of applications. We host open-days and recruitment events staffed
 by existing PGRs, and advertise on e.g. www.findaphd.com, subject specific email lists, and
 through alumni networks. Prospective PGRs are invited to see facilities and discuss aspirations,
 and candidates are interviewed by a panel including at least one independent.
 For each of our CDTs, we offer places to those who demonstrate the strongest aptitude and
 enthusiasm for the CDT approach: the desire to engage actively as part of the cohort, and a
 commitment to the professional development components of the programme. Where applicants
 are similar in terms of aptitude and enthusiasm, a secondary consideration comes is to ensure a
 balanced cohort in terms of academic background and diversity. In the FD-CDT, a twin-track
 process recruits 30% to work specifically with an external partner, with the rest on an open-track
 will later choose their projects from those proposed by academics, or industry-sponsored.
 Successful candidates are supported with the registration process, and for international
 applicants, with visa procedures. Many PGRs are recruited from our undergraduate/MSc base,
 encouraged by our policy to embed project work in research laboratories and to provide
 competitive 8-week (or longer) summer laboratory placements (School funded, or via the
 EPSRC vacation bursary), though most are externally recruited from around the world, based on
 excellence.
 Our students are supported by a number of funding sources: (i) CDTs (ii) EPSRC DTP/DTG
 scholarships. (iii) other grants, e.g. EU projects. (iv) Case-Studentships(e.g. DSTL). (v)
 Overseas governments(37 in period). (vi) A School Scholarship fund (24 full and 8 partial
 studentships, £2.2M over the period). (vii) UoL scholarships(11). (viii) HDRUK MRes
 Programme(6 studentships). (ix) Studentships from other funders (e.g. NERC, ESRC, MRC,
 BBSRC, NC3R). SoC-controlled Studentships are used to: support PGR training in core
 research areas and areas that we aim to grow, as well as: complementing EPSRC
 Programme/Prosperity Partnership/Platform grants; supporting newly-appointed staff and in
 particular ECRs and, co-funding studentships with industry and international scholarship
 schemes. The availability of external funding does not affect our quality decisions on whether to
 make an academic offer to a student or not. PGR recruitment is managed by a PGR recruitment
 tutor, overseen by the DoRI. Students are supported to attend conferences, workshops and
 summer-schools (£120.6k from SoC + funds from CDTs and research grants).
 Monitoring and support mechanisms for PGRs
 New PGRs have a second supervisor to provide extra support and stability. There is a
 developmental review after four months, with formal transfer from provisional to full registration
 by month 11. Developmental reviews follow in subsequent years. All supervisors check and
 provide feedback on mandatory recording of supervision meetings on the GRAD system (also
 checked by the PGR tutor/Graduate Office). Students agree a training plan within their first three
 months, which is then monitored. For those PGRs only having three years of scholarship, SoC
 will normally provide at least a further 6 months of funding, subject to satisfactory progress. We
 encourage PGRs to contribute to our teaching programme (for payment) and to register for
 Associate HEA Membership. Staff new to supervision attend a University training course and
 receive mentorship from a senior co-supervisor.
 A student having problems can see their supervisors, other Theme members, PGR tutor or DoRI
 for help (with extra support/flexibility available since Covid-19). This may be supplemented by
 procedural advice from the faculty administrative team. The Leeds Doctoral College brings
 together the support services available, including Faculty graduate schools, training, the Library,
 the Language Centre, IT, the Students' Union, research showcases, and talks on mental health,
 well-being and career development.
 PGRs are fully integrated into the life of the School and are treated as staff for most purposes.
 PGRs are represented on CRIC, and play a leading role in the PGR forum which manages day-
 to-day PGR matters. Monthly Forum meetings discuss PGR procedures, disseminate
 information about changes in procedures or policies and identify problems. The forums are often
 followed by SoC-sponsored social events. PGRs can ask for a subsidy for any other events that

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 they want to organise among themselves.
 Students are expected to attend the main seminars of their research group and to give
 Theme/School seminars during their PhD, with feedback from peers/staff. An annual PGR
 symposium is organised by the PGRs themselves with guidance from the PGR tutor. PGRs are
 encouraged to participate in Faculty/University PGR events, and have won prizes at these.
 UoL conducts biennial postgraduate experience surveys(PRES). SoC has averaged 91%
 agreement to the question “Overall, I am satisfied with the experience of my research degree
 programme” in the REF period. PGR destinations are principally further academic positions and
 industrial research labs. PGR Chew, now PDRA at CMU) obtained an EPSRC prize Scholarship.
 Equality and Inclusion/Diversity(E&I)
 We follow and play a leading role in formulating UoL’s E&I framework (Dimitrova is Faculty E&I
 lead) ensuring that colleagues are treated dignity and respect, opportunities are open to all, and
 everyone enjoys a safe, supportive and welcoming environment. We use Athena SWAN as a
 catalyst to develop and deliver a sustained E&I agenda targeting protected characteristics,
 supported by a diverse E&I action group(PGR+6 staff). The Engineering Faculty (including SoC)
 earned Silver (2015 and 2019, the latter led by Dimitrova). SoC’s E&I lead(Cohen) sits on the
 School Management Team, and E&I is a standard item on SoC committees. We run regular
 themed activities (Ada Lovelace, Black History Month, disability related to embed diversity and
 E&I values into our culture and research (e.g. fairness in AI themed panel for the latest Black
 History Month event), and participation in EPSRC Inclusion Matters
 Project(https://northernpowerinclusion.org/). We consider E&I when nominating speakers for
 seminars/colloquia, awards/prizes, internships, and fellowships.
 We aim to ensure that our recruitment and promotion is unbiased, and special circumstances
 are taking into consideration (e.g. career break, disability) with, e.g. compulsory E&I training for
 interview and promotion panel members, and a gender balance on panels. Our staff originate
 from 17 different countries/5 continents. Career breaks are explicitly accounted for in
 promotions, and promotion criteria have been updated in this period to include recognition of
 outreach, E&I activities, and mentoring/supporting colleagues. Promotion workshops were held
 to encourage staff from diverse backgrounds, inviting role models who provide mentoring and
 peer support. Our online Staff Footsteps booklet offers inspirational stories by people from
 under-represented groups and different career stages.
 We enable flexible working to support staff with caring responsibilities or ill health, including
 ‘keeping in touch’ days, working from home (even before Covid-19), or via a longer-term
 contractual change. We provide support to those returning from a significant period of leave
 (maternity/parental, illness), and for those with caring responsibilities, including financial support
 to attend conferences/training courses, priority for PhD studentships, and reduced teaching
 workload. Our Faculty review on how Covid-19 could impact staff fed into UoL’s HR policies
 review.
 We work closely with OD&PL regarding the Researcher Concordat(REF5a) and helped pioneer
 the establishment of an ECR Faculty forum. The Faculty developed the Career Architect scheme
 to support PDRA career development into both academia and industry; this is now adopted
 across UoL. The Women Rising programme (initially funded by EPSRC, now by the Faculty)
 supports ECRs and covers a range of academic skills, e.g. grant/fellowship writing, networking,
 presentation, and tackling lack of confidence and ‘imposter syndrome’; these programmes target
 researchers who are most likely to be on fixed-term contracts. The Aurora scheme is an
 important national leadership development vehicle for mid-career women in STEM. Our
 redeployment scheme is equally effective for women and men.
 We organise staff support groups around protected characteristics, offering opportunities for
 networking and peer support, and our Breaking Boundaries in STEM events (e.g. our annual
 LGBT+ Research Day, Ada Lovelace day, Black History Month, UK Disability History Month)
 provide vehicles to promote, and discuss issues affecting such groups and include role models
 from academia and industry. Our Mutual Respect campaign addresses harassment and


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inappropriate behaviour. Wellbeing workshops on resilience and mindfulness, organised for our
 faculties and open to all, are delivered by UoL’s counselling team.
 The Faculty aspires to be a regional hub for inclusive R&I. As part of the EPSRC inclusion
 project ‘Northern Power’, we lead activities to attract, grow and retain researchers from
 underrepresented groups in the North. Our joint activities with industry, e.g. ‘Building Equality’
 and Leeds LGBT+ Pride, panel on visibility and BAME with representatives from KPMG and
 NAG, challenge societal perceptions of diversity in engineering and provide role models. A
 strategic STEM outreach approach is developed, targeting of students from underrepresented
 groups (e.g. BAME, LPN, GRT, BTEC, Care-leavers) from our partner schools and colleges. Our
 research staff and students engage in school days, campus visits, summer schools, and public
 outreach events (e.g. ‘Be Curious’, Leeds Digital Festival) to help encourage interest in STEM.
 We are expanding geographical reach of STEM engagement with schools across the country via
 digital activities and resources.
 E&I with regard to the REF submission
 The Unit’s REF preparations, and those involved in the preparation of this submission, have
 been undertaken in accordance with UoL’s REF2021 Code of Practice. All staff undertake E&I
 training, and all individuals involved in the REF2021 decision making process are required to
 undertake additional training. Equality impact assessments were undertaken to ensure due
 regard to equality issues occurred throughout the REF submission process and final decisions
 were made with a multi-gender team including the E&I lead. These have allowed us to:
 understand the representation of the eligible and submitted staff against our staff profile;
 understand how the selection of outputs for submission represent the diversity of staff; and,
 identify where progress on diversity issues is needed so that this can be strengthened in the
 delivery of the Unit’s and UoL’s R&I strategy.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The School has increased its research income in the current REF period compared to the
 previous period: 81.25% total increase, and 29.46% increase of the yearly average income. We
 have obtained funding from all 10 UKRI councils as well as the NIHR, Nuffield, Welcome,
 Leverhulme, NC3R, CRUK, Kidney Research UK, LTHT, MOD, British-Academy, Royal-Society
 and RAEng.
 Highlights of our income include:
    - RAEng Chair in Emerging Technology £2.7m(Frangi)
    - Co-investigators in new Programme/Grand-Challenge Grants totalling £11.5m
    - Participation in 17 new EU grants totalling £6.34m for Leeds.
    - Northern Pathology Imaging Collaborative(£17M) plus CDTs(£14.24M) [not REF-able
        income]

 Acquiring research funding is a key strategic objective and is supported and monitored by CRIC
 and the Faculty’s R&I Committee. Staff are individually supported by peer mentoring, Theme
 meetings/activities, and AAM/SRDS discussions. The DoRI and their deputy provide support and
 advice, and flag up funding opportunities. Candidates for competitive research fellowships at all
 levels are identified and mentored by SoC and Faculty. Practice interviews help prepare
 candidates for formal interviews. SoC provides matched funding to support research grant
 applications, from PGR studentships, teaching relief, equipment purchase/maintenance to
 support posts and additional travel budgets. As a result, 93% of submitted staff have Leeds-
 reported research income in Leeds (5 recent arrivals after June 2019, and two ECRs excepted).
 Staff receive a percentage of the project budget into their staff fund to support their research
 (total expenditure: £318.5k) giving freedom to undertake ad-hoc and seed-corn/proof-of-concept
 activities easily.
 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Within SoC, the Theme Leaders and DoRI facilitate, encourage and support research and
 impact, strategically and day-to-day. SoC participates in, and helps lead a number of cross-
 faculty/interdisciplinary structures which facilitate our research: (1) Robotics@Leeds

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (robotics.leeds.ac.uk) – which brings together all robotics research across UoL, has regular
 seminars, and houses the EPSRC National Facility for Innovative Robotic Systems(Co-Is
 Cohen/Cohn) with specialist machinery for constructing purpose-built robots. (2) Virtuocity
 (uolds.leeds.ac.uk/facility/Virtuocity) which aims to help communities and businesses to design
 the city of the future (see below), which is part of CfIT, an interdisciplinary collaboration which
 works with partners from the public and private sectors to drive innovation, using virtual and
 augmented reality. (3) The Leeds Institute for Fluid Dynamics. (4) LIDA through which are
 membership and activities in the ATI are channelled. LIDA opened in 2015, occupies 1583m 2,
 and provides Safe Rooms for research with identifiable personal data, NHS DSPT/ISO27001 IT
 infrastructure for research with identifiable and pseudonymised personal data, and a
 multidisciplinary research environment for 156 people. UoL has made ongoing investments
 totalling £2.9m to make LIDA’s facilities free at the point of use, with SoC participating in £10.5M
 externally funded interdisciplinary projects. SoC is LIDA’s third largest inhabitant, including our
 AI+Medical-Diagnosis CDT students who benefit from the proximity to the many other LIDA
 health researchers.
 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 A £96M investment to construct the Sir William Henry Bragg Building (delayed by Covid-19)
 completed in 2021 Q1 to house SoC and Physics, as well as a faculty-wide Integrated Robotics
 Lab which will help foster interdisciplinary robotics research; this will contain the School’s
 existing robots (see below) as well as two Frank arms for Huang(£33k) and two Da-Vinci
 surgical robots, and a number of rehabilitation robotic devices. It contains purpose designed and
 built laboratories for each of our research activities. This facility will provide, for the first time in
 SoC’s history, a building designed to meet all our needs, and will provide a step change in our
 research environment and ability to conduct leading edge research. It will integrate us much
 more closely into the newly constituted Faculty of Physical Sciences and Engineering (all eight
 Schools except Maths now being co-located.
 SoC has made substantial investments in infrastructure and equipment. A new robotics lab was
 created(2015), now housing a Baxter(~£30k), a TiaGo(~£50k for Leonetti), a UR5 arm on a
 Clearpath omnidirectional base, with motion-capture infrastructure(£129.3k for Dogar), a Scitos
 A5, servers, as well as a fleet of Turtlebots for student research projects. A new AI research lab
 has been created to house our growing community of AI PGRs and PDRAs. A motion capture
 system lab(£178.4k) to support H.Wang’s research was constructed. The “Wormery” supporting
 Cohen’s C.elegans research has seen >£40k new equipment. Laboratory refurbishment
 (excluding the new building) has totalled £101,500.
 Staff and PGRs have: modern twin display desktops, supported by servers in the lab and GPU
 compute clusters as necessary; free access to UoL’s regularly updated HPC facilities, including
 GPU clusters(arc.leeds.ac.uk). Support and training is available for use of these facilities,
 including a team of RSEs, directed by UoL’s Research IT manager, with one (EPSRC-Fellow
 Leng) embedded within SoC, as well as two further project-funded RSEs. Day-to-day IT support
 is provided by central IT, usually by staff embedded within the building.
 E&I Issues
 RIS provide active support including training, networking, financial/contracts support, assistance
 with impact plans and coordination of large proposals. Recent Faculty training workshops
 involved 40% female attendees. Researchers are encouraged and supported in applying for
 research grants. Unsuccessful applicants are offered additional mentoring. Positive impact of our
 research grant application support is evidenced with female successes: similar % male and
 female awarded grants, women associated with 24% of the total value of funding in Faculty
 (despite the eligible pool of females who could be named on a grant application being between
 17.3%-20.1%); women are more likely to bring in funding as Principal Investigator.
 Researchers are supported in preparing successful grant applications by their Themes, SoC, the
 Faculty Research and Innovation Committee, and by RIS. We enable flexible working to support
 staff with caring responsibilities or ill health, including working from home(even before Covid-19),
 to enable research grant preparation inter alia. We support those returning from a significant
 period of leave (maternity/parental/illness), and for those with caring responsibilities, via a

                                                                                                  Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reduced teaching workload and financial support to visit collaborators or attend
 conferences/workshops, as well as funding for an accompanying partner, and via priority for PhD
 studentships to help pump-prime research proposals. Offices and laboratories are adapted for
 those using wheelchairs or with other specialist needs(£131k in period).
 Use of infrastructure, facilities and expertise in relation to impact activities
 SoC/LIDA/UoL computational and other facilities are available to staff to engage in impact
 activities, and we may second staff out to industry (e.g. Kwan to Tracsis). PDRA McKee was
 mentored for RAEng Entrepreneurship fellowship leading to the Slingshot spinout. PDRA
 Garraghan developed new test cases for evaluating fault-tolerance of production computing
 systems for Alibaba Group. RIS and Nexus provide ongoing support and facilities in this
 regard(REF5a).
 Specialist infrastructure
 Already mentioned above is the extensive investment in LIDA (£2.9m); additionally UoL has
 committed £1.2m to design and implement a new cloud-based NHS DSPT/ISO27001-accredited
 platform for the coming decade. UoL has invested heavily in its ARC HPC mentioned above, in
 accordance with a longstanding strategy of biennial hardware upgrades (most recently £2M in
 2019) and maintaining a specialist support team. Since 2019 this has been supplemented
 through recruitment of a new RSE team. Together these support research throughout this Unit,
 including FD, and in particular, AI. Since joining the ATI, we have been making use of their HPC
 facilities and the N8 HPC facilities, based at Leeds until 2018. Hogg is also co-I on
 Jade2(EP/T022205/1), providing another source of HPC.
 We setup a cloud computing testbed (16-node cluster, £60k) to support our research on Quality
 of Service in cloud virtualised infrastructures which has seen heavy use since then, including in
 our research-led teaching in the area.
 Virtuocity is a UoL unique, immersive, human-in-the-loop simulation and visualization
 facility(£2M+) for city simulation and co-design powered by academic models and industry
 software, comprising three simulation laboratories: Driving Simulator; Truck-SIM; HIKER(Highly
 Immersive Kinematic Experimental Research laboratory), the world’s largest 4K resolution
 ‘CAVE-based’ pedestrian simulation environment including the UK’s only Omnifinity Deck, one
 of the most advanced omnidirectional treadmills in the world, to run experiments that allow
 participants to explore large-scale virtual environments(EP/R008833/1, CoIs: Hogg, Ruddle).
 Experiments can look at the impacts of a wide range of human factors including age, vision and
 mobility, e.g. in https://vericav-project.co.uk(InnovateUK).
 The EPSRC co-funded National Centre for Innovative Robotics based at Leeds(£4M,CoIs:
 Cohen/Cohn) provides many specialist facilities, including advanced manufacturing/tooling
 (https://robotics.leeds.ac.uk/facilities/manufacturing-assets/), e.g. an Objet1000 Multi-Material
 3D Printer (Stratasys) (0.4m3 build area) which can combine multiple build materials from soft
 silicone-like elastomers to rigid nylon-like plastics. We have used these facilities in a range of
 robotics projects in SoC, as well as in our C.elegans Wormery.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Arrangements and support for research collaborations,
 SoC, Faculty and UoL strongly support collaborative research, both internally, and externally,
 whether with other academic institutions, both at home and abroad. E.g. Frangi and Omidvar are
 joint appointments (Medicine, Business respectively) and Taylor in Mechanical Engineering
 joined UoL as part of Frangi’s team and has a SoC office. Most of our projects are collaborative.
 We support large collaborative grants with SoC-funded studentships(e.g. EP/S016813/1).
 Examples of international collaboration include Vuskovic’s with Princeton and ENS Lyon, Carr’s
 with the OE/NNSA ECP Exascale project, along with 15 multisite-EU projects.
 UoL strongly supports international collaborations, with a Deputy-VC(International), Faculty Pro-
 Deans(International) and School Internationalisation co-ordinators, each with funds to help
 colleagues initiate or maintain international collaborations; e.g. seed-corn funding for Gooya


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allowed him to successfully apply for a JSPS Invitational Fellowship for Research in Japan, while
 seed-corn funding for Head facilitated a visit to Eindhoven resulting in Physical Review
 Letters(2019) paper. RIS, the Deputy-VC(International) and Faculty Pro-Dean(International) help
 develop new partnerships and maintain existing ones, and RIS provides logistical support in
 collaborative research grant preparation. All staff can use their staff account to initiate/maintain
 collaborations easily without needing to request travel funds. UoL’s European Office offers
 matching funds for EU grant preparation. We have collaborated with many international
 academic partners in EU and other funded projects, with a steadily rising percentage of papers
 published with international co-authors(Figure-2). We have lead/co-lead research networks (e.g.
 SandH, an interdisciplinary network joint with Lancaster and Indianapolis(AH/R006482/1,Stell)).
 Figure-3 below demonstrates the breadth and extent of our University, national and international
 collaborations.


                                           Scopus bibliometrics
                                      International collaboration %
                          80

                          60

                          40

                          20

                           0
                               2014     2015     2016   2017   2018    2019   2020

                                                    Figure-2


 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences to develop impact and
 how these collaborations have enriched the research environment
 We have extensive collaborations with non-academic institutions across the UK and the
 world(Figure-3), and >6% of our publications have an non-academic co-author(Scopus). Many of
 these have led to research impact. E.g. our line of research in collaboration with utility
 companies started in 2004 and has continued to flourish, broadening into the Built Environment
 sector more generally; e.g. the Assessing-the-Underworld(ATU) EPSRC project(EP/K021699/1)
 had 57 non-University partners, building on prior Mapping-the-Underworld(MTU)-project. Leeds
 built a prototype D.S.S. as a major output from the project which was well received by our
 partners, leading to an EPSRC IAA, and Highways England funding. As a result of our work in
 interpreting Ground-Penetrating Radar data in MTU/ATU we were invited to join a successful
 20+ partner €10m EU project, NetTUN in which we built a D.S.S. to support operators of tunnel
 boring machines(TBMs) by fusing data from multiple sensors looking ahead of the TBM,
 cooperating with Universities and companies across Europe, also collaborating with SNCF in a
 D.S.S. for Tunnel Maintenance(ESWC-15 best “in-use” paper).
 Our collaborations with the health sector have had a profoundly beneficial effect on our research
 activities, driving research in the BMH-Theme in particular, and generating an ICS and further
 ongoing collaboration and innovation in patient care via the QualDash project deployed into five
 hospitals(NIHR, Ruddle).

                 UK            Europe          Americas   Asia          Other
  Universities           42             70           37           34            19
  Industry               73             35           12            2             5

                                      Figure-3. SoC collaborations


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 One of our ICS comes from our early MTU work and the other two ICS demonstrate interactions
 across two other sectors: rail scheduling and medical imaging. In each ICS we have worked in
 close collaboration with sector partners, taking inspiration from their needs to develop world
 leading solutions to important problems. We have worked extensively with cloud computing
 providers to build energy efficient solutions which have been deployed in industry and led to the
 Edgetic spinout. Collaboration with VET-AI is ongoing and developing computer vision solutions
 for pet care via a KTP.
 Wider contributions to the economy/society
 The AI Theme has developed a range of software tools and online resources for the analysis
 and annotation of Arabic text, with particular application to the Quran and religious studies:
 https://qurananalysis.com used daily by thousands from across the world.
 SoC members have contributed to a variety of bodies across several sectors. E.g. Cohn sits on
 the Geospatial Commission’s (part of the Cabinet Office) National Underground Assets Register
 Advisory Group(REF3:UOA11-2). Djemame is co-founder of the Heterogeneous Hardware &
 Software Alliance(HH&S) bringing 20 academic/10 industrial organisations together to advance
 and exploit heterogeneous hardware(http://heterogeneityalliance.eu/contact).
 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline, support for/exemplars of interdisciplinary
 research; responsiveness to national/international priorities/initiatives
 SoC’s wide ranging interdisciplinary research has already been discussed extensively(§1). We
 contribute strongly to all of EPSRC’s Prosperity Outcomes (Healthy(AI/BMH),
 Connected(AC/AI/DSS), Productive(AI/CSE/DSS/BMH), Resilient(AC/AI/DSS) Nations), as well
 as to the UKRI Digital Economy Theme(DSS). Our research strongly aligns with inter/national
 priorities in AI, including our contributions to the ATI, and in the EU, most recently with the €20M
 AI4EU platform project. SoC staff have been involved in the organisation of many conferences,
 workshops etc, as indicated immediately below. We have made released many software
 codebases on open source platforms, e.g. ASCETiC mentioned above with >500 downloads,
 http://openworm.org/downloads.html, and QSRlib(https://qsrlib.readthedocs.io) used in robotics
 and vision projects. 26 datasets have been deposited in the Institutional Repository since its
 inception in 2015(https://archive.researchdata.leeds.ac.uk/).
 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 Editorships(34) Editor-in-Chiefships(5): Artificial Intelligence(Cohn), Spatial Cognition and
 Computation(Cohn), MICCAI-Elsevier Book Series(Frangi), Progress in Bioengineering(Frangi),
 Presence(Ruddle). Associate-Editorships(12): Computer-Graphics Forum(Carr); International
 Journal of AI in Education(Dimitrova); Frontiers of AI(Dimitrova), IEEE RAS-Letters(Dogar);
 Formal Aspects of Computing Journal(Duke), IEEE TMI(Frangi);Medical Image
 Analysis(Frangi);SIAM Journal of Imaging Sciences(Frangi); SIAM Journal of Scientific
 Computing(Jimack); IEEE TPAMI(Hogg), Open Research Software(Leng), Peer-to-Peer
 Networking and Applications(Xu). Editorial-Board-Memberships(14). Guest-Editorships(3).
 Fellowships etc(10 new, 9 pre-existing): FREng(Cohn), FIAPR(Hogg), FBMVA(Hogg),
 IEEE(Frangi), EAMBES(Frangi), SPIE(Frangi), Eurographics(Carr), UKCRC(Djemame, Frangi,
 Hogg,Xu). Prior to 2014: FEurAI(Hogg,Cohn), FAAAI(Cohn), FAISB(Cohn), FIET(Cohn),
 UKCRC(Cohn), FBCS(Ruddle, Cohn), Eurographics(Duke).
 Funded Fellowships/Chairs(10): RAEng Chair in Emerging Technologies(Frangi, £2.68M),
 Marie-Skłodowska-Curie Incoming Fellowship(Dogar; PDRA:Figueredo), EPSRC Leadership
 Fellowship(Cohen), Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship(Ranner), RAEng Enterprise Fellowship
 (PDRA:McKee), EPSRC Research Software Engineer Fellowship(Leng), ATI-
 Fellows(Cohn,Hogg,Ruddle), ESPRC Prize-Fellowships(Ranner, Chew).
 Visiting positions (19): Professorships: Cohn: University of Technology Sydney, Tongji
 University(also High-End Foreign Expert), Qingdao University of Science and Technology,
 Shandong University; Frangi: KU Leuven; Xu: Beihang University, SWJTU, NUDT, Chongqing
 University; Atwell: SUSTECH Sudan; Adler: Paris Dauphine University. Visiting Scientists
 Chinese Academy of Sciences(Frangi); Carr: STFC-Daresbury, Lawrence Berkeley(USA), Los

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alamos(USA), STFC-Appleton; PDRA Bollada: Beihang University; Shakhlevich: Nantes
 University; Leng: Harwell.
 Prizes: ACM-THCI best paper(Ruddle). ACM Computing Surveys Best of Computing Award
 (Carr), IEEE VIS-19 Test-of-time award(Carr). Donald E Walker Distinguished Service Award,
 IJCAI-15(Cohn, “honors senior scientists in AI for contributions and service”). Honourable
 Mention(Runner-up) EurAI Best AI Dissertation Award 2017(PGR:Alomari).10 best papers, 5
 runner-up best papers, 1 best video, 1 best poster, 1 best technical implementation, 1 “top cited
 impact factor”, 5 Competition/Challenge awards.
 Innovation awards: RCUK Knowledge Base Impact Award 2014; Yorkshire & Humber NHS
 Innovation Award for Medical Devices and Diagnostics 2014.
 International Visitors(staying≥1 week): 33.
 Keynotes/invited talks: >100.
 Conference organisation:
    - Conference/Workshop/Programme Chair positions: >60 + many programme committee
       memberships.
    - Co-organiser with Cai(Madison-Wisconsin) of a 5 month research programme at the
       Simons Institute for the Theory of Computing (Berkeley) “Counting Complexity and
       Phase Transitions”(Dyer). Follow up meeting(2017)
    - Co-founder of the UK Robot Manipulation Workshop in 2016, hosted in
       Leeds(2019,Dogar).
    - Co-Founder of 3xIEEE Conferences: Cloud Engineering; Decentralised Infrastructures
       and Applications; Joint Cloud Computing (Xu).
    - Dagstuhls co-organised: 14081,16381,14421.
    - Spatial Cognition Conference Steering Committee Chair(Cohn)
    - UKPEW’2015&2019, GECON’2019 hosted at Leeds(Djemame)
 Service to the community(~60):
    - EPSRC IT SAT Chair(Hogg)
    - EPSRCs e-Infrastructure SAT(Leng)
    - UKCRC Executive Committee(Cohn, Xu)
    - REF Sub-panellist(Cohn:2014, Hogg, Frangi:2021)
    - President-elect International AI in Education Society, previously Finance
       Chair(Dimitrova);
    - Eurographics Executive Committee(Duke)
    - Eurographics: International Corporate Secretary(Carr); UK Chapter Chair(Carr)
    - ATI University Partners Board(Hogg)
    - KR Inc. Director(Cohn)
    - Executive Board of IEEE Technical Committee on Business Informatics Systems(Xu)
    - IJCAI Executive Committee(Cohn)
    - EEE-SRDS SC Member(Xu)
    - IEEE-ISORC SC Member(Xu)
    - IEEE-HASE SC Member(Xu)
    - IEEE-SOSE SC Member (Xu)
    - IEEE BigDataService SC Member(Xu)
    - EPSRC Peer Review College members (12+1 Associate); AHRC Peer Review
       College(1)
    - Members of UKRI prioritisation panels(9 staff, some multiple)
    - Reviewer of EU projects/panels(5 staff)
    - Co-chair of IEEE-RAS Technical Committee on Mobile Manipulation(Dogar)
    - Chair of BCS Awards Committee and on BCS Academy Board(Cohn)
    - Advisory Boards: University of Technology Sydney AI AB(Cohn); NUAR AB(Cohn)
    - Various RAEng Committees(Education; Policy; Emerging Technology Chairs: Cohn).
    - Scientific Advisory Panel OpenWorm(Cohen)
    - Trustee of the Society of Research Software Engineering(Leng)

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    -   Canada Research Council prize panel for two years running(https://www.nserc-
        crsng.gc.ca/Prizes-Prix/Index_eng.asp, Hogg).

 Public engagement:
 Extensive outreach activity ranges from training for using facilities (e.g. White Rose & regional
 N8 grids, the Leeds Powerwalls) to youth education (e.g. the Leeds Headstart summer school),
 Ada Lovelace outreach events, Leeds’ Be Curious Festival of Science, Pint of Science, Leeds
 City Museum Festival of Science, AITech North, Leeds Law Society conference, a robotics event
 at the Natural History Museum. Cohn appeared in an Audible book (“Days that Changed the
 World”).




                                                                                          Page 19
