Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: D 28

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The School of History at Leeds combines range with depth. It has purposefully developed distinct
 areas of research focus, whilst also evolving naturally over time from collective successes and
 experience. Working across over one thousand years of history and most regions of the world,
 Leeds historians ground their research in deep archival engagement, aspiring always to produce
 analytical insights with both conceptual and practical implications of global influence.

 The School hosts six thematic research groups: Global History; War and Peace; Health, Medicine
 and Society; Medieval Studies; Cities and Space; and Women, Gender and Sexuality. These
 groups have formed, over a number years, through internal and external collaborative research
 projects, graduate supervision, and through targeted recruitment intended to shape Leeds’
 temporal and geographic range. The groups are designed to be crosscutting: most members of
 the School belong to more than one group and leadership rotates on a regular basis. As well as
 embedding a collaborative research culture, the groups generate and support larger funded
 research projects and ambitions to publish outstanding historical work.

 All research activity in the School of History revolves around recruiting and nurturing outstanding
 historians and then enabling them to give their best. In pursuit of this goal the unit has identified
 the following seven key research and impact strategies:

 1. Make research time more efficient and productive. The School of History operates a robust
 yet supportive research leave policy that focuses on strategic publishing or impact projects, and
 on researchers’ external funding plans. The School is fully integrated with the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Cultures Research Office and the Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute
 (LAHRI) both of whom provide high quality research support by specialist professional staff. The
 School equally benefits from its own, dedicated, Research Support Officer.

 2. Enhance research collaboration towards high quality and larger research projects. The
 unit’s responsive and intensive peer review process, alongside its research groups, support pump-
 priming research events, external collaborations and new research ideas, including inter-
 disciplinary and challenge-led projects. The School funds its research groups and encourages
 new researchers with a specially tailored ECR fund.

 3. Increase, extend and deepen externally supported research. Leeds History promotes this
 goal through a declaratory policy on research income embedded in formal School of History
 documents, followed up in Annual Academic Meetings (for research appraisal) and iterated
 through the collaborative culture of the research groups. The latter create spaces for the
 development and honing of larger funded projects.

 4. Broaden and deepen the unit’s impact and public engagement. The School has embedded
 a culture that promotes impact and public engagement as a two-way process, involving co-
 production and true collaboration. The unit has a dedicated Impact Fund, an Impact Workload
 scheme, and an Impact training programme. Impact projects are often designed through the
 research groups, and the School has mapped all of its non-academic partnerships for sharing

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practice and experience across the unit. The School has formalised key relationships. For
 example, since 2016 the unit has been a contributing partner to the national organisation History
 & Policy, which brokers and supports relations with Whitehall and Parliament. The Deputy Director
 of History & Policy is a member of the unit (King), with an additional remit to expand and innovate
 H&P’s work with local and regional government.

 5. Promote interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary initiatives as integral parts of an overall
 research culture. The unit’s six research groups promote and develop inter- and cross-
 disciplinary research, including collaborative interdisciplinary research and PGR supervision in the
 Centre for the History of Ibero-America (CHIA in the School of Languages), Leeds University
 Centre for African Studies (LUCAS in the Faculty of Social Sciences) and the Institute for Medieval
 Studies (IMS in the School of History).

 6. Enhance the PGR experience whilst continuing to increase PGR numbers. The University
 of Leeds has invested heavily in the successful 2019 Leeds-Sheffield-York bid to the AHRC to
 continue the highly effective White Rose College of the Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH) doctoral
 training partnership until 2024. The unit’s research clusters create synergies between PGRs and
 research academics, shaping both PGR and Postdoctoral recruitment.

 7. Promote an open research environment and ensure research integrity. The School
 supports and encourages Open Access research and publication. The five major history journals
 edited in the School during the research cycle (Journal of African History, Contemporary European
 History, European History Quarterly, Northern History and War in History) are full members of
 COPE (Committee on Publication Ethics). The journal editors hold workshops for research staff
 and PGRs on high-quality ethical publication. The editors made formal submissions to the RHS’s
 review of Open Access. The White Rose Repository, managed in collaboration with the
 Universities of Sheffield and York, provides open access to research through author-approved
 versions. In addition, members of the School have actively promoted Open Access via projects
 funded by European Research Council (ERC) nd Wellcome Trust (Meyer and King). All research
 projects involving living subjects undergo formal ethical review from the Faculty Research Ethics
 Committee, and support for exploring ethical considerations takes place in the School’s mentoring
 system and research groups. All researchers are strongly advised to apply for an ORCiD as part
 of research policy.

 Highlights of the current REF-cycle at Leeds
     6 new Chair promotions or appointments and 10 new ECR/mid-career permanent
        appointments. 3 of the ECR appointments came through the University Academic Fellows
        fast-track scheme, requiring a combined School-Faculty-University investment of nearly
        one million pounds in the future of the historical profession.
     14 externally funded postdoctoral fellows (including 4 Leverhulme, 1 Marie Curie, 1 RUBIC,
        6 AHRC and 1 British Academy). Leeds significantly accelerated its level of funded
        postdoctoral recruitment and investment during the REF2021 cycle.
     External grant capture has nearly doubled over the cycle to generate a research grant
        income of over £750k/year, compared to £406k in the final census year of REF2014.
     97 doctoral students graduated during the cycle (compared to 43 in REF2014).
     The development of the School as a centre of academic leadership in scholarly journal
        editorship (editorship of five Social Science Citation Index journals in the current cycle


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        compared to two in the REF2014 cycle).

 The unit’s ambitions for research and impact have been delivered by the research groups which
 all pursue thematic and inter-disciplinary research projects.

 Global History: analyses global change over time, through regional studies and work on empires
 and post-colonial states. Its members research the British, French, Italian, Spanish and
 Portuguese empires and straddle traditional regional boundaries with research on the areas that
 are now Afghanistan-India-Pakistan-Bangladesh, China-Korea-Vietnam, Israel-Jordan, the
 Atlantic World, and north, east and southern Africa. Extended from an older group - Identity, Power
 and Protest - Global History now includes historians of South-East Asia (Saha and Fear), a
 specialist on Pakistan and Afghanistan (Leake), a historian of North Africa (Eldridge), and a chair
 in global history specializing in the Atlantic world (Barcia-Paz). The new research foci reinforced
 existing expertise on India (Gould, Major), Africa (Doyle, Jackson), and the United States (Hall,
 Dossett and Blaszczyk). The South Asianists have attracted two Leverhulme Fellows, Chairez-
 Garza and Gupta, major AHRC projects, and a Charles Wallace Trust (India) Fellowship
 agreement. The group spearheads innovative inter-disciplinary research on animal history,
 demographic history, borderland studies, the history of anthropology, and the history of mental
 health and racial transgression.

 Members of the group have established large collaborative funded projects: Gould developed a
 large-scale collaborative AHRC project as PI with Chairez-Garza around the history of Indian
 anthropology and sociology post 1947. Major held a Leverhulme Research Fellowship between
 2014 and 2016 on the anti-slavery movement and India and became CI on the AHRC-funded
 project, ‘Becoming Coolies’, exploring the origins of the Indian Ocean labour diaspora. Jackson
 won an AHRC Future Leaders award for ‘Going Native’, an investigation of racial transgression in
 the British imperial world (2014-2016). Saha secured both an AHRC Fellowship and follow-on-
 funding for his work on the animal history of Burma. In 2019, he was awarded an Independent
 Social Research Foundation (ISRF) Mid-Career Fellowship for his project on accumulation and
 Empire. Dossett also won an ISRF Mid-Career Fellowship for her project on Black Cultural
 Archives and State Surveillance. Anderson won both an AHRC Fellowship and a British Academy
 Mid-Career Fellowship for his work on displaced children. He has built further European projects
 around historical memory, family and childhood funded by the Ministerio de Economía, Industria
 y Competitividad del Gobierno de España (2017-20). In 2019 Arielli launched the Dead Sea project
 with substantial backing from the German Gerda Henkel Foundation. Conducted alongside
 Water@Leeds, a core University initiative based in STEM, this inter-disciplinary project explores
 the lake’s human history. Arielli also collaborates with Brown (Earth and Environment) on a project
 in the Jordan Valley that combines historical analysis of water management policy with ecological
 data. Doyle was the Director of LUCAS between 2014-18 connecting historians to a larger
 community of Leeds-based scholars working on Africa and, in 2015, hosting the Nobel Laureate
 Wole Soyinka. LUCAS also provides pump prime funding for African research projects. Both Fear
 and Leake have established White Rose funded collaborations with Sheffield and York, on ‘The
 Violent State’ and ‘Imperial Afterlives’ respectively.

 War and Peace: takes as its starting point the Clausewitzian conundrum: is war merely the
 continuation of politics by other means, or does it have its own logic? The group tackles the history
 of security organisations, soldiers and soldiering; transnational military mobilisation, the
 implications of military defeat, population transfer, and the commission of atrocities. It has

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 particular synergies, and membership in common, with Global History and Health, Medicine and
 Society. Ball and Meyer served on the steering group of Legacies of War, the University’s
 collaboration with Leeds City Council to mark the impact of the First World War. Legacies of War
 completed its work at the end of 2019.

 Ball’s AHRC research project on intelligence services in the first half of the twentieth century,
 ‘Cultures of Intelligence’, ran from 2012 to 2016, alongside a German partner project of the same
 name supported by the Gerda Henkel Foundation. He was also an investigator for ‘The Practice
 of International History in the 21st Century’ – an AHRC network with international partners drawn
 from the University of Utah, the University of Sydney and Université Paris 1 Panthéon-Sorbonne.
 Several members of War and Peace became members of the PIH21 network. Between 2012 and
 2016 both Arielli and Ball were part of the international research network, ‘La guerre des sables /
 The Desert War (1940-1943)’, funded by the French School in Paris and the historical section of
 the French ministry of defence, and based at ENS Cachan in France. Arielli was the PI on a
 European Research Council-funded Marie Curie project on transnational war volunteering in
 southern Europe. Utley is an investigator on the interdisciplinary ESRC project, ‘The Responsibility
 to Protect’, which analyses liberal interventionism in the Syrian war and refugee crisis. She is also
 an investigator on the AHRC ‘Weight of the Past in Franco-British Relations’: the research team
 collaborates with the embassy of France in London and the British embassy in Paris. Afflerbach
 held a Humboldt Foundation Fellowship for the academic year 2015-16 on Germany’s defeat in
 the First World War. Eldridge won the RHS’s Gladstone Prize for her book on the legacies of the
 Algerian war and became the University’s Woman of Achievement in 2018. Between 2016 and
 2018 she held a British Academy/Leverhulme Trust award for her next project on settler soldiers
 in the First World War. In 2019 Eldridge won a Gerda Henkel Foundation research fellowship for
 the project.

 Health, Medicine and Society: connects a number of large-scale projects across multiple sub-
 disciplines, from the history of the family, to demography, mental health, and disability. It examines
 the social and cultural history of health and medicine over a wide geographical area including east
 Africa, central Africa, India, Italy, Portugal, and Britain. Its geographical and temporal range means
 that its activities articulate with most of the other research groups.

 Meyer’s large-scale European Research Council Starting Grant on ‘Men, Women and Care’ on
 disability in the Great War ran between 2015 and 2020. Her previous project on masculinity and
 military medicine was funded by a Wellcome Trust Research Fellowship, which she completed in
 2015. As a result of these projects Meyer has developed a team of postdoctoral and postgraduate
 researchers. King has led multiple AHRC funded projects, most notably ‘Living with Dying’ on the
 everyday culture of dying in family life and ‘The Role of Objects and Places’, using historical
 research in an artistic collaboration to interrogate remembrance culture. King also leads an AHRC
 Care for the Future Development project on the ideological use of children in politics. She has
 served as an investigator on parallel AHRC projects investigating the curation of personal
 possessions, and the use of digital tools to reach communities less able to access heritage. Doyle
 is the PI on the interdisciplinary AHRC-MRC project investigating maternal mortality in East Africa.
 The project analyses the historical, social and cultural factors that contribute to high maternal
 mortality, focusing on health-related communication and decision-making. During the current REF
 cycle, McCleery delivered the final phase of her Wellcome Trust project, ‘You Are What You Ate’
 that featured prominently in the unit’s REF2014 submission.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Medieval Studies: explores a broad chronological and thematic range from the early Middle Ages
 to the first decades of the sixteenth century. Leeds’s particular strengths are religious cultures and
 structures, identities, social networks, and conflict. Medieval Studies works through the long-
 standing inter-disciplinary Institute of Medieval Studies (IMS).

 During this cycle Barrow was elected a Fellow of the British Academy and to the council of the
 RHS. The University honoured Professor Barrow as a Woman of Achievement, marking her
 sustained contribution to outstanding research in medieval history. Barrow ran a Leverhulme Trust
 international network devoted to rethinking ecclesiastical reform, with two Trust fellows (Perisanidi
 and McNair) and partners in Ghent, KU Leuven, Mainz, and Paris. Loud’s Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowship project on the social world of the Abbey of Cava was in collaboration with
 the Archivio della badia di S. Trinità di Cava, Cava de’ Tirreni (SA), Italy. Jamroziak spent 2015-
 16 as a Fellow at the Technische Universität Dresden researching the Cistercian order in Eastern
 Europe. In 2019-20 Jamroziak was a Fellow at the Max-Weber-Kolleg für Kultur-und
 Sozialwissenschaftliche Studien at the University of Erfurt. She is now CI on a large-scale
 interdisciplinary AHRC project, ‘The Sacred Landscapes of Medieval Monasteries’. Linked to
 Jamroziak, Smith held a Leverhulme Trust Fellowship between 2016 and 2019 and served as a
 member of the DFG (Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft) international research network on papal
 conflict at the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitaet, Munich.

 The School of History phased out its research group on Enterprise and Cultures of Consumption,
 to reflect the changing research interests and composition of its staff, and established two new
 groups – Cities and Space, and Women, Gender and Sexuality.

 Cities and Space explores the city from the perspectives of urban public health, demography,
 popular protest, civic culture and activism, political violence, and the process of urbanisation. The
 group is knitted together by an inter-disciplinary seminar and reading group. Blaszczyk has run
 three large-scale projects on fashion as an international nexus linking cities on either side of the
 Atlantic. The projects were funded by Humanities in the European Research Area (HERA), the
 Marie Curie People programme, and the AHRC. Another element of Blaszczyk’s research has
 been a study of Abraham Moon & Sons, one of the last remaining vertical woollen mills in Great
 Britain, situated in Guiseley. Maw collaborates with colleagues from Engineering and Earth
 Sciences on the past, present and future of UK’s railway infrastructure. The initial work, which
 connects to HS2 and Trans Pennine renovations, was funded by the University’s ‘Pump-priming
 for Interdisciplinary Research Initiatives’ that provides grants of £35k for notable collaborations.
 Maw is also part of an ongoing Faculty of Environment-led NERC bid examining the past and
 future of UK treescapes. Gould is co-investigator on a large-scale AHRC project, ‘Bradford’s
 National Museum’, in which the University of Leeds works in partnership with the National Science
 and Media Museum in Bradford, with the ambition to enhance museum usage by the residents of
 multicultural Bradford. Bamji was awarded an I Tatti Residential Fellowship at the Harvard
 University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies in 2018-19 for research on death in Venice. The
 group will be reinforced too, by our new appointment in Black British History – Dr. Dhanveer Brar,
 who will connect Cities/Space with the Global History and Women, Gender and Sexuality clusters.

 Women, Gender and Sexuality draws together the comparative and interdisciplinary research


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 into historical constructions of gender that informs much of the work of colleagues in the School
 of History. It has a particular research interest in histories of masculinity. Within the group,
 collective research endeavours have revolved around large-scale conferences, notably the
 ‘Histories of Care’ conference organized by Meyer and King in 2017. King ran the Leeds-based
 ‘Men, Masculinity and Maternity’ project which produced a number of significant publications on
 the nature of masculinity and large scale impact work in collaboration with the Probation Service.
 Dossett and Denton developed a large-scale collaborative project on ‘Feminist Archives, Feminist
 Futures’, which works with Hyde Park Picture House, Feminist Archive North, and Glasgow
 Women’s Library to make women’s histories and archives accessible to a broader public through
 public events and a website.

 Membership of each Research Group is as follows: Global History 16, War and Peace 12,
 Medieval Studies 11, Health, Medicine and Society 8, Cities and Space 13, Women Gender and
 Sexuality 10. Currently 22 are cross listed into 2 groups (51%), and 7 into 3 or more groups
 (17.5%).

 All groups have adopted a ‘future development strategy’ from 2019-20. The joint goals are to:
 1. Develop research group workshops around annual themes.
 2. Enhance collaborations already established with universities in India, China and the USA
    (especially for Global History).
 3. Pursue further postdoctoral recruitment and support PGR focused reading groups/seminars.
 4. Strengthen partnership projects with other disciplinary areas through the full-time Research and
 Innovation Development Manager, Cultural Institute, and LAHRI.

 2. People

 Staffing
 The heart of unit staffing strategy has been to extend research capability to areas of thematic and
 regional importance. In Global History, the School appointed a chair expanding the research group
 into Latin America (Barcia-Paz), a field in which he won the Philip Leverhulme Prize. Also in Global
 History, the School appointed historians of environment/animals (Saha), Pakistan/Afghanistan
 (Leake), Vietnam (Fear) and will appoint two new lectureships for historians of the Global South
 pre- and post-1500 in 2021. A new appointment in French imperial history (Eldridge) expanded
 both Global History and War and Peace. The School appointed two historians of health/the family
 (Meyer and King) in Health, Medicine and Society. The School reinforced the new Cities and
 Space research group by appointing historians of early modern pan-European language
 transmission (Gallagher), early modern print culture (Barker) and Black British History (Brar).

 The School’s most resource-intensive initiative during the current REF cycle was its substantial
 investment (amounting to £993k) in the University’s Academic Fellowship (UAF) Programme - 160
 University appointments that identified exceptional ECRs with groundbreaking interdisciplinary
 research ideas and potential for rapid progression. To secure the UAFs, the unit passed a rigorous
 University audit of its academic interdisciplinary practices and structures. The School recruited
 three UAFs (King, Meyer, Saha). All three were promoted to associate professorships after
 meeting the University’s strict criteria for achievement in research and taken on to permanently
 strengthen the School. This medium-term strategic decision on interdisciplinary investment has
 paid off.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These permanent appointments were supported by the postdoctoral fellowship appointments of
 Chairez-Garza (Global History), Gupta (Global History), Bhattacharya (Global History),
 Constantini (Medieval Studies), Smith (Medieval Studies), McNair (Medieval Studies), Perisanidi
 (Medieval Studies), Delcorno (Medieval Studies), Moncrieff (Health, Medicine and Society),
 Hammett (Health, Medicine and Society) and Acciai (War and Peace). The School will be recruiting
 a number of new postdoctoral researchers associated with funded large-scale research projects
 from 2021.

 Development
 In 2016, the School introduced a new workload model that sets out a standard baseline research
 allowance of 400/1650 hours (24% of available workload for each research and teaching staff
 FTE). Simultaneously, the School introduced the provision that research-active staff could request
 extra workload recognition for specific activities such as impact and funded research project
 applications. The purpose of the new system was to further enable staff to devote time to each of
 the three domains of research: ambitious projects and outputs, significant impact activities, and
 external grant capture (the fourth domain, PGR supervision, is workloaded separately). The
 School’s internal research leave policy was refined so that staff could apply on a flexible basis to
 develop high-quality research projects when necessary. School research leave is supplemented
 by the opportunity to apply for matching Faculty leave. The Schools of the Faculty of Arts,
 Humanities and Cultures jointly finance fourteen scholars annually through this scheme via
 competitive application from nine Schools. There is a separate ECR stream, and awards are
 monitored for Equality and Inclusion (E&I). An explicit goal of the process is to develop the
 interdisciplinary significance of historical research for assessors not drawn from History.

 The School provides support via the Director of Research and Innovation (DoRI) and Director of
 Impact for all non-academic external partnerships and runs bespoke training sessions on working
 with external partners. In these sessions, the School showcases successful impact projects, and
 explores ways of designing co-produced work, and writing/publication for a variety of specialist
 and public audiences. For example, the School operates as a northern hub for History & Policy,
 hosting specific training events on historians and local policy and an on-line ‘historians and policy’
 toolkit.

 Research workload is carefully monitored for gender and other forms of equality. The annual
 equality and inclusion in research report surveys comparative data across the four domains of
 research: publication, impact, grant capture and PGR supervision. The goal is to ensure that there
 is no statistically significant differential between researchers either in workload (inputs) or intensity
 and breadth of research (outputs). The unit embeds E&I in all career development, promotion and
 recognition policies, in line with best practice. The School works within the context of the
 University’s Policy on the Appointment of Researchers, which is fully compliant with the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers (Next Generation Researcher training and
 development programme for ECRs and PGRs). The School has developed an extensive system
 of promotion advisers and mentors to help all staff achieve their ambitions. This commitment has
 produced results. For example, the School conducts all Annual Academic Review meetings with
 E&I considerations in mind, via a specific policy on Dignity and Mutual Respect, enhancing the
 effectiveness of the process for all parties.

 The School of History fully implements procedures and practices around E&I in all its work and
 activities, ensures that everyone is treated with dignity and respect, and that the opportunities it

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides are open to all. A School E&I committee, composed of representatives from all staff
 levels, meets regularly to monitor and improve existing processes. Since REF2014, this work has
 progressed in important ways. An annual review of equality and inclusion in research is carried
 out by the DoRI and shared with all staff for consideration and response. The School’s most
 resource-intensive initiative here is to offer those returning from maternity leave an additional
 semester of leave, above-and-beyond any other research leave, as a matter of formal policy. The
 E&I committee manages an annual budget and constitutes a ‘scrutiny’ group to independently
 assess all shortlisting panels on appointments. The School has been acting on the RHS’s Report
 on Race and Ethnicity (co-authored by Saha, who chaired the RHS panel), implementing the
 recommendations of the unit’s own Equalities Action Plan, establishing a research and PGR
 BAME network, creating a Gender Strategy and setting out a formal policy on conference panel
 composition.

 All staff contracted for a year or more participate in the University’s annual Staff Review and
 Development Scheme. At University level, the Organisational Development and Professional
 Learning (OD&PL) service provides integrated training and development for all staff and PGRs.
 Strategic staff development priorities are based on academic requirements and set by the OD&PL
 Advisory Group whose membership includes the three Pro-Vice Chancellors. Career
 development, training needs and workload are discussed confidentially with a specially trained
 reviewer from History. Promotion advisors are drawn from trained senior academic staff. A
 dedicated staff member manages the School’s mentoring scheme, wherein all staff have the
 opportunity to be mentored by a colleague, trained to offer guidance on all aspects of their career.
 This voluntary scheme has expanded year-on-year and currently involves over 50% of staff. It has
 100% take up amongst ECRs, and has been very effective in the area of advice on publications:
 unit ECRs are briefed on the advantages of publishing work in the highest quality peer reviewed
 journals in history and cognate disciplines.

 The School recognises the needs of some colleagues for flexible and/or part time working hours,
 where circumstances arise, such as an existing or long-term caring responsibility. Planned needs
 are formally notified to the University timetabling service. It is School policy that all members
 maintain an electronic diary and that no research meeting should be scheduled against a notified
 need.

 Research students
 Continued enhancement and growth of a high-achieving PGR community is a strategic priority:
 103 doctoral students are registered in the School at the close of this cycle (against 70 at the end
 of the REF2014 cycle). The cohort is cosmopolitan, hailing from 15 different national contexts
 outside the UK. At the beginning of the current cycle the School formalised the policy that all
 doctoral PGRs must have two supervisors, either on a 50:50 or 75:25 basis. 27 students have
 supervisors from different disciplines, and the School has partnered in three White Rose
 Collaborative PhD studentships networks between Leeds, Sheffield and York. Co-supervision
 allows the School to bring the multiple disciplinary (and regional) strengths of the department to
 enhance PGR work. Particularly strong cross-fertilisation between the School’s research groups
 occur in Global History/War and Peace, War and Peace/Health, Medicine and Society/Medieval
 History, and Global History/Women, Gender and Sexuality.

 History PGRs have excelled in both the establishment of independent and innovative research
 networks and projects, and in publishing high quality research. PGRs autonomously organise

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 annual conferences and events via School research groups throughout the academic year.
 International students run their own peer support network, and PGRs run their own career
 development events around, for example, how to publish. Under the AHRC block-funded White
 Rose Centre for Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH), the school has supervised 24 students holding
 awards (compared to 23 in the REF2014 cycle). Many of the White Rose students enjoy far-flung
 training opportunities – from working in European museums, to collaborating on large-scale
 digitisation projects in the USA to placements with research groups in India.

 Another White Rose alliance, the ESRC Doctoral Training Centre, identifies Social History as an
 established funding pathway. The School has received both Advanced Quantitative Methodology
 and Pathway scholarships from the ESRC DTC. The School supports other high-quality applicants
 by awarding four full doctoral scholarships/year, covering fees and stipend. The value of School
 scholarships is at parity with those offered by the AHRC and the ESRC. Each year the University
 and the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures offer additional competitive doctoral scholarships
 for overseas and interdisciplinary applicants. Historians supported by the School have enjoyed a
 consistent record of success in University and Faculty competitions, with 14 and 6 successful
 applicants over the cycle, respectively.

 The unit’s PGRs form a diverse, but integrated community supported by the School’s Director of
 PGR Studies (DPGR), and three PGR–dedicated professional staff. PGRs are nurtured not only
 by their supervisors, but their research groups, and facilitated peer-to-peer networks. For instance,
 the School appoints PGR volunteers to act as induction monitors for incoming students. The
 School has four dedicated and fully equipped PGR rooms. Each PGR receives a £300/year
 allowance for research/conference costs, in addition to funding provided by their specific
 studentships. Other awards support research and impact projects, including a £750 ‘Excellence
 Award’ to exploit exceptional research opportunities and a PG Impact Fund in regular rounds
 through the year. Each PGR is provided with a personal webpage on the University’s website,
 allowing a formal and structured means to create a public facing profile of activity and
 achievement. A PGR can choose to link their profile to those of their supervisors, further increasing
 potential visibility if desired: most do.

 A mandatory annual minimum of ten formal supervisions per PGR is rigorously monitored and
 enforced by the DPGR. The School’s PGR Employability Lead oversees the co-ordination of PGR
 development needs. The School supports the student-led ‘Historians Workshop’, which addresses
 career development and provides in-house training in response to PGRs’ requests (e.g. ‘Your First
 Book’ and ‘Getting a job in the USA’). A dedicated site within the University’s Virtual Learning
 Environment is devoted to PGRs, along with a sophisticated online system – the Graduate Record
 of Achievement and Development (GRAD) - ensuring the systematic recording of both PGR and
 supervisor perspectives on progress. Training needs are monitored regularly in supervisions: in
 addition, each full and part-time PGR has a formal annual meeting with DPGR or the Head of the
 School of History. As a cohort, PGRs are provided with extensive training: Research Methods,
 Equality and Diversity, Foreign Languages, Presentation, Impact & Public Engagement, Research
 Funding, and Publication. LAHRI provides professionalisation courses and logged 361 unique
 History PGR attendees over the REF cycle.

 Support for equal opportunities is integral to all PGR recruitment, support and progression. The
 University Equality Services offers staff and students advice and practical support, assessing and
 coordinating the academic support needs of students with disabilities, and actively monitors

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 progress in equality. PGR representatives serve as full members of the School’s Research & PGR
 Committee, enabling them to contribute to research strategy and decisions, and to develop insight
 into the broader HE climate. Each PGR belongs to one of the School’s research groups History
 PGRs are invited to attend presentations for academic posts and are able to comment in the formal
 post-presentation assessment. The chair of the presentation feeds back PGR commentary to
 appointment panels under a separate head to those of academic staff. This process ensures that
 not only is the PGR voice taken seriously in making appointments but that PGRs have the
 opportunity to witness the appointment process that they themselves may choose to undergo in
 the future. Subsequent to their PhD awards, PGRs can apply for a post-PhD fellowship lasting
 one year, or one of LAHRI’s short-term Post-doctoral fellowships, allowing them full university
 access in an intense period of job application.

 The unit’s PGRs boast an impressive record of research, dissemination and publication at Leeds.
 Indicative examples include:
      Establishing research networks and seminar series: Founders, Leeds Animal Studies
         Network (Global History); Founders, White Rose International History and International
         Relations Research Seminar (War and Peace); Founders of the White Rose South Asian
         Studies network (Global History); Co-founder of the Wider World History Network with
         Sheffield and York (Global History); Consultant for United Nations Somalia and Eritrea
         Monitoring Group and for the Centre for Human Rights and Policy Studies, Kenya (Global
         History).
      Organising high-level international conferences mapping onto School research groups,
         including ‘The Contested History of Decolonisation, Migration and Race in Modern Britain’
         (Global History); ‘Redcoats, Tommies and Dusty Warriors’ (War and Peace) and
         ‘Commodities, Empire and Movements’ (Cities and Space).
      Presenting to 214 international research seminars and conferences, in over 30 different
         national contexts.
      Leading on public engagement, including as Curator, ‘Beauty and Diplomacy: The Malcolm
         MacDonald Collections’, Durham Oriental Museum (War and Peace); Workshop
         Convener, National Museum of Malaysia (War and Peace); outreach project with the King’s
         African Rifles (War and Peace); outreach/impact project with the 1947 Partition Archive,
         USA (Global History).
      Winning the Ronal T. and Gayla D. Farrar Award in Media and Civil Rights History for best
         published article or chapter on the subject.
      Winning the Bryan Gandevia award for an outstanding thesis on Australian wartime history.
      Winning Research Awards and Fellowships including the Fulbright-Robertson Visiting
         Professorship of British History, Westminster College, Fulton Missouri; the Leverhulme
         Study Abroad Studentship (Rome); Associate of the Max Planck Institute for the History of
         Science, Berlin; the Marie Curie Fellowship (MSCA-ITN), University of Aalborg; the RHS
         Marshall Fellowship at the Institute of Historical Research; the University of Free State
         Postdoctoral Fellowship (South Africa); the Postdoctoral Research Fellowship at the Sir
         Bernard Crick Centre for the Public Understanding of Politics, Sheffield University; and the
         postdoctoral fellowship on the ‘Aftermath of Slavery in East Africa’, University of Ghent.
      Writing seven monographs since completing their studies.
      Publishing 35 articles in highly ranked peer-reviewed journals.
      Contributing to 16 edited volumes.
      Securing research grants from learned bodies including: the American Society for
         Ethnohistory; the British Association for American Studies; the Arts and Humanities

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        International Placement Scheme (Library of Congress); the Economic History Society; the
        Economic and Social Research Council Overseas Institutional Visit Scheme (to research
        historical linguistics at Columbia University); the Galician Regional Government (Spain);
        the Dissertation Grant, Schlesinger Library at the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study,
        Harvard University.
       Succeeding in lectureship appointments including at the Australian University of Divinity,
        the University of East Anglia, the University of Bangor, Angelo State University, the
        University of Central Lancashire, the University of Edinburgh, the University of Nottingham,
        the University of Leeds, Liverpool University, Sheffield University, Warwick University, and
        York University.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Research Income
 The unit’s total and per capita research income has increased significantly over the period of the
 current REF cycle. In the final census year for REF2014 research income from external grants
 was £406k. In the current cycle research income has reached £835k. These changes reflect a
 shift in the research ambitions of staff and the unit aims to reach an external research income of
 £1 million per annum by 2023. Since 2014, 80% of the unit’s researchers have received external
 funding for research projects; 55% have secured funding of between £10k and £100k for individual
 projects; and 25% have achieved six-figure funding. In the latter category, all projects involved
 external impact partners. The figures reveal the success of research projects in Leeds in managing
 to attract major funding. The School has achieved this by nine means:

 1. A robust declaratory policy on research income embedded in the Staff Handbook.
 2. An additional tapered research workload allowance for academics developing larger projects to
 bid for research grants.
 3. The successful pursuit of partnerships with external partners with whom projects had impact.
 4. Pump-priming funds for academics bidding for grants worth over £200k.
 5. A data-driven focus on research income in each AAM including relative benefits and costs of
 Research Council, EU and charity funders.
 6. Due weight to research income incorporated in consideration of applications for internal leave
 schemes.
 7. Dedicated research support officer assistance at School level.
 8. A responsive and helpful School grant peer review process. All grants with a value of over £10k
 are sent through the process; applicants for grants worth less than £10k may use it.
 9. Active encouragement to attend funding workshops, apply for pump priming funds, international
 conference grants, and international research collaboration schemes.

 As a result, each research group has attracted external funding for large-scale projects, which
 serve as hubs that empower internal collaboration, alongside the external networks that such
 research creates. For example, in Health, Medicine and Society, Meyer’s large ERC project has
 brought into the School a number of specialist researchers at PGR and postdoctoral level. King
 has established a range of linked AHRC projects that connect to this group and to Women, Gender
 and Sexuality. Gould, Major and Jackson have developed large-scale AHRC/ESRC projects as
 central pillars within Global History, and similarly Ball and MacLeod completed their large AHRC
 ‘Cultures of Intelligence’ project within War and Peace. Gould has been an investigator on a large
 AHRC grant in collaboration with the School of Fine Art, History of Art and Cultural Studies, as
 part of the Cities and Space group. Ball, Arielli and Utley have projects within War and Peace,


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sharing overlapping membership and themes. Jamroziak, Loud and Barrow have generated
 external project funding for Medieval Studies through thematically overlapping research on the
 medieval church. As a result, there has been shared membership and networking of the projects
 via the Institute of Medieval Studies.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The University of Leeds has invested heavily in the School’s physical environment in an affirmation
 of institutional support for the research of the UoA, spending £988k during this cycle on a complete
 refurbishment of the School’s premises. The School thus forms a structurally, as well as an
 intellectually, coherent UoA. This encourages research discussion: offices and seminar rooms
 flank spacious foyers. All historians operate physically within a few seconds walk of one another,
 facilitating easy intellectual discourse. As a result, the School is a hubbub of debate during
 research events. PGRs are co-located with academic staff.

 Infrastructure investment has been matched by spending on research materials. The Brotherton
 Library has been awarded ‘designated’ status by the Museums, Libraries and Archives Council. It
 contains over 2.8m printed books, over 2m manuscripts and provides direct access to over 37,000
 print and online journals and 500,000 electronic books. A designated History representative
 develops the collection in line with UoA strategy for appointments, and coordinates specialist
 training for PGRs.

 The Brotherton’s Special Collections support history research seminars and conferences with
 bespoke exhibitions. During the current cycle History and Special Collections transferred the
 collections of the Yorkshire Archaeological and Historical Society to the Brotherton. The unique
 medical history and WW1 collections are a key reason why Meyer’s Wellcome-funded and ERC
 projects were located in Leeds. The Romani collection informed Gould’s research on
 ethnographies of nomadism in India, contributing to a research documentary (2014) subsequently
 used by the Government of India’s policymarkers on ‘tribal affairs’. In addition, the Library holds
 extensive digital resources that strengthen its power as a historical research library: for example,
 during the cycle, the Brotherton purchased the entire online archive of the Foreign Office for India,
 Pakistan and Afghanistan, the Digital National Security Archive, U.S. Declassified Documents
 Online, and the Secret Files on British intelligence to support specific research carried out by the
 UoA.

 Blaszczyk and her teams researching fashion as an international business have been the most
 effective and prolific exploiters of the Marks & Spencer (M&S) Archive housed in a dedicated
 research facility linked to Leeds University Business School (LUBS).

 Innovative use of electronic data with institutional support has shaped collaborative work within
 the School too. The UoA’s dataset specialists are working with Research Data Leeds to
 experiment with new ways of presenting and storing data, and linking into Wikidata. For example,
 a work package of Meyer’s ERC research is creating a powerful dataset integrating hundreds of
 thousands of Great War pensions located in the records of the Ministry of Pensions, National
 Archives (PIN 26). Linch has deposited two datasets with Research Data Leeds: ‘Individual
 records of desertion from the British Army 1807-1815’ and ‘Portsmouth Volunteers 1803-1805
 correspondence'. Eldridge is compiling data about colonial soldiers from North Africa during the
 Great War, including statistics on desertions and crimes, for her Gerda Henkel Foundation project.



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Two University-wide institutes have given significant support to UoA research initiatives – LAHRI
 and the Cultural Institute (launched during the current cycle) linking to the University strategic plan
 for 2015-2020. LAHRI’s pump-priming funds have supported a number of members of the UoA to
 secure larger grants in this REF cycle (e.g. Gould, Major, Saha, Eldridge, Doyle and Jamroziak
 projects mentioned in Section 1). In addition to tailored advice on funding bids and a programme
 of activities exploring the changing landscape for humanities research, LAHRI accommodates
 seminars and visiting fellows in the Clothworkers’ Hall, situated opposite the School. The Cultural
 Institute has provided pump-priming support to the impact work of King, Cathcart, and Meyer.
 These projects have included work with US and Korean diplomats, South Asian arts organisations,
 Leeds City Council, Probation Units, artists working in bereavement support, national and regional
 theatre organisations and television/radio impacts. It has also supported research for History and
 Policy including a website and interns. Such support has allowed the School to produce its own
 bespoke tools for advising colleagues on work with policy organisations, and local government
 agencies.

 A highly effective EU and International Team based in the University’s Research & Innovation
 Support Office provided tailored support at proposal, contract negotiation and contract award
 stages for European-funded projects.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 The School has consciously promoted a culture that sees research impact as an interactive
 process in which ownership of research processes and outcomes is shared by those implicated
 within them. History at Leeds has therefore fostered a system which promotes research as a public
 good that, within the legal context of intellectual property and academic rigour, should be shared
 as widely as possible. This system reflects Leeds historians’ collective ethical view of research: it
 must be as relevant as possible to the communities with whom it works. Equally, non-academic
 partners feed back into individual and collective research cultures.

 In addition to the four submitted impact case studies, fourteen further members of the School
 developed credible initial case studies. Thus, 45% of the members of the unit have delivered
 measurable impact during the current cycle. The School has embedded impact into its research
 culture so that it is now a normal part of research activity and recognised in workload allowances.

 The four submitted Impact Case Studies each arise from different research groups, Cities and
 Space (Gould), Global History (Cathcart), War and Peace (Ball), Health, Medicine and Society
 (King). Each benefited from the interchanges and activities of those groups, especially in the areas
 of museums and government policy. The resulting case studies are illustrative of the scope as well
 as the depth of the unit’s research groups.

 Gould’s research on the Partition of India has led to the promotion and maintenance of South
 Asian historical sites and underpinned events integral to British national commemoration of this
 historical moment. Working with the National Trust, Indian High Commission and Government of
 Maharashtra, his research has been pivotal in the legal protection of two significant sites of British
 Asian history in London – the India Club and Ambedkar House in Primrose Hill. Gould has also
 been central to the organisation and preparation of the national level South Asian Heritage Month
 project within which he has promoted South Asian history in school curricula.



                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ball’s research on British security policy is helping to create a museum within Berlin’s iconic
 Tempelhof Airport. The museum will be integral to the regeneration of the Tempelhof district of
 southern Berlin. This research disrupts orthodox chronologies in a way that reshapes the
 museum’s focus and approach. It has had a substantial impact on the future of a German national
 museum, through that museum on the policy of the Federal Government of Germany, and thus on
 the wider ‘Tempelhof Project’. In November 2015 the Federal Government granted €27 million to
 establish a new Allied Museum in Tempelhof.

 Cathcart’s research on Chinese-North Korean relations and the Sino-Korean border has been
 channeled directly to policy makers, including the UK Foreign Office, the US State Department,
 the US National Intelligence Council and the South Korean (ROK) Foreign Ministry. The research
 has also created a wide array of outputs for the general public and specialised think tank
 audiences such as the Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) and Chatham House, shaping
 debate about one of the most intractable problems in contemporary international politics.

 King has deployed historical research on everyday life, masculinity, families and emotions to
 collaborate with artists, museums, and government practitioners on life and death in modern
 Britain, helping individuals and families value their own expertise. Her research explores fathers’
 involvement in family life in past decades; cultural practices around childbirth and gendered
 parenting identities; and the verbal and non-verbal ‘languages’ families use to communicate about
 their deceased loved ones. The impact included changes in behaviour and policy in West
 Yorkshire Probation Services, the Leeds Bereavement Forum, and Leeds City Council.

 Policy, Third Sector and Civil Society impacts
 In this area, the School’s impact work explores the relationship between local, regional, national
 and international policy. The unit’s strength in global history has underpinned policy towards
 under-privileged or under-represented communities, but it has also taken part in top-level
 government initiatives in other areas. The School has worked across three main areas:

 Campaigning for marginalised groups:
 Saha’s online essay on the Rohingya was widely read and commented upon. It was re-blogged
 by the online platform New Mandala, a website hosted by the Australian National University that
 provides analysis on Southeast Asia. Notably, the Director General of the Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs in Bangladesh responded directly to Saha with admiration for his analysis. Gould
 appeared on an expert panel for the Cabinet Office in 2017, exploring the FCO’s White Paper on
 international corruption. Gould’s film documentary on denotified tribes in 1940s and 1950s India
 was cited as important in the Indian Government’s National Commission for Tribal Affairs
 Report. He continued to work with an anti-corruption NGO based in Uttar Pradesh – Asha
 Parivar – with whom he had set up ‘Public Information Centres’ to promote the Right to
 Information in northern India. Doyle’s Maternal Mortality project collaborated with Kenya’s
 Ministry of Health, National Council for Population and Development, and Kisumu County’s
 devolved government. The project will develop a radio mini-series and a TV documentary to be
 aired on Kenyan national TV. Doyle pursues work with Leeds-based global health
 obs/gynae/midwifery specialists, building in the findings of his work into their African hospitals
 (via the Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists). Dossett’s research collaboration
 with archives has provided new information for archivists and curators who have begun to
 change their practice to reflect the history of archiving, and provide access to previously
 neglected Black theatre manuscripts for theatre professionals. These manuscripts are now used

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in contexts such as the National Theatre in London and Leeds Playhouse, and have initiated a
 conversation about the history and future of Black drama and the role of theatre archives in
 shaping contemporary practice.

 History for better contemporary security:
 In 2015, Spiers delivered the keynote lecture on ‘100 years of chemical weapons and the future
 of the OPCW’, alongside the Director of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons
 (OPCW) at the British Ambassador’s Residence, The Hague. The audience included
 ambassadors, civil servants, military advisors and arms control lobbyists. Utley was re-
 commissioned in 2017 to run the Ministry of Defence Tri-Service short course programme that
 featured as a case study for REF2014. Arielli gave a presentation at the Home Office in London
 on how the British state has dealt with historical cases of Britons who served in foreign military
 conflicts without government permission. The presentation was attended by the Home Office’s
 Permanent Secretary and received very favourable feedback, recorded in the annual report of
 History & Policy. Arielli’s book on foreign war volunteers has been incorporated into the training
 programme of the US Army School of Advanced Military Studies. Leake was an invited speaker
 at a roundtable with government ministers at RUSI, on ‘The Future of Afghanistan’ in 2019. Ball
 delivered the ‘Strategic overviews’ for the HQ NATO Allied Rapid Reaction Corps’ (ARRC)
 ARCCADE CAESAR 14 & 15 exercises in 2014 and 2015. The purpose of the reviews was to
 better understand the history of strategy formation in alliance warfare, and to facilitate smoother
 international collaboration in ARRC’s current mission. Between 2015 and 2017 Ball also ran a
 collaborative project with the Foreign & Commonwealth Office’s Chief Historian on the role
 international history can play in policy advice.

 Commemorating the Great War:
 Meyer was heavily involved in First World War commemorative activities as part of the University’s
 Legacies of War project, especially events aimed at young people in northern England. She used
 her research on the Royal Army Medical Corps to work with Yorkshire primary schools to develop
 a website on medical caregivers during the war. She took part in the Somme 100 Experience
 Field in Manchester, and in the Great War debates in Stockport and Liverpool - initiatives
 organised by the DfE and the Department for Culture, Media and Sport for GCSE and A-level
 students. In 2014 Ball contributed the essay for the 10 Downing Street Guest Historians series
 published to mark the 100th anniversary of Britain’s declaration of war on Germany. The Prime
 Minister’s office tweeted the essay to its 2.7 million followers.

 Museums, galleries and archives impacts
 Work with museums, galleries and arts organisations has expanded this cycle and encompasses
 local, regional and international institutions, advising on curation, the planning and design of new
 infrastructural initiatives and on policies of exhibit repatriation.

 Industrial museums:
 Blaszczyk collaborated with the Fashion and Textile Department at the V&A in London, on an
 exhibition catalogue on Mary Quant (2019). The catalogue accompanied a retrospective exhibition
 on Quant held at the V&A in 2019-20. She has also delivered invited lectures on her research to
 international museums and fashion organisations, notably the American Textile History museum
 (2013), Corning Museum of Glass (2015), and Textilmuseum, St Gallen, Switzerland (2018), the
 Fashion Incubator at Macy’s (2014), The Chemical Heritage Foundation, Philadelphia (2014), the
 Institut Français de la Mode (2014), and the Fashion Institute of Technology (2018).

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Museum interventions on colonialism, migration and diaspora:
 Saha curated the ‘Elephants and Empire’ exhibition at the Myanmar Deitta photographic gallery in
 Yangon in 2017. The exhibition became part of the permanent educational display at the Green
 Hill Valley Elephant Camp, a sanctuary for retired timber elephants. His on-line exhibition,
 ‘Buddhas and Birdskins – Bringing Burma to Bristol in the Age of Empire’ was launched in 2015
 and showcases artefacts acquired in colonial Burma and held by Bristol Museum. In 2020 Anim-
 Addo worked with the Royal Museums Greenwich as they re-designed ‘The Atlantic Gallery:
 Slavery, Trade, Empire’. Gould helped to organise a major exhibition that ran between February
 and June 2019, at the Bradford National Science and Media Museum, entitled ‘Above the Noise:
 15 Stories from Bradford’. He also worked with Manchester Museum in framing its response to
 South Asian Heritage Month. In 2019, Fear became the historical advisor to the Independence
 Palace Museum, Saigon, advising the museum director and curatorial team on an exhibition on
 the Second Republic of South Vietnam (1967-1975). Anderson worked with the Basque Children
 of ’37 Association on organising their exhibition at the Instituto Cervantes in London in 2019.

 UK museums concerned with national identity:
 the late Malcolm Chase advised the Parliamentary Art Collection on ‘The Beginnings of that
 Freedome’ [sic] banner exhibition in Parliament’s Westminster Hall held in 2015. The exhibition
 provided a dynamic visual representation of the milestone movements that ‘made a difference in
 the journey to the rights and representation that we enjoy today’. In 2017, Chase provided York
 Museums Trust with consultancy regarding the York Castle Museum and its use for the
 incarceration of political prisoners. Spiers has provided consultancy to National Museums
 Scotland, the National Army Museum, the National Research Foundation of South Africa, and to
 Museum Galleries Scotland. For the latter, he submitted a testimonial in support of the Scottish
 regimental museums in their bid, which was successful, to achieve recognition as ‘Collections of
 National Significance’ (2017).

 Museums working in medicine and family histories:
 In 2015, McCleery’s ‘You are What you Ate’ Wellcome Trust project with Wakefield Council, ran
 school workshops in Wakefield Museum. This resulted in a schools resource pack that has been
 used nationally. McCleery’s ‘Health: Looking at Life from Cradle to Grave’, funded by a Wellcome
 ISSF award, involving Bamji, King and Meyer created a mobile exhibition that visited two hospitals
 and seven libraries in Leeds and Wakefield (2016-17). King has worked extensively with the
 Thackray Medical Museum, Leeds Museums and Galleries, Leeds Central Library, West Yorkshire
 Queer Stories, West Yorkshire Archive Services, the Tetley, British Library, and Live Art Bistro.
 Meyer advised on a series of exhibitions as part of First World War commemorations: for example,
 at the National Railway Museum, York (2016-17) on hospital trains and at the National Army
 Museum on masculinity (2017).

 Public engagement: beneficiaries, users and audiences
 Leeds historians have made major and wide-ranging contributions to the media over the cycle,
 deploying their research to the benefit of programme makers and audiences.

 Television:
     John Gallagher devised and presented the BBC4 documentary ‘Scuffles, Swagger and
        Shakespeare: The Hidden Story of English’ in November 2019, which received universally
        positive reviews.

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Barker was historical consultant for the BBC’s period drama Versailles, and appeared in
        the televised post-episode discussions.
       Chase provided BBC Radio 4 consultancy and extended interviews on Chartism for ‘British
        Socialism: the Grand Tour’ (2018). His media consultancy also included BBC1’s ‘The One
        Show’, for a feature on the 1820 Cato Street Conspiracy and fake news (2018); BBC1’s
        ‘Who Do You Think You Are? (Welsh Chartism, the Victorian Early Closing Movement, and
        Birmingham and Manchester radical politics); for BBC4 he advised for the documentary
        ‘Railways: The Making of a Nation’.
       Linch has advised on three episodes of ‘Who Do You Think You Are?’ and Meyer on a
        further episode.
       Major has appeared on BBC1, BBC2 and BBC4 discussing her research on women and
        indentured labour in India.
       Gould appeared in BBC2’s ‘Seven Days in Summer’ – a well-reviewed documentary on
        India’s Partition in August 2017.
       In 2020, Ball was script consultant for the BBC series Boniface and the Sky series Legacy
        of Ashes. He contributed to RTÉ’s centenary history of the Irish revolution in 2019.

 Radio:
     BBC Radio 3 commissioned Gallagher to make and present ‘The History of the Tongue’.
        Broadcast in 2019 it was selected as ‘Pick of the Week’ on Radio 4.
     Dossett appeared on BBC World Service as the expert for: ‘Witness History: The First Play
        on Broadway Written by a Black Women’ in 2019. In 2017 she was an ‘expert witness’ for
        the BBC Radio 4 ‘Great Lives’ documentary on Shirley Chisholm and was interviewed by
        Radio 4 Woman’s Hour on the history of women running for the US presidency.
     Gould appeared extensively on radio and television on the 70th Anniversary of India’s
        Partition (August 2017), including BBC Radio 4’s ‘Beyond Belief’, Radio 5 Live, and TRT
        World. He also appeared on Sky News and LBC radio on 6 August 2019 around the crisis
        in Kashmir.
     Flynn appeared on BBC Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time’ as an expert on Hildegard of Bingen on
        26 June 2014.
     Ball provided contributions on assassination for BBC Radio 4’s ‘Punt PI’ in 2017-18. Meyer
        contributed to a series of radio programmes on World War One, including the BBC’s Home
        Front series.

 Contribution to the research base
 Journal editorship
 The School of History makes a significant contribution to editing major academic journals.
 Members of the School edited five journals listed on the Social Science Citation Index (SSCI),
 defined by a high volume of submissions, global reach, rigorous peer review, and high ethical
 standards.
      The School owns Northern History, the oldest regional historical journal, published since
        1966 and still the exemplar of rigorous regional history, covering the period of late antiquity
        to the present. Barrow and Green edit Northern History, and the School employs an
        administrative associate editor.
      Barcia-Paz edits Atlantic Studies: Global Currents. The journal publishes research on the
        Atlantic world as a conceptual, historical, and cultural space.
      Doyle edits The Journal of African History that ranges thematically over social, economic,
        political, cultural and intellectual history.

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Until 2019 Frank edited Contemporary European History, covering all regions of Europe
        since 1918 with a particular mission as a channel of communication between Anglophone
        and European historians.
       Anderson edits another key journal for Europeanists, the European History Quarterly which
        ranges from the late Middle Ages to the present.
       Saha sits on the editorial collective of History Workshop Journal, the leading journal for
        radical history in the world, and pioneering in the politics of historical knowledge.
       Ball edits War in History, the leading world journal for the study of war in all its aspects:
        economic, social, political and military. He sits on the editorial board of Intelligence and
        National Security.
       Gould sits on the board of Contemporary South Asia.
       Eldridge sits on the board of French History.
       Blaszczyk was associate editor of Design History until 2015.
       Chase was on the editorial boards of Cultural & Social History and Llafur: the Journal of
        Welsh People’s History and Yorkshire Archaeological Journal.
       Murray is an editorial board member of History: Journal of the University of Latvia and of
        Ordines Militares: Yearbook for the Study of the Military Orders.
       McCleery is on the advisory committee of the Journal of Medieval Iberian Studies.
       Jamroziak serves on the editorial boards of the Journal of Medieval Monastic Studies and
        Northern History.
       Thorpe sits on the editorial board of Contemporary British History.
       Leake is on the editorial advisory board of the British Journal of Military History.
       Gupta is a reviews editor for the Journal of Transport History.

 Collaborations, partnerships and contributions to the discipline
 The School has developed a rigorous internationalisation strategy, spearheaded by Leake (School
 of History internationalisation officer) and Barcia-Paz (Pro-Dean: Internationalisation, Faculty of
 Arts, Humanities and Cultures) which runs through all its research, but which has specific
 structures based in Global History. The most prominent institutional research collaborations during
 the REF cycle are with Government College Lahore, Jindal and Ashoka Universities, New Delhi,
 and NTU Singapore. The School is also building MOUs with Sorbonne Nouvelle, Paris and Arizona
 State University. In the latter, the School, via Global History group, will explore ‘Imperial
 Aftermaths’: twinned workshops were already held at NTU Singapore in 2019 and in Leeds in
 2020. The School also developed a similar collaboration with Shanghai Jiao Tong University,
 organising a joint research workshop in 2019.

 The Institute of Medieval Studies is a permanent sub-unit of the School of History, whilst also
 functioning as a University institute and one of the UK’s major research centres for the
 interdisciplinary study of the Middle Ages. Under the leadership first of Barrow and then of
 Jamroziak, the IMS celebrated its 50th Anniversary in 2018. The IMS runs the International
 Medieval Congress (IMC). A standing committee of IMS researchers and a 39-strong international
 committee oversees the IMC. Founded in Leeds in 1994 IMC is the key international conference
 for Medieval Studies worldwide. It celebrated its 25th anniversary in 2018 with over 2,900 medieval
 studies researchers from sixty-five countries gathering in Leeds. Since 2015, IMC attendance has
 increased steadily with an average of 60% of delegates from outside the UK. In addition to the
 2000+ papers given every year, the IMC brings together international publishers, archives,
 heritage organisations, artists and performers.



                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within the IMS, Murray is Editorial Director of the International Medieval Bibliography (IMB), a
 central feature of medieval research worldwide. The IMB is funded by the Belgian publisher,
 Brepols: Brepols pays for two REF Category A staff salaries, and PGR interns within the School.
 Murray’s team in Leeds writes 65% of IMB entries, and edits further entries in over 20 languages,
 contributed by 40 researchers worldwide. The IMS has established a partnership with Poitiers
 University’s Centre d'études supérieures de civilisation medieval which creates a common
 platform for online searching of the IMB and the complementary Bibliographie de Civilisation
 Mediévale.

 Other partnerships activities: Members of the School have played a key role in important recent
 work by History’s scholarly organisations, reflecting a wider culture of giving back to the discipline.
 Most prominently, Saha co-chaired the RHS’s Race, Ethnicity & Equality Working Group. The
 group investigated inequalities facing BAME historians in UK HE Institutions and its report was
 widely cited in mainstream media across UK. Saha is also a committee member of the Social
 History Society and is one of the assessors of the Society’s newly created BAME Activities and
 Small Grants scheme. Barrow sits on the Council of the British Academy, and sat on the Council
 of the RHS until 2019. Anim-Addo is Vice-Chair of the Society for Caribbean Studies and held
 leadership roles with them since 2014. Chase was elected Trustee of the Yorkshire Archaeological
 & Historical Society. Dossett was Deputy Chair of the British Association of American Studies
 between 2016 and 2019 and in 2017 founded the national Women in American Studies Network.
 King is Deputy Director of History & Policy, focusing on the north of England. Meyer is president
 of the International Society for First World War Studies. Hall served on the executive committee
 of the British Association for American Studies, 2015-2018. Barcia-Paz was jury member for the
 2019 Frederick Douglass Book Prize, co-sponsored by Yale/Columbia universities. He was also
 member of the editorial committee for the Atlantic Slaves Data Network and the Society for Latin
 American Studies (SLAS) Executive Committee. Eldridge was Membership Secretary for the
 Society for the Study of French History 2012-18. She is currently the Society’s Conference Officer.
 Fear is a member of the executive committee of the Vietnam Studies Group, part of the Association
 for Asian Studies. Gupta has served on the executive committee of the British Association of South
 Asian Studies (BASAS). Gould is a trustee and currently Chair for the Charles Wallace Trust, India
 – the only UK based organization funding short-term research projects Indian scholars. Leake
 serves on the conference committee, Society for Historians of American Foreign Relations
 (SHAFR).

 Harris is member of the Advisory Board of the Stalin Digital Archive (Yale University), a project
 funded by the Andrew Mellon Foundation and Carnegie Corporation of America. Afflerbach is
 Deputy Head of the Scholarly Board of the Otto-von-Bismarck Foundation, a state-owned
 institution responsible for investigating Bismarck’s political heritage. He is also member in the
 editorial staff of Bismarck’s collected works (Neue Friedrichsruher Ausgabe). Alford is patron of
 the Lord Burghley 500 Foundation which promoted an international commemoration of the 500th
 anniversary of the birth of William Cecil (First Baron Burghley) in 2020, and academic initiatives
 towards a long-term legacy. Green is Chairman of the Trustees of the think tank the Social Affairs
 Unit. Thorpe was Honorary Editor of the Devon and Cornwall Record Society, which has published
 documents relating to the two counties since 1906, from 1998-2020.

 Nineteen colleagues have undertaken peer review of grant applications as members of AHRC
 and/or ESRC peer review colleges. Members of the unit have served as external examiners for
 PhDs at 25 leading universities in Britain and 12 universities overseas.

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 20
