Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University

 Unit of Assessment: 17

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context

 Over the last five decades, the Ulster University Business School (UUBS) has built an
 international reputation for academic excellence in research and teaching. At the same time, it
 is recognised in the region for providing impactful research support to organisations in developing
 and enhancing their business and management capability. Research by the UUBS Unit of
 Assessment (‘the Unit’) aligns with the priority areas of key stakeholders such as the UK
 Government (Taylor Review on Working Practices and Productivity), ESRC (Productivity,
 Innovation and Governance) and the Northern Ireland Department for the Economy (Building a
 Stronger Economy). This approach positions us to inform and influence policy development and
 implementation, and we enable our researchers to engage in world-leading work that ultimately
 enhances organisational innovation, efficiency and effectiveness in a range of sectors.

 The key strategic objective of the current REF cycle has been to build upon the achievements of
 the REF 2014 period, when the focus was on research selectivity, increasing our overall research
 power, in terms of numbers of staff submitted while prioritising research with the best potential
 for regional, national and international application. The key developments in this REF period
 include:

 •   Increasing the number of staff returned from 22.4 FTE in REF 2014 to 34.4 FTE in REF
     2021.
 •   Enabling collaboration between our researchers and international colleagues, resulting in
     over 50% of submitted outputs involving international authors, compared to 42% in REF
     2014.
 •   A research spend of almost £7.5M in competitive external research grants, representing a
     53% increase on the levels of funding received during the REF 2014 period.
 •   A vibrant PhD community, achieving 89% satisfaction rate in the 2019 Postgraduate
     Research Experience Survey (PRES), placing us third in the sector.
 •   An investment of £1M by Ulster University in a Food and Drink Business Development
     Centre as part of our Institutional strategic aim to support the regional economy.

 Unit Structure

 UUBS’s staffing strategy is implemented by the Faculty Associate Dean for Research and Impact
 (Humphreys), a post newly created in this REF period. The Unit’s Research Director (RD)
 (McCracken), working alongside senior researchers, is responsible for putting into
 operation and monitoring the strategy. Together, the senior team ensures that staff are provided
 with leadership, vision, training, resources, equipment and space to continue to build on the
 Unit’s thriving research culture and achievements.

 Given our Civic University ethos, the Unit recognises the need for research to be openly
 accessible to all. Researchers are encouraged to publish in open access outlets, with ringfenced
 funds to support this initiative. A dedicated executive administrative assistant supports
 researchers to ensure that their outputs meet compliance regulations for accessibility of
 publications to the wider academic community and the general public.

 In addition, all active researchers are required to undertake the University Research Integrity
 Programme (100% completion has been achieved in the Unit), which is a mandatory course for
 anyone conducting research with human participants that also engages researchers with ethics,
 diversity and equality issues. Our Business and Management Ethics Filter Committee (Chair -


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Miller) reviews all staff, PhD or student research involving human participants; depending on the
 level of risk the University Research Ethics Committee’s approval may also be required.

 Research is organised across three broad sub-disciplines, Operations Management and
 Contemporary Organisational Issues, Accounting and Finance and Marketing. In addition
 to these three main research themes, there are two research centres based in the Faculty: the
 Food and Drink Business Development Centre (FDBDC) and the Economic Policy Centre
 (EPC).

 Operations Management and Contemporary Organisational Issues

 The Unit has a long-established tradition of research in the Operations Management field, with
 key areas of investigation coalescing around supply management and innovation in business
 processes. For example, researchers have investigated sourcing decision-making (Loane,
 McIvor and Humphreys); organisational culture and supplier development strategies (Cadden
 and McKittrick); supply chain dynamics and interorganisational systems (Fang); lean
 management (Humphreys) and performance measurement and quality management (McAdam).
 Researchers have also investigated organisational innovation, focussing on operations,
 innovation and R&D investment (Wiengarten, Yeung); transportation dynamics (Carey; McHugh;
 McIvor and Humphreys) and informational processing and decision-making (Fang). Another area
 of work has centred on corporate social responsibility and ethical issues in operations
 management, with a particular focus on corporate environmental initiatives and health and
 safety - operational risk management (Yeung, Humphreys, Wiengarten and McAdam).

 Researchers in this sub-discipline have also studied contemporary organisational issues
 linked to international business. Beamish, Miller and Wu have examined joint ventures and
 offshoring in organisations and senior executive behaviour in international firms. Power and Boyd
 have contributed to the tourism domain, focussing particularly on ethical and post-conflict
 tourism, while several researchers have sought to understand organisational innovation in
 terms of enhanced strategies for people management and employee behaviour (McCracken,
 Fang), value co-creation and technology transfer (Miller, Woods, Bonner, Ibbotson, McAdam,
 Moffett) as well as delivery of educational development interventions (Joseph-Richard,
 Hollywood). The unique insights of Ulster’s research in this area include:

 •   Wiengarten and Humphreys’ exploration of the related issues of health and safety and
     managerial behaviour in the workplace. They have shown the importance of regulation
     adherence and how firms which breach safety regulations are exposed to negative long-term
     financial performance.
 •   The research carried out by McIvor and Cadden has influenced policy-makers and strategic
     funding bodies with regard to sourcing decisions (this research underpins Impact Case
     Study 1 (ICS1)).
 •   University technology transfer, which has been the focus for several researchers including
     Miller, Woods, Bonner, Ibbotson, McAdam and Moffett. For example, in their research Miller
     and McAdam have provided new evidence on the contribution of universities to economic
     development.

 Accounting and Finance

 The research carried out in this sub-discipline is aligned with contemporary accountancy and
 finance issues. For example, corporate social responsibility issues have been a key
 emphasis, with research into: ethical accounting practice (Ballantine, Ward); organisational
 governance (Ballantine, Gallagher); and fiscal power devolution (Birnie) taking centre stage.
 Others have investigated board diversity (Ward); non-departmental public bodies (Wall);
 trade union finance (Tong) and economic history (Henderson). Illustrative highlights of key
 projects include the work of:



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   Ballantine, who in her research on ethical banking issues devised a mechanism to
     conceptualise accounting and accountability for the common good.
 •   Ward, who investigated gender diversity and showed that Boards with higher female
     representation exhibited superior financial management when measured against return on
     assets.
 •   Birnie, who in his authoritative research on fiscal devolution, investigated which taxes
     were the most suitable candidates for levying by devolved governments.
 •   Henderson, who in his research linking religion to economic development in post-
     Famine Ireland, identified an economic convergence between Catholics and Protestants,
     providing evidence of an upward socioeconomic transition by the Catholic population.

 Marketing

 In the diverse field of marketing, UUBS has pursued two key themes for achievement of
 maximum impact on the Northern Ireland (NI) economy. First, given the prevalence of Small and
 Medium Sized Enterprises (SMEs) in the NI region, the marketing/entrepreneurship nexus is
 a dominant area. McCartan and McGowan have examined knowledge management and
 decision-making in entrepreneurial firms, while Quinn and Hutchinson have investigated
 internationalisation and SME performance. Related to this, understanding innovation and
 economic development in food production and small rural agri-food firms has also been a key
 focus (Quinn; Furey; Ramsey).

 Secondly, by tracking the changing economic landscape and the influence of technological
 advances in organisations, several researchers in this group have explored the role of the
 internet and social media in firms’ marketing (Brown, Ramsey). Simmons and Brown have
 also studied more traditional marketing issues in the context of branding innovations, while
 Brown, Cotte and Brennan have focussed on services and retail marketing as well as consumer
 behaviour. During this REF period researchers have made significant contributions in these
 areas. For example:

 •   Research undertaken by Quinn into SME owner-managers/entrepreneurs in the artisan
     food producer sector forms the basis for ICS 3. The underpinning research investigated
     how artisan firms need to reinforce formal/informal networks, family associations and
     international sources.
 •   Brown has explored the influence of retro brands in contemporary markets.
 •   Cotte has examined online betting habits and provided guidance to policy-makers on
     consumer behaviour.
 •   From a retailing perspective, Simmons has investigated how UK retailer loyalty card data
     can help retailers better understand their consumers’ preferences.
 •   Furey and Hollywood’s interdisciplinary work on food insecurity, which forms the basis of
     ICS 2, demonstrates the importance of retailers in promoting heathy food choices.

 Research Centres

 The FDBDC was established in 2018 as a response to the need to strengthen the NI regional
 economy in key priority areas, one of which is agri-food. The sector had sales in excess of £5Bn
 in 2019 and is a major exporter, with 65% of turnover going overseas. Four new appointments
 to the Centre were made at professorial and senior lecturer levels, representing an investment
 of £1M over five years. Research in the FDBDC focuses on the food supply chain and
 researchers work with colleagues from the three core thematic areas to address issues related
 to agri-food SME innovation capabilities (Quinn, Simmons), food security / poverty and
 consumer behaviour (Hollywood, Furey), as well as supply chain and technology-driven
 distribution solutions (Cadden, Humphreys, McIvor). Several researchers work with
 colleagues from other faculties: Furey and Hollywood with Life and Health Sciences (LHS) on
 the use of global positioning technology to track rural food poverty and Cadden with Computing
 and Engineering (CE), on the application of blockchain technology to food traceability.


                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The EPC focuses on applied research, designed to inform Government policy on the
 development of the NI economy. Miller, Bonner and Birnie work closely with colleagues in the
 EPC, conducting research into developing skills, innovation and competitiveness in the
 region. A clear example of the applied nature of the research undertaken in the Centre is the
 construction of a skills barometer, designed to estimate future skill needs and gaps by level,
 sector and subject area. Colleagues in the Unit have utilised findings from this skills barometer
 to further inform their research. For example, McIvor and Cadden have studied the implications
 of Brexit for Irish firms and the need for those firms to develop enhanced skills and capability for
 sourcing and supply chain innovation.

 Research and Impact Strategy

 Research Strategy

 During this REF cycle, the Unit has been guided by the University’s five-year strategic plan (2017-
 2022). The University aims to “deliver globally significant research with local relevance; …
 and make a lasting contribution to society”. This Institutional strategic focus, which centres
 around relevance and renewal, is also reflected in the overall UUBS vision to “create
 possibility … shape the futures of our students and build opportunity into the businesses
 they will join”. This ambition for impact is embodied by our researchers and embedded in our
 key strategic objectives and actions for the current REF period:

       Key Objectives                    Progress to Date / Support and Activities

  To increase the number       Progress: 54% increase in staff submitted to the REF, from 22.4
  of staff submitted to REF    FTE in REF 2014 to 34.4 FTE in REF 2021.
  2021 and to build a
  supportive and collegiate    Support: Formal and informal mentoring has enabled ECRs
  research culture.            to work with experienced colleagues. Investment has been
                               made in recruiting new research leaders (Miller; Simmons)
                               and new researchers (Bonner, Power, Gallagher, Woods) to
                               enhance research capacity in terms of new research funding
                               streams, PhD scholarship collaboration and research outputs.

  To continue to facilitate    Progress: Members continue to publish in world-leading
  Unit members in              journals in the Business and Management field.
  producing world-leading
  outputs and to               Support: The Unit provides less experienced researchers with a
  disseminate their            peer review process for their outputs, by which senior staff who
  research internationally.    have substantial experience in publishing can provide advice
                               and guidance on crafting their submission. There is also a
                               monthly journal paper publishing clinic, where researchers
                               can get advice on, for example, critiquing the literature and data
                               analysis. In addition, researchers are allocated financial
                               support (£2k per annum) to attend international conferences,
                               which often leads to publications, and are encouraged to
                               participate in the Unit-led Research Seminar Series of internal
                               events and networking forums.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  To build on existing          Progress: The Unit has renewed its focus on interdisciplinary
  collaborations with other     research in key areas of innovation, entrepreneurship in SMEs,
  faculties and enhance         and the agri-food supply chain. Several PhD researchers are
  interdisciplinary research,   jointly supervised with other faculties (e.g. Humphreys and
  develop partnerships and      McIvor with Maguire from CE in supervising Badakshan; Miller
  research collaborations       with Dornan from LHS in supervising Rhine). Researchers
  with national and             collaborate with national and international colleagues in
  international scholars.       publishing (over 50% of REF submitted outputs are with
                                international colleagues) and funded projects (e.g. Brennan with
                                CE and LHS on a UKRI - GCRF project).

                                Support: Researchers have been encouraged to participate in
                                University-wide development initiatives as well as external
                                capacity-building events, organised by, for example, BAM,
                                EISAM and ESRC, to encourage cross-fertilisation of ideas
                                and research interests and enhance their capacity to apply for
                                external grant funding as well as publishing for impact.

  To increase external          Progress: Unit members have increased research funding
  competitive research          spend by 51% from £4.9M in REF 2014 to over £7.4M by the
  funding by 50% over the       end of the current REF cycle. Unit members have received
  current REF period from       grants from a diverse range of funding bodies including the
  a range of funding            ESRC and EU, charitable trusts and public bodies.
  sources.
                                Support: Unit members are encouraged to attend funding
                                workshops to improve their writing for grant applications. At the
                                same time, researchers work closely with professional service
                                colleagues in the Department for Research and Impact. For
                                example, those colleagues review potential grant opportunities
                                online and inform us of any which fall within the research
                                expertise of colleagues in the Unit. Approximately 30% of our
                                research funding is as a result of this monitoring by support
                                services. In addition, given their global view of grants across the
                                faculties, they assist in identifying cross-disciplinary
                                opportunities, which represent 20% of our research funds.

  To collaborate with the       Progress: In the 2019 PRES survey, PhD researchers
  Ulster University Doctoral    registered high satisfaction levels (89%), which is above the
  College (DC) to improve       national benchmark for the sector. During the current REF
  the quality and delivery of   period we managed to raise our PhD completions by 3% from
  doctoral studies.             34.33 completions in 2014 to 35.53 in 2021 . Collaborations
                                with other institutions (e.g. Kempten University of Applied
                                Sciences) and funders (e.g. Department of Agriculture,
                                Environment and Rural Affairs (DAERA), Teagasc (the Irish
                                Agriculture and Food Development Authority), the Northern
                                Ireland and North East Doctoral Training Partnership (NINE
                                DTP) and Ghana Government) have helped to enhance the
                                diversity of our PhD cohort. We currently have PhD researchers
                                from a wide range of nationalities (Belarus, China, Germany,
                                Ghana, India, Iran, Ireland, Sweden and UK).

                                Support: To ensure that our PhD researchers feel supported,
                                listened to and integrated into the Unit, the RD and PG tutor
                                work closely with the DC and PhD supervisors in monitoring
                                their progress. There is a fortnightly meeting held with all PhD
                                researchers, to identify any areas which require improvement
                                and to rectify any problems. All PhD researchers are

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                              encouraged to utilise developmental funding to enhance their
                              knowledge and develop networks and research skills by
                              presenting at international/national research conferences and
                              doctoral colloquiums.


 Impact Strategy

 Based on the Institutional Research and Impact Strategy (2017-2022) we have embedded a
 ‘culture of impact’ in all of our activities and have achieved success with our strategic focus on
 funding sources that maximise economic and societal impact. The UUBS has strong links with
 regional and national commercial organisations, enabling researchers to work with established
 networks and build relationships with research users and stakeholders (many of whom are UUBS
 alumni), especially professional associations and public sector bodies. For example, McIvor and
 Cadden have worked with Manufacturing NI (a lobbying organisation for manufacturing firms in
 NI) and Intertrade Ireland (a Government-funded organisation that helps SMEs on the island of
 Ireland) to explore new sourcing strategies to manage Brexit-related supply chain risks.

 To ensure that research in the Unit is relevant to the wider community, members are encouraged
 to engage with policy-making and representative organisations. Several of our senior
 members hold, or have held, high profile positions in key organisations which are pivotal in
 achieving and promoting research and encouraging knowledge exchange within stakeholder
 communities. For example, McHugh is currently a member of the IoD NI Committee and IoD UK
 Council. As a former President of the Institute for Small Business and Entrepreneurship (2015-
 17), McGowan plays a key role in developing relationships and engaging the SME community
 with research. These efforts are facilitated by our links with the Federation of Small Business
 (the current regional head sits on the UUBS advisory board).

 Other members (for example Furey and Hollywood, Quinn and McAdam) have worked closely
 with policy-makers in the area of agri-food development, including DAERA and the Food
 Standards Agency (FSA), as well with as a range of prominent retailers (Tesco, Marks and
 Spencer, Asda and Lidl). This work by Furey and Hollywood is showcased in ICS 2, which
 provides evidence that food affordability is inextricably linked to health and wellbeing. Research
 underpinning ICS 3 by McAdam and Quinn makes recommendations on food strategy for artisan
 agri-food producers in the UK and Europe.

 Researchers also interact with stakeholders in the co-production of research. For example, the
 recent Business Support Initiative, led by Miller, was established to understand how research
 in the Unit can help businesses mitigate the impact of COVID. Typical interactions focused on
 tourism and the importance of establishing knowledge-sharing clusters to enable SMEs to cope
 with COVID impacts. In 2020 McCracken joined the PrOPEL Hub, a collaborative ESRC-funded
 research project with six UK universities and the Chartered Institute of Personnel and
 Development (CIPD). The project is designed to maximise the impact of ESRC research by
 supporting productivity improvement with enhanced workplace employee engagement.

 Another strategy for maximising the impact of research is to ensure effective knowledge
 translation through the adaptation of research findings to specific policy and practice
 contexts. Unit members have presented their research at the Knowledge Exchange Seminar
 Series (KESS) for members of the NI Assembly and their advisers. For example, Ballantine and
 Wall presented findings on their study of gender budgeting in the public sector in April 2017, and
 in February 2016 Hollywood delivered a KESS briefing that informed the NI Assembly and
 Executive Review Committee about the importance of local produce and of creating added-value
 food products. These KESS events are significant as they offer (for the first time in the UK) an
 opportunity for enhanced research exchange between academics and policy-makers on vitally
 important social and economic issues. Researcher interaction with key stakeholders is also
 illustrated by the dissemination of the Advance HE research (McCracken and McHugh) into
 Senior Leadership Development in UK Higher Education.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Researchers have reached wider audiences by engaging with the stakeholder community
 through events (public meetings, project launches and evaluation events), interactive media
 (project websites, podcasts, webzines and webinars) and publications (leaflets, booklets). For
 example, Intertrade Ireland hosts on its website for businesses McIvor and Cadden’s research
 findings on the impact of Brexit for supply chains. Birnie gave oral evidence on the potential
 effects of Brexit on the NI economy to the House of Commons Department for Exiting the EU
 Committee (October 2019). Our researchers are expert communicators who, as trusted sources
 of specialist commentary on business and management issues for the media and policy-makers,
 regularly make their research and expertise accessible to the mainstream.

 Future Development

 We have three key strategic objectives for the future direction of the Unit:

  Strategic Objective         Future Outcomes

  Build on the investment     It is anticipated that by the end of the next REF cycle the Centre
  in a FDBDC by creating      will provide a fully integrated research facility to support the agri-
  a world-leading             food sector. The Centre will consist of a number of research labs,
  research hub which:         and will provide access to digital consumer data sets in the
                              following areas:
   i. brings together
      expertise along the     •   A Food and Consumer Testing Suite (already established)
      agri-food supply            which offers producers the opportunity to create new food or
      chain from a range          drink products and test their appropriateness for the market.
      of disciplines.         •   A Consumer Insight Lab (currently being constructed)
  ii. supports producers,         consisting of a virtual reality store, allowing retailers to
      distributors, retailers     evaluate different product designs, store layouts and
      and consumers with          consumer behaviour.
      impactful research.     •   Loyalty card data from retailers (currently utilising Dunnhumby
                                  data), which allows producers to identify new product ideas.
                              •   Food insecurity measurements using alternative technologies
                                  such as geographical information systems.
                              •   An assessment of the impact of our buying habits on health,
                                  based on large scale consumer behaviour studies.
                              •   An evaluation of the use of new technologies, such as sensory
                                  devices and blockchain technology in monitoring products as
                                  they move along the supply chain.

  Establishment of an         The ITC is a proposed new centre to support research on global
  International Trade         trade. As a result of the NI protocol, the region is in the unique
  Centre (ITC) to study       position of remaining in the EU Customs Union, while the rest of
  global trading              the UK is outside. This presents significant trade opportunities for
  relationships post Brexit   NI businesses nationally and internationally. Potential research
                              areas include:

                              •   Logistics management
                              •   International marketing
                              •   Customs and border management
                              •   International trade policy
                              •   Global supply chains
                              •   Customs reform and new technologies

                              It is anticipated that the research activities of the Centre will
                              examine best practice approaches to trade and border


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                           management, providing empirical evidence to inform strategic
                           decision-making and policy.

  Support the continuing   •   Build on the funded scholarship opportunities across the UK
  development of our           and Ireland. For example, Teagasc, DAERA, NINE DTP
  doctoral programme           pathways.
  and ECRs                 •   Attract high quality international PhD researchers, working
                               closely with the Faculty Associate Dean for Global
                               Engagement and international partner universities.
                           •   Engage with the next generation of researchers, practitioners
                               and policy-makers by being open to multidisciplinary research
                               and oriented to impact, through our doctoral, taught
                               postgraduate programmes and short courses.
                           •   Encourage the continuing development of our doctoral
                               programme to enable and support researchers who produce
                               original and rigorous research, address issues through
                               multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary perspectives, and
                               demonstrate commitment to ethics and integrity.

  To extend and            •   Develop the sustainability and excellence of our research by
  strengthen our funding       targeting diverse research funders, including the Research
  base                         Councils, Global Challenges Research Fund, EU and
                               prestigious charitable funders.
                           •   Sustain current high levels of grant income generation,
                               profiling innovative and rigorous interdisciplinary and empirical
                               research.
                           •   Drive funding through the two research centres, FDBDC and
                               ITC, by encouraging cross-faculty and international
                               collaboration.



 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Resourcing and Workload

 Since the 2008 RAE and 2014 REF submissions, a dual approach resourcing strategy has been
 used:

 (i)    We continue to ‘grow our own’ researchers, developing both experienced and newer
        academic staff to complement and sustain our strong core of established researchers.
        During this period, five members who were previously not research active for REF 2014
        have been submitted to REF 2021. These members have further developed their
        expertise in key strategic areas linked to economic performance and competitiveness
        (Birnie; Brennan), sustainable tourism development (Boyd); digital marketing (McCartan)
        and SME innovation and growth (Quinn).

 (ii)   We have augmented our base by externally recruiting talented researchers. Over the
        current REF cycle, we have recruited ten new members of staff whose skills and
        knowledge complement those of existing staff, enhancing the vitality of research in the
        areas of marketing, innovation and entrepreneurship (Gallagher; Miller); accounting,
        finance and economics (Birnie; Bonner; Tong); Leadership and Human Resource
        Management (Joseph-Richard; Woods); and Hospitality and Tourism Management
        (Hollywood; Power; Simmons). A key expectation for all new applicants for research-


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        relevant positions is a PhD qualification, and the RD attends selection interviews to
        ensure that all research-related appointments strategically align to the work of the Unit.

 This dual approach has succeeded in assuring continuity of research development and has
 increased the number of staff submitted from 22.4 FTE in REF 2014 to 34.4 FTE in REF 2021
 (Table 1 shows research-active staff by role).

 Table 1: Unit Staff by position
               Total          Professor         Senior Lecturer / Reader        Lecturer
  REF 2014 (22.4 FTE)         10.4              8                               4
  REF 2021 (34.4 FTE)         14.4              12 (1 ECR)                      8 (5 ECR)

 Several of those who have taken up teaching and research roles recently are Ulster PhD alumni
 (Gallagher, Hollywood, Simmons, Miller) who have returned from other institutions (Liverpool
 John Moores, Sunderland, Queen’s Belfast), bringing new expertise and professional networks.
 Also during this REF period, two colleagues have been promoted to professorships (Hutchinson,
 Ramsey) and three have received senior lectureships (McCracken, McKittrick, Brennan).

 In addition, we have continued to work with seven adjunct professors (0.2 FTE contracts) who
 were recruited prior to REF 2014 to support research capacity development, and who have long-
 established links with the Unit. Six of the adjuncts are active in supervising PhD researchers and
 several outputs with Unit staff. In addition, all have taken part in delivering seminars and
 workshops during the REF cycle, as well as providing peer review of research outputs and
 funding applications for less experienced researchers. Beamish, Ramsey and Loane have
 successfully obtained funding for a GCRF pump-priming project supporting the world’s poorest
 39 countries, to improve entrepreneurial skills in African businesses (Destin4Africa).

 The RD, with the support of the Associate Dean Research and Impact (ADRI), works proactively
 with Heads of Department (HoDs) in the Faculty to ensure that workloads are monitored and
 researchers’ developmental needs discussed through annual trilateral research meetings. At
 these meetings annual research priorities are set, and tailored support, training and personal
 development are agreed and aligned to targets and objectives for the Unit. The workload of all
 researchers is proactively managed to protect time for research. Those who are in the early
 stages of their careers normally have 20% less teaching duties than more experienced staff. A
 key element of the resourcing strategy is to stimulate growth in the number of active researchers,
 and efforts are made to accommodate those who are more focused on teaching duties but who
 would like to develop their research profile in the longer term. For more experienced Unit
 members, utilising a transparent workload model means that activities are balanced in terms of
 teaching and administrative responsibilities, and ensures that dedicated time is reserved for
 substantive research activities. Teaching is often organised in blocks of time, which means that
 some researchers will deliver their teaching over one semester and dedicate the other two
 semesters to research.

 Researcher Support Strategy

 The Unit comprises a diverse range of researchers drawn from professional practice as well as
 more orthodox academic routes, and continually investing in building research capacity through
 staff development is a vital part of our strategy. The unit implements the
 University’s Concordat to support the Career Development of Researchers’ principles with
 annual opportunities for advancement, regular training and development. Colleagues are
 actively encouraged to undertake further training and participate in tailored, high-level
 development support schemes. University development programmes have been put in place for
 researchers. Staff in the Unit have availed of these initiatives to build their skills and knowledge
 in key research areas linked to research funding, publishing and developing impact, with the
 majority of those in the Unit’s submission participating in three or more training events organised
 by the University over the last two years.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Beyond the extensive portfolio of University development opportunities and programmes, the
 Unit has grown a collegial and congenial research culture. Members are encouraged to ‘road
 test’ conference presentations at lunchtime seminars and one day research events. The Unit
 normally organises on average one seminar/workshop per month in a broad range of areas. As
 well as presentations from Unit members and PhD researchers, we have welcomed visiting
 speakers from leading institutions in the UK, USA and Europe (e.g. Trullen-Fernandez from
 Esade (Barcelona) on HR strategy; Canning and Brennan from University College Dublin on
 Doctoral Education in Ireland; Spinelli from Babson College, USA on Design Thinking). Unit
 members have also been supported to attend a wide range of workshops on publishing,
 advanced research techniques and attracting research funding, which have been run by, for
 example, ESRC and the EISAM. Financial support is available for members presenting papers
 at both national and international conferences.

 Given the applied nature of Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs), Unit members use
 these funding sources as a mechanism for informing their research and gathering case study
 data. Staff are encouraged to use the academic allocation of funding from KTPs (typically £27k
 per project) to support their research activities, for example through employment of research
 assistants, teaching relief and conference attendance. At the same time, several organisations
 which have been involved in KTPs have gone on to collaborate on other research initiatives.
 Since 2013, nine KTPs have been undertaken with a range of organisations from various sectors
 including hospitality and events (Ground Expresso Bars - Hutchinson; Odyssey Trust - Moffett);
 electronics and engineering (Arbarr Electronics and Inspectvision Ltd. - McGowan) and
 Pharmacy (Ballee Pharmacy - Brennan). Eight research outputs in the REF submission have
 included data from organisations involved in KTPs.

 As part of a wider University initiative, a formal Research Mentoring Programme has been
 introduced, through which less experienced researchers collaborate with experienced research
 staff over a six- to twelve-month period to develop their research agenda. Since its initiation, the
 majority of REF eligible staff have participated in the programme. For example, early career
 researcher Power (working with Humphreys), and Miller (working with Quinn) were successful in
 applying for competitive funding for PhD scholarships from DAERA and Teagasc, respectively.
 In 2018 Woods (working with McCracken) received an honorarium from the University Forum for
 Human Resource Development (HRD) in 2018 to study creativity and HRD in small software
 development firms.

 For more experienced researchers, there are a number of initiatives to enhance research
 expertise and international collaborations. The University operates leave of absence
 (typically up to one-year duration), career break schemes (typically up to three years’ duration)
 and a sabbatical programme that gives staff the opportunity to work for extended periods of time
 away from the University. For example, several staff members have utilised research sabbaticals
 to work intensely on research activities. For example, McHugh collected and analysed data for
 an Advance HE (Leadership Foundation) project focusing on senior managers in the higher
 education sector and McAdam disseminated findings from an EU-funded project which looked
 at SMEs and their innovation capabilities.

 PhD researchers

 PhD researchers are a highly valued, vital group who contribute to the Unit’s vibrant overall
 research culture. Working with the Doctoral College, the Unit provides comprehensive
 administrative and pastoral support for the researcher cohort throughout their PhD journey. In
 2020 there were 54 active (28 full-time, 24 part-time) PhD researchers registered. During the
 current REF period a total of 35.53 PhD researchers successfully completed their studies, which
 represents an increase of 3% on the REF 2014 period.

 Several initiatives have been introduced to increase the number and quality of PhD
 researchers. For example, in 2019 we entered into a collaborative arrangement with a German
 University (Kempten University of Applied Sciences) which allows suitably qualified MBA

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 graduates to study for a part-time PhD. As a result of the strategic partnership between UUBS
 and Chicago Mercantile Exchange, in 2018 a PhD scholarship was funded to investigate the
 impact of cryptocurrency on financial markets. Competitive funding acquired in 2019 from
 DAERA and Teagasc resulted in three full-time PhD researcher scholarships being secured.

 At the Institutional level, the DC monitors all PhD researcher activities and provides
 administrative and pastoral support as well as offering a Researcher Development
 Programme. As part of this programme researchers from the Unit have delivered various
 workshops. For example, McCracken has hosted sessions on “getting published” and Joseph-
 Richard has regularly presented to PhD researchers on “qualitative research design”. At Unit
 level, the RD, with help from the PhD Postgraduate Tutor, co-ordinates all aspects of academic
 life for PhD researchers in the Faculty, ensuring that key administrative milestones are met and
 support is given as shown below:

 Research Supervision

 Each researcher is allocated to a supervisory team of two or three staff members, of which at
 least one must have experience of supervising to completion. At the new researcher’s induction
 session, the main aspects of completing a PhD are outlined. Researchers and supervisors are
 expected to hold regular meetings with their supervisors and to use the PhD Manager system
 for monitoring progress following the three-stage support strategy:

•   Stage 1 (Year 1): Doctoral workshops and skills training programmes. Researchers are also
    encouraged to participate in doctoral colloquiums at national conferences in their field of
    study.
•   Stage 2 (years 2/3): Preparation and presentation of a paper at a national or international
    conference. Researchers are expected to present either their conceptual work or some early
    empirical findings at an academic conference. Full-time DfE scholarship-funded PhD
    researchers benefit from a £900 annual development grant.
•   Stage 3 (years 3/4): Preparation of a journal article. As noted above, from Year 1, researchers
    are encouraged to interact with academics in their discipline. It is envisaged that at this stage
    they would be in a position to submit their work to an academic journal.

 Festival of PhD Study and Unit level Annual PhD Research Day

 PhD researchers, especially those who are in the second and final years of study, are
 encouraged to contribute to the Doctoral College-led Festival of PhD Study, to present their work
 to University staff and PhD peers in a series of events held in April each year. In 2019 60% of
 the final year full-time cohort presented research papers. In addition, all researchers are invited
 to discuss their PhD progress with experienced researchers from the UUBS at a Faculty
 Research Day. This event, normally held in June, is designed to promote collegiality and
 capacity-building amongst researchers.

 Research Seminars and Discipline Specific Skills Training

 Throughout their registration period researchers are encouraged to present their work to Faculty
 staff, to attend presentations and seminars led by Unit researchers and to engage in the business
 and management workshops that are provided both in-house and externally. For example,
 courses in advanced statistical techniques and on qualitative and quantitative research
 methodologies are offered in-house. However, where students have specific skills training
 requirements, they can avail themselves of external training opportunities from organisations
 such as the BAM or the EIASM, as well as the NINE DTP programme.

 An indicator of the satisfaction of our PhD researchers is provided by the 2018 and 2019 PRES,
 where in 2019 the overall satisfaction rate of 89% surpassed the 87% we recorded in 2018.
 These satisfaction scores are well above the 2019 sector average of 83%. This rating placed us


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in third position overall in the sector and, when the benchmark data was analysed, we were
 placed first in the sector for research culture and supporting resources (Source: AdvanceHE).

 A further illustration of the excellent standard of supervision PhD researchers receive is provided
 by Ramsey who was recognised for her supervisory efforts in 2020 by being named as runner-
 up in the Times Higher Education Outstanding Supervisor of the Year award.

 As noted above, in years 2-4 of their studies we encourage PhD researchers to actively
 participate in national and international conferences. Over the current REF period several
 researchers have won best paper or presentation awards, for example Millar (Best paper award
 in Operations at BAM Conference 2016; Wang (Research Conference Best Presentation Award
 - International Conference on Social Economics, Politics and Policy 2019); McClelland and
 Kulichyova (ESRC Festival of Science - small grant awards to present research - 2018 and 2019
 respectively); Hanna (Ellen MacArthur Foundation bursary award to present research at Zero
 Waste Scotland Collaboration Event - Glasgow 2019).

 Equality and Diversity

 We are committed to implementing Ulster University’s equality and diversity policies relating to
 equal pay, bullying and harassment, transgender staff and students, disability and physical
 access for disabled people. We aim to foster an inclusive, flourishing culture that enables both
 staff and students to achieve their potential. We are committed to taking full cognisance of gender
 - and other diversity-related issues, and to contributing to a healthy and equal society. We have
 an ethos of shared governance, values and behaviours based on integrity, and professionalism.
 Diversity and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted and embedded in all research processes
 and policies as outlined in our Code of Practice (CoP). As the CoP places people at its centre,
 is mindful of the needs of all staff and ensures barrier free processes to maximise inclusivity and
 participation in REF, we used it as our roadmap for identifying research active staff and selecting
 outputs for REF 2021.

 Of our 34.4 FTE submitted staff, 15.2 FTE are female (43% FTE). With regard to our 13 FTE
 Professors, 4.2 FTE are female (21% FTE); of 12 FTE SL/Readers, five are female (42%), and
 of seven lecturers, 5 are female (67%). During the REF cycle, of the two promotions to
 professorial level in the Unit, both were female (Hutchinson and Ramsey). The Unit also includes
 staff of diverse national origin, including India, Germany, China, Hong Kong and Canada. The
 Faculty is preparing for Athena SWAN accreditation for the bronze award, with one of the female
 professors in the Unit (Ballantine) coordinating the submission and applying her research
 expertise in equality and diversity issues in public sector organisations. With a wide range of
 stakeholders (HoDs, PhD researchers, senior and early career researchers, administrative and
 professional staff) involved in committees linked to the Athena SWAN initiative, the process for
 gaining accreditation has significantly raised awareness of equality and diversity issues in the
 Unit.

 Ensuring that equality and diversity are promoted throughout the Unit is vitally important, and we
 are fortunate to have several researchers (Ballantine, Wall, Ward) who conduct research in this
 area. Having such senior researchers involved in equality and diversity action has proved
 invaluable as they have actively applied their research and raised awareness of the need for
 better diversity practices.

 The University has a comprehensive policy for equality and diversity, and all staff in the Unit
 are offered appropriate training in this area. Those involved in recruitment and selection of staff
 and PhD researchers must participate in recruitment and selection training which includes
 equality and diversity awareness as a key element. In addition, the Unit is an inclusive
 workplace that recognises its staff’s responsibilities beyond the workplace. Flexible
 arrangements can be requested and there is a specific Returning Carers scheme. The Unit has
 facilitated requests for staff to vary their contractual commitment to a fractional appointment in
 order to facilitate caring commitments.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Our research spend has increased by 51% from £4.9M in REF 2014 to £7.5M in REF 2021,
 and our overall research funding for the period puts us in the top quartile of UK business schools
 (source: Chartered Association of Business Schools annual funding report, 2020). Funding has
 come from prestigious sources, such as the Research Councils (£2.2M) and the EU (£914k), but
 researchers have also made significant progress in diversifying funding sources. Researchers
 have undertaken projects for regional and national agencies, charitable trusts and public bodies,
 including the Food Standards Agency (FSA), British Academy, Intertrade Ireland, Joseph
 Rowntree Foundation and CIPD. There are three key strands to the funding strategy of the Unit:
 collaboration with other faculties, national and international collaboration and work with key
 stakeholders to support the regional economy. Unless otherwise stated, the funding figures
 indicated below indicate not the total grant awarded, but the funds that were awarded to the Unit.

 The Unit has been involved in a number of cross-faculty collaborations. For example, an EU-
 funded project, (REAMIT - £348k), led by Ramsey with colleagues from other Ulster faculties
 (CE and LHS), focuses on improving the resource efficiency of agribusiness supply chains by
 minimising waste through the use of big data and internet of things sensors. Further evidence of
 the success earned in pursuit of this interdisciplinary strategy is found in the links that Loane and
 Ramsey have established with colleagues from CE and LHS in their successful EU grant
 (ChatPal - £173k), which sought to examine the interface between technology, mental health
 and wellbeing in rural areas. Ballantine worked with Social Policy to attract Joseph Rowntree
 Charitable Trust funding of £124k for a project on understanding gender diversity in senior
 leadership positions.

 Researchers in the Unit have established fruitful partnerships with colleagues in other
 institutions, both nationally and internationally. For example, McCracken is working in
 collaboration with six leading UK universities on an ESRC-funded research project (£159k)
 designed to support productivity through enhanced workplace practice and employee
 engagement. Hollywood and Furey received funding from safefood (the public body responsible
 for raising consumer awareness of issues relating to food safety and healthy eating across both
 the Republic of Ireland and NI) for collaborative work with five universities in the UK and Ireland,
 to investigate food promotion strategies and their impact on health. Other researchers have
 developed international research partnerships when seeking competitive funding. For example,
 Brennan collaborates with eight universities from South America, Africa and Asia, as well as with
 colleagues from CE and LHS, on a £5.7M (of which the Unit spend over the REF cycle is £220k)
 UKRI-GCRF project to apply innovative practices to the production of safe water technology in
 developing countries.

 With a strong emphasis on Ulster’s mission to enhance local and regional communities, other
 researchers have developed innovative relationships with organisations outside HE. For
 example, Ramsey and Loane worked with regional councils in NI and the Republic of Ireland as
 part of their EU-funded research (Trail Gazers - £192k) to understand the impact of investment
 in developing walking and recreational trails. Similarly, in their EU-funded research
 (LOCFOOD – £134k) into innovation in small firms, Quinn worked with various European
 local authority partners (e.g. Nordland Council (Norway) and Newry, Mourne and Down Council
 (UK)) to identify best practices. The research directly influenced over 100 commercial firms
 across 12 European nations, including Spain, Norway and Italy.

 To ensure continuity and sustainability of research funding, we have adopted a rigorous
 evaluation process to support staff submitting research proposals. Researchers take part
 in workshops run by BAM and other professional bodies, and adjunct professors and senior staff
 provide peer review advice to enhance the quality of grant proposals. Researchers who lack
 experience in seeking funding are encouraged to develop their grant-writing expertise by
 concentrating on small grants, before moving on to larger funding sources. For example,
 Hollywood built on earlier small-scale funded studies before securing larger funds from the FSA
 and safefood.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The advice and support service provided by colleagues in the Department for Research and
 Impact has been critical to the development of funding applications. For example, a dedicated
 Faculty Grant Development Manager monitors potential funding opportunities, provides advice
 on funders’ criteria and helps researchers to construct detailed breakdowns of project costs. This
 high-level support has been instrumental in enabling members to submit better quality proposals.
 The Faculty has also invested in supporting research funding applications by employing a
 dedicated Research Associate whose role is to assist with collation of background research,
 collection of data and drafting of funding applications.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration

 Researchers from the Unit collaborate with a wide range of stakeholders including colleagues
 from national and international academic, commercial and policy-making organisations. Key
 examples of collaboration are shown under the three main research themes as outlined in
 Section 1.

 Operations and Contemporary Organisational Issues

 In Supply Management there are extensive global collaborations: Cadden and Humphreys are
 developing their work on business analytics/innovation and on supply chain modelling using
 artificial intelligence, with colleagues across UK/Ireland and the Middle East (Newcastle;
 Brighton; University College Dublin (UCD); Ajan University (Qatar)); McIvor has collaborated with
 colleagues at Mainz University of Applied Sciences and the Technical University of Denmark on
 reshoring and outsourcing of supplier capabilities and Carey has extensive links with colleagues
 at Ben-Gurion and Leeds on transport logistics.

 In the Business Improvement, Innovation and Leadership Development areas, we have
 cultivated extensive collaborative links: Bonner with colleagues at Warwick connected to local
 knowledge and innovation practices; McAdam and Miller with colleagues in Finland (Vasa; LUT),
 Denmark (Copenhagen) and Germany (Munster) on local economic development issues; Miller,
 Moffett, McAdam and Woods run extensive national collaborations with colleagues from several
 UK universities (QUB; Lancaster; Cambridge) on innovation and technology parks; McCracken
 continues to build on relationships with colleagues from New Zealand (Otago) and Canada
 (Memorial) investigating human resource business partnerships, and, with six universities
 (Strathclyde; Aston; Sheffield; East Anglia; Nottingham; Cardiff), is also a co-investigator in the
 ESRC Productivity PrOPEL hub, which investigates workforce productivity and engagement.

 Accounting, Finance and Corporate Governance

 Ballantine has established links with the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants and
 continues to work with partners at the University of Cape Town on gender budgeting; Ward has
 collaborated with prestigious institutions such as Institut für Finanzdienstleistungen (Germany),
 Trinity College Dublin and UCD on credit union strategy; Birnie, Henderson and Tong have links
 with colleagues from Queen's University Belfast on economic development/economic history and
 from Edinburgh on trade union finance respectively.

 Marketing and International Business

 In marketing, we have maintained productive relationships with researchers from various UK
 institutions, for example Gallagher with Edinburgh Napier University on small business
 development. International business and tourism researchers have established extensive
 international collaborations: Loane and Ramsey with colleagues from Algarve, Glasgow and
 Turku (Finland) on their important work on European peripheral regions; Boyd with colleagues


                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 at the University of Jammu (India) on post-conflict tourism; Fang and Ramsey with colleagues at
 Australia National University who are investigating trust in e-commerce.

 Researchers in consumer behaviour and retailing have links with several universities in the USA:
 Brown researching marketing strategy and value with colleagues at Loyola University Chicago;
 Hutchinson working with the University of Susquanna to investigate crisis leadership in SMEs;
 Simmons working on smart cities and digitalisation with colleagues at North-Eastern University,
 Federal University of Paraná (Brazil), Sabanci University (Turkey) and ESC Rennes (France).

 Contribution to research base

 Our Unit members invest substantial time and effort in journal editorial
 duties, including refereeing peer-reviewed publications. We serve on grant panels and are in
 positions of significant influence through our memberships of research societies and
 associations.

 Operations and Contemporary Organisational Issues

 Editorial Roles and Academic/Industry Panel Memberships: Carey is Consulting Editor,
 Transportmetrica B: Transport Dynamics and is a member of the Editorial Board of
 Transportation Research Part B; McIvor, McAdam, Humphreys and Wiengarten make editorial
 contributions to The International Journal of Operations and Production Management
 (Humphreys and Wiengarten as associate editors and McIvor and McAdam as editorial board
 members); Wiengarten is also Associate Editor for the Journal of Operations Management and
 Journal of Supply Chain Management; Yeung is departmental editor, Journal of Operations
 Management; McCracken is Editor in Chief, Education and Training, and is a member (Associate
 Editor) of the editorial team, with McHugh, Humphreys (Joint Editors in Chief) and Woods
 (Associate Editor), Leadership and Organization Development Journal.

 McHugh was a member of the CBI NI Council until 2017 and is currently a member of the IoD
 UK and Regional Councils, and of the ESRC Strategic Advisory Network. She also serves on the
 ESRC COVID-19 Panel of Experts Committee, the ESRC Peer Review College and the BAM
 wellness in academia initiative. She was also recently appointed as a member of REF 2021
 subpanel UoA 17. In 2019 Humphreys was an advisor to the Faculty of Engineering, Hong Kong
 Polytechnic University, supporting the development of research proposals for the Hong Kong
 Research Grants Council. McCracken is currently the Pathways Director for Business and
 Management PhD programmes for the ESRC Northern Ireland North East Doctoral Training
 Partnership.

 Accounting, Finance and Corporate Governance

 Editorial Roles and Academic/Industry Panel Memberships: Ballantine is Vice-Chair of the
 British Accounting and Finance Association and the current Associate Editor, Journal of
 Accounting Education, and member of the Editorial Advisory Board, Accounting Education; Ward
 is an Expert Panel Member for the Dublin-based Centre for Community Finance Europe, External
 Academic Fellow at the Centre for Responsible Banking & Finance (based at the University of
 St Andrews), and an International Member of the Centre for Non-Profit and Public Sector
 Research at Queen’s University.

 Marketing and International Business

 Editorial Roles and Academic/Industry Panel Memberships: Beamish has served on 20
 management journal boards in various editorial roles during the REF cycle, including the Journal
 of International Business Studies, Journal of Management Studies and Strategic Management
 Journal; Cotte is on the editorial board of the Journal of Consumer Research and Journal of
 Marketing; Quinn serves on the editorial board of International Journal of Retail & Distribution
 Management; McGowan on the editorial board of Journal of Small Business and Enterprise

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Development; Fang and Ramsey are co-editor-in-chief and senior editor, respectively, of
 Information Technology & People; Fang is Senior Editor of Information Systems Research and
 Information Systems Journal; Simmons is a member of the editorial review board for the
 International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour and Research. Researchers have also
 organised international conferences: Hutchinson as co-chair of the BAM Conference (Belfast,
 September 2014) and as chair of the retail and marketing special interest group at the British
 Academy of Management (2011–16). Simmons is a Member of the ESRC peer review college.
 Ramsey was appointed chair of the evaluation panels for several EU Horizon 2020 programmes
 in 2014. Furey, bringing her expertise in food security, sits on the NI Consumer Council, and, on
 the basis of her expertise in food technologies and processing, Hollywood was invited in 2020
 to join the All-Island Plant Innovation hub steering group.

 Contribution to economy and society

 Researchers are encouraged to work externally with profession-specific partners and societal
 stakeholders in order to contribute to shaping policy and the public conversation on business
 and management. The impact case studies on work led by Quinn and McAdam, Hollywood and
 Furey, and McIvor and Cadden provide evidence of this contribution; other examples of key
 contributions to the economy and society are highlighted below.

 Operations and Contemporary Organisational Issues

 Brennan’s work for the Safewater project has made an important contribution to the global
 community, given the drive to develop low-cost and sustainable technologies for safe drinking
 water in developing nations. Brennan and his international co-investigators have used their
 expertise in business modelling and data analytics to develop and test a small device for efficient
 and cost-effective assessment of water quality management in developing and middle-income
 countries. Brennan also contributes to the UNICEF-supported Translate project, a smaller £836k
 project that has commercialised innovations being developed by Safewater.

 Researchers have helped to develop leadership and innovation capacity amongst local
 entrepreneurial SMEs. For example, research from Hutchinson shaped the Lead2Grow
 programme for entrepreneurial leaders in the creative sector (publishing, music, theatre,
 museums and galleries, film and television, fashion, tourism, and computer games). In evaluating
 the skills workshops offered to these participants in 2019-20, many participants noted how the
 programme had improved performance and stimulated new or renewed technologies or
 processes. McAdam and Miller have been active in the Invest NI (this public body is equivalent
 to the Local Enterprise Agencies in GB) innovation cluster network, run in partnership with DfE,
 where their research has informed the design of the Collaborative Growth programme for NI
 companies.

 The CIPD commissioned McCracken, McIvor and Wall to research the visibility of human capital
 in annual reporting amongst the UK FTSE 100. Their investigation of the narrative reporting
 practices of top- performing UK firms informed the Financial Reporting Council and influenced
 the development of both the Corporate Governance Code and the Stewardship Code. In 2017
 CIPD cited the investigation in its response to the UK Government’s Green Paper on Corporate
 Governance.

 Accounting, Finance and Corporate Governance

 The research group (Ballantine, Wall, Ward) participates in a wide network of non-academic
 international research collaborators via the Credit Union Research Forum and the International
 Research Society for Public Management. In addition, given the Unit’s strength expertise in
 public finance initiatives, researchers have fostered links with the Audit Office, Strategic
 Investment Board, Northern Ireland Water and Local Government Association.



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Given the significant changes occurring as a result of the UK’s exit from the EU and the COVID
 crisis, it is important that researchers from the Unit comment on and clarify issues for business
 and the general public. Birnie has worked with mainstream media organisations (e.g. BBC and
 UTV) to describe the potential impact of Brexit on the NI economy. In 2019 he gave oral evidence
 to the House of Commons Department for Exiting the EU Committee on possible effects of new
 NI-GB trading frictions in the context of the 1998 Belfast Agreement, and in 2020 he participated
 in a Brexit roundtable discussion organised by HM Treasury on the UK Internal Market. He has
 also provided written evidence to the House of Commons Northern Ireland Affairs Committee on
 the economic impact of COVID-19 in Northern Ireland.

 Ramsey and Gallagher have also informed national Government decision-making. Their written
 evidence on statistics for the economy and public finances given in 2015, influenced both the
 Commons Public Administration Select Committee’s report and the Government response to it.
 The researchers’ evidence on the quality and accessibility of local, regional and national level
 statistics was incorporated into the feedback from the Chair of the Public Administration Select
 Committee to the National Statistician of the UK Statistics Authority.

 Marketing and International Business

 Furey and Hollywood’s research into food access and food poverty informed DAERA’s Future
 Food Policy Framework by providing guidance on the future direction of the agri-food agenda.
 The researchers have also worked with major food retailers such as Tesco, Lidl and Marks and
 Spencer on food promotion strategies and health. Their research has led to these world-leading
 retailers adopting new product placement practices: increasing the quantity and nutritional quality
 of foods, reducing reliance on the use of volume-based promotions and investing in healthier
 options through product reformulation. In the absence of further regulation of retailers, this
 contribution to mitigating the obesity and nutrition crisis is profoundly important (see ICS 2).

 Ramsey and Loane are active in two ongoing EU projects that aim for a range of societal,
 economic, environmental, policy and quality of life impacts across the peripheral regions of the
 EU. For example, the ChatPal project, which has been co-designed with key stakeholders in the
 sector (Action Mental Health, NHS Western Isles (Scotland), Norbotten Association of Local
 Authorities (Sweden)), is designed to improve current mental health service provision for citizens
 by increasing access to psychotherapeutic support using a computer-based intervention service
 in the form of a conversational user interface. Findings from the project have informed policy and
 helped alleviate problems associated with poor mental health such as isolation and reluctance
 to seek help. In the TrailGazers project, which includes UK and Irish partners from Donegal and
 Sligo county councils, Causeway Coast and Glens council as well as those from other European
 regions (City of Louvigne du Desert; Direccion General de Proteccion de la Naturaleza-Gobierno
 de Canaries; Municipo de Vianna do Castelo), the focus is on the socioeconomic impacts of
 investing in walking trails in peripheral areas of Europe. Such regions rely heavily on the
 economic spin-offs from tourism to generate employment and income for these communities yet
 work on quantifying the economic and social return on such investments has been limited. The
 TrailGazers research addresses the lack of a policy to promote and sustainably manage these
 assets.

 Major honours, awards and prizes

 McHugh was awarded an OBE for services to Higher Education and Business Development in
 the 2020 New Year’s Honours list, and her contribution to business research has also been
 recognised with a Lifetime Achievement Award Ulster Television/Business Eye/Flybe - 2015).
 Cadden, Humphreys and McKittrick’s research on organisational culture and supplier operational
 performance, and Wu, McHugh, Humphreys and Wiengarten’s work on information sharing and
 firm performance, received best paper awards at the BAM conference in 2016. Wiengarten was
 awarded the highly prestigious Jack Meredith Best Paper Award 2020 in The Journal of
 Operations Management. Humphreys and McIvor were cited in the Top 20 of supply chain
 management researchers in Europe (source: International Journal of Production Economics,

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2018) and Humphreys and Wiengarten were placed in the Top 50 scholars globally in supply
 chain management (source: Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, 2019).
 McAdam won the best paper in innovation management at the 2018 EUROMA conference. Miller
 received the early career best paper on new venture creation at the Institute for Small Business
 and Entrepreneurship conference on 2019. Joseph-Richard received the British Academy of
 Management education practice award and best paper award at the BAM conference in 2014
 and 2020 respectively, for his work on doctoral education. Ramsey was runner-up in the
 prestigious Times Higher Education Award (2020) for her contribution to PhD supervision.
 McCracken won the Alan Moon Memorial prize for best paper in the 2014 University Forum for
 HRD International Conference and more recently was runner-up for best paper on employee
 frustration in the social care sector for Work Employment and Society journal in 2019. Beamish
 received the International Management Eminent Scholar Award from the Academy of
 Management in 2017, as well as best research paper in global strategy from the Academy of
 Management in 2016, and the JIBS Gold Medal for Scholarly Service and JIBS Gold Medal for
 Research, both from the Academy of International Business in 2019.




                                                                                           Page 18
