Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 15 Archaeology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 The Department of Archaeology has fulfilled the strategy outlined in the 2014 REF by delivering
 innovative world class research across a broad theoretical, methodological, and interpretative
 spectrum. It has incorporated and integrated scientific and cultural fields to produce
 sophisticated, interdisciplinary-based knowledge on the human past.
 Our goal in REF2014 was to be an international leader in all our five research themes and our
 strategy was guided by eight principles. We have delivered on all of these and as a result seen a
 significant step-change in research activity (Table 1).

         REF2014 PRINCIPLES                                   HIGHLIGHTS

   (1) Establishing and leading major      ●   Major research excavations and surveys at
       research projects on                    Avebury, Old Sarum, Százhalombatta (Hungary),
       archaeological sites, materials         Portus (Italy)
       and topics overseas and in          ●   Eleven funded major research projects ranging
       Britain.                                from dating cave paintings to maritime
                                               exploration of the Black Sea (see §3.3)

   (2) Developing partnerships with        ●   Collaborations span 45 countries and include
       national and international              academic centres, museums, state cultural and
       centres of research excellence.         heritage agencies (§4.1)

   (3) Supporting all academic staff to    ●   Staff made a total of 155 grant applications with a
       regularly submit grant                  total value of £20.7M
       applications to funding agencies    ●    Successful applications total £14.4M with £9.1M
                                               attributed to the UoA
                                           ●   Five-year annual average research expenditure
                                               increased by 25% (§3.3)

   (4) Sustaining our research by
       winning ECRs and PhD
       studentships through project
       funding.




                                               Figure 1 - Doctoral degrees awarded 2014-2020


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                                           ●   Average annual PhD completions up 80% (§2.5
                                               and Fig.1)
                                           ●   22.4 PDRAs during REF cycle (§2.3)

   (5) Fostering the next generation of    ●   25 PDRAs and PhD students successfully
       research leaders through                progressed to Lectureships and prestigious
       training and mentoring                  research positions (§2.2, §2.5)

   (6) Directing our publications to key   ●   More than 350 outputs including key papers in
       international journals and              international journals such as Nature, Science,
       academic publishers                     Antiquity, Quaternary Science Reviews, Journal
                                               of Archaeological Method and Theory, Journal of
                                               Archaeological Science and PLoS one, and more
                                               than 25 monographs.

   (7) Diversifying our funding            ●   73% of research funding from non-UKRI sources
       streams by fostering industrial         (40% in REF2014)
       collaboration and knowledge         ●   Creation of Coastal and Offshore Archaeological
       transfer                                Research Services (COARS) (§3.3)
                                           ●   CAHO consulting is leading Palaeolithic
                                               archaeological work on the new Lower Thames
                                               Crossing, Britain's biggest road scheme since the
                                               M25.
                                           ●   Participation in Maritec-x which aims to create a
                                               scientific and business Centre of Excellence in
                                               Marine and Maritime issues, based in Cyprus.

   (8) Engaging with source                ●   More than 40,000 have participated in two online
       communities and disseminating           courses (MOOCs)
       research through the media.         ●   Humanities in the European Research Area
                                               (HERA) Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fellow
                                               (Sofaer, 2017-2021)
                                           ●   Participation in numerous national events and
                                               festivals
                                           ●   High profile TV and radio appearances

            Table 1 - Our REF2014 principles and indicative measures of success
 1.2 Structure
 Our research continues to fall within the five broad research themes identified in our REF 2014
 submission:
 Human Evolution, Chronology, Dispersals and Lifeways (Bynoe, Davies, Farr, McNabb,
 Pike, Sturt, Weinstock, Zakrzewski) takes as its remit the development of science-based
 knowledge of human origins, evolution and global dispersal in its environmental context; bio-
 diversity and bio-archaeology of past populations, and morpho-metrical and DNA analysis of
 ancient fauna. Approaches include science-based dating, stable and radiogenic isotopes, land
 and seascape modelling and osteology. The theme has been strengthened by the appointment
 of Bynoe as a lecturer in Archaeology with research strengths in submerged Pleistocene




                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 landscapes. This theme works under the legacy Centre for the Archaeology of Human Origins
 (CAHO) which has been retained as an outward facing focus of research.
 Classical Empires (Collar, Gascoigne, Keay, Soficaru, Zakrzewski) explores the development
 of Classical and early Medieval societies in the Mediterranean world and its periphery, with
 emphasis upon identity, commerce, connectivity and urbanism. Our interdisciplinary approach
 encompasses historical research, fieldwork, physical anthropology and computer-based
 techniques. Research within this theme was broadened with the appointment of a specialist in
 the archaeology of the Roman Eastern Mediterranean (Collar), and a Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 Fellow investigating migrant women in late Roman Scythia (Soficaru).
 Maritime Archaeology (Adams, Blue, Bynoe, El Safadi, Farr, Fowler, Keay, Sturt) aims to
 transform our understanding of maritime and underwater cultural heritage on a global scale
 through innovation, research and capacity building. We ask critical questions of changing
 maritime landscapes, ports and ship technology, as well as addressing issues of methodology,
 value and ethics in a rapidly developing world. Research within this theme has been
 strengthened with the permanent position (2016) of Farr as a University strategic appointment
 via the Southampton Marine & Maritime Institute (SMMI), and the appointment of Fowler and El
 Safadi as Senior Research Fellows. This theme works under the legacy Centre for Maritime
 Archaeology (CMA) which has been retained as an outward facing focus of research.
 Prehistoric Landscapes, Monuments and Materialities (Davies, Jones, McNabb, Pike,
 Pollard, Sofaer, Sturt, Wheatley) engages with understanding prehistoric materials, innovation,
 transmission and creativity in material culture; monumentality, landscape and settlement, and
 understanding the dynamics of human and non-human relations in the constitution of prehistoric
 social worlds. Methodologies range from large-scale excavations and surveys to the isotopic
 analysis of artefacts and human/faunal remains.
 Representation, Visualisation and Politics of Archaeology (Fowler, Jones, Marshall,
 McNabb, Moser, Sofaer, Wheatley) focuses on past representational practices and reception
 within the discipline and wider publics, and the social context of archaeology. The departure of
 Earl, Hamilakis and Isaksen has resulted in a shifting of emphasis away from multimedia
 technologies in cultural heritage and the politics of archaeology. Focus is now directed upon
 archaeological representation: in particular, visualisation and heritage, reception, and community
 archaeology.
 1.3 Future Research Strategy
 Over the next five years, we will continue to work within our five themes, further developing
 synergies with other Faculties across the University, as well as partners in the UK and
 internationally. Our goals are to 1) maintain and develop our reputation as a major international
 leader for archaeological research across the broad chronological, geographical and disciplinary
 base of our research themes, and 2) ensure that our research continues to have a major social
 and economic impact beyond academia. The strength and sustainability of our themes is key to
 meeting these goals. The recent appointments of Bynoe, Collar, Farr, Fowler, El Safadi and
 Soficaru ensure the solidity of our themes and the delivery of the highest quality research and
 outputs.
 We have been awarded £2.75M in the past 2 years which will see projects funded until 2023 and
 our priorities from 2021 will be to complete and publish our major research and field projects,
 notably Living with Monuments, MarEAMENA, Islands of Stone, Black Sea MAP and major
 excavations at Avebury and Százhalombatta (§3.3). However, we recognize the need to plan for

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a research landscape that is increasingly competitive, so we aim to deliver our research goals by
 leveraging our existing research strengths and assets. We will:
    ●   Continue to diversify funding streams by leveraging our existing extensive international
        research and industrial networks (§4.1).
    ●   Ensure our research is informed by the latest cutting-edge science by exploiting recent
        University investment in state-of-the-art facilities (§3.2), and use their capabilities to
        develop new avenues of research.
    ●   Interface with the newly launched Southampton Institute for Arts and Humanities, SIAH
        (RA5a §2.6), to further develop interdisciplinary research and as a vehicle for impact
        delivery.
    ●   Ensure sustainability in research excellence through enhanced mentoring of our junior
        staff by experienced senior research leaders.

 Our strategy will continue to be benchmarked by our REF2014 ‘principles’ (§1.1). Going forward
 these will be augmented by three further principles that recognise the changing landscape of
 research, which at Southampton will be met with changes to our working practices:

 Principle 9 Supporting interdisciplinary research
 Multi-disciplinary engagement has been key to the success of much of our research and has
 involved collaboration with colleagues in the fields of marine science, earth science, art practice,
 geography, genetics, engineering, computing, and biological and social anthropology. We will
 take a strategic role in developing interdisciplinarity through Sofaer’s co-directorship of SIAH,
 Pike’s membership of the University’s Interdisciplinary Research Working Group and Sturt’s co-
 directorship of the SMMI which has as its goal the harnessing of the multi-disciplinary skills of
 the University and our partners. We will further strengthen our interdisciplinary footprint through
 engagement with the University’s Strategic Research Groups and Interdisciplinary Institutes
 (REF 5a, §2.6), notably SIAH, Sustainability Science, The Institute for Life Sciences,
 Computational Modelling and the SMMI, and various University Facilities that allow the
 interdisciplinary study of artefacts, people and landscapes of the past (§2.6 and REF5a §4.2).

 Principle 10 Progressing towards an open research environment
 We are committed to ensuring that the results of our research are openly accessible wherever
 possible, and we work within the University’s Open Access Policy: https://tinyurl.com/r5j6wkh.
 (REF 5a §2.4). University-wide resources such as its online repository, ePrints, and its research
 management system Pure provide a venue for online deposition and open dissemination of
 outputs and datasets. Where possible, staff are encouraged to make use of Open Access deals
 with publishers (e.g. Sidestone Press for Pollard’s Stonehenge for the Ancestors monograph,
 and the McDonald Institute for Keay’s Isola Sacra volume), and where necessary we use the
 Archaeology research budget to facilitate OA publishing. Staff are encouraged to use external
 open access repositories such as the Archaeology Data Service (ADS) and OASIS to make
 project archives available to the archaeological community (e.g. that of the AHRC-funded
 Neolithic Stepping Stones project). All content within our Future Learn Shipwrecks and
 Submerged Worlds MOOC, which drew heavily on primary research within the UoA, was openly
 available. We contribute to open research governance and development through Sly’s
 membership of the management committee for the ADS.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Principle 11 Ensuring research integrity
 We are strongly committed to fulfilling the principles of the Concordat for Research Integrity
 (REF5a §2.8). To oversee this, we have a dedicated Research Ethics Officer. All research (from
 undergraduate dissertations to professorial grant applications) requires approval through the
 University’s ERGO II ethics system. In the development of this, Archaeology personnel
 (Champion, Gascoigne) led the production of detailed guidelines on ethics in cultural heritage
 research (e.g., invasive work on artefacts and human remains, fieldwork, and the study of
 objects of uncertain provenance). Individual membership of such disciplinary bodies as the
 Chartered Institute for Archaeologists, Society of Antiquaries, British Association for Biological
 Anthropology and Osteoarchaeology further ensures that standards are maintained.
 1.4 Impact Strategy
 Engagement with a diverse range of non-academic partners has been core to our research
 mission, leading to the generation of substantive impact in policy, industry, pedagogy, and the
 development of public awareness of heritage and its value. Impact delivery is facilitated by the
 establishment of an Impact Champion within the Department who coordinates impact activity
 and ensures that impact strategies are built into personal research plans and research projects,
 and, where appropriate, impact is leveraged through internal University funding (e.g. from its
 Public Engagement with Research unit, PERu, REF5a §2.9).
 We have identified capacity building and policy development to be important avenues of impact,
 prompted by recognised global failings in the protection and management of maritime cultural
 heritage (see Black Sea ICS). Impact has been generated in this way, through training and
 assessment of vulnerable underwater heritage through the Montenegro Maritime Archaeological
 Research Project (MMARP) and The Maritime Archaeological Survey of Oman (MASO),
 commissioned by the Ministry of Heritage and Culture in Oman. Similar training programmes will
 be built into research projects in other areas where maritime cultural heritage is vulnerable.
 We also recognize that our research plays a role in developing tourist economies by raising
 public awareness of cultural heritage. Our projects will not only engage with the public but also
 with the institutions who can respond to the increasing public interest. For example, the Portus
 project has prompted the Italian Government to recognise the value of Portus as a key cultural
 heritage and tourism asset, making it an integral part of one of the largest archaeological parks
 in the world (see Portus ICS).
 We take a lead in the development of structures for impact in Archaeology and the Humanities
 at a European level through the work of Sofaer as a Humanities in the European Research Area
 (HERA) Knowledge Exchange and Impact Fellow (2017-2021). Her recent appointment as co-
 director of the SIAH will see this institute become an important focus for impact delivery across
 the Faculty, capitalizing on her HERA experience.

 2. People
 2.1 Our Staff
 The Department has 22 (19.28FTE) Category A staff. This represents a small reduction in FTE
 on REF2014 in which we returned 100% of eligible staff (22 total: 20.9FTE). Category A staff
 changes since December 2013 include the retirement of Gamble, three members taking up
 posts elsewhere (Hamilakis, Isaksen, Earl), the transfer of Revell to History at Southampton, and
 Mladenović returning to Switzerland. Blue has moved from 0.8 to 0.4FTE to focus on
 coordination of the Maritime Archaeology Stewardship Trust and the Directorship of the Honor

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Frost Foundation. There have been 4.4FTE new appointments. Of the 22 staff, 18 (82%) are on
 permanent contracts which will ensure the long-term viability of the Department. The four on
 fixed contracts (3-5 years) are all independent researchers tied to funding streams on research
 grants with fixed end-points. The Department and Faculty have a track record of supporting
 Fellowship applications from independent researchers towards the end of their contracts (e.g.
 Future Leaders).
 Essential to our research success has been the ongoing investment in non-REF-returnable staff.
 These include an Experimental Officer (Strutt), three Technicians (Barker, Copeland to March
 2019, Phillips 0.4FTE to August 2018), a Teaching Fellow (Whitewright) and a Senior Teaching
 Fellow (Sly). The Teaching Fellows are key in supporting delivery of our curriculum, allowing the
 accommodation of staff research leave and ensuring staff maintain a 40% research workload.
 The experimental and technical staff support research in the laboratory and the field, and play a
 key role in enabling research when issues such as age, disability or pregnancy require additional
 support.
 Increasing diversity is a key objective and we recognise this as essential for offering the diversity
 of perspective and creative pulse that underpins research excellence. The current self-identified
 ethnic make-up of REF-returned staff in Archaeology is 74% white, 4% BAME and 22%
 unknown. We recognize there is work to be done to achieve a representative diversity, and this
 cycle we have ensured that all staff have undertaken equality and diversity training, with staff
 involved in REF returns and staff appointments taking additional unconscious bias training. Our
 commitment to diversity is highlighted in job adverts, and we aim to ensure gender
 representation on recruitment and interview panels, REF review and selection committees, and
 to avoid same-sex shortlists. Our EDI officer sits on our executive body, the Archaeology
 Management Group, and ensures diversity is considered in all our decisions. We are proud to
 have now achieved a near equal balance between male and female Category A staff: 52% and
 48% respectively, contrasting to 61% and 39% in 2014. However, we recognize it will be a
 number of years before this balance is propagated through to higher grades, and processes are
 in place to support female junior staff to achieve this (§2.2). In terms of age profile, of the 22
 REF-eligible staff, two (9%) are 26-35, five (23%) 36-45, ten (45%) between 46-55, and five
 (23%) aged 56 and over, reflecting a dominance of early and mid-career researchers. The
 moderate imbalance of male to female staff in returned outputs (58% vs. 42%) is a result of
 several long-standing senior male staff approaching retirement with larger numbers of outputs
 versus ECR female staff with fewer. We are working towards parity by supporting junior staff to
 progress (§2.2).
 2.2 Staff development, support and monitoring
 We see the wellbeing of our staff as crucial in achieving research success. We support and
 promote the University's Dignity at Work and Study policy on campus and in the field, which, in
 addition to providing a code of conduct, provides routes, independent of the Department or
 Faculty, of complaint and reporting. The University holds a silver-level Athena Swan award, and
 the recently formed (2018) School of Humanities is currently working towards Athena Swan
 recognition. For female staff, the University offers access to Springboard, career guidance, peer
 mentoring programmes, and the staff network WiSET (Women in Science, Engineering and
 Technology). There are additional support networks for BAME, LGBT+ staff and parents and
 carers (REF5a §3.8). Support for families is provided through maternity and paternity leave (in
 this census period, to three staff) and local adjustment is made via our workload model to
 teaching and administrative loads for staff returning from such. Importantly, periods of maternity,

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sickness or compassionate leave do not affect the frequency of research leave. Flexible working
 arrangements (REF5a §3.2) have been put in place for two staff. These have enabled remote
 working to accommodate childcare issues and to manage long-term illness. Recognising the
 gender bias in caring roles, we have recently introduced a flexible teaching scheme for those
 with parental or caring responsibilities. This allows a staff member to avoid teaching at particular
 times on particular days to accommodate these responsibilities. In addition, we avoid scheduling
 research seminars or key meetings in the early morning, late afternoon or evening.
 Archaeology provides collegiality at a local level, one of the four principles underpinning the
 University’s ‘Simply Better’ strategy (REF5a §1.2). We offer a supportive and friendly
 environment within which staff can build their research careers. All staff work with the Director of
 Research to develop personal research plans, including targeting research outputs to be
 developed for the REF, identifying and developing funding applications, and identifying
 pathways to impact. In addition, all new staff (including PDRAs) are assigned a senior colleague
 as a mentor who supports them through their probation process and serves more generally as
 a source of encouragement and guidance; a second mentor from outside the Department can be
 provided. Following probation, colleagues move to a system of annual appraisals. Both
 probation and appraisal meetings are constructive occasions, providing opportunities for
 feedback and support, setting research objectives and priorities, and identifying training needs
 and opportunities for career development and promotion. The appraisal process is also
 important in identifying training and development opportunities in more senior staff who attend
 workshops and courses covering areas including Leadership and Management, Research and
 Impact, and Learning and Teaching. Since 2014, ten members of staff have been promoted:
 three to Associate Professor (Farr, Gascoigne, Weinstock) and seven to Professor (Davies,
 Jones, Pike, Pollard, Sofaer, Sturt and Wheatley) which is testament to the effectiveness of our
 staff development.
 We are fully committed to the Career Development of Researchers through fulfilment of the
 Concordat. The University implements this by means of the Centre for Higher Education
 Practice (CHEP), providing targeted support to ECRs, and offering training and networking
 events across the University (REF5a §3.5). Local measures provide dedicated support for
 ECRs, their integration into the research life of the Department, and their research development.
 ECR representation on our executive body ensures that ECR issues are at the forefront of
 decisions made. In recognition of their need for more rapid career development and training,
 they receive a lighter teaching and administrative workload: in Year 1 of their permanent
 post, 50% of a standard load, rising to 70% and 90% in Years 2 and 3 respectively. This
 reduction does not affect their entitlement to research leave (§2.4). Archaeology takes a key role
 in supporting ECRs within the Faculty, with Gascoigne as the Faculty ECR Champion. All ECRs
 are members of a Faculty-wide ECR network, which affords formal and informal opportunities to
 meet colleagues in other subject areas, identify prospects for collaboration and knowledge
 exchange, promote ECR research outputs and activities, and to seek and provide advice and
 support. ECRs receive dedicated annual funds from the Faculty toward
 conference attendance and other research activities. This does not preclude applying for funds
 from the Departmental research budget. Opportunities for dissemination of on-going research
 and new project concepts is afforded by participation in the now established annual Staff
 Research Symposium, which offers a friendly environment in which ECRs, including PDRAs,
 can discuss their research with peers and receive constructive group feedback.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An indicator of our success in career development are the recent PDRAs who have successfully
 progressed to Lectureships or research positions: Prior (University of Exeter), Salomon (CNRS,
 University of Strasbourg), Diaz-Guardamino Uribe (University of Durham), Standish (University
 of Southampton), Julien (Natural History Museum, Paris), Soto Cañamares (University of
 Lisbon), Shaw (Wessex Archaeology) and Ruiz-Redondo (University of Zaragoza).
 2.3 Staff Recruitment
 Our primary policy for staff appointments has been to enhance existing research strengths and
 build capacity to deliver our strategy. The focus over the review period has been on attracting
 junior colleagues with exceptional research potential to ensure the long-term sustainability of our
 themes. There have been three new appointments as Lecturer: Bynoe, Collar and Farr, the latter
 being a strategic University appointment to strengthen Maritime Archaeology research; also, 1.4
 Senior Research Fellows, and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow were appointed as well as 22.4
 PDRA/Research Fellows employed through project funding. The appointment of Bynoe
 strengthens our research into submerged landscapes, and feeds into our capacity building
 maritime heritage impact work. Farr further strengthens our expertise in submerged landscapes,
 early seafaring and ancient island colonization. With research interests in the Roman Eastern
 Mediterranean, Collar strengthens our Classical Empires theme and will ensure research
 leadership beyond the anticipated retirement of Keay within the next REF cycle. The Senior
 Research Fellows (El Safadi and Fowler) have been appointed to lead aspects of research on
 two major grant-funded projects, MarEAMENA and ACROSS.
 2.4 Research leave
 The provision of research leave plays a key role in staff development. In the current REF period,
 the Faculty operated an expected 1 after 6 semesters pattern of research leave for staff, and an
 expectation that individuals taking on senior management roles (e.g. Head of Department) will
 be afforded a full year’s research leave following completion of their term of office. This is more
 generous than the standard University policy (REF5a §3.2). Leave has offered opportunities for
 staff to complete major outputs (e.g. Gascoigne’s Tinnis volume, Jones’s Making a Mark
 monograph, Keay’s Isola Sacra volume) and develop major funding proposals (e.g. to the
 AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme, HERA, UKRI Covid Response Fund). It is managed via
 applications to the Associate Dean Research, who grants the leave and reviews follow-up
 reports post-leave.
 2.5 Research Students

                                                           Academic Year
                         *Completions for 19/20 academic year are likely to have been affected by the Covid pandemic.
  Degree Type
                         13/14       14/15       15/16       16/17       17/18       18/19      19/20*       Total

  PhD                     4.50       11.45       13.40       15.10       15.70       18.40       9.70       88.25

  Research-based
  professional              0           0           0           0           0          0           0           0
  doctorates

 We have made 88.25 PhD awards within the review period, with a F:M gender split of 56:44%.
 The average completions per year (12.6) represents an increase of over 80% on REF2014. In
 recognition of the increasing importance of interdisciplinary research, the inter-institutional


                                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 requirement of DTPs, and to ensure resilience in our supervision, we have now moved to a
 collaborative doctoral supervision structure involving a supervisory team of two or three staff.
 We feel this has significantly contributed to the maintenance of our high PhD submission rate
 within 4 years (average 4.02 years), despite having increased our PGR numbers. PhD funding is
 available through our membership of the AHRC SWW DTP, through which we have secured 18
 fully-funded doctoral scholarships (6 at Southampton, 12 co-supervised elsewhere). University
 sources have funded a further 17 studentships through Presidential Scholarships (12, including
 joint studentships with Engineering and with Ocean and Earth Sciences), the SMMI (4) and the
 Parkes Institute (1). External funding has been obtained from the Honor Frost Foundation (3
 studentships), ERC projects (3) and the British School at Rome (1).
 To foster the ownership of and engagement with research, we pair an ECR with one or two PGR
 students to run our research seminar series which invites 8 external speakers each term. These
 events are well attended by our PGR community, allow them to set the agenda, and provide a
 valuable networking opportunity while hearing about cutting-edge research. Postgraduate
 students organize an Annual Symposium (PGRAS) in which they present their research to staff
 and peers. As well as representing one of the first year PGR ‘milestones’, presenting at PGRAS
 fosters peer review, cross-fertilization of research, and generates a sense of community among
 the whole cohort and staff. Other postgraduate initiatives include the Maritime Archaeology
 Graduate Symposium (with Oxford, 2019) and the Model Boats workshop (with the British
 Museum, June 2016).
 Training and career development needs are identified each semester by self-assessment and in
 consultation with the PGR’s supervisors. Training can include completion of relevant Masters
 modules, targeted PGR training offered by the Faculty Postgraduate Research Training
 Programme, University programmes such as postgraduate teaching qualifications and bespoke
 one-on-one training offered by staff (e.g. analytical methods). Teaching experience is gained
 through the Faculty’s ‘PGRs who teach’ scheme which provides a transparent and fair
 mechanism through which paid Teaching Assistantships are allocated.
 The success of our PGRs career development strategy can be evidenced by how 11 of our
 postgraduates have been appointed to lectureships: Sibbesson and Williams (Canterbury), G.
 Beal, N. Beal (Glasgow), Rowe (Northern Kentucky University), Stark (UCL), Brughmans
 (Aarhus), Riris (Bournemouth), Chuang (National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan), and Bynoe
 and Pedrotti (Southampton). A further six have gone onto postdoctoral research: Elmer and El
 Safadi (Southampton), Mataix (Helsinki University), Cooper (Cambridge), Linscott (Oxford) and
 Romanowska (Barcelona). Other destinations for our PGRs include archaeology, heritage and
 academic-related posts in the ESRC, the Canadian Government’s Indigenous and Northern
 Affairs, MMT, Wessex Marine, Kent County Council (Archaeology), Coastal and Intertidal Zone
 Archaeological Network and the New Forest National Park.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research funding strategies
 Staff are actively encouraged to seek external funding for research and are supported
 throughout the process. The School of Humanities provides a structure for internal review and
 the delivery of constructive feedback on grant proposals. At a Department level, support is
 offered by the Head of Research, Head of Department (HoD) and the Impact Champion,
 including mentoring of ECRs through the grant application process. Our workload model ring-
 fences 40% of staff time for research but is also adjusted to allow additional time for the

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of large grant applications. Grant proposals are also encouraged as outcomes of
 research leave. The HoD holds a research budget and allocates funds in line with strategic
 goals; funds ring-fenced for ECR staff are available through the Faculty’s Strategic Research
 Fund, and there are University-wide competitions available such as the SMMI research stimulus
 fund. These support the development of research and impact through conference and workshop
 attendance, collaborative meetings and through pilots for larger projects. The Faculty has a
 policy of returning 5% of research grant overheads to successful applicants, which is often used
 to maintain research momentum between grants or develop pilots for future grants. The
 effectiveness of these strategies is evidenced by the high (59%) success rate in our funding
 applications.
 Research activities in the Department are supported by a Senior Administrative Officer, who
 helps with the organisation and promotion of events, travel and accommodation for research
 visits, and staff recruitment, as well as a dedicated member of Finance, who assists in managing
 budgets for projects and other research activities. A Research Engagement Librarian advises
 staff and PGRs on open access, impact measurement, and data management. (REF5a §2.4).
 3.2 Facilities
 Archaeology is housed in the purpose-built Crawford Building. This houses seven laboratories
 accessible to all students and staff for the study of isotopes, lithics, osteology, ceramics, digital
 imaging, microscopy, sediment processing, organic artefacts and teaching. The osteology,
 ceramics and lithics laboratories contain major reference collections and sample preparation
 equipment. A Faculty-owned computing laboratory houses state-of-the-art data capture, analysis
 and visualisation hardware and software. All laboratories have wheelchair access either on the
 level, or via a lift. The Department has a wide range of equipment to support survey and
 excavation, including state-of-the-art geophysical and topographical survey instruments, diving
 and underwater recording equipment. We are exceptionally well endowed with analytical
 facilities through our access to shared University Facilities (REF5a §4.2). These include: the
 recently expanded geochemistry and laser ablation mass spectrometry laboratories used for U-
 Th dating, Sr isotope analysis, and provenance studies (Pike 2015, 2017 2018, Zakrzewski
 2015); e-Infrastructure South and Iridis4 super-computing which has been essential in our
 research on applications of machine-learning for site detection above and below water (Sturt
 2019); survey and sampling technologies in the National Oceanography Centre (NOCS) and
 Geography used for marine and lacustrine sampling; the μ-VIS CT centre used routinely for the
 study of artefacts and producing biometric and morphometric models; and Ship Science and
 Engineering used for access to cutting-edge autonomous aerial and underwater robotics.
 Archaeology is a partner in the SECTOR Multidisciplinary Carbon Research Facility (hosted at
 NOCS), which enables the analysis of C, N, O and S, and was funded by £1.2M MULSER
 infrastructure bid to the University (REF5a §4.2), and the TOF-ICPMS facility funded by a NERC
 capital bid of £300k. Together these facilities have been instrumental for delivering our high-
 quality research and impact, attracting PhD students, post-doctoral researchers and new
 lecturers to Southampton.
 3.3 Research Income
 Over the census period, staff made a total of 155 funding applications with a value of £20.7M
 and were successful in 92 (59%). Successful applications total £14.4M with £9.1M attributed to
 Archaeology. Research expenditure over the census period has totalled £6.6 million (average
 £0.89 million p.a. over the last 5 years), a 25% increase on REF2014. Of this £1.75 million has


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 come from UK Research Councils, £2.19 million from EU governmental sources, and £0.85
 million from UK charities. We have also been successful in attracting £0.81 million in income
 from industry and commerce sources. Significant awards and outputs resulting from funded
 projects include:
 Human Evolution, Chronology, Dispersals and Lifeways. Major awards to Pike for Dating
 the Origins and Development of Palaeolithic Cave Painting in Europe by U-series Disequilibrium
 (NERC, £393k); to Gamble and McNabb for Crossing the Threshold: the evolution of place and
 landscape (AHRC £570k); to Gamble and Pike for Seasonality, Mobility and Storage in
 Palaeolithic Hunting Societies (Leverhulme £160k). Research highlights resulting from these and
 other grants include the demonstration of Neanderthal authorship of Iberian cave art through the
 application of U-series dating (Pike); work on key Pleistocene hominin sites and the origins of
 place-making in NW Europe, including La Cotte, Jersey (Gamble, McNabb); and mapping
 submerged deposits relating to the earliest hominin settlement of Britain at Happisburgh, Norfolk
 (Bynoe). Zakrzewski’s work on palaeopathology has been key to tracking the early spread of
 leprosy in Europe. Analysis of mutilated Medieval bodies from Wharram Percy, Yorkshire (Pike),
 indicating methods of controlling the dead, was listed by Historic England as one of the top 10
 English archaeological discoveries of the decade https://tinyurl.com/tkn7tx2. Significant outputs
 include Thinking Big (Gamble 2014: the acclaimed synthesis of the British Academy Centenary
 Project), Crossing the Human Threshold (McNabb, Gamble 2018), and papers in Science (Pike
 2018), Nature (Pike 2017, 2020), PloS One (Pike 2017, 2018; Zakrzewski 2015, 2017), Antiquity
 (Bynoe, Sturt 2016; Weinstock 2017), Cell (Weinstock 2019), Journal of Archaeological Science
 (Weinstock 2017) and Quaternary Science Reviews (Davies 2015).
 Classical Empires. Major award to Keay for the Roman Mediterranean Ports project (ERC
 Advanced Grant, €2.5M). Highlights include the bioarchaeological modelling of Egyptian skeletal
 remains (4000-1900 BC) to better understand social structures of state-level populations
 (Zakrzewski), and a ground-breaking study of the foodweb of the inhabitants of mid 5th c AD
 imperial harbour complex at Portus (Keay). Significant publications since 2013 include Science
 in the study of ancient Egypt (Zakrzewski 2016), Roman Port Societies (Keay 2020), the survey
 of the Isola Sacra near Portus (Keay 2020), The island city of Tinnis (Gascoigne 2020), and
 papers in Antiquity (Keay 2019) and PlosOne (Keay 2016). Impact highlights include the
 inclusion of Portus in one of the largest archaeological parks in the world, with recent investment
 of €32M for research, management, valorisation and outreach over the next five years (see
 Portus ICS).
 Maritime Archaeology. Major awards to Farr for ACROSS, an interdisciplinary study of early
 human colonization of Australasia (ERC Consolidator, £1.1M); to Blue for her Maritime
 Endangered Archaeology project MarEAMENA: the endangered coastal zone (Arcadia, £1.2M of
 £2M total), to Adams and Farr for The Black Sea MAP project (EEF, £2.1M of £8M total). A
 major research highlight was the discovery of c.70 deep-water wrecks of the Classical to late
 Medieval period in the anaerobic environment of the Black Sea (Adams), as well as transforming
 our knowledge of the palaeo-hydrology, geomorphology and early settlement of this key region.
 Significant publications include Neolithic Stepping Stones (Sturt 2017); Aboriginal Maritime
 Landscapes of South Australia (Fowler 2019), articles in Antiquity (Sturt 2019), Proceedings of
 the Prehistoric Society (Sturt 2017) and Journal of Archaeological Science (Adams 2019, Safadi
 2019). Impact highlights include the Black Sea STEM Scholarship programme where 26
 students from challenging school environments were selected to join the project to engage with
 STEM subjects through maritime archaeological research (see Black Sea ICS). Recently


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 secured EU-funded grants extend impact in education through the Erasmus Plus educational
 maritime archaeological exchange grant, and education and capacity through an EduMUST
 Education and Capacity Building in Museum Studies grant (Sturt, Blue).
 Prehistoric Landscapes, Monuments and Materialities. Major awards to Pollard for Living
 with Monuments (AHRC £880k); to Sturt for Islands of Stone: Neolithic Crannogs in the Outer
 Hebrides (AHRC, £952k) to Pike (as co-I) for Protohistoric to Medieval pastoralism in the
 Western Alps (AHRC £178k of £650k). Research highlights include Pollard’s (2015) work on the
 identification of the quarry source of the Stonehenge Bluestones; the demonstration of the
 extent of Neolithic Crannog use in the Outer Hebrides (Sturt 2019) and Davies’ large-scale
 reappraisal of Palaeolithic ceramic figurines (2015). Pike’s application of laser ablation MS
 isotopic analysis has been instrumental in sourcing prehistoric gold (2015) and understanding
 landscape use by Neolithic pastoralists (2017). Sofaer’s (2015, 2018) innovative and
 interdisciplinary research into ‘making’ has reshaped understanding of prehistoric creativity.
 Major outputs include Clay in the Age of Bronze (Sofaer 2015), Creativity in the Bronze Age
 (Sofaer 2018), Considering Creativity (Sofaer 2018), Continental Connections (Sturt 2015),
 papers in Nature (Pollard 2015), Antiquity (Pollard 2015, 2016, 2017, 2019; Sturt 2015, 2016,
 2019; Wheatley 2017), Proceedings of the Prehistoric Society (Pike 2015, Pollard 2020), PLoS
 ONE (Pike 2017).
 Representation, Visualisation and Politics of Archaeology. Major award to Jones for Making
 a Mark: Imagery and Process in Neolithic Britain and Ireland (Leverhulme, £98k). Research
 highlights include the first large-scale application of RTI imaging techniques to archaeological
 assemblages allowing the reassessment of Neolithic portable art (Jones 2019, Making a Mark),
 the publication of Moser’s (2019) major work on the late 19th-century artistic reception of
 Ancient Egypt, Painting Antiquity, and McNabb’s research on the impact of human origins
 research on the Victorian imagination (2015). Other significant outputs include The Archaeology
 of Art (Jones 2018), The Lives of Prehistoric Monuments (Wheatley 2015), and papers in
 Cambridge Archaeological Journal (Marshall 2014, Jones 2017) and Antiquity (Jones 2015).
 Impact highlights include the Making a Mark project which introduced professional artists and
 students from Central St. Martin’s and Camberwell College of Arts to archaeological recording
 techniques (RTI, photogrammetry). The results of this collaboration were showcased in two
 exhibitions about connectivity and shared history in the United Kingdom.
 A major new initiative to diversify our income streams has been the creation of Coastal and
 Offshore Archaeological Research Services (COARS) as a joint enterprise initiative between
 Archaeology and SOES. Since 2014 this has generated c. £440k of income from commercial
 and NGO sources, and has generated 10 publications. There has been a reduction of research-
 led enterprise activity in our Centre for Applied Archaeological Analyses (CAAA) and
 Archaeological Prospection Services at Southampton (APSS) due to staff retirements and
 changes (Morris, Hay). CAHO consulting, continues to be a leading provider of Palaeolithic
 archaeological services in the UK, and Wenban-Smith was recently appointed lead specialist on
 the Palaeolithic for the new Lower Thames Crossing, Britain's biggest road scheme since the
 M25.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations and networks
 Effective collaboration with colleagues and institutions elsewhere in the UK and overseas is
 pivotal to the development of our research projects, as a means of drawing in the best skills sets

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and resources available for cutting-edge fieldwork and analysis, and the successful delivery of
 the projects and their impact. Our strategy has been to build long-standing collaborations that
 can be developed and enlarged through time. For example, our continued work at Portus (2014-
 2019) represents the continuation of a close and long-standing research collaboration with the
 British Academy-funded British School at Rome and one of the largest government-funded
 archaeological parks in Italy (Parco Archeologico di Ostia Antica). These relationships were
 central to the ERC-funded Rome’s Mediterranean Ports project. In a similar way, we have built
 upon long-standing research links to develop continued collaborations with our fieldwork in
 Avebury and at Százhalombatta in Hungary. We continue to develop new collaborations,
 recently (2019) signing a Memorandum of Understanding with the State Archaeology Service of
 Saxony-Anhalt and Martin Luther University, Halle, for collaborative work on Neolithic monument
 complexes in the UK and Germany.
 The success of our approach is evidenced by the extent of collaboration on our recent major
 funded projects (Table 2). Our collaborative networks are further revealed through analysis of
 co-authors on our outputs. According to SciVal, 46% of our publications since 2014 included an
 international collaborator. These spanned every inhabited continent, representing a network of
 370 collaborating institutions (Figure 2).

  PROJECT                      FUNDER         COLLABORATORS
                               (value)

  Dating the Origins and       NERC           Universities of Durham, Barcelona, and the
  Development of               (£393k)        Basque Country (Spain),
  Palaeolithic Cave                           Centro Nacional de Investigación sobre la
  Painting in Europe by U-                    Evolución Humana, Burgos, Spain
  series Disequilibrium

  Crossing the Threshold:      AHRC           Institute of Archaeology, UCL,
  the evolution of place       (£570k)        The British Museum,
  and landscape                               State of Jersey,
                                              Société Jersiaise,
                                              Jersey Heritage

  Seasonality, Mobility and    Leverhulme     Universities of Cambridge and Masaryk (Czechia)
  Storage in Palaeolithic      (£160k)        Archaeology Institute in Brno, Czechia,
  Hunting Societies                           Russian Academy of Sciences, St Petersburg

  Roman Mediterranean          ERC            British School at Rome,
  Ports                        Advanced       Universities of Cambridge, Rome (La Sapienza
                               Grant          and Tre: Italy), d’Aix-Marseille, Lyon (France),
                               (€2.5M).       Seville and Cadiz (Spain), Ghent (Belgium), and
                                              Alabama (Birmingham: US),
                                              Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities, Italy,
                                              Parco Archeologico di Ostia Antica,
                                              Ecole Franciase de Rome,
                                              Institut Català d’Arqueologia Classica, Tarragong
                                              Spain

  ACROSS project, an           ERC            Universities of Oxford, Huddersfield, Minho
  interdisciplinary study of   Consolidator   (Portugal), La Trobe and Western Australia
  early human colonization     (£1.1M)        (Australia)
  of Australasia                              Francis Crick Institute



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  MarEAMENA: the          Arcadia,           Universities of Oxford and Ulster
  endangered coastal zone (£2M)

  The Black Sea MAP           EEF            Universities of Connecticut (US) and Södertörn
  project                     (£8M)          (Sweden),
                                             Centre for Underwater Archaeology, Sozopol,
                                             Bulgaria,
                                             Bulgarian Academy of Sciences

  Living with Monuments       AHRC           Universities of Leicester, Bournemouth,
                              (£880k)        Cambridge, and Ghent (Belgium),
                                             The National Trust,
                                             Allen Environmental Archaeology

  Islands of Stone:           AHRC           University of Reading,
  Neolithic Crannogs in the   (£952k)        Historic Environment Scotland,
  Outer Hebrides                             Access Archaeology,
                                             Highland and Island Airports,
                                             Comhairle Nan Eileen Siar,
                                             Callanis - Urras Nan Tursachan,
                                             Ordnance Survey

  Protohistoric to Medieval   AHRC           Universities of York, Savoie Mont Blanc, and Aix-
  pastoralism in the          (£650k)        en-Provence (France),
  Western Alps                               CNRS, France

                Table 2 - Major recent funded projects and their collaborators




 Figure 2 - Collaborators by country on Southampton Archaeology publications since
 2014 Source: Scopus SciVal. Note: Scopus only picks up c.50% of our publications so this map
 is likely representative of the reach, but not the intensity of our collaborations.
 Recognising the value that lies in engagement with the wider heritage sector, including
 commercial and industrial domains, we have actively sought opportunities for collaboration with
 a range of organisations outside HE. During the census period this has included consultancy

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work with AMEC, Dong Energy, EDF, Historic England, Rochford District Council, and the
 Beaulieu Estate. Research collaboration has been developed with non-HE partners, including
 HERA, Historic England, ProProgressione, the National Trust, the Woodbridge Riverside Trust,
 and USISK (Croatia). Staff expertise has been drawn upon in advisory roles for Highways
 England A303 Scientific Committee, and the HS2 Expert Advisory Panel. We are members of
 the Heritage Alliance, the principal UK heritage advocacy group.
 4.2 Contribution to sustainability of discipline
 The Department has maintained its international leadership in the subject through membership
 of key committees, undertaking major editorial roles on journals and organising international
 conferences in our areas of specialisation.
  ●   Editorial and publication advisory roles: Staff sit on the Editorial and Advisory Boards of
      over 20 national and international journals, among them: Antiquity, Bioarchaeology
      International, International Journal of Heritage Management, Journal of Social Archaeology,
      Journal of Maritime Archaeology, International Journal of Nautical Archaeology, and
      Norwegian Archaeological Review. Moser is a Trustee of the Antiquity Trust. Blue is editor
      of the Journal of Maritime Archaeology. Pollard is UK editor of the Journal of Social
      Archaeology and co-editor of the Manchester University Press Social Archaeology and
      Material Worlds series. Collar is a series editor for Monumenta Graeca et Romana (Brill),
      and Ancient Environments (Bloomsbury). Gascoigne is on the editorial board of Studies in
      the Archaeology of the Islamic World (Brepols).
  ●   Conference and workshop organisation: Since early 2014, staff have had a key role in the
      organization of major conferences and workshops, hosted by Southampton and elsewhere,
      including:
       ○ Royal Archaeological Institute conference on maritime archaeology (2015)
       ○ MORPH2015 (morphometric analysis in Archaeology)
       ○ Assessing Digital Solutions in Cave and Rock Art Research Workshop, Altamira (2015)
       ○ Theoretical Archaeology Group (TAG) meeting (2016)
       ○ Honor Frost Foundation international conference with the University of Cyprus (2017)
       ○ International meetings of the Paleopathology Association in Atlanta (2016) and New
           Orleans (2017)
       ○ The Prehistoric Society’s Europa Conference: The Bronze Age as Pre-Modern
           Globalisation (2017)
       ○ HERA Early Career Researcher Event at the Slovakian Academy of Science (2018)
       ○ HERA JRP Uses of the Past & Public Spaces, Gdansk, Poland (2019)
       ○ CBA (Wessex) conference on recent work in the Palaeolithic (2018).
       ○ The Black Sea MAP event at the Wellcome Collection (2019)
       ○ Two conferences and three annual workshops at the British School at Rome as part of
           the Rome’s Mediterranean Ports project (2014-2019).
       ○ PDRAs have also led the organization of conferences, including Unravelling the
           Palaeolithic (2016) and Buildings and the Body (2014).
  ●   Knowledge transfer: Our knowledge transfer activities include participation (Sturt, Blue) in
      the H2020 project Maritec-x which aims to create a Centre of Excellence based in Cyprus to
      act as an enabler of scientific and business excellence in Marine and Maritime issues in the
      Eastern Mediterranean. In 2014 we ran the Embedding Research in Knowledge Exchange,
      World Universities Network Knowledge Exchange Workshop.


                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Engaging with source communities and disseminating research through the media.
 We maintain our strong track record in public engagement and dissemination. Highlights include
 annual participation in national initiatives including Science and Engineering Festival (REF5a
 §2.9), Anthropology Day, Archaeology Day, Festival of British Archaeology, coordination of the
 month-long ‘Being Human: Religion and Me’ festival (2015) as part of the BA and AHRC’s
 National Festival of the Humanities, and participation in 2014 and 2016, and the ‘Prehistoric
 Roadshow’ at local primary schools. Staff have delivered numerous public-facing Science Cafe
 talks and local society lectures. Staff have made academic and advisory contributions to
 museum exhibits at the Stonehenge Visitors Centre, the Alexander Keiller Museum, Avebury,
 the C+C Gallery, London, Central St. Martins and at Altamira Cave, Spain.
 Our commitment to engagement is witnessed by Archaeology’s high success-rate in gaining
 support from the University’s Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERu, REF5a §2.9),
 resulting in funding to develop the Archaeology for the Creative Industries portal to exploit our
 increasing collaborations with creative industries; the Between the Barrows project which
 provided a vehicle for local school and community group engagement; Life at the Cutting Edge
 which used citizen science to investigate user wear on stone tools; Stories from Bones which
 used 3D printed bones for public engagement; and A Joint Effort which worked with local
 runners to investigate kneecap morphology. Community involvement also lies at the heart of the
 Old Sarum Landscapes Project, with proactive involvement of local groups, schools and the
 Salisbury and South Wiltshire Museum.
 Via FutureLearn, we ran our own very successful MOOCs, which showcased our research in an
 educational framework. More than 40,000 have participated in two online courses - Portus and
 Shipwrecks and Submerged Worlds - with over half of participants completing the course. The
 Portus MOOC was the first archaeology-based MOOC in the UK and learners came from 120
 countries.
 We participate in Learn with US, a multidisciplinary research-led programme preparing students
 (years 12-13) for University; TEAtime lectures (a series that connects pupils’ national curriculum
 subjects to current university research) and Ask the Expert taster sessions.
 Staff have made numerous appearances on radio and TV discussing projects and research
 discoveries, e.g. ‘Antony Gormley: How Art Began’ (2019); BBC South (2016); Channel 4,
 ‘Digging for Britain’ (2017, 2018); ‘The Human Universe’ (2015); Radio 4 ‘In Our Time’ (2020),
 Discovery Channel (2015, 2018); BS (2019), Smithsonian Channel (2019, 2020) and Sky Arts
 (2020).

 4.4 Indicators of influence
 ●   Awards:
      o   Khaled al-Asaad award (The Black Sea Project, 2019)
      o   Gold Star, first grade, from the Prime Minister of Bulgaria (Adams, 2017)
      o   Duke of Cambridge Scuba Prize (Bynoe, 2019).
      o   Philip Leverhulme Prize (Sturt 2016).
      o   Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award (Pike, 2014).
      o   Baguely Prize of the Prehistoric Society (Pike, 2014).



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 ●   Membership of organisations that shape the discipline’s structure and trajectory:
     o   Keay is a Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), a Corresponding Member of the Institut
         d’Estudis Catalans and the Real Academia de Bones Lletres (Barcelona), and Chair of
         Archaeology at the Faculty of Arts, History and Letters of the British School at Rome.
     o   Gamble is an FBA, the President of the Prehistoric Society (from 2018), a former
         President of the Royal Anthropological Institute (2011-14), and a Trustee of the British
         Museum (2010-18).
     o   Moser was a member of Council of the Society of Antiquaries of London (2013-2016).
     o   Zakrzewski was Vice-President of the Paleopathology Association (2015-17).
     o   Blue is Vice-President of the Nautical Archaeology Society (since 2011) and a Fellow of
         the Royal Geographical Society (since 2008).
     o   Pollard was Secretary (2009-14) and a Vice-President (2014-15) of the Prehistoric
         Society, and is a member of the Research Committee for Oxford Archaeology, the
         Advisory Board of Cotswold Archaeology, the Project Panel for the Stonehenge &
         Avebury Archaeological Research Framework (2012-16), and Highways England A303
         Scientific Committee
     o   Pike served on the Project Executive for Historic England’s Pleistocene Dating
         Guidelines;
     o   Gascoigne is a Trustee of the Amarna Trust and serves on the Islamic Archaeology
         board of the ICAANE organising committee.
     o   Sturt is a council member of the Severn Estuary and Levels Research Committee.
     o   Farr is an Associate Investigator of CABAH, the Australian government’s centre of
         excellence for Australian Biodiversity and Heritage
     o   The Department coordinates the UNESCO UNITWIN Network for Underwater
         Archaeology (2018-present)
     o   Among research-active staff, 10 are Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries, London.

 ●   Membership of peer review bodies for research councils in the UK and overseas include:
     AHRC Peer Review College (2 staff), membership of the AHRC Strategic Peer Review
     College (Keay), International Scientific Advisory Board, Croatia (Sofaer), and the NERC
     Radiocarbon facility steering committee (Davies, Pike).

 ●   External grant reviewers include those for the British Academy, CNRS, Leverhulme Trust,
     AHRC, NERC, the Wellcome Trust, the Cypriot Research Council, Marie Skłodowska-Curie
     Actions, the Norwegian Research Council, Polish National Science Centre, European Social
     Fund, the Dutch Research Council (NWO), Wenner Gren Foundation, University of Science
     and Technology (Missouri), the Royal Society (NZ), Austrian Research Council, Hungarian
     Research Council, Croatian Research Council, and National Geographic.




                                                                                           Page 17
