Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: C-19 Politics and International Studies


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The goal of our research is to make a significant and positive contribution to our understanding of
politics through producing world-class work that addresses the most pressing challenges and
making tangible real-world differences through sustained engagement with diverse user
communities. We interpret ‘politics’ in an ecumenical manner that addresses national, international
and global problems without prioritising any particular theoretical tradition or empirical
methodology, and pride ourselves on having created a vibrant environment that cultivates a
pluralistic approach to the study of politics which is genuinely inclusive and supportive of
colleagues across all career stages.

Our submission comprises work from all eligible Category A staff from the Department of Politics
and International Relations and the Sheffield Political Economy Research Institute (SPERI),
alongside colleagues working in associated areas from the Sheffield Institute for International
Development (SIID) and the Sheffield Methods Institute (SMI). SPERI, SIID, and the SMI are all
Faculty of Social Sciences interdisciplinary centres.

The two main objectives we set for ourselves in our REF2014 environment statement were: 1)
increase the impact of our research via the new infrastructure introduced towards the end of that
cycle - SPERI and The Sir Bernard Crick Centre for the Public Understanding of Politics; 2)
enhance the research undertaken in political economy, British politics, international reations (IR),
and environmental politics. However, sustained investment from the Faculty, made possible
through increased student numbers, our previous REF successes, and ongoing significant
research income capture, allowed us to be bolder in our ambitions. We have therefore undergone
a process of significant change and growth over this assessment period, further enhancing the
vitality and sustainability of our research environment, and progressed five key strategic research
objectives, which incorporate but go beyond the two set out in 2014:

   1. We have produced high-quality research across all areas of the discipline and enhanced
      the depth and diversity of our research specialisms via significant growth of our staff base
      and grant income strategies.

   2. We have intensified our focus on equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI), so as to safeguard
      our sustainability and that of the wider discipline, through a recruitment strategy which has
      improved the balance of both seniority and gender, and has sought to improve
      representation of under-represented groups and enable career progression for all.

   3. We have increased our external research income to sustain and support research
      excellence in outputs, impact, and engagement, despite the increasingly complex and
      competitive funding environment.

   4. We have broadened our range of impact and engagement with national and international
      user communities through increased strategic support.

   5. We have continued to attract excellent PGR students through high-quality supervision and
      training, equipping them for a range of research-focused careers within and beyond
      academia.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Key achievements over this assessment period which give an early indication of how we have met
these objectives, all of which are fully evidenced in this statement, include:

   •   Published over 500 research outputs, including 35 research monographs.

   •   Recruited 30 new full-time permanent appointments, representing a 50% growth in our staff
       base. Twenty-two of these appointments have been lectureships, and since 2017 50% of all
       of our appointments have been women, improving our seniority and gender balance
       respectively.

   •   Further enhanced research in our traditional areas of strength, political economy and British
       politics, and developed substantial new research strengths in environmental politics and IR.

   •   Increased our externally funded research income by nearly 370%.

   •   Strengthened our capacity for maximising the impact of our research through sustained
       investment in organisational infrastructure (SPERI and The Crick Centre), increased
       investment in research support staff, and the implementation of related policies.

   •   Playing a central role in the establishment and leadership of the successful ESRC White
       Rose Doctoral Training Partnership (WRDTP) which has significantly enhanced the training
       provision for our PGR students.

Our impact strategy over this cycle has had three main aims: 1) to facilitate meaningful
engagement with policy communities as natural users of high-quality politics research; 2) to
support staff to work with a broad range of user communities; 3) to shape and influence public
discourse through a variety of mediums so as to enhance the public understanding of politics and
IR.

To realise these objectives we have significantly expanded our capacity to carry out impactful
research. We have employed a full-time member of professional support staff as our Director of
Impact and Engagement whose role has been transformative in assisting colleagues to develop
initial ideas for impact into more detailed action plans, helping to organise and facilitate events,
cultivate networks and contacts among potential users, and to maximise the potential impact of all
research. We allocate dedicated funding annually to support impact activity through a discretionary
Impact Fund (£51k over this cycle), in addition to the funding provided at the Faculty and University
level. This has included 11 colleagues receiving HEIF Impact Accelerator Account funding totalling
nearly £600k since August 2013, which have supported a broad range of impact activity. Some of
this is reflected in our impact case studies (e.g. Genevieve LeBaron’s extensive engagement with
businesses), though the work that this has supported goes far beyond that (e.g. Kate Dommett’s
work with The Green Party; Liam Stanley’s Communicating Tax project, including an art exhibition,
co-production workshop and policy report, and; Felicity Matthews’ Parliamentary Academic
Fellowship hosted by the House of Commons Petitions Committee). We have provided workload
relief where an immediate and significant impact opportunity has arisen. This support has extended
beyond case study leads and most often been used to aid the transition from engagement with
national to international users, for instance, in Allister McGregor and Colin Hay’s work on
measuring well-being with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
and Andrew Baker’s ongoing collaboration on tax spillovers with the Global Initiative for Fiscal
Transparency (GIFT) and The World Bank. This support is made available to all colleagues as part
of our strategic objective of creating an environment that supports career progression at all levels,
aligning to the University’s framework for academic careers which recognises impact as a pathway
for promotion and reward.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
As anticipated in our 2014 submission, The Crick Centre and SPERI have been key to realising our
impact objective of delivering maximum impact for our research. The Crick Centre provides a
common forum for colleagues working on the themes of democratic politics, citizenship, political
engagement, anti-politics, and political (in particular digital) campaigning. Members share a
solution-focused approach to their research and work extensively with partners to deliver policy
relevant research. The Crick Centre has attracted University, Faculty, and Unit investment to invest
in leadership, dedicated support staff, nine postdoctoral researchers, and five PhD students. It is
also an ESRC knowledge exchange hub, and provides training in policy engagement activities for
staff and students across the University. A clear indicator of the importance of The Crick Centre
was provided by the ESRC in 2018 when, in its announcement for the ‘Impact Champion’ prize
awarded to Matthew Flinders (its founding director), it described The Centre as having developed
an international reputation as a centre of excellence in ‘engaged scholarship’.

In addition to The Crick Centre, the second organisational infrastructure which has been key to
realising our impact objectives has been SPERI - a Faculty interdisciplinary research centre that
builds upon our long-standing strength in political economy, led by LeBaron and Hay. These
Faculty centres are explicitly designed to enable interdisciplinary research across and beyond the
University, and the translation of academic research in ways that can influence policy decisions
and/or be accessible to wider public audiences. SPERI has received significant levels of internal
investment via core institutional and Faculty funding over this assessment period and benefited
from our strategic decision to continue to enhance its capacity in political economy through eight
appointments of staff in this area. The core team of professorial fellows (of which there have been
four over this cycle, including practitioners such as Michael Jacobs – previously Special Advisor to
Prime Minister Gordon Brown), research fellows (six), postdoctoral research associates (seven),
and PhD students (seven), not only considerably extends Sheffield’s critical mass of researchers
working in political economy, its dedicated support staff provides extra capacity for supporting
impact and engagement activities in this field. It is a dedicated part of the role of one of SPERI’s
permanent deputy directors to communicate our political economy research findings to public
audiences, develop policy recommendations, and build relationships with policymakers, journalists,
and other relevant actors, who can partner our research or impact activities. The global reputation
of SPERI’s research gives it access to a broad range of users for its work which colleagues can
access. Colleagues have authored or co-authored 24 SPERI policy briefs, six SPERI reports, and
245 SPERI blog posts. SPERI has also provided a valuable platform for our PhD students to
disseminate their research and has published 60 blog posts and seven single or co-authored
reports by members of our PGR community.

Our selection of impact case studies reflects the breadth of national and international users of
our research, which include NGOs (UK Torture, UK Hunger, Forced Labour), government
(Designing Democracy, UK Hunger, Forced Labour), businesses (Forced Labour), and the arts
(UK Torture). The case studies also demonstrate some of our most noteworthy successes in
relation to our other two impact aims: engaging with policy communities (Designing Democracy
and UK Hunger) and shaping public understanding of politics and IR via a range of different media
such as radio (Designing Democracy) and theatre (UK Torture). These case studies also
demonstrate our strength in terms of depth and breadth of specialisms as a genuinely pluralistic
research environment by drawing upon work in political economy (Forced Labour), IR (UK Torture),
public policy (UK Hunger), and governance (Designing Democracy). Three of the four case studies
were developed through or in partnership with SPERI (Forced Labour, UK Hunger) and The Crick
Centre (Designing Democracy), underlining their value as vehicles for facilitating high-quality
impact.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Embracing the principles of open research is key to raising and maintaining standards of research
integrity across the sector as well as in our own environment. Colleagues have led on innovative
open data initiatives. For example, Joanna Tidy was a member of the Annotation for Transparent
Inquiry initiative, based at Syracuse University - an interdisciplinary group developing technologies
for improved transparency in qualitative research. Tidy’s work, published in the Qualitative Data
Repository, focused on developing annotation for more innovative methods, including video and
photographic evidence. Anastasia Shesterinina led the Working Group on Evidence from
Researcher Interactions with Human Participants as part of the Qualitative Transparency
Deliberations (QTD) of the American Political Science Association. The QTD offers a valuable
resource of best practices for designing, conducting and evaluating research methods with
attention to issues of data access and research transparency. We support the principles of open
research through open access to publications, a well-developed open data strategy and a
transparent approach to conducting research. To ensure maximum discoverability of our research,
we aim to put all outputs in White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and
York (green route). The 548 outputs deposited over this assessment period were downloaded
81,000 times. This is our preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of
available funding; we also publish outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder
compliance, with 25 articles supported by a Faculty fund, including several by early career
researchers (ECRs).

We are committed to supporting a culture that respects the importance of the ethics of undertaking
social science research and in which all colleagues have an appropriate awareness of their
obligations under relevant legal and professional frameworks. We have a dedicated ethics officer
whose role includes keeping staff abreast of any changes to their collective and individual ethical
or legal requirements and who sits on and reports to the Research Committee, all members of
which must also have undertaken appropriate institutional ethics training. Discussion of these
issues is built-in to our mentoring system that pairs ECRs together with more senior colleagues
and ensures that colleagues regularly reflect upon these issues. Research integrity is also central
to our PGR training. In compliance with ESRC compulsory training requirements, all PGR students
undertake a module run by SMI on ‘Research Ethics and Integrity’ and participate in discipline-
specific sessions on research ethics, plagiarism and academic misconduct in our own in-house
PGR training module (‘Doctoral Training in Politics’). Colleagues have also taken leadership roles
in developing the University’s ethics policies. Simon Rushton chaired and Helen Turton sat on a
University-wide Safeguarding in Research Working Group, which produced the draft University
policy ‘Preventing Harm in Research and Innovation’ to be adopted by Spring 2021.

The next stage of our development includes ambitious plans to further enhance our research,
increase our share of grant income from a range of external funders, ensure our research has
widespread impacts nationally and internationally, while significantly contributing to the wider
health and sustainability of the discipline. In line with Faculty research strengths and priorities, and
mindful of the world’s most pressing challenges, we plan to build on existing capacity and make
further investments in terms of staff, grant capture, knowledge exchange and impact in three
central thematic research areas: Conflict and Peace; Life at the Margins; and Sustainable
Environment. Rosaleen Duffy and Charlotte Burn’s recent award of a £850k ESRC grant for their
project ‘Beastly Business: Examining the Illegal Trade in Bears, Eels, and Songbirds’, and
Shesterinina’s award of a £1.2m UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (‘Understanding Civil War from
Pre- to Post-War Stages: A Comparative Approach) which includes the establishment of a new
Centre for the Comparative Study of Civil War, illustrate some early successes in these areas.

Our key objectives are informed by the challenges of COVID-19, particularly its uneven impacts on
the capacity of different groups of colleagues to sustain research activities:

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Our robust package of support for ECRs will be extended to colleagues at all career stages,
       to maximise our potential for producing high-quality research, securing funding, and
       maximising the impact from our work.

        This is particularly important as the funding landscape becomes more complex and
        challenging. We will support staff to develop their areas of strength and have these
        appropriately recognised in reward and promotion processes.

    2. Further diversify our staff base while strengthening equality of opportunity, inclusion and
       staff experience.

        While our gender balance has improved over the assessment period and we will complete
        an Athena SWAN submission in 2021, we remain fairly homogenous in terms of race. We
        have already embarked on important work in this area, including: an updated staff
        recruitment strategy, a programme to decolonise our curriculum and equip staff to better
        navigate race in research-led teaching, and leading an initiative to ring-fence PhD
        studentships for Black British students (discussed below). Minority ethnic students are far
        less likely to secure UKRI funding for doctoral studies. This impedes progress on race
        equality. Our leadership on this issue demonstrates our commitment to the wider health,
        diversity, relevance and sustainability of the discipline. Our work will help us actively
        promote anti-racism and implement the University’s race equality strategy with a view to
        contributing to a Race Equality Charter submission.

    3. Further strengthen our offer for PGR students, ensuring they are well equipped for a range
       of careers within and beyond academia.

        Completion rates across the sector within the funded period remain stubbornly low. We are
        not immune. Furthermore, only around 50% of UK social science PhDs secure research or
        teaching/lecturing posts in HE 3.5 years after graduation. 1 We need to equip our PhD
        students with high level skills that place them well for research careers in several sectors,
        and a capacity to build networks across those sectors, articulating clearly their potential
        contribution. Alongside the work we are already doing with the White Rose Social Sciences
        DTP to ensure PhD students have opportunities for placements with non-academic
        organisations, to gain teaching experience, and to publish, we also take seriously the
        increased pressures students are under and recognise that robust support is critical for
        protecting the mental health and wellbeing of students, as well as ensuring positive
        outcomes. Findings of the ESRC review of the PhD are expected in 2021. Ruth Blakeley
        and Burns have been closely involved in the review, and its findings will shape our
        approach to revising our training offer so that it is achievable within stipulated timescales for
        completion.


 2. People


There is a critical relationship between investing in our staff at all levels and achieving our research
objectives. Our staffing and recruitment strategies have been central to realising our strategic
ambitions of producing high-quality research across all areas of the discipline, including developing
a staff base in new areas where we have not had traditional strengths; providing excellent support
for progression of colleagues at all career stages; ensuring an inclusive research environment in



1 https://www.vitae.ac.uk/doing-research/are-you-thinking-of-doing-a-phd/what-do-doctoral-graduates-do


                                                                                                         Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
which equality and diversity are central. Reflecting our commitment to our researchers, 96% of our
Category A staff are on permanent contracts.

We have grown by almost 50% over this assessment period in terms of full-time permanent
academic members of staff (29 in 2013; 43 in 2020). This expansion has been underpinned by a
recruitment strategy designed to achieve the first four of our strategic objectives as set out in the
previous section.

Enhancing the diversity of our research by significantly developing our provision in IR and
environmental politics was crucial in ensuring the highest quality research in all areas of the
discipline and focusing on the most significant global challenges. In total we have recruited 16 new
colleagues working in these areas. These included five professorial appointments to provide
leadership in these fields, alongside eleven colleagues joining us as lecturers. Several of our
senior appointments were conceived as ‘bridging posts’ that significantly increased our capacity
and leadership in a particular field but in ways that cut across sub-disciplines (see fig. 1). The
capacity to do cross-boundary work was also important in our lectureship appointments, with
several colleagues crossing, for example, the boundaries between IR and environment or IR and
political economy. These appointments also added a considerable interdisciplinary dimension to
our research in these areas. Seven of our appointments in IR (David Duriesmith, Melanie Richter-
Montpetit, Lisa Stampnitzky, Burak Tansel, Tidy, Turton, Judith Verweijen) substantially enhanced
the work undertaken with links to sociology. Our three professorial appointments in environmental
politics (Dan Brockington, Rosaleen Duffy, Jan Selby) were strategically recruited to develop an
interdisciplinary vision of that sub-field given the urgency of the global issues it addresses, bringing
with them strong research links with geography and development in particular.




Our capacity in environmental politics was further enhanced with the establishment of BIOSEC
(Biodiversity and Security: Understanding Environmental Crime, Illegal Wildlife Trade and Threat
Finance), a four-year project funded by a €1.8m European Research Council Advanced
Investigator Grant led by Duffy. BIOSEC focused on analysing how conservation and security are

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
increasingly integrated in response to the illegal wildlife trade. It took an actively interdisciplinary
political ecology approach to develop our understanding of how the urgent need to protect species
facilitated and deepened engagements between conservationists and the security sector, drawing
on politics/IR, geography, development studies, and sociology. BIOSEC has added three PhD
students, five postdoctoral assistants, and two project managers to undertake and support work in
this urgent area of research.

This growth in IR and environmental politics ran alongside a continued commitment to consolidate
those areas where we have an established international reputation for research strength, namely
political economy and public policy and governance, in which we have recruited ten additional
permanent research-active staff members, three at professorial level and seven at the non-
professorial level. Where we made decisions to supplement existing strengths, we ensured that the
additional appointments provided new dimensions of expertise to our existing profile, most notably
in security studies, critical theory and gender.

As indicated above, the pattern of appointments has been overwhelmingly at the lectureship level
(22 of 30 appointments). Over the same period 17 colleagues have left the Unit, either through
retirement or taking positions elsewhere (seven to lectureships and senior lectureships, five to
professorial appointments). This rebalancing was important in terms of sustainability, reflecting a
concern that the previous pattern of departures and appointments had left us at risk of becoming
‘top-heavy’ and without sufficient number of early career scholars necessary for a thriving and
vibrant research community. We also invested in the next generation of research leaders to help
ensure the future health of the discipline more widely. While the split between non-professorial and
professorial staff remains largely the same as it was in 2013, in terms of the number of
appointments we have made the ratio is in the region of 3:1. This is reflected in the HESA Staff
FTE return which shows that we have the third highest averaged percentage of staff aged 34 and
under among the Russell Group during this assessment period, and the fifth lowest for those
between 50-65. This commitment to nurturing and supporting those at the very beginning of their
career is also evident in our track-record of appointing ten colleagues to lectureships (Kate
Dommett, Lambie-Mumford, Lavery, LeBaron, Jonna Nyman, Tansel, Tidy, Rushton, James
Weinberg, Matt Wood), who we had already been supporting through a variety of internal and
external postdoctoral schemes and who constitute over 25% of full-time academic staff. This
demonstrates that we have secured the most outstanding ECRs in a highly competitive recruitment
market. Of these, one has since been promoted to professor (LeBaron) and three to senior lecturer
(Dommett, Rushton, Wood). Four of our appointments over this period had also previously been
PhD students in the Unit (Matt Bishop, Dommett, Lavery, Wood), and one a University Teacher
(Turton).

Our ability to attract outstanding young scholars and nurture and invest in them in an increasingly
competitive and demanding labour market has been matched with a staff development strategy
that provides substantial support for all colleagues to realise their research ambitions. To support
our ECRs we created a dedicated Director of Career Progress and Probation and offered them a
reduced teaching load, which has contributed to a 100% success rate for new staff passing the
three-year probation period. A bespoke ECR training programme has been instituted with Faculty
funding. Our research groups are encouraged to give priority to ECRs in terms of allocating slots
for the presentation of work-in-progress (including PhD students) and specific seminar sessions
are always set aside at the beginning of each academic year for new appointments to introduce
their research to all colleagues. Our high retention rate of postdoctoral researchers moving into
permanent lectureships or taking up posts elsewhere (e.g. Alabama, Birmingham, Manchester,
Manchester Metropolitan University, Northumbria, Queen Mary University of London, Sussex,
Warwick, York x 2) demonstrates the quality of our provision for this particular group of ECRs. We

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
have also contributed to the leadership of ECR support across the University, with Dommett sitting
on the University ECR Working Group, which has devised the new ECR framework for the
University, and serving as a member of the Faculty ECR leadership team.

This specific support for ECRs is in addition to that available to all staff, which includes: 40% of
colleagues’ time dedicated to research activities in our Work Allocation Model; workload time
allowance for those engaging in significant impact activities; a personal research allowance (c.
£1,500 p.a.); access to various discretionary funds within the University, Faculty, and Unit to
support research and impact activities, including our Research Enhancement Fund (c. £5k p.a.)
and Impact Fund; a peer-to-peer mentoring system for all staff. Colleagues are supported in
flexible and remote working arrangements and through transitionary arrangements for those
returning from extended periods of parental leave. This strategy has been central in our
management of the COVID-19 pandemic where we have been responsive to, and supportive of,
individuals’ health concerns, childcare, and other caring responsibilities, and maintained an
emphasis on staff well-being and connectedness. Colleagues are entitled to apply for one
semester of study leave for every six worked. Our policy is to provide study leave to women
returning from maternity leave through the University’s Women Academic Returners Programme,
and allocation of study leave is monitored to ensure fair distribution. Over this assessment period
we have supported every application for study leave, amounting to 32 semesters for 22 colleagues,
leading to a range of significant outcomes, including research monographs (e.g. Dommett, Ed Hall,
Andrew Hindmoor, John Hobson), funding awards (e.g. Flinders, Owen Parker, Rushton), and the
development of networks/collaborations for research-related impact or grant applications (e.g. Ian
Bache, LeBaron, Rushton).

Staff development takes place within the context of the University’s Academic Career Pathway
(ACP) which provides clear guidance and flexible pathways for promotion at all levels. We have
made 13 internal promotions since 2014: nine lecturers to senior lecturers (3F; 6M), two senior
lecturers to readers (1F; 1M), and two senior lecturers to professors (2F) (the position of reader
was abolished across the institution in 2018, though those already at that level kept their title). As
this makes clear, there is now a substantive body of colleagues at the mid-career stage of senior
lecturer or reader, certainly compared to 2013 where there were very few at this level (12% in
2013, 26% in 2020). This evidences the successes of the ACP and the clear and supportive career
path that it provides. It also demonstrates how we have a wealth of talent at the mid-career level
who will play a crucial role in the future health of the Unit. This will include taking up strategic
leadership positions, an ambition we have been further supporting by very active engagement with
University and Faculty leadership programmes (completed by 11 colleagues).

Our strategic objective in relation to PGR over this assessment period has been to attract excellent
students through provision of high-quality supervision and training, equipping them for a range of
research-focused careers within and beyond academia. We have admitted 57 PhD students since
2013/14 from over 750 applicants, an acceptance rate of c.8%. The very high percentage of
students funded through competitive scholarships evidences our success in attracting high calibre
PGR students. 71% of our current PGR cohort are funded through University or external
scholarship schemes (e.g. AHRC, Commonwealth, Department Anniversary Scholarships, ERC,
ESRC), with nearly 50% of those we have admitted since 2014 specifically funded through AHRC,
ERC, and ESRC schemes. All previous and current PGR students are or have undertaken PhDs;
none of them studied for research-based professional doctorates.

This REF-cycle has seen the establishment of the White Rose Doctoral Training Partnership
(WRDTP) following the successful £20m bid to the ESRC in collaboration with Leeds, York,
Bradford, Hull, Manchester Metropolitan, and Sheffield Hallam. From its inception we have

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
provided strategic leadership of the WRDTP, with Blakeley serving as its inaugural director,
succeeded by Burns in 2020, and four colleagues serving as directors or deputies of the
interdisciplinary thematic pathways that provide training across the whole network. The ESRC mid-
term review of the WRDTP commended its governance and leadership; successful embedding of
interdisciplinary training and collaborative opportunities for students; sector-leading training on
impact and knowledge exchange, particularly through the collaborative studentships in partnership
with a range of public, private and third sector organisations; all-inclusive training regardless of a
student’s funding source; as well as efforts to widen participation, especially initiatives to improve
recruitment of students from minority ethnic backgrounds. The WRDTP’s agenda in these areas
has shaped our approach to PGR recruitment and training. We have focused on attracting the
most talented students while taking diversity seriously: gender representation has improved with
44% being women; 60% of our students are international, including students from the global south;
and we are working closely with the WRDTP to address the gap in minority ethnic recruitment. As
directors of the WRDTP, both Blakeley and Burns have been responsible for establishing and
implementing a ring-fencing scheme of four ESRC scholarships for Black British students in
partnership with The Stuart Hall Foundation.

Our PGR training is delivered in partnership with the WRDTP in four key areas: Discipline-based
training (high-level understanding of academic debates in politics); Professional skills for research
leadership (including knowledge exchange and impact); Advanced quantitative and qualitative
research methods training; and interdisciplinary pathway training (central to the ethos of the
WRDTP, it enables students to articulate how their research contributes to wider global societal
challenges through work within one of the seven interdisciplinary thematic pathways, and places
them well for future grant capture as the emphasis of funders has shifted to larger, multi-institution
and multi-disciplinary funding streams). This training is complemented by a wide range of training
offered by the Faculty, including in advanced quantitative and qualitative methods, and research
ethics, and by our in-house PGR training module ‘Doctoral Training in Politics’. Students have
access to placements, internships and collaboration opportunities with public, private and third
sector organisations, as well as media training. PGR students receive cross-faculty impact and
engagement training, led by the Director of Impact and Engagement, to prepare and support them
to engage with users of their research. One notable success of this training includes Weinberg
(now a lecturer in the Unit) who, while a PhD student, gave evidence to the House of Lords Select
Committee on Citizenship and Civic Engagement in 2017 which was then quoted seven times in
the Committee's final report and his work linked to in some of its recommendations. All PGR
students also have access to a dedicated travel fund (£2,000 per year in total), in addition to our
Research Enhancement Fund and Faculty-supported Learned Society Fund, in order to help cover
research costs or the presentation of their research at prestigious conferences (e.g. PSA, ISA and
BISA). The progress of all PGR students is monitored throughout their studies, with robust annual
training needs analysis. Confirmation review at the end of their first year ensures that the project is
viable, and a submission review at the beginning of the third year identifies any likely obstacles to
timely completion. Supervisors are also required to complete progress updates twice a year to
identify any concerns that fall outside of those two points.

We recognise that the PGR community faces a significant set of pressures in terms of mental
health and wellbeing, intensified funder requirements, and a highly competitive job market in both
academic and non-academic careers (exacerbated by the impacts of COVID-19 in HE and across
the wider economy). The University has developed an action plan to meet these challenges (as set
out in REF5a), and we have supplemented this with our own activities. These have included
regular sessions run by Flinders on ‘Experience of mental health and wellbeing in academia’ where
he (and, where appropriate, other colleagues) discuss their own mental health challenges and


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
experiences with PGR students and which provide a forum in which anxieties and concerns can be
raised, discussed, and acted upon. Using his standing within the discipline as PSA Chair (2014-
17), Flinders has also been an important voice in putting the issue of mental health on the agenda
of the discipline more widely, thus making a significant contribution to its sustainability. We have
also created a PGR tutor role with a dedicated pastoral role which has provided a vital source of
wellbeing support for all PhD students. Despite the challenging context, the success of our strategy
and the contribution we are making to building capacity in the discipline is demonstrated by the
prestige and variation of the careers that our PGR students go on to. Some have remained in
academia and secured permanent lectureships or research fellowships at universities such as
Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Essex, Liverpool, Maastricht, Manchester, Oxford
Brookes, Queens University Belfast, SOAS, and York. Our students have been recipients of the
BISA’s Michael Nicholson Thesis Prize (Dr Barbara Yoxon – 2018) and the PSA’s Walter Bagehot
Dissertation Prize (Weinberg – 2019). Other students have pursued diverse careers outside of
higher education, and our alumni include ambassadors, permanent representatives to the EU,
Senior Policy Advisors in UK Government departments, instructors at the Royal Military Academy
Sandhurst, and advisors or analysts at organisations such as UKRI, Women’s Budget Group,
IPPR, RAND and the Workforce Development Trust.

We have made an explicit collective effort to reaffirm our commitment to equality, diversity, and
inclusion in relation to our staff recruitment, development, and support policies. From a
governance perspective, we have established an EDI Committee (EDIC), chaired initially by Burns
and now by Dommett, with a membership that, while being mindful of staff workloads, includes a
balance of career stage, gender, race and other protected characteristics, and ensuring at least
one ECR, one colleague on a fixed-term contract, one member of the PGR community, and one
member of professional services staff. EDIC reviews our practices in relation to equality and
diversity, and recommends policies and practices that advance wider Faculty and University EDI
goals, namely: the celebration of diversity, challenging assumptions and promoting the importance
of values to enable all staff and students to reach their full potential, and raising academic and
professional standards. We follow and actively endorse the Faculty commitment that EDI is a
standing item at all Department meetings, and that the EDIC Director is a permanent member of
the Executive Committee. Significant achievements of EDIC have included: introducing a
comprehensive code of conduct for governing contact between staff and students (including PhD
students) and between PhD students in their interactions with undergraduates as part of their
teaching; ensuring that all positions on our Executive Committee are advertised and appointed by
a panel, and; new recruitment guidelines at job advertisement, shortlisting and interview stages,
including a toolkit specifically designed to reduce unconscious bias against female and ethnic
minority candidates. The success of this latter policy in helping foster a more diverse and inclusive
environment is evident in the fact that nearly 40% of all appointments for full-time teaching and
research posts since 2014 have been women, a figure that increases to 50% from 2017 when
diversity in our recruitment became a central focus. Of the eight full-time professors that we have
appointed over this longer period five are female, with three external appointments (Blakeley,
Burns, Duffy) and our two internal promotions (Maria Grasso and LeBaron). This has had a
transformative effect in addressing our previously male-dominated leadership, with women actively
taking on senior institutional and research leadership roles, including Head of Department (Philips,
Blakeley), Director of the WRDTP (Blakeley, Burns), Director of EDIC (Burns), and Directors of
SPERI and The Crick Centre (LeBaron and Dommett respectively). Our efforts in regard to EDI
have led and shaped work across the University and Burns has regularly been asked to give
sessions to other faculties and departments. It is also worth noting how our selection of impact
case studies reflects the success of our strategy of rebalancing our composition: three of the case



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
study leads are female (as opposed to none in our 2014 submission) and one of the case studies
is led by a lecturer (all of our case study leads in 2014 were professors).

EDI considerations were also central to the construction of our REF submission. In accordance
with the University code of practice, four principles of equality and fairness were applied
consistently, and throughout all stages of REF2021: transparency, consistency, accountability and
inclusivity. The Director of EDIC is a member of the REF Committee, and we have ensured an
equal gender balance of its wider membership. All members of the REF Committee have
undertaken the required institutional EDI training, and our internal scoring processes and outcomes
have been regularly checked by the Director of EDIC for any effects of implicit or unconscious
biases.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Supporting growth in our external research income to sustain and support research excellence in
outputs, impact, and engagement, is a strategic priority. The total value of new grant awards in this
assessment period is £9.7m, compared to £2.0m over the REF2014 period, an increase of 370%.
While this demonstrates that we achieved our objective this does not tell the entire story of our
success on this front. In responding to the increasingly competitive funding environment, we have
sought to diversify the sources of our research income with awards now coming from a much more
varied body of funders. These have included UKRI (AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, MRC, STFC), the
European Union (ERC, FP6, FP7, Horizon 2020), charities (e.g. British Academy, Intergenerational
Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Foundation, Leverhulme Trust), UK Government (HEFCE,
Department of Health), public bodies (BBC), and other overseas organisations (e.g. Centre for
Global Cooperation Research; The Wellcome Trust and VolkswagenStiftung; National and
Economic Social Rights Initiative (NESRI); Social Science and Humanities Research Council of
Canada). Colleagues have submitted 117 applications for UKRI schemes (93 as PI) and received
40 awards, meaning we have an internal success rate of 34%. The figure is even higher for ESRC
schemes where 33 out of 74 applications were successful, a success rate of 45%, well-above the
overall 29% success rate reported by the ESRC from the years 2011-18.2

Our achievements in securing external grant funding derive from a series of inclusive income
support policies and mechanisms. Internal peer review ensures that each application benefits from
rigorous, consistent, and constructive feedback at all stages of preparation. ESRC applications
receive further feedback via a Faculty panel constituted by colleagues with extensive experience in
grant application success from across the social sciences. Financial assistance for the preparation
of applications is available through the Research Enhancement Fund and our generous study
leave policy provides colleagues with the necessary time required to develop applications, while
the Faculty provides additional support via several funds from which colleagues have benefited.
These have included small amounts of pump-priming funding to provide limited relief from other
activities to dedicate time to developing an application. This made possible, for example, Sleat’s
successful BA Mid-Career Fellowship application, or enabled scoping or pilot projects that then
lead to bigger applications, such as an £8k grant for early research work that facilitated Rushton’s
successful ESRC-DFID Development Frontiers Scheme application and a subsequent follow-on
grant. Larger sums of Faculty funding have also supported the creation of various international
networks to underpin collaborative applications (e.g. with the University of Amsterdam – see
section 4). Conscious that women have less success than men in UKRI applications nationally,
tailored research support has been given by senior female colleagues with successful funding track

2 https://esrc.ukri.org/about-us/performance-information/application-and-award-data/


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
records to women at earlier stages in their careers, including through the University’s Women and
Non-Binary Mentoring Network. This seeks to mitigate the well-documented structural barriers and
historic legacies of under-funding of projects led by women.3 In that context, that 36% of our
successful grant applications have been led by a woman or non-disclosed PI compared to 29%
nationally for UKRI allocated grants is noteworthy. Additional research support is provided to those
returning from maternity/adoption, shared parental, or sick leave to minimise the impact of
extended absence on research activities, including grant capture. Support includes access to
various University funds (e.g. the Women Academic Returner’s Programme – see REF5a),
increased personal research allowance, priority in applications to the Research Enhancement
Fund, and a relaxing of the rule that those funds can only be used to attend conferences if the
applicant is giving a paper so as to help them re-establish collaborative networks. Our successes
in grant capture are replicated across all areas of the discipline. This includes political theory, a
sub-discipline which has traditionally been perceived as harder to achieve success with grant
applications, yet theorists have been awarded seven of our grants, totalling £674k, since 2014.

As a way of demonstrating the link between research funding and high-quality research outputs
and impact we can focus on the largest grant we secured in this assessment period. Duffy’s ERC
funded BIOSEC project produced 15 peer-reviewed outputs (to date) in highly regarded outlets
such as World Development, Annals of the Association of American Geographers and Geoforum, a
special issue in Political Geography, and a forthcoming book with Yale University Press by
Duffy. The team developed and implemented an impact strategy, which is ongoing. Under
BIOSEC, there were 18 knowledge exchange workshops with key user groups including the World
Bank, US Fish and Wildlife Service, Flora and Fauna International, the European Parliament and
WWF-International. The project team also produced a range of outputs in popular media formats
including 48 blogs and essays, six themed videos and six podcasts. The work of the BIOSEC team
on the problematic nature of militarisation of conservation is an important part of the impact
strategy. Specifically, project team members have advised Rainforest Foundation UK, Survival
International, and WWF-International, and Duffy has provided bespoke advice to the European
Parliament, DEFRA in the UK, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime, and TRAFFIC-International on a
range of illegal wildlife trade issues.

Our research income strategy links up with our recruitment strategy. Our objective of improving the
balance of our staff base in terms of seniority has been achieved through making a significant
proportion of our appointments at the early career level, and has been undertaken with an
awareness that a) we wish to ensure that new appointments have the potential to develop the full-
range of research skills, including writing successful grant applications, and b) those at the early
career stage need to be adequately supported by a professoriate, including new appointments at
this level, whose research is capable of sustaining their own income flows. All professorial
appointments have obtained research funding during this cycle, and they also provide additional
capacity for incorporating ECRs into successful grant-capture activities. Professors mentor ECRs
in preparing successful grant applications, and provide leadership and momentum in developing
large bids, particularly for those grants that require interdisciplinary or multi-institutional
dimensions. This support has resulted in over two-thirds of our successful grant applications over
this assessment period being awarded to non-professorial staff, accounting for 44% of our
research income (£4.2m). Non-professorial colleagues have had particular success in relation to
fellowships and have been awarded six Leverhulme Research, three Leverhulme Early-Career,
one British Academy Postdoctoral, one ESRC Postdoctoral, and two British Academy Mid-Career


3 https://www.parliament.uk/business/publications/written-questions-answers-statements/written-

question/Commons/2019-06-11/262366/

                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fellowships. Four colleagues have received prestigious and highly competitive ESRC Future
Leader Fellowships.

Extensive operational infrastructure investment has provided the necessary expertise to support
the realisation of our strategic objectives. Professional services support for research is available to
each department within the University via teams in five research hubs. Each hub, led by a manager
with at least 2 FTE research support officers, provides expert knowledge of funding opportunities
and supports a range of research activity including development and submission of funding
applications, due diligence, ethics approval processes, open access submissions and output
records management, and assists with data collection and management information provision. The
hub team works closely with Research Services to ensure that funding opportunities, and
particularly interdisciplinary opportunities, are disseminated appropriately, and relevant academic
colleagues are engaged. Together they also provide information and training to staff on particular
funding opportunities, grant application writing and processes.

The Crick Centre and SPERI provide organisational infrastructure specifically designed to help
us achieve our strategic objectives in generating the highest quality research and maximising its
impact. SPERI is one of the major cross-cutting Faculty research centres which brings together
interdisciplinary capacity with significant financial support in order to support our research and
impact activities. The Politics department has strong relations with SIID, another Faculty research
centre, which has added further institutional support for research and impact activities. The
relationship has developed significantly as SIID’s social and environmental justice agenda has
become more closely aligned with research undertaken within the Department, and particularly as
a result of the strategic decision to deepen our research in environmental politics. At an
organisational level this collaboration is demonstrated by the inclusion of the co-director of SIID
(Brockington) in this unit, Rushton’s membership of the SIID management team as the lead for the
‘Health’ research theme, and eight SIID research fellows being or have been based in the
department. SIID has published 44 blog posts by colleagues, including several PhD and
postdoctoral students.

Research groups provide the main organisational structures for our research and are key to
realising our strategic objective of supporting colleagues in the production of high-quality research.
Each group is allocated their own annual budget with which they run a series of activities
throughout the year, including guest lectures, seminars, and workshops. These provide the main
focal point for the presentation of and provision of feedback on work-in-progress (research and
grant applications) for faculty, postdocs, and PhD students. The internal organisation of our
research has adapted as we have worked towards realising our objective of strengthening our
pluralism by enhancing the depth and diversity of our research specialisms through a period of
rapid expansion. These changes reflect the greater breadth of the work we now undertake. We
also needed to adapt our infrastructure to ensure that this growth did not have the effect of creating
sub-disciplinary silos but encouraged a genuinely pluralistic approach to the study of politics. In
2014 our research was structured around three research centres, the Political Economy Research
Centre (PERC), the Centre for International Policy Research (CiPOL), and the Centre for Political
Theory and Global Justice (CPTGJ). In planning for expansion, we moved to a more flexible group
structure better able to organically track the changing character of our research during a period of
rapid growth. PERC has become the Political Economy Research Group (PERG), CiPOL and
CPTGJ became the ‘Governance and Public Policy’ and ‘Political Theory’ groups respectively to
reflect the broadening of the work being done in those sub-fields. The decision to add
‘Environmental Politics’ and ‘International Relations’ groups reflected our strategic vision of
developing new and significant capacity in these fields. All colleagues, including postdoctoral
researchers and PhD students, are affiliated with one research group, whilst their membership and

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
borders are purposefully ‘porous’ to allow colleagues to pursue conversations and collaboration
beyond these traditional but often encumbering artificial intellectual boundaries.

The Politics department is located within two adjoining buildings. The main building, Elmfield,
provides ample room for the hosting of conferences, workshops, seminars, and guest lectures. A
wing of Elmfield has been specifically allocated to The Crick Centre and was separately renovated
to provide dedicated space that houses the offices for its core team, postdoctoral assistants, PhD
students, visiting academics or practitioners, support staff and space for breakout meetings. The
Lodge, a smaller adjoining building, is the home of BIOSEC and provides dedicated study space
for its postdoctoral researchers and PhD students. We have benefited from the substantial
investment in the Interdisciplinary Centre of the Social Sciences (ICOSS) which houses state-of-
the-art IT infrastructure, meeting rooms, exhibition space, and specialised support for social
science research. SPERI is housed within ICOSS. The combination of access to ICOSS and the
renovation of The Crick Centre provides substantial space for hosting public-facing impactful
events such as hosting (via The Crick Centre) a meeting of the Public Administration Select
Committee's inquiry on public service reform in 2014, and an away day for the political literacy
oversight group of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Democratic Participation.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

National and international collaboration is central to realising our ambitions of producing high-
quality research and achieving the maximum impact for our work. Our strategic approach to
developing our research networks has been underpinned by considerations as to which
connections would help us achieve those goals. The Partnerships and International Office within
the Faculty, and generous financial support (see section 2), have led to international collaborations
resulting in 36 funded projects (worth over £2.5m) with partners across over 50 countries. National
and international partnerships have resulted in nine co-authored books, in excess of 300 articles,
and 41 co-edited books or special issues.

Particular effort and strategic support have been directed towards nurturing relations with the
University of Amsterdam and Pontificia Universidad Javeriana in Colombia. The collaborations
between Sheffield, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana and CINEP (one of Colombia’s largest and
most influential human rights and peacebuilding NGOs) originally emerged from a Faculty initiative
which supported a two-way exchange of academics between Colombia and Sheffield. The
collaboration this generated subsequently led to a successful Newton Fund application for the
‘Improbable Dialogues’ project (PI: Rushton; CIs include Bishop, Turton, and Shesterinina). The
project’s participatory action research approach seeks to construct dialogue between actors
involved in local conflicts/disputes, partnering with local authorities to generate impact. For
example: in the city of Buenaventura, the project team is working with the local government to
facilitate a participatory process for the development of a local peace plan; in Vista Hermosa
(Meta), the project is working with the Municipal Peace Council to develop new ways of local
citizens engaging in the local peace process; in Tibú (Norte de Santander), the project has
provided training to local leaders to improve their ability to engage their communities in the Local
Development Plan (PDET) process.

SPERI and PERG have an active institutional partnership with the Political Economy and
Transnational Governance Group (PETGOV) at the University of Amsterdam. This partnership was
established in 2014 with a grant from the University's international partnerships office, and since
then has been jointly funded by the Faculty and Amsterdam's Institute for Social Science
Research. The partnership has allowed 25 Sheffield-based researchers to jointly convene or attend


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
three workshops on shared intellectual interests and has facilitated visiting positions for four
ECRs. Its outcomes thus far include co-authored journal articles in Regulation and Governance,
Review of International Political Economy, and New Political Economy, and a successful EU grant
application. Academics from both institutions (LeBaron and Hay from Sheffield and Daniel Mügge
from Amsterdam) hosted a landmark international workshop on Blind Spots in International Political
Economy that has led to a double special issue of Review of International Political
Economy and New Political Economy.

Our objective of providing increased support for impact activities and engagement with user
communities is underpinned by a strong sense of the intrinsic value of such work. This is
demonstrated by both the volume of impact work at Sheffield, well beyond what is captured in our
impact case studies, and the diverse range of users and communities with whom our
researchers engage. Our work with a range of government bodies and agencies has been
extensive. Colleagues have given written and oral evidence to 18 different UK or EU Parliament
committees or commissions; served as consultants or special advisors for the British Embassy in
France, DFiD, DoE, EU Parliament, Home Office, the House of Lord Committees on Citizenship
and Civil Participation and Democracy and Digital Technologies, Food Standards Agency, and the
US Department for Homeland Security, and; co-organised or participated in events organised by
the Cabinet Office, CIA, FBI, FCO, HMT, Irish Department of Public Expenditure and Reform, and
Korean Ministry of Economy and Finance.

To give one example specifically of research collaboration with non-academic partners: as part of
his ESRC Future Leaders Fellowship research, Wood collaborated with the European Chemicals
Agency (ECHA) to produce a unique survey instrument to measure reputation in the public sector
among 2100 ECHA stakeholders. Stakeholders were identified by the agency at Wood’s request
after a series of meetings with ECHA’s stakeholder communications team. Wood’s team sent out
two waves of questions to accredited ECHA stakeholders and other relevant organisations. ECHA
encouraged respondents to answer the survey in both waves, to improve the response rate. The
research team produced descriptive statistics of the results and discussed these with the
stakeholder team. The research findings are published in a peer reviewed article in Public
Administration Review.

Other users of colleagues’ research have included political parties (Conservative Party, Green
Party, Labour Party), national NGOs, trade associations, unions, and organisations (British Medical
Association, Cancer Research UK, Chatham House, Child Poverty Action Group, Electoral
Commission, End Hunger UK, Hansard Society, IPPR, Liberty, Redress, Reprieve, Royal Society,
Tax Justice UK, Turing Institute, YouGov, Zoological Society of London), international NGOs and
organisations (Friends of the Earth, Global Initiative on Fiscal Transparency, GIZ [German
Development Co-Operation], ILO, International Organisation for Migrations, IPCC, Legatum
Institute, OECD, Oxfam, TRAFFIC International ActionAid, UN, UNICEF, WWF-International),
businesses (BDP Architects, Twitter), and arts companies (Tragic Carpet Theatre Company, Royal
Opera Company).

To give two examples of collaborations with these users and the wider impact of our research:
Rushton has led a series of research projects focussed on issues of disaster resilience and post-
earthquake reconstruction, including challenges facing the health system, in Nepal in collaboration
with PHASE Nepal (a large Nepalese health and education NGO) and academic colleagues from a
range of partner institutions in the UK (Bournemouth, Bristol, Huddersfield, York) and Nepal
(Tribhuvan University, Manmohan Memorial Institute of Health Sciences). There was extensive
engagement with research users at all levels. Remote village communities were extensively
engaged through participatory research methods and impact strategies that have brought them into

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
dialogue with policy audiences. Government bodies were partners and beneficiaries in the projects,
including Nepal’s National Reconstruction Authority, Ministry of Health and Population, and District
Health Offices in four Districts. Reach extended to international audiences e.g. through the
presentation of the findings of the team’s research findings on Nepalese resilience at the UNDDR’s
2019 Global Platform for Disaster Risk Reduction conference in Geneva.

Dommett has engaged extensively with policymaker communities to design and disseminate her
research. As Special Advisor to the House of Lords Digital and Democracy Committee, she
undertook a review of policymaking recommendations on digital technology, creating a resource
that was used within the report and which has been disseminated to the Electoral Commission and
Department for Digital, Culture Media and Sport (DCMS). She also convened a workshop on
regulatory innovation involving over 20 stakeholders from government and civil society that
resulted in a special issue for Political Quarterly and informed a key recommendation in the Lords
report. In the UK, she has worked closely with the Centre for Data Ethics, DCMS, the Cabinet
Office and the Committee for Standards on Public Life on her work around political advertising and
digital imprints. She has also been asked to contribute to inquiries at the Parliament of Victoria
(Australia), to the European Union's Digital Services Act and to work by the International IDEA.
This has involved providing informal briefings, formal consultation responses and acting as an
expert specialist during public consultations.

Successes such as these, highlight how our strategies have enabled fruitful collaboration and
impact, but also how further supporting and nurturing the development of our research networks
and collaborators will be crucial to realising our future objective of widening the base of high-quality
impact work being undertaken. The Crick Centre has been central to that strategy. Much of the
Centre’s research over this assessment period has focused on ‘Democratic Renewal’ (including
work on restoring the physical Houses of Parliament). Members of the Centre have published nine
monographs, 41 articles, and seven reports in this area, making it a significant voice in the national
and international debates on the future of democratic politics. This work, as with research
undertaken on ‘Studying Public Opinion’ and ‘Young People and Politics’, has been supplemented
with extensive public engagement and dissemination activities in keeping with the Centre’s remit.
In total the Centre has organised and facilitated four KE videos, three KE fellowships, nine public
events (including three in schools), extensive media engagement, and partnerships with significant
non-academic partners such as YouGov, Involve, Shout Out UK, and Democracy Matters. The
national reputation of the Crick Centre has enabled it to attract distinguished speakers to deliver
public lectures including John Bercow, Yasmin Alibhia-Brown, Shamir Sanni, and Grayson Perry
(co-organised with The Orwell Society with an audience of 1,250 hosted at the University’s
Octogen Centre).

Colleagues regularly seek to engage with diverse communities and publics and share their
research with them. In keeping with the University’s strong sense of its history and identity as a
civic university, colleagues appreciate the value of communicating with the communities within
which they are embedded. Wood, for instance, led an outreach initiative in Gleadless Valley, an
economically deprived part of Sheffield on the topic of Brexit, in which a team of researchers and a
community group in the area collaborated, leading to community group leaders featuring in Wood’s
ESRC funded documentary film, Brexit, Health and Me. The Crick Centre also launched the EY
UP! Scheme ‘Enhance Your University Programme!’ which offers opportunities for students
to engage with research conducted in the Centre and Department, undertake public engagement
and outreach activities within Sheffield, and gain new career skills. For example, undergraduate
students recently led a series of Festival of Social Science sessions showcasing research to over
40 secondary school students. Colleagues are also regular contributors to local and regional
media, such as BBC Radio Sheffield, Hallam FM, and The Yorkshire Post. More national and

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
international audiences have been reached via over 100 television and radio interviews (e.g. Today
Programme, BBC News at 10, Sky News, BBC 5Live, ITV News, LBC Radio) and several
contributions to newspapers or blogs (e.g. The Washington Post, Financial Times, The Guardian,
The Conversation). Our research has been covered by the Telegraph, Guardian, Independent, Le
Monde, Financial Times, BBC, Al Jazeera America, The Big Issue, and Buzzfeed News. Two
colleagues wrote and presented three programmes for BBC Radio (‘University Unchallenged’, ‘The
Legacy of a Crisis: MPs Expenses Ten Years On’, ‘Hardy and the Animals’). Colleagues have
regularly presented their research at public festivals including The ESRC Festival of Social
Science, Festival of the Mind, Off the Shelf, and Festival of Debate.

Colleagues continue to undertake a range of activities that contribute to the sustainability of the
discipline. These include

   1. 14 editorships for peer-reviewed journals (including British Politics; Comparative European
      Politics; European Journal of Political Theory; Medicine, Conflict, and Survival; New
      Political Economy; Policy and Politics; Political Studies, and; Review of International
      Studies), in addition to 34 positions as associate editors or editorial board member across
      32 journals.

   2. Editor or member of editorial boards for nine book series,

   3. Key leadership roles with funding councils. These have included Blakeley’s appointment as
      a member of the ESRC Strategic Advisory Network and Flinders’ appointment as an ESRC
      Professorial Leadership Fellow to lead a national review into research leadership capacity
      (report published in 2020).

   4. Continued participation with funding councils and bodies. Flinders was appointed as a
      member of the ESRC Council and British Academy's Higher Education Policy Committee
      and five colleagues have held positions on the ESRC Peer Review College and posts on
      three ESRC advisory boards. Colleagues are also panel members for further funding
      bodies including the ERC, GCRF, UKRI, Canadian Institute of Health Research, Social
      Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (SSHRC), and Carnegie Trust.

   5. Hay’s nomination by the European Commission as Member (2014-17) of the European
      University Institute’s Research Council, and then subsequent election by the Research
      Council as Chair (2017-20) (principal mission advising the Institute on strategic decisions
      relating to research).

   6. External examining 36 national and 19 international PhD vivas.

   7. A variety of leadership roles within learned societies. This has included the Political Studies
      Association where Flinders was Chair from 2014-17 and both Weinberg (2020-23) and
      Wood (2017-20) have served as Trustees on its Board with the particular responsibility for
      widening engagement with politics in schools. The Unit has been the editorial home of the
      PSA’s flagship journal Political Studies since 2017, hosted the PSA annual conference in
      2015, and several colleagues have been involved with the leadership of various specialist
      groups (e.g. Convenor of new interdisciplinary ‘Political Psychology’ group – Weinberg;
      Deputy Convenor 'British and Comparative Political Economy Group’ – Lavery). Likewise,
      colleagues have been heavily involved in the leadership of the British International Studies
      Association. Blakeley is the current Vice-Chair of BISA’s Board of Trustees (Chair as of
      June 2021), preceded by Phillips (2013-17) who was also Vice-Chair then Chair. Blakeley
      was editor of its flagship journal Review of International Studies (2016-2019). Turton (2015-
      18) and Ross Bellaby (2019-21) have both served as Members of the Board of Trustees,

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and Bishop is Convenor of the ‘International Political Economy Group’. Richter-Montpetit
       was Chair of the International Studies Association’s LGBTQA Caucus (2017-18), and Sleat
       contributed to the development of the Academy of Social Science’s development and
       adoption of a new set of Generic Ethics Principles for Social Sciences Research (2015).

The influence and contribution of researchers at all career stages has been recognised in a
variety of ways:

   1. Bache and Duffy have been made Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences, and Hobson
      was elected a member of the British Academy.

   2. Simon Bulmer was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by the University Association
      for Contemporary European Studies, Dommett was awarded the 2020 PSA Richard Rose
      Prize for an early-career scholar who has made a distinctive contribution to our
      understanding of British politics, and Richter-Montpetit was awarded the ISA’s first Early
      Career Community Engagement Award (2017) in recognition of her commitment to
      promoting queer, anti-racist and de-colonial approaches and the dedication she has shown
      in raising awareness of these issues.

   3. Nine ‘best article’ prizes were awarded to colleagues by academic journals or professional
      associations. Alasdair Cochrane was awarded the BISA Susan Strange book prize for
      Sentientist Politics: A Theory of Inter-Species Justice, and Stampnitzky was awarded the
      ISA’s Francesco Guicciardini Prize for Best Book in Historical International Relations for
      Disciplining Terror: How Experts Invented Terrorism.

   4. Flinders and Lambie-Mumford were awarded the ‘Impact Champion’ (2018) and
      ‘Outstanding Early Career Impact’ (2014) ESRC Celebrating Impact prizes respectively.

   5. LeBaron appeared in two ‘influence leadership’ rankings for her work on modern slavery,
      appearing at number 15 in the UK Top 100 Corporate Modern Slavery Influencers List and
      ranked number one academic in the world in the Global Top 100 Human Trafficking and
      Slavery Influence Leaders List (both 2018).




                                                                                         Page 18
