Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Newcastle University (NU)
 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art & Design
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Structure
 Fine Art is part of the School of Arts and Cultures (SACS) in the Faculty of Humanities and
 Social Sciences (HaSS). SACS, where Fine Art combines with UoAs in Music, and Media,
 Communication & Heritage Studies, is distinctive for its strong relationships with cultural partners
 and its critical mass in creative practice. Fine Art is central to SACS’ vibrant research
 environment, with a unique, long-standing culture of bringing together art history and practice-led
 research. Our research challenges orthodoxies, crosses boundaries, and cultivates impacts from
 individual and institutional, to global societal challenges. We champion interdisciplinary
 exploration and innovation. We are global in our outlook and partnerships yet locally rooted in
 our community and regional arts ecology.


 Category A staff: 31.7.20
                 Total staff   Women        Men           Open-         Fixed-term     ECR at
                 numbers                                  ended                        census

  FTE            27.4          11.05        16.35         24.5          2.9            9.5
  Head count     35            15           20            31            4              12


 The Unit as a community




 Figure 1: bar chart showing roles in the unit, broken down by women and men (individuals).




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014, the Unit has benefitted from strategic investment, growing from 16.25 FTE to 27.4
 FTE, doubling numbers both in our professoriate and in our ECR base. In parallel with growth in
 capacity, our commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) has led to a more balanced,
 diverse and capable research community.
 Chairing the SACS Research Committee (SRC) in rotation enables shared leadership of local
 research policy, especially its ethical and EDI dimensions. Membership is inclusive: senior staff,
 ECRs, PGRs, Impact Champions, technical staff and our EDI teams are represented. Faculty
 and University Research Committees (FRIC & URIC) lead institutional policy, where we have a
 central role; Talbot serves as Director of the Faculty’s cross-cutting Newcastle University
 Institute for Creative Arts Practice (NICAP) (ILES:2.2.3), and Pollock is the University’s Dean
 of Culture and Creative Arts, tasked with leading the institution’s strategy for Culture and
 Creative Arts - one of the University’s five thematic strengths (ILES:1.1/2.3.1). This position, at
 the heart of institutional strategy making, has enabled us to help steer NU’s vision for research,
 in particular shaping commitments to culture, interdisciplinarity and inclusivity.


 Strategy 2014-20
 The Unit’s sustained aim is to build a leading international centre for fine art research with a
 diverse community of outstanding researchers engaged in experimental, risk-taking, practice-
 based and theoretical research in our key thematic areas. This brings innovative creative
 thinking to urgent, challenge-led research agendas, including social justice, caring for the
 environment and the UN Strategic Development Goals (SDGs).
 New investment and research funding enabled us to meet, and go beyond our plans
 outlined in 2014:


 Progress since 2014
  Strategy 2014-20                 Actions                          Results
  Initiate and support             Unit embeds processes of         Sustained partnerships with
  interdisciplinary                research co-production           UK and global visual art and
  collaborations.                  through peer-to-peer             heritage organisations
                                   mentoring and partnership        underpins
                                   working.
                                                                    Collaborative Doctoral
                                                                    Awards (CDAs) and
                                                                    Knowledge Exchange
                                                                    initiatives.
  Grow and strengthen              Strategic investment by          16 Category A appointments
  leadership, art history and      University and the Unit          since 2014; 11 of these ECR,
  ECR base.                                                         8 in art history. 3 new
                                                                    professors appointed.
  Researcher development at        Career development               Most recent staff survey: 95%
  all levels.                      initiatives: improved            give highest grade to
                                   mentoring for ECRs. New          collegiality and supportive
                                   promotion criteria benefitting   environment.
                                   practice-based researchers.



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Integrate art history and fine   Candidates’ commitment to        Ten new projects, where
  art practice. Promote cross-     interdisciplinary perspectives   researchers across our core
  pollination across research      a criterion in recruitment.      disciplines and at all career
  themes.                                                           stages collaborate.

  Influence University research    Key staff on high-level          Unit benefits from investment
  strategy.                        governance bodies and            in:
                                   participating in pan-NU
                                                                       •   NUAcTs (ILES:3.2.4)
                                   strategy development.
                                                                       •   NU Heritage (see
                                                                           below)
                                                                       •   Research Excellence,
                                                                           Global Challenges
                                                                           and Policy Academies
                                                                           (ILES:2.2.5)
  Grow external and internal       Nurture grant writing            Grant income quadruples. 64
  research income for research     capabilities.                    bids, 41% success rate.
  and impact.
  Grow and support our PhD         More interdisciplinary           Supervisor density reaches
  community and develop our        supervisor teams. Capitalise     66%. Doctorates awarded
  supervisor base.                 on Northern Bridge and its       and PhD community double
                                   partnerships.                    2014 numbers.
  Work towards a more equal,       EDI training for all             Athena Swan Bronze 2018.
  diverse and inclusive            researchers.                     60% new recruits women,
  environment.                                                      25% from established
                                   IDEA (Inclusive, Diversity,
                                                                    careers in practice.
                                   Equality, Access) group
                                                                    Respectful Cultures Policy
                                   established.
                                                                    introduced. Facilities made
                                   New recruitment policies and     fully accessible.
                                   practices.




 Interdisciplinarity
 Much of our research extends beyond the boundaries of the Unit. During this REF cycle, major
 UKRI-funded projects like Mapping Contemporary Art in the Heritage Experience (MCAHE),
 (2017-20), Expanded Interiors (EI) (2017-19) and Jetty (2013-15) have transformed the way we
 conceptualise our research, reflecting the way we better understand the value of teamwork and
 interdisciplinary. Clay’s AHRC Commons Fellowship (2015-17) was radical in the way it drew
 together researchers from multiple HEIs and across the creative industries. We introduced
 practice-led methodologies into ten externally-funded projects led by other disciplines: in Social
 inclusion through the Digital Economy (SiDE) (2009-15), our creative approaches supported
 tackling social exclusion; in the Poetics of the Archive (2013-15), we brought visual thinking to
 unlocking a key poetry archive; while our work in Plural Heritages of Istanbul (2016-18) and
 Urban Living Partnership (2016-18) brought digital design expertise to pressing challenges
 within urban conurbations. We collaborated with the Centre for the Rural Economy, the
 Biosciences Institute, and the School of Geography to establish six artist-in-residence schemes
 funded by Leverhulme, ACE, NICAP and Wellcome. We worked with humanities subjects such


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 as Modern Languages to co-curate art exhibitions (Jones 2018). These interventions have led to
 sustained and reciprocal benefits. For example, graduating PGR Mulvihill, appointed first as
 artist-in-residence in Geography, then becoming CI in their AHRC-funded project, Turning
 Fylingdales inside out (Feb 2020). Embedding fine art perspectives and methodologies in
 disciplines across the natural and social sciences and humanities is central to our research
 strategy.


 Unit Leadership
 Interdisciplinarity has been facilitated by Unit leadership at all levels. First, the strengthening of
 NICAP’s remit to promote interdisciplinary practice-led creative arts research since 2014 has led
 to new research groupings: the ‘Spatial Practices’ and ‘Writing with Images’ groups are led by
 Unit staff (Huber and Juler), and the Art & Biomedical Science group by a PGR (Turner). NICAP
 nurtures interdisciplinary projects at their early stages: Expanded Interiors and Networking New
 Opportunities for Artists in East Africa (NOFA) (2018-19) benefitted from pump-priming, enabling
 their future PIs to develop international partnerships, with each project going on to win AHRC
 grants.
 Second, the Unit has been instrumental in driving the development of Newcastle University
 Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs, ILES:2.2.1). Three of these, Centres for
 Heritage, Cities and Landscape (NU Heritage/Cities/Landscape), are key to our future plans. NU
 Heritage, within which we are strongly represented, draws together heritage stakeholders to
 nurture interdisciplinary research, facilitating £60k of HEIF funding for pilots for two future
 projects: Volunteer Voices, reshaping the way heritage organisations engage volunteers with
 contemporary art; and All our Histories, drawing together heritage organisations and early career
 BAME artists.
 Third, in leading the Global Challenges Academy’s (ILES:2.2.5) Creative Practice in
 International Development Network, we led NU’s first three GCRF/AHRC-funded projects in
 East Africa, building capacity within the visual art ecologies, in collaboration with NU Business
 School’s Entrepreneurship Research group and researchers at Makerere University (Anderson,
 Burton 2018-20). Coordinating this work with NU’s £33m GCRF-funded hubs in Water
 Sustainability and Living Deltas, strengthening their creative practice strands for further
 partnership working in LMIC (low and middle-income countries), to responding the UN’s SDGs is
 central to our future global strategy.


 Future Plans
 The next five years will be critical to consolidating our progress, and to sustaining our resilient,
 progressive and diverse research environment. We will continue to prioritise the quality,
 accessibility and impact of our research in a challenging landscape.


 Plans 2021-6
  Objectives                                       Approach
  Ambitious collaborations with existing and       Develop Knowledge Transfer Partnerships
  new partners.                                    (KTPs), Follow on Funding projects and
                                                   CDAs. Develop new partnerships through
                                                   our GCRF networks.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Optimise our engagement with NU                  Support further developments in NICAP, the
  resources, promoting interdisciplinary           NUCoREs and the Global Challenges
  research.                                        Academy.
  Embed EDI and promote diversity,                 Tangible responses to EDI initiatives in
  particularly regarding ethnicity and             recruitment policy and practice, using
  protected characteristics.                       training and peer-to-peer mentoring to
                                                   embed EDI best practice across all research
                                                   activities.
  Sustain current trajectory of grant-capture.     Increase PI capacity so more staff hold
                                                   grants from diverse sources, achieved
                                                   through ECR training and mentoring.
  Nurture our intellectual and creative capital.   Mentoring and career development for all
  Encourage risk-taking and long-term              staff. Foster ECRs within PGR supervision
  planning.                                        teams. Phase out precarious contracts.




 Strategic aims in research impact
 Our impact strategy focussed on two key areas:
    •   Increasing public benefit from contemporary art through innovative approaches to
        engaging diverse publics and stakeholders.
    •   Co-producing strategies, policies and tools to improve the status and livelihoods of
        creative practitioners; building capacity in the creative industries.
 Both were underpinned by investing in and nurturing partnerships with non-HEI bodies, for
 instance those developed through four AHRC-funded ‘Follow-on Funding for Impact and
 Engagement’ projects (Weileder, 2016), (Burton, Kiguru, M’Mbogori, 2019-20), (Anderson,
 Burton, Kimani, Nabuline, 2020-21), (Schofield, 2019) and one KTP. Our partners ranged from
 inner-city FE colleges to cultural organisations to grass-roots artist groups. Over £500k grant
 income was awarded for this work, benefitting communities including children in low-income
 areas of Tyneside and early-career art writers in Africa, who saw their work published for the first
 time. Such projects, and our CDAs, ensure sustainable co-production and adoption of research
 innovations. We maximise impacts from earlier research: Weileder secured an £80k AHRC grant
 for Transfer-Impact (2016), which built dynamic new impacts from his 2006 project, ‘Transfer’.
 Since census date, we have been awarded two further AHRC FoF awards (bids submitted
 before July 2020) and two CDAs, a firm foundation for ongoing impact work.
 Our Impact Case Studies review work by staff at all career stages and show development of
 impact through novel engagements with publics and organisations. One is a detailed analysis,
 one an overview of several projects, the third having an ECR focus. Each contains examples of
 how we use grant-funding to generate impact from research.


 Structure of Research
 Since 2014, research has been supported through six research themes. These integrate art
 history and practice, and are porous to encourage cross-pollination.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Digital Cultures focusses on innovative engagements within digital public spaces. Our
 contribution to consortium projects, SiDE and The Creative Exchange (Bowers, Shaw 2012-17),
 and UKRI calls, such as ‘Next Generation of Immersive Experiences’, is characterised by
 innovative research conducted in and with public space (Schofield 2018). Projects have included
 acoustic interventions in church buildings (Shaw, Bowers 2019), and work introducing innovative
 digital creative methods into cultural organisations, changing their working practices and
 developing Augmented Reality (AR) apps to connect Tyneside children with literary archives
 (Schofield 2018).
 Life Work Art connects researchers with communities of creative professionals in local and
 global contexts, and includes research centred on activism, participatory and socially engaged
 practice. To make our research societally relevant, a fundamental principle underpinning this
 theme has been developing our capabilities for co-designing and co-producing research with our
 partners: e.g. with Makerere University, NGOs in East Africa and NU Business School. In 2018-
 20 we developed innovate entrepreneurship and creative strategies for practitioners in East
 Africa, helping build sustainable visual art eco-systems. In our region, we embed our research in
 creative industries, for instance in the Newbridge Project (see Section 4) and Northern Stage
 theatre, where our KTP (2019) supported both creative digital, and business innovation.
 Material, Process and Making explores forms of thinking, creativity and engagement
 associated with, and specific to, materials and processes. It is set against the background of the
 availability of new technologies and methods, and of critical and historical understanding of
 traditions and orthodoxies associated with established disciplines and areas of enquiry. The
 work of two ECR fellows, Masterman and Korda, (Korda’s fellowship established in partnership
 with BALTIC), explored the boundaries of ceramics research, while Cuddon’s Leverhulme
 Fellowship (2019-) resurfaces under-researched narratives connecting clay with text. Our
 ‘Material Memories’ conference (2014), organised by distinguished academic and PGR Gwen
 Heeney (1952-2016) convened international researchers working with the material legacy of the
 post-industrial landscape. Theoretical work here includes analysis of studio practice from the
 perspectives of practice-led researchers (Mieves, Jones) and art historians (Lotery, Moonie,
 Spalding).
 Curating, Archives and Heritage connects researchers exploring creative methods for
 engaging with archives and other cultural institutions. It supports the development of reciprocal,
 interdisciplinary partnerships, transforming perspectives on how cultural heritage and archives
 are preserved and shared. Innovative approaches to curating and exhibition making as research
 have drawn together practitioners and art historians (e.g. Grayson, King, Lotery). We have
 worked with institutions ranging from the Hayward Gallery (Wilson and Wilson) and Pavilion
 (Park) to the Bagpipe Museum in Northumbria (King). Innovative engagements with heritage
 include projects led by ECRs (Schofield), while high-level partnership has been key to projects
 such as MCAHE. Tyne and Wear Museums and Archives (TWAM) and Woodhorn museums co-
 supervised three CDAs in teams also comprising art history and practice-based staff.
 Film, Photography and the Digital Image explores the capacity of lens-based and digital
 media to negotiate between real, imagined and constructed worlds (Maclean, Noonan-Ganley).
 Researchers have experimented with innovative methods to create visionary cinematic language
 (Coombes) and to combine film with photography and sculpture, to create installations that
 probe collective anxieties (Wilson and Wilson). Kögelsberger’s billboard performances brought
 intimate portrait photography into the public realm, while Anderson and Guy work with LGBTQ+
 photographers to exhibit and preserve non-institutional archives.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New Engagements in Scientific and Rural Ecologies, a new theme, catalyses areas of
 interdisciplinary working: Art and the Rural (involving challenge-led work by PGR Sallis with the
 Anthropocene Research Group), and Art and Medical Sciences (PGR Turner, who leads the Arts
 & Biomedical Science group). Growing out of the AHRC-funded Northumbrian Exchanges
 (Pollock 2014), which examined the contribution of visual art within the rural cultural economy,
 research with the Centre for Rural Economy developed further shared interests in the rural as a
 differentiated site of practice. An expanding network with organisations such as VARC (Visual
 Arts in Rural Communities) and Allenheads Contemporary Arts has an international dimension
 through an ESRC collaboration grant, enabling Japan/UK exchange visits to explore the role of
 art in rural development in each country (Pollock, 2020). Collaborative projects such as A
 Scientific Encounter (2017, with Montpellier University) explored through artistic research how
 we see the world through scientific objects, and how those objects affect us.


 Open Access, Discoverability, Dissemination
 To help our research reach wide and varied audiences and support other researchers, we have
 focussed on making it as accessible as possible (ILES:2.3.3). To complement our textual
 outputs in NU’s ePrints Open Access repository, we have worked with the University to invest in
 a flexible repository suited to the range of media outputs we generate. This is fully compliant with
 cOAlition S principles, ensuring we are in line with UKRI best practice. For example, Huber’s
 unique 3-D scans of Herculaneum are available to researchers in any discipline. In addition to
 disseminating research via the SACS research web pages, we encourage other channels, such
 as work being acquired for public collections and, to extend the reach and longevity of
 exhibitions, the production and dissemination of catalogues and websites. We are conscious of
 the value of sharing resources and will continue discussions with bodies such as the Society for
 Artistic Research and VADS to promote sector-wide dissemination.


 Research Ethics and Values
 NU commits to research integrity (ILES:2.3.2). In addition to requiring researchers to undertake
 ethical research training, SACS is proactively building strengths in responsible research, with our
 ‘General Principles for Collaborative Working’ (2020), an exemplar of cross-School working. We
 played a key role in NU’s declaration of Climate Emergency in 2019, and now take practical
 measures, such as: reviewing international research practices to minimise travel; using low-
 emission modes of transport; and making events online. We offer all our community ‘carbon
 neutral’ grants from our Bartlett Endowment to cover premium costs of using sustainable
 resources in their work. Projects such as Jetty (2015) explored new models for contemporary
 public art to shape debates about sustainability.


 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Since 2014 we have nurtured our foremost research asset, the creative and intellectual capital of
 our research community. Ensuring its continued wellbeing, individually and collectively, is our
 priority for the future. At previous REF exercises, we have characterised ourselves as a small
 Unit but have prioritised growth since 2008, trebling in size from 9FTE, through 16.25FTE in
 2014, to 27.4FTE now. As a Unit we are fulfilling our ambition to reflect the vibrant spectrum of
 work that characterises the contemporary art ecology. Investment has enabled us to broaden the


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 base of practice-led research and strengthen our research leadership and art history teams.
 Recent appointments are building our diversity.


 Recruitment: strengthening leadership and invigorating the research base with ECRs
 Category A appointments since 2014 (including former members of staff at census)
  Total new             Women              Men               ECR at             Professorial
  appointments                                               appointment        appointments

  FTE: 16.35            FTE: 9.1           FTE: 7.25         FTE: 13.15         FTE: 2.2
  Head count: 20        Head count: 12     Head count: 8     Head count: 16     Head count 3
  Percentage of         60%                40%               80%                15%
  appointments (by
  head count)


 We were delighted to appoint Jane and Louise Wilson to the Fine Art Chair (2017), with the
 University’s re-investment in this post, frozen since 1986, a sign of the Unit’s buoyancy.
 Recognising the unique nature of their practice, this was an unprecedented joint appointment,
 bringing an exemplary model of research and citizenship within the fine art community,
 demonstrated by their artistic achievements and work on the boards of Tate and BALTIC. Art
 Historian and Broadcaster Richard Clay (2015) is NU’s first Professor of Digital Cultures, a
 cross-disciplinary post conceived to promote HEI/public engagement. Exceptional ECR
 appointments have invigorated the research environment and provide for future leadership.
 Rachel Maclean’s recruitment (2020) to the first cohort of NUAcTs, a £30m fellowship scheme
 (ILES:3.2.4), is another example of an acclaimed artist attracted by our unique research
 environment, affording her opportunities to collaborate with VR and facial recognition experts,
 and to recruit a PhD student. Laura Guy and Joseph Noonan-Ganley joined the Unit (2018) as
 Fellows of the Research Excellence Academy (ILES:4.1.3), a £14.6m University investment in
 the strongest performing UoAs in 2014. Our Norma Lipman Fellows in Ceramic Sculpture,
 Serena Korda (2015) and Eva Masterman (2018) expand our research within the field of ceramic
 sculpture.


 Building strengths in art history
 Eight appointments (six new posts, two replacing Spalding and Wells) since 2014 have doubled
 our art history team. This expansion was undertaken to support integration with practice-led
 research and encourage collaboration. It has sparked innovative and interdisciplinary research
 through collaborations on internally and externally funded projects (e.g. A Scientific Encounter
 (2017)). Our innovative approach to connecting art history, theory, and practice-led research
 was recognised by the Association for Art History, who invited us to co-convene their annual
 conference with Northumbria University in 2020. A strengthened art history team provides PhD
 students with more options for combined supervisory expertise, connecting historical, theoretical
 and practice-led methodologies, and has enabled the Unit to recruit more art history PGRs, with
 applications more than doubling since 2014.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Nurturing and supporting staff
 Promotions since 2014
  to Professor/Reader     to Senior Lecturer      fixed term to open-    technician to
                                                  ended contract         lecturer
  women       men         women       men         women      men         women       men
  4           1           2           3           6          1           1           -


 All staff, whatever the stage of their career, contract type or source of funding, are full and equal
 members of the Unit. All benefit from research mentoring: a long-term mentor, usually a senior
 colleague, is assigned upon appointment. Shorter periods of peer-to-peer mentoring support
 specific activities, such as when a colleague is first PI, while mentors from outside the Unit are
 available to promote interdisciplinarity. In addition to these mechanisms, an active culture of
 support means all members of staff benefit from one-to-one advice on their research, for
 example at weekly drop-ins with the Head of Research.
 A comprehensive research induction for all new starters (open to all staff) in SACS is delivered
 each semester, (whose two-year probation is formally reviewed at Personal Development
 Review (PDR) meetings – with all new appointees successfully completing the probationary
 period). Annual PDR meetings provide an opportunity to identify development and training needs
 in relation to career goals, and space for proactive discussion of promotion (replacing a self-
 nomination system). Staff share their Personal Research Plans at annual meetings with the
 Head of Research, which consider research and impact goals, and progress over the year.
 For ECRs, the Certificate of Advanced Studies in Academic Practice includes modules in
 practice-led research methods, research ethics and PGR supervision. Training to support
 impact and research for all staff is organised through the NU Open Learning Programme (with
 modules in all aspects of leadership, EDI, research and scholarship skills, wellbeing, and health
 & safety). The NU Academies offer training to work with policymakers and enterprise. The HaSS
 Research Development team provides research funding workshops and tailored individual
 support for UKRI, European and international funding. ECRs benefit from reduced workloads
 during their first two years and are mentored through administrative responsibilities in
 preparation for senior roles. This encourages shared and sustainable knowledge of policy, and
 equity in undertaking management roles.
 A thriving group of RAs has developed since 2014 with 20 individual RAs employed over the
 assessment period, fulfilling key roles on UKRI-funded projects. This important group in our
 community undertake an award-winning training programme provided by NU’s Organisational
 Development Unit, tailored to meet the University’s commitment to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers (ILES:3.2.3). At Unit level, we build on this, supporting
 RAs’ transition to independent research by protecting one day each week for personal research,
 (exceeding UKRI guidelines). Dedicated social spaces, an online RA forum and an annual NU-
 wide post-doc conference contribute to a framework supporting a cohesive and ambitious
 community. 100% of our RAs have progressed to new/extended research contracts or academic
 appointments, with SACS providing bridging funds between appointments.
 A transparent workload model protects at least 40% hours for research for all Category A
 staff. All Category A staff (other than research fellows) take one semester in every seven as
 sabbatical leave (two for those completing intensive administrative roles, and parental or sick
 leave also counts towards time worked), with 31 sabbaticals taken since 2014 (ILES:3.2.8).


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Shorter leave periods are negotiated to meet pressing exhibition plans or publication deadlines.
 External funding has supported other research leave, e.g. Cuddon’s Leverhulme Fellowship.
 Time is allocated in our workload for participation in support groups such as Disability Interest,
 BAME, Rainbow, Parent and Carers, and Technicians.
 Research is supported and undertaken by our award-winning technical team who regularly
 undertake training to update their exceptional skills across a wide range of processes. Technical
 Manager, Davoll, is a member of SRC. As a founding signatory of the Technicians’ Commitment
 (ILES:3.2.6), we are dedicated to increasing recognition and career development for our
 technicians, and hosted the Technician Partnership Conference in 2020. Technicians can
 request time for independent research, are eligible for internal grant-funding schemes and
 receive mentoring to support career progression. We support transition to academic posts. For
 example Servin, a printmaking technician, was mentored in research skills and awarded internal
 grant funding to establish a NU/Mexico printmakers exchange network. She later secured a
 Lectureship in Printmaking, which she combines with her 0.5FTE role as technician.
 Leveraging our distinct context as an art school within a Russell Group University, we have been
 leading NU’s commitment to osmosis between academia and professional practice (ILES:2.3.1),
 with unique appointments that link us to industry (25% of new hires joined us direct from the
 creative industries). Creating academic posts within research projects instead of employing
 consultants gives colleagues the opportunity to develop careers with us after projects end: King
 (appointed 2017) now has a joint career as an academic and as Creative Director of
 Arts&Heritage, meaning that we benefit from the experience and networks of a renowned leader
 in the professional field of contemporary art in heritage.


 Equality, Diversity, Inclusion
 The Unit recognised that gender balance at senior level was poor in 2014; three in every four
 professors were men, while overall, the Unit comprised 59% men, 41% women. Since then, we
 established an EDI and Athena Swan working party (SACS achieved bronze in 2018). Our EDI
 action plan identified pathways to enhance all aspects of inclusivity and diversity, highlighting
 areas where we needed to develop, particularly in the balance of ethnicity of staff, where we are
 still 91% white European/North American. We committed to positive actions to recruit, promote
 and sustain a constructive working culture for global majority ethnic colleagues, and to achieving
 a diverse demographic at all career stages, with regard to all protected characteristics. This
 shapes our approach to recruitment and promotion: gender-balanced panels include colleagues
 at all career stages, who undertake unconscious bias and active bystander training. We have led
 the University in other developments, requiring candidates to evidence a commitment to EDI in
 their applications, using inclusive language and framing new opportunities to attract staff offering
 crucial new global perspectives in art practice and art history. We are learning from our
 experience of building diverse research teams with our partners in Africa, and are proactively
 engaging with strategic initiatives, such as supporting a recently recruited RA to join the
 University’s first BAME Leadership programme.
 We have committed to progressively transferring staff on fixed-term contracts to open-ended
 posts. These are reviewed annually and transferring seven colleagues to open-ended posts
 since 2014 has made a difference within our research environment, affording these colleagues
 time and space to take risks and invest in their long-term role in the Unit. Many staff work part-
 time and have caring responsibilities, so research meetings and training events are scheduled
 when most can attend. We support mid-career researchers too, championing their research



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 trajectories through promotion and careful stewarding of the PDR process. As staff approach
 retirement, we offer tapered contracts.
 Supporting promotions: we successfully advocated for inclusive promotions criteria with
 regard to non-textual outputs and staff on fractional contracts. This has helped achieve a more
 balanced gender profile at all career stages. In a discipline where women students significantly
 outnumber men, we are better reflecting and setting role models for our whole community. All
 our senior management posts are held by women and we have gender parity among Professors
 and Readers.
 NU’s commitment to EDI (ILES:3.4) includes diverse support. Parental leave and flexible
 working arrangements are particularly important given the high number of staff working on
 fractional contracts. All staff can apply for Returners Support Grants, with Cuddon awarded £10k
 after maternity leave, providing her bespoke support for teaching relief, training and technical
 support to restart her research.
 SACS’ IDEA (EDI) group is acclaimed within NU for its proactive approach, and in the SACS
 anti-racist curriculum review research project. We have also established a weekly Fine Art Anti-
 Racist Forum, focused on decolonising studio teaching and supporting diversity in research. In
 2018, Unit staff initiated city-wide creative interventions, including an exhibition and talks
 programme, as part of ‘Freedom City’, marking the 50th anniversary of Dr Martin Luther King Jr
 accepting an honorary PhD. NU has signed the Race Equality Charter, with Talbot co-chairing
 its campus committee. We have shared with other HEIs our experience of practical approaches
 to co-producing research in developing countries, which empowers partners, promotes gender
 equality and engages disenfranchised/low-income communities. NU is a University of Sanctuary,
 and we support projects that engage marginalised communities (2017) and develop creative,
 empathetic perspectives on complex subjects such as dementia (Bromwich, 2020) and
 HIV/AIDS (Anderson, 2016). Improving access has been the priority in refurbishing our
 buildings; since 2016, all our facilities are fully accessible for wheelchair users and people with
 reduced mobility, for the first time.
 EDI principles have shaped this REF submission, through the training undertaken by all
 decision makers and our inclusive REF preparation process, where workshops have focussed
 on the importance of capturing the diversity of our work, our collaborative ethos, and the strong
 contribution of ECRs. Our Respectful Cultures policy, introduced in 2019, applies to research
 governance, including discussions around the contributions of individual researchers to REF
 2021.


 Research Students
 54 PhD students studied in the Unit during the review period. 28 PhD degrees (21.36FTE) have
 been awarded (16 women, 12 men). This compares to 8.73FTE reported in 2014. Many
 research students join us with established professional profiles, choosing the Unit for its
 reputation for excellence in interdisciplinary supervision and outstanding resources such as
 dedicated studios. We work carefully with each candidate to structure their supervision team,
 offering examples of teams combining expertise in art history and practice, and, for example:
 poetry, music, archaeology or computing science, and responding to suggestions for supervision
 spread across other disciplines within NU and the NBDTP. Eight students holding CDAs extend
 this further, with co-supervision provided from non-HEIs including Helix Arts, AV Festival,
 TWAM, National Trust and V&A. Extending the disciplinary range of co-supervisions is part of
 our future PGR strategy, for example through NUAcT-funded studentships.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Our supervisor density has grown to 66%. Since 2014, the key source of PhD scholarships has
 been the AHRC Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership (NBDTP ILES:3.2.2), a
 consortium of seven universities, and partner organisations, offering up to 64 competitive
 studentships annually. 21 Unit PGRs have held full studentships this cycle, awarded through the
 NBDTP or linked to research projects such as Creative Exchange. Our current PhD community
 numbers 26, 13 holding AHRC studentships and 3 full Research Excellence Academy
 (ILES4.1.3) studentships. An increasing number of those holding studentships are researching
 topics related to film, participatory and socially engaged/participatory practices, confirming our
 reputation in these areas. From 2021, NBDTP will ring-fence two scholarships for BAME
 applicants.
 We are committed to providing an accessible environment from application onwards; if
 candidates indicate needs relating to a protected characteristic, Student Wellbeing offers a
 support meeting. Each application is reviewed by the Unit PGR Director (Juler) and potential
 supervisors, with training in unconscious bias a requirement for selectors.




 Figure 2: PGR workshops in the XL Project Space.


 Research seminars, coordinated by Noonan-Ganley, emphasise parity between exegesis and
 practice-led study, and include gallery workshops where students test their work, experiment
 with artistic methods and consider provocations, such as a model for a performance-led viva.
 Sessions open to all NBDTP PGRs are a forum to share research while students engage with
 peers in other disciplines through initiatives such as ‘Valence’, initiated by PGR Turner’s Art and
 Biomedical Science group. Funded by a £30k Wellcome grant, made to a student, this embeds
 students for residencies in the Centre for Mitochondrial Research. NICAP hosts a monthly

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Creative Arts Practice Forum, and an annual PGR conference brings the NU community
 together. Funding is available for students to travel and present at conferences, with a Pioneer
 fund established during Covid-19 to support research resilience.
 School- and Unit-specific induction directs students to 700 hours of flexible training in research
 provided by SACS, HaSS and the NBDTC (ILES:3.2.2). Practical and theoretical skills including
 research management, ethics and wellbeing are relevant to a range of research. PGRs have at
 least one monthly meeting with their supervisors, with all interactions recorded on an ‘e-
 portfolio’, which can also log visual material. These are monitored through Annual Progression
 Review. PGR students gain experience of UG studio and seminar teaching once they have
 completed the certificated Introduction to Teaching and Learning in Higher Education.
 SACS’ PG Student Voice Committee provides the forum for researchers to shape the agenda for
 their facilities and training needs, while students are co-opted onto working groups looking, for
 example, at new studio provision.
 Of our 28 graduates since 2014, 16 have progressed to hold academic positions (13 in the UK,
 three internationally), with six working as independent artists and six employed in the cultural
 sector.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 We have delivered our 2014 strategy to grow research income, with a near fourfold increase in
 external grants over the REF cycle, to over £2.3m. We have led 22 HESA-reported projects to
 completion, collaborated on a further 14, and our ECRs are well-represented among PI and CI
 roles. Our PI/CI density is 54% and success rate is 41%, with 26 awards from 64 bids. Grants
 awarded to staff but not reported to HESA have grown from £430,056 in 2014 to £1,600,025 in
 2020. This strong performance demonstrates the success of our mentoring strategy, support for
 bid writing and above all, our commitment to interdisciplinary and collaborative research.


 Income
 HESA reported grant-spend
                     2001               2007               2013              2020
  Total              £152,660           £768,049           £597,412          £2,367,426
  per FTE            £16,962            £51,203            £36,763           £86,402


 Our funders are more diverse, with grants awarded by fourteen bodies. The AHRC continues to
 be our primary external funder, with projects such as MCAHE (£774,895 fEC), EI (£345,560) and
 Jetty (£347,195) all winning initial grants through the standard research route, with follow-on-
 funding grants awarded for further impact and partnership work. Other AHRC awards include
 Clay’s Commons Fellowship (£257,367) and three GCRF awards for projects in East Africa
 (£259,467). Other awards include EU funding for CruiseV (Anderson) and Recall (Weileder), an
 EPSRC Next Generation of Immersive Experiences grant (Schofield), and Wellcome Trust
 awards to Wilson and Wilson. We encourage bids to schemes for experimental, smaller-scale
 projects, e.g. Mapping Mapusa Market (Burton, AHRC/India Science and Technology Fund) in
 collaboration with Goa University. We recognise the transformative value of individual awards
 made direct to researchers outside the HESA-reporting system. These include 43 awards from
 30 bodies, including the Elephant Trust (Korda, Grayson, Noonan-Ganley); Terra Foundation

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Anderson, Guy), governmental cultural organisations from five countries, and many awards
 from Arts Council England, Wales and Creative Scotland. Increasing the diversity of our funders
 creates future income streams and makes us more resilient to changes in the funding
 landscape.
 Staff have been CIs on 14 NU-led interdisciplinary projects including Poetics of the Archive
 (AHRC £474,919); Eighteenth-Century Political Participation and Electoral Culture (AHRC
 £758,756); Urban Living Partnership (EPSRC £398,467); and Northumbrian Exchanges (AHRC
 £201,173). Bowers, Clay and Shaw have led strands within large-scale consortium projects:
 £12m, SiDE; £4m Creative Exchange and £4.5m Creative Fuse North East, led by NU
 Computing Science, Lancaster University and NICAP.


 Internal funding schemes
 Generous and diverse schemes, tailored to researchers at all career stages, were boosted by
 our 2014 policy decision to pool 70% of fEC overheads in a fund shared across all SACS
 researchers, meaning that our success in external grant captures benefits our whole community.
 Our grant capture strategy values the bid-writing process in itself, irrespective of outcome,
 welcoming the way the process has led to new partnerships and other benefits. We support staff
 to develop bids through mentoring, workshops, supportive peer review and by fully exploiting the
 Faculty’s Bid Preparation Fund, which provides up to £10k to support any aspect of bid
 development. 16 awards (£97k) from this scheme since 2014 have resulted in nine successful
 bids.
 All staff have a non-competitive annual £1,500 (pro-rata) Research and Impact allowance. We
 have benefitted from a range of internal investment, including grants from NICAP, NU Global
 and Policy Academies, and FRIC, whose grant funding schemes have different priorities, e.g.
 ECR awards from the Faculty Research Fund (up to £4K), Faculty Impact Fund (up to £5K) and
 Impact Acceleration Awards (up to £10K). NU prioritises creative arts within its HEIF strategy
 with over £200k committed to the Unit’s new KTPs, policy work and impact activities.
 Since 2014, these combined research support schemes have distributed over £0.8m of internal
 funding across the Unit, supporting 130 projects. Every researcher, including PGRs, has
 benefitted. We ensure that internal grant funding and our people strategy are joined up; as
 internal funding can be used for teaching relief, robust policies ensure contingent staff, employed
 on fixed-term and part-time contracts, are treated equitably and can themselves apply for
 funding and research/scholarship time.
 The Unit is entrusted with over £1.5m of philanthropic endowments and has invested £0.5m
 income since 2014 to support five research fellowships (Grayson, Guy, Korda, Masterman,
 Noonan-Ganley) and engage students with research, supporting over thirty student initiatives
 each year. For example, the publication, it’s all about dis·course (2020), reflects on the
 experiences of BAME students in fine art education. Capitalising on our long-standing
 partnerships with the British School in Rome, we created four Forshaw research residencies for
 women students to undertake research residencies there.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research Facilities




 Figure 3: The Hatton Gallery.


 Our historic Fine Art Building, a dramatic pairing of 1960s Brutalism with the original 1911 art
 school, houses the Hatton Gallery, one of the region’s foremost art galleries, reopening in 2018
 after a superb £3.8m HLF/NU-funded refurbishment. The Hatton, managed in partnership with
 TWAM (ILES:2.1.1), presents an exciting contemporary, free-to-enter ACE-funded programme.
 Its importance for research is threefold: i) as a venue for research developed at other
 universities, disseminating since 2014 work by researchers at Reading (2015), Northumbria
 (2018), Cumbria, Sunderland, RCA, UAL (2019) and Southampton (2020); ii) to disseminate
 Unit-led projects: e.g. Speculations: Thinking, Making, Drawing (2015), curated by Talbot, and
 interdisciplinary projects, such as those developed with the Institutes of Neuroscience (2020)
 and Policy, Ethics and Life Sciences (PEALS, 2019); and iii) for its internationally recognised
 permanent collection of 14th-21st Century art, built up over seventy years by the Unit, with the
 new display of its iconic centrepiece, the Schwitters’ Merzbarn, conceptualised by Talbot.
 The public-facing XL Project Space (curated by Jones) is a space for risk-taking, with peer
 reviewed projects and exhibitions by researchers from the Unit and many other HEIs (e.g.
 Lancaster, Victoria Ca.). We also show cutting-edge work on campus, turning the University’s
 main ‘Arches’ gateway into a sound-art space. We have used our role as a leading cultural
 player to negotiate generous long-term loans by leading artists such as Antony Gormley.
 Our superb purpose-built studios are an exceptional asset and a place where research is
 produced. Our long-standing practice of providing staff with generous self-contained studios
 within the building links research to teaching. Five workshops combine cutting-edge
 technological resources with traditional tools for art production, from architectural-scale ceramics


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to stone-lithography. Such resources are scarce in the North East, so we make them available to
 artists and researchers across the region, as well as to visitors preparing exhibitions in our
 spaces. Culture Lab, the base for our Digital Cultures group, houses industry-standard
 sound/video/anechoic facilities as well as live-performance and events spaces. NU’s origins are
 in science, engineering and medicine, and our researchers regularly access a wealth of high-end
 equipment and specialist resources in these faculties.
 These outstanding facilities for creating and disseminating research are the base for our
 students, synergising research and teaching, and embodying our ethos that staff introduce our
 students to the processes of research in action through their teaching. This goes beyond the
 studio: NU vacation scholarships enabled students to work with their peers in Uganda (2018),
 who we also funded. Described by one student as a ‘transformative, life-changing experience’,
 this brought another dimension of sustainability to our GCRF projects, helping secure our
 partnerships in Africa for the long term.
 The multi-award-winning Robinson Library (scoring 98% approval ratings at the latest
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey) houses 1.2m books, e-books and comprehensive
 journal subscriptions. We worked with their Special Collections and Archives unit to acquire
 (2019) the archives of Locus+ and a-n, two North East-based organisations whose impact on
 the British visual art ecology is under-recognised and under-researched. We are working with
 them to open these archives to wider publics, drawing on groundbreaking work ‘unlocking’ the
 Bloodaxe and UNESCO-recognised Gertrude Bell photography archives.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Engaging our partners in the co-design and co-production of research is fundamental to our
 strategy. During the review period, we have worked in partnership with over 200 organisations
 across 30 countries, ranging from internationally recognised cultural and policymaking
 institutions to small grassroots artist-led organisations. Over £200k of in-kind support committed
 on HESA-reported projects underscores the importance of collaborative research to our
 partners. Our global scope has enabled us to create synergies between partners addressing
 common challenges in markedly different cultural and economic contexts. In developing non-
 academic partnerships, particularly with smaller LMIC-based organisations, where power-
 balance is an issue, we are attentive to engendering and sustaining transparency and trust, for
 example by co-authoring all our GCRF bids to ensure that all contributions are valued equally.
 We have collaborated with 34 HEIs internationally, with diverse activities ranging from
 professorial exchanges (Weileder), to residencies (Laskarin), to welcoming five ECR artists from
 India (e.g. from Hyderabad and Visva-Bharati Universities) to work in our studios for extended
 periods (funded by Charles Wallace India Trust). We are members of nine academic networks
 and have participated in many reciprocal Erasmus+ projects and exchanges. We have
 collaborated with 24 universities on HESA-reported projects, directing grant funding in GCRF
 projects to prioritise funding new academic posts with our partner universities in Africa (e.g.
 Kiguru 2019). Our memberships of CHEAD and ELIA have strengthened our participation in art
 and design HEI networks and in EU-funded projects: as part of Recall (2014), we joined six
 European universities to commission new works to reinterpret Europe’s difficult inter-war
 heritage.
 We have benefitted from Visiting Professorships by John Akomfrah (2016), Nick Broomfield
 (2015) and Matthew Jarratt (2018). Our research engages publics ranging from visitors to the
 world’s most renowned art museums including the National Portrait Gallery (2014), Tate Modern
 (2014), Getty Museum (2017), and the MET (2018), to market workers in India (2014) and in

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bwaise informal settlement (2019), for whom accessing any art gallery represents a challenge.
 Our events have included ambitious large-scale events (e.g. the MCAHE conference 2019),
 attracting academics and practitioners globally to Newcastle, and topical public discussions such
 as The Producers (2018-). We have co-produced art biennials (2014/16, with Northern Print),
 participatory events, such as public gatherings to debate the future of Europe’s largest wooden
 structure (Jetty, 2015), processions celebrating once-thriving mining communities (Dragon of
 Profit, 2017), as well as public readings, performances and screenings. We have organised 137
 public lectures, inviting influential speakers ranging from the Director of Tate to art critics and
 activists, The White Pube, to engage and inspire our community. Despite cancelling the highly
 anticipated Association for Art History annual conference 2020 (co-hosting with Northumbria)
 due to Covid-19, we learned from this, moving many events online and attracting even larger
 audiences. An exemplar of pan-HEI/sector collaboration, Clay’s AHRC Commons Theme
 Leadership Fellowship, Common Ground (York, 2016), drew over 500 academics, creative
 industry professionals and community groups to showcase and celebrate a community that
 shares and manages a common resource: knowledge.
 Our partnerships mean that our research impacts on and engages with wide but also targeted
 audiences. Clay’s acclaimed film, A Brief History of Graffiti, was broadcast on BBC4 at the 9pm
 slot (2015), while Bromwich’s Worker’s Maypole, the exuberant centrepiece of the Great
 Exhibition of the North (2018), was estimated to have been seen by over 3 million people.
 Coombes discussed his micro-budget film Seat in Shadow (2017) at LGBTQ+ film festival award
 ceremonies across Europe, while Anderson’s research for Cruising the Dead River (2019)
 engaged communities impacted by HIV in the USA and UK (2016), and Servin worked with
 Muxhe (third gender) communities in Mexico (2019). In all such work, we endeavour to engage
 our stakeholders with our research through interactions that build and sustain its relevance and
 value across diverse communities.
 Our leading role within the creative economy of the North East places us in a unique position to
 research our region, its landscape, heritage and communities. By collaborating with the Centre
 for the Rural Economy and independent region-based organisations such as Allenheads
 Contemporary Art and VARC, and partnering with Northumberland County Council, we see our
 role not just to deepen knowledge of the region (e.g. through Meeting Point (2015) and MCAHE
 art commissions) but also to enrich rural communities through research. Gallery of Wonder on
 Tour staged innovative exhibitions of contemporary art in a marquee that travelled across
 remote Northumberland shepherds’ fairs. Other events spark critical debate; monthly ‘Wor
 Culture’ events (2020-), organised by Pollock and Clay have convened over 100 freelance
 practitioners, arts organisations including ACE, Creative Scotland, National Trust, Historic
 England and every local authority in the North East in a forum that addresses pressing issues in
 the region’s creative economy.
 Our research has explored different strategies for safeguarding the future of precarious tangible
 (Jetty 2015) and intangible (Northumbrian Exchanges 2014) heritage, and proposed different
 ways in which it might be understood and appreciated (Dragon of Profit and Private Ownership
 2017).


 Contribution to society and the research base
 Our approach to cross-pollinating research is illustrated in our work with Art Monthly, artist
 collective the Newbridge Project, based in Gateshead, NGO 32° East Uganda Arts Trust, based
 in Kampala, other partners in East Africa and the University’s Business School.



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1. Research with the Newbridge Project was co-produced through three projects: Collective
       Studio, More than Meanwhile and Art and Inequality in the Platform Economy (2017-20)
       (collaborating with Leeds University). These drew together creative practitioners, local
       business and government, to find research-led solutions to challenges facing artist-run
       initiatives. Outcomes included innovative needs-led development programmes, long-term
       business models and testbed models for alternative pedagogy. To make this work impact
       on policy, we invited North of Tyne Combined Authority into the partnership, who
       changed their cultural strategy in the light of their involvement.
    2. Our long-standing partnership with Art Monthly, co-producing Producers II, (2018-)
       brought 20 eminent curators to NU, reprising our groundbreaking ‘Producers’ debates,
       initiated by Susan Hiller in 2001. Producers II paired speakers from the original debates
       with new counterparts, to critically examine contemporary curating. We anchored these
       important events within the region’s art community by inviting the Directors of MIMA and
       NGCA (Sunderland and Teesside Universities) to chair events.
    3. Three AHRC/GCRF funded projects (2018-) partnering Makerere University, 32° East
       and over 100 organisations and individual art professionals from six East African
       countries explored practical solutions to collectively identified constraints to the
       development of sustainable livelihoods and a thriving visual art ecology in that region.
       Responding to key blocks to development, particularly in capabilities and capacity for art
       writing, curating and entrepreneurship, we initiated interactions between our partners,
       linking the editorial teams of art magazines, Nairobi Contemporary and Art Monthly, to
       devise ways to support early career writers with the skills needed to realise their
       ambitions.


 This cross-cultural exchange, fostered between academics, artists and the leadership teams
 of artist-led organisations, led to a range of transformational projects with impacts both in Africa
 and the UK. Collectively, we secured two further AHRC/GCRF grants for a joint programme of
 activities including co-producing publications, exhibitions, commissions, films, workshops and
 mentoring in entrepreneurship skills, and an art-writers toolkit. Outcomes have received
 outstanding feedback from participants, who testify that they have been empowered through the
 projects. New art writers have seen their work published, including in Art Monthly and Nairobi
 Contemporary; marginalised and low esteem Jua Kali (‘working under the sun’) artisans have
 had their work valorised by Ugandan film makers; four ECR curators are being mentored by
 leading African curators; and we are now working with our partners on strategies for establishing
 the groundwork for national collections, essential for building sustained public esteem for this
 cultural activity, by developing archives of individual artists.
 Our partnership work in heritage and contemporary art has linked academia with heritage,
 cultural and sector organisations at a level not previously seen in the contemporary art context,
 and has made a significant contribution to establishing this as an emergent field of research.
 Unit researchers began to engage this field through independent projects within heritage sites
 (e.g. Fox 2014, Brown 2015). In 2016, we recruited King, one of the UK’s leading professionals
 in the field to join our team to critically examine the motivations and practices of heritage
 organisations commissioning contemporary art. Students were involved too, for example in a
 widely publicised intervention, The Great Cover Up (2018), which exposed how women have
 been largely invisible in certain heritage narratives. MCAHE has attracted interest for the policy
 developments the research initiated, for example enhancing the role of heritage volunteers as
 advocates for contemporary art. At Pompeii, Expanded Interiors has created a new model for


                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mutually beneficial collaboration between artists and archaeologists, and for instilling a sense of
 ownership within regional communities for local heritage.
 We contribute to capacity building in the UK and international creative industries: Creative
 Fuse North East (2016-19, ILES:2.4.3) was a multi-disciplinary, multi-stakeholder £4.5m
 AHRC/ERDF/ACE-funded research collaboration between five North East universities, SMEs
 and individual creatives that devised innovative approaches to supporting skills and aptitudes
 needed for a thriving and sustainable CDIT sector in the regional economy. Our work involved
 Clay’s innovative ‘CAKE’ (Collaboration and Knowledge Exchange) events, drawing together
 stakeholders over coffee and cake. These were praised for the imaginatively simple and direct
 way they engaged stakeholders and were recognised as a re-energising intervention in the
 project.
 Weeks’ work with artists working in the gig economy (2019-20) means that the needs of artists
 themselves are better understood and, through Butler and Pollock’s work with Newbridge, better
 provided for. Their research, and significant NU investment in a new Newbridge building
 (ILES2.4.4), developed both new strategies and infrastructure for professional development and
 more equitably shared resources, such as studios and incubator spaces. Working more broadly
 across the North East Cultural sector, our KTP with Northern Stage (2017-19) aimed to benefit
 early career actors by empowering them to incorporate new design-based technologies in their
 work, broadening their skills for theatre employment. Building on this, we created opportunities
 for both North East theatre and PROTO, a centre for immersive technology start-ups through our
 AHRC network grant (2019) that connected them with counterparts in Shanghai.


 Recognition
 The honours, prizes, and creative engagements that enrich the research base, cultural life,
 economy and society of the UK and beyond capture and reflect the diversity and career stages
 of our research community. Kimani was selected for the Inclusive Futures BAME Leadership
 programme; Davoll was shortlisted for THES Technician of the Year; and the full technical team
 won the Papin Award for best Technical Team in the UK Higher Education summit. The Wilsons
 were elected RAs and were invited to coordinate the 2020 Summer Exhibition. Masterman
 represented new British talent in the British Ceramics Biennial (2015); Maclean represented
 Scotland at the Venice Biennale (2017), and Bromwich at the South East Asia Triennale
 (National Gallery of Indonesia, 2016). Burton won Gold Prize and People’s Prize at the Korea
 Ceramics Biennale (2015). Grayson curated the Adelaide International (2014), Spalding Virginia
 Woolf at the NPG (2014), and Park Interwoven Histories at Leeds Industrial Museum (2017).
 Our films won Best Experimental Film at Vila di Condo (Wilson and Wilson, 2018), Best Feature
 at the Amsterdam Renaissance Film Festival and Best Micro-Budget Feature at the Berlin
 Independent Film Festival (Coombes 2017). Our commissions for Great Exhibition of the North
 were mentioned in Hansard, (Bromwich, Wilsons 2018). Bailey performed his work at the
 Hepworth (2015), and Noonan-Ganley at the South London Gallery (2019). Our researchers
 have been featured in key publications: Price (PGR) and Cuddon featured in the Phaidon
 Vitamin series, with work acquired for the key collections at the MET and Tate (Wilson and
 Wilson 2016), and the Arts Council (Cuddon 2019). Staff have been Visiting Professors at Jillin
 (2017), Makerere (2015), Politecnico di Milano (2017), Technische Universität Munich (2015)
 and Victoria (2018), and have served as UKRI panellists (Pollock) and PRC members (Burton,
 Huber, Pollock, Schofield, Talbot).
 We take our research into society to engage with diverse communities. We have valorised the
 creativity of craft workers in the contrasting contexts of East London (2019), India (2014) and

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 East Africa (2017); engaged schoolchildren with birdsong (MCAHE 2019); young adults with
 making public sculpture from recycled material (Jetty 2014); and connected displaced
 communities with their heritage through exhibition making (Park 2017). Bromwich’s Art Lending
 Library (2016) enabled many people to reflect upon contemporary art in their own homes for the
 first time. We have made tangible commitments to the UN principles of ‘leaving no one behind’
 and its SDGs through our projects in Africa, India and Turkey, as well as on our doorstep, in
 deprived areas in the North East. Our work engages audiences in physical public spaces:
 Cuddon’s Wal Pawb (Our Wall) in Wrexham Market (2018), radically linking art and commerce
 through broadcast films (Clay 2016-20) and novel use of virtual space (Grayson 2018). As a unit,
 we understand the importance and value of engaging our local community, which has embraced
 the transformative impact of creative arts research. This was recognised in 2020 when the poet,
 artist and video filmmaker Imtiaz Dharker became University Chancellor. The research culture
 discussed throughout this document is vibrant and sustainable, and will ensure that the NU
 commitment to art and culture will keep the Unit at the forefront of work in the University, the
 region, the nation and globally.




                                                                                         Page 20
