Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: A-01 Clinical Medicine


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit Context

Sheffield’s Medical School integrates discovery biology, clinical science, healthcare, engineering,
and computing to create an exciting research environment. The formation of two new University
Flagship Research Institutes exemplifies this cross-faculty interdisciplinary environment. The
Neuroscience Institute and Healthy Lifespan Institute, both led by staff within our unit, were
established to tackle key issues facing humanity by harnessing interdisciplinary and translational
research to deliver real-world solutions.

Our aims are to:

   •   Translate discovery science into clinical impact that improves lives and healthcare.
   •   Grow interdisciplinary partnerships across engineering, imaging, computational modelling
       and disease models to deliver novel healthcare solutions.
   •   Provide an agile response to urgent healthcare needs, such as emerging global infections.

Fig 1: Sheffield clinical medicine - integrating discovery medical research, clinical science,
healthcare, engineering, in silico medicine, Health Lifespan Institute, Neuroscience Institute to
deliver improved health and quality of life.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Over this assessment period, we grew our research income by 50% (from £71.7M to £107.4M)
with total research funding of £139M including philanthropic donations and royalties, and PGR
student registrations by 21% (from 163 to 197). We delivered our REF2014 research and impact
strategy to publish ~3,700 open access papers including >80 in Lancet, NEJM, Nature, Cell,
EMBO J and Science from 116 submitted staff. We successfully retained our Athena SWAN Silver
Award, as part of our actions to promote an equal, diverse and inclusive environment. Building on
this we have developed an ambitious and interconnected research and impact strategy.

1.2 Unit structure

This unit sits in the Faculty of Medicine, Dentistry and Health where our research encompasses
discovery to translational and clinical studies. Our research maps onto seven themes (Fig 2) with
the Neuroscience and Healthy Lifespan Institutes spanning multiple themes. This is coordinated by
Directors of Research & Innovation, Impact and Knowledge Exchange who meet regularly at a
Faculty Research and Innovation Committee.

Fig 2: Unit structure: themes and expertise in clinical medicine




1.3 Research themes, progress against objectives, and future strategy

Neuroscience

Sheffield is an international centre for pre-clinical, translational, and clinical research in
neurodegenerative diseases particularly motor neuron disease (MND), spinal muscular atrophy

                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                    (SMA), Parkinson’s disease, multiple sclerosis (MS), Alzheimer’s disease and
                    dementia. Grant awards exceed £23M from funders including MRC, NIHR,
                    ERC and industry. We were awarded a Neuroscience NIHR Biomedical
                    Research Centre (BRC) (£4M, 2018) to translate our neuroscience research
                    into patient benefit. The flagship Neuroscience Institute led from the
purpose-built Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN), focuses the expertise of
over 120 translational, sensory, developmental and systems neuroscience researchers from the
Engineering, Science and Medical faculties to improve prevention, diagnosis and treatment of
degenerative, sensory and developmental neurological disorders.

Our strategy over this assessment period focussed on increasing translation in neurodegenerative
diseases, recognised in 2019 by a Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Innovation for improving
patient outcomes, and the National Future NHS Parliamentary Award for our autologous stem
cell treatment of multiple sclerosis (see MIST impact case). Our NIHR BRC delivered this break-
through treatment of MS, a new genomics hub for Yorkshire, a new PET-MRI facility and improved
stratification of Parkinson’s disease (Bandmann: 2020). We are an international centre for the
Tofersen Phase III Biogen Trial in MND, and the only UK site to complete an intra-thecal anti-
sense oligonucleotide Phase I/II trial for MND patients with SOD1 mutations (Shaw/McDermott:
NEJM 2020), with a Phase III currently completing. We lead a €25.5M Innovative Medicines
Initiative award (Azzouz/Shaw/Ferraiuolo/Majid 2020-25) with 23 institutions and 11 pharma
companies to accelerate research and innovation of advanced therapies. We have therapies in
development built on our discovery that NRF2 is defective in MND (see impact exemplar 1). Our
preclinical neuroprotective viral therapies (Azzouz: 2018) are now in phase 1-2 clinical trials.




We have delivered supportive care and assistive technologies for MND, exemplified in our two
case studies, where we shaped global clinical policy and safeguarded MND patients treated with
diaphragm pacing (DIPALS) and commercialised a bespoke collar to support neck weakness in
MND patients, with thousands sold worldwide (HeadUp, Talarmade). We expanded our critical
mass by key appointments at professorial (Li Su) and career track fellowship levels (Twelvetrees,
West, Livesey, Mortiboys) contributing expertise relevant to our future research strategy such as
PET-MRI, super-resolution imaging, Drosophila disease models and neurogenetics.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future strategy: To enhance patient outcomes for people living with neurodegenerative diseases
and facilitate translation we are establishing a Gene Therapy Innovation and Manufacturing
Centre which includes a state-of-the-art Good Manufacturing Practice clinical grade vector
manufacturing facility (£9.45M funding, including £6.45M from MRC and LifeArc, led by Azzouz).
This will circumvent viral vector manufacturing bottlenecks, accelerate translation of gene therapy
approaches and address the skills-shortage in this landscape. We will conduct clinical trials and
identify new therapeutic targets and biomarkers of disease progression. We will build on the
University’s investment in the interdisciplinary flagship Neuroscience Institute, for example to use
advanced imaging modalities, transcriptomics, and computational modelling to improve disease
stratification, prognosis, treatment, and quality-of-life in neurodegenerative diseases. We will renew
our BRC and continue to develop our neurotherapeutic pipeline building on existing partnerships
with industry (e.g. GSK, AstraZeneca, Pfizer, Benevolent AI).

Infection and Immunity

                        We possess expertise in infectious diseases, host immunity, antimicrobial
                        resistance, emerging infections and global health. Rowland-Jones co-
                        leads the interdisciplinary Florey Institute, which studies the
                        host/pathogen responses including immunity (I.Evans PLOS Pathogens,
                        2017; Preston, Amer J Resp Crit Care Med, 2019). This combines cell
                        and developmental biology, stem cell biology, mechanobiology, imaging
and mathematical modelling with translational biomedicine working with colleagues from biology
(UOA-5) and engineering (UOA-12). The Florey Institute won a NIHR infrastructure award (£1.4M)
in 2019 and £3.5M in 2016 for the SHIELD consortium to combat antimicrobial resistance.

In this assessment period we have recruited researchers in virology, vaccines and global infections
including Rowland-Jones, De-Silva, Darton and Payne from Oxford. Their backgrounds in HIV
(Ajaykumar Clin Infect.Dis 2020; Yindom, Clin Infect.Dis, 2019), Ebola vaccines (Ewer, NEJM,
2016) and typhoid pathogenesis (Blohmke, J.Exp.Med, 2016) allowed our rapid response to
COVID-19 (Fig 3). Our COVID-19 research integrates experts from immunity and infection,
thrombosis, genomics, cardiovascular disease, pulmonary, vascular, and functional imaging with
the Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust’s Laboratory Medicine and Infectious
Diseases Directorates in a cohesive and collaborative effort. By example, we were the largest
national recruiter to the Oxford COVID-19 vaccine trials in 2020 (Darton, Lancet 2020).




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fig 3: Infection and Immunity: key players in an agile response to combat the COVID-19 pandemic




The Bateson Centre (led by Renshaw) pioneers non-mammalian models of infection and immunity.
Work includes using zebrafish to identify mechanisms of S.aureus infection (Hepburn, Science, 2014;
Boldock, Nature Microbiology, 2018) and novel anti-inflammatory lead compounds (Robertson,
Sci.Translational Med, 2014). We use Drosophila, zebrafish, and murine models to examine how
macrophages regulate inflammation (Weavers, Cell, 2016; Roddie, PLOS Biology, 2019; Li, PNAS,
2019; Johnston, Science Advances, 2019). Kiss-Toth led an EU-network (TRAIN 2015-20) exploring
links between immunity, metabolism, and cancer. We commercialised our infection research receiving
>£1.4M of venture-capital, Innovate UK and DoHSC MRC, Novartis, GSK and Pharming funding to
combat infection and treat immune deficiency syndromes.

Future strategy: Our flagship Healthy Lifespan Institute will investigate ageing-related immune
dysfunction in interdisciplinary consortium efforts. In our forthcoming NIHR BRC renewal we will
apply for an additional theme in ‘Infection & Immunity’ to provide a step-change in our experimental
medicine and in the large-scale consortia combatting COVID-19. We will perform clinical studies
using novel antimicrobials developed by our spinout company to treat N.gonorrhoeae infections.
Our goal is to improve outcomes from infection, reduce antibiotic usage, combat antimicrobial
resistance and increase global vaccination against COVID-19 and other communicable diseases.

Imaging

                       Imaging is central to the Sheffield Institute for in silico Medicine
                       (Insigneo, led by Wild), Europe’s largest research institute dedicated to the
                       development, validation, and use of biomedical modelling, imaging and
                       informatics in healthcare. Insigneo comprises >150 staff from 28
                       departments across medicine, engineering, and science, attracting £54M of
                       research income. Imaging and Insigneo interact closely with our
                       Neuroscience, Infection and Immunity and Cardiovascular Disease themes,
                       providing novel diagnostic tools coupled to functional disease measures
while informing discovery research.


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our strategy has been to translate imaging research for patient benefit and build interdisciplinary
research. Our VIRTUheart programme received £1.16M in translational awards (BHF, NIHR,
Wellcome Trust, NIHR sequentially) to develop computational models from coronary angiography
(Morris, JACC, 2017; Sciola, Eurointervention 2018) now used in Sheffield hospitals as a clinical
research tool to inform clinical decision-making. The strategic importance of imaging across the
University was supported by chair appointments of Sourbron (from Leeds) and Su (from
Cambridge) and several externally funded career development fellowships for our future imaging
leaders (Morris, Wellcome).

Sheffield medical imaging facilities provide a pipeline from new technology development,
preclinical to clinical imaging. Our preclinical MRI facilities include a 7T animal scanner and a 9.4T
microscopy scanner. We have two whole-body 1.5T research scanners for pulmonary, cardiac, and
in-utero imaging, a 3T whole-body system for neuroimaging, cutting-edge hyperpolarisation labs
and a new 3T PET-MRI scanner. We pioneered technology development with world-class MRI
physics and engineering, leading to partnerships with GE Healthcare (GE innovate UK industry
scholarship) and hardware contracts with other centres (MSKCC, UCL-BRC, Columbia University,
Kiel University purchased our 129Xe polarisers and RF coils). We established neonatal and in-utero
MRI scanning to accurately predict risk of pre-term delivery up to three months in advance.

Through POLARIS Sheffield pioneered the use of hyperpolarised gas and proton lung MRI for
early diagnosis and functional assessment of lung diseases including asthma, cystic fibrosis,
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary fibrosis, and pulmonary hypertension. Over this
assessment period, we received £7.5M funding from MRC/BHF, established an MHRA
manufacturing specialist licence to produce hyperpolarised gas for clinical indications, and a world-
first NHS diagnostic pathway for clinical lung MRI imaging (see impact exemplar 2).




Future strategy: Imaging will represent a cross-cutting theme in our NIHR BRC renewal
application. We will further grow our internationally competitive imaging with our recent investment
(£11.4M including £2M University investment) in PET-MRI, the only such scanner in Yorkshire and
one of only eight in the UK. This enables new translational projects across multiple areas including
neuroscience, oncology, paediatrics, cardiology, and respiratory medicine in collaboration with the
NHS. New MRI technologies such as hyperpolarised gas MRI will be integrated into analysis of
pulmonary and vascular function. This will be expanded in respiratory diseases, prognostic
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
evaluation of pulmonary hypertension and infection, including assessment of lung disease and
recovery in the PHOSP-COVID study. Our POLARIS team will develop hyperpolarised gas MRI
technology to offer low-cost MRI hardware and bespoke image engineering for healthcare
providers internationally, expanding industrial partnerships enabling widespread clinical
application. Insigneo’s integration of computational medicine, imaging, modelling, and simulation
technologies contributes directly to prevention, assessment, diagnosis, prognostic tools, treatment
planning, delivery and management of disease. Over the next five years we will build on the
excellence in these allied fields of healthcare technology in Sheffield to expand and enhance
digital healthcare.

Cardiovascular Disease

                           Research in this theme improves prediction, diagnosis, treatment, and
                           monitoring of a range of cardiovascular diseases and interacts closely
                           with the Imaging, Neuroscience, Infection and Immunity themes. This
                           extends to stroke and dementia through partnerships with the NIHR
                           Biomedical Research Centre in Translational Neuroscience and aims to
                           understand why cardiovascular risk increases with ageing and frailty in
                           partnership with the flagship Healthy Lifespan Institute.

                            We achieved our strategy to translate and commercialise our research
                            for patient benefit and wider impact. In 2017 we launched the Donald
Heath research programme in pulmonary hypertension (PH) led by Lawrie bringing together
clinical experts from the largest pulmonary hypertension treatment centre in Europe (referral
population 15 million) with excellent discovery science, preclinical and patient-facing research. We
identified new biomarkers of PH severity and therapeutic targets which have been developed into
translational pipelines, industrial investment and early-stage clinical trials (see impact exemplar 3).




Our antiplatelet research led to new treatments such as Ticagrelor (impact case study) to reduce risk
of further heart attack, stroke, or death, following PLATO and PEGASUS clinical trials led by Sheffield
(Storey) in partnership with AstraZeneca. We led the first clinical study of a novel antiplatelet drug
developed by Idorsia Pharmaceuticals (Storey, European Heart Journal 2019) and therapeutically



                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
targeted IL-1 as a driver of arterial inflammation (ILA-HEART) leading to the CANTOS clinical trial using
Canakinumab (Francis, Gunn).

Over the assessment period, we grew mechanobiology in atherosclerosis (P.Evans, BHF
Programme grants, 2015 and 2020). With experts from engineering, physics, and mathematical
modelling within Insigneo we developed computational tools to model blood flow and support
clinical decision-making; our software for blood flow modelling has been developed in an industrial
partnership with Ansys (Gunn, Morris). Our multinational Digital Healthcare consortium
(ECHOES) builds on Insigneo modelling to incorporate real-world symptom, activity, physiological
and imaging data into a “Cardiovascular Digital Twin” to predict, diagnose, treat, and monitor
cardiovascular diseases; this is one of four teams shortlisted for the £30M British Heart Foundation
“Big Beat” Challenge (Chico, UK Co-ordinator).

Future strategy: Our future NIHR BRC renewal application we will request an additional theme in
‘Cardiovascular Diseases’ to support experimental and translational medicine research. We will
apply novel informatics-based diagnostics that identify risk of PH (Lawrie: European Respiratory
Journal) to other cardiovascular diseases. We will continue to develop and trial new devices such
as pulmonary artery pressure monitors, novel therapeutics such as pulmonary denervation for PH,
anti-thrombotics and anti-inflammatories for acute coronary syndromes and cerebrovascular
disease. We will exploit our discovery, clinical and imaging strengths to understand the
cardiovascular effects of COVID-19. We will expand our digital healthcare and computational
technology studies including the ECHOES consortium to aid remote healthcare during COVID-19
and in other settings where direct healthcare access is challenging.

Cancer

                    We specialise in bone oncology (including bone metastasis, and bone loss
                    due to cancer treatment) and the tumour microenvironment; new targeted
                    approaches; and cancer experience, with significant research programmes in
                    breast, thoracic, urological, and haematological cancers. Basic research is
                    complemented by drug discovery, target and biomarker identification and in
                    vitro and in vivo models that translate towards patient benefit. We work across
                    disciplines through the Sheffield Institute for Nucleic Acids (SInFoNiA),
connecting with the University’s genome stability and gene expression expertise from biological
sciences and engineering.

We achieved our REF2014 aim of expanding translation of cancer research into clinical trials. In
2014 we launched the Yorkshire Cancer Research Early Phase Trials Network, providing
infrastructure for early phase oncology research, and in 2015 commissioned a purpose-built,
Cancer Early Clinical Trials Unit. In 2017 we received £1M from DoHSC and Cancer Research UK
as an Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre (ECMC), in recognition of our outstanding
translational interface research. In 2018 Helleday was recruited back to Sheffield and in 2019
received the Nation's Lifesaver Award for making a life-changing difference to health by his
discovery and development of Lynparza (‘personalised therapy’ case study), recommended in
2018 by NICE as first line therapy in BRCA-mutated ovarian, Fallopian, and peritoneal cancer.
Lynparza was the second highest-earning oncology drug for AstraZeneca in 2018, generating
$847M sales revenues per year. In 2017 we established the Yorkshire Cancer Research
Catalyst for Innovation in Cancer Care and Treatment in Sheffield (YCR CONNECTS) and
invested £5M to recruit Hussain, Helleday, Gad, Toseland and Rantala. We led the AZURE trial
resulting in introduction of bisphosphonate treatment into routine clinical practice to prevent
breast cancer metastasis (impact case study), and the BRAVO trial (2017) to identify risk and
benefits of bladder cancer treatments. We used basic science modelling to change
                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
recommendations on PSA screening for prostate cancer to prevent harm caused by biopsy and
development of alternative diagnostic modalities (PROBE, impact case study).

Our strategy has been to commercialise our research for wider impact and patient benefit. Our
spinout company, Modulus Oncology Ltd. incorporated in July 2020, resulting from a £5M
Wellcome Trust Seeding Drug Discovery award to identify adrenomedullin receptor antagonists to
treat pancreatic cancer (see impact exemplar 4). We are currently determining the feasibility of
targeting and improving patient stratification for the rare disease, Sezary syndrome, supported
from the University IP Development and Commercialisation fund (£150k) and the CCF Northern
Triangle Initiative (£100k). Our new spinout company, Modulus Oncology, plans to raise £6.5M in
seed-funding.




Future strategy: In partnership with the NHS we will re-develop the Weston Park Cancer Centre
to accelerate our pipeline of translational research. Whilst this will initially focus on our existing
strengths in bone oncology, primary breast, and prostate cancer, we will expand our expertise in
urological cancers (e.g. bladder) following Catto’s recent receipt of an NIHR Research
Professorship and the appointment of Hussain, an expert in clinical trials and early drug
development in urological cancers. The recent appointment of Gad and Toseland (mechanical
properties of cancer cells) will strengthen our links with engineering. We are investing £791k in the
EVIDENT (Ex VIvo DEtermiNed cancer Therapy) project to personalise treatment using ex vivo
drug response screening from patient biopsies (Rantala).

Bone and Joint

                   Successes in this theme have built on the creation of the Mellanby Centre for
                   Bone Research in 2010. We were awarded one of two UK MRC-Arthritis
                   Research UK Centres for Integrated Research into Musculoskeletal Ageing
                   (CIMA), in partnership with Liverpool and Newcastle in 2012, renewed in 2017.
                   This theme brings together experts in osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, osteogenesis
                   imperfecta and bone metastasis. We work closely within the flagship Healthy
                   Lifespan Institute on multiple age-related diseases, in preventing or reversing
ageing of stem cells and diseases of the musculoskeletal system. We have identified new
treatments for osteoporosis (Eastell, NEJM 2020), and in 2019 we organised an international
conference in Sheffield celebrating 50 years of bisphosphonates.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our strategy has been to expand our external and industrial partnerships including Alexion, Amgen
and Roche to improve prevention and treatment of bone diseases. We achieved this through
funding renewal and expansion of CIMA, working with other institutions to increase our research
impact. In collaboration with London and Manchester Universities, we led clinical trials resulting in
new recommendations for treatment to reduce bone-loss in women at risk of breast cancer
(Sestak, Lancet, 2014). Our Wellcome Trust funded small molecule drug discovery programme
(£4.95M: Skerry, Richards), and work with the European Lead Factory, has been built on proof-of-
concept discovery of a drug target and antibody development of bone tumour inhibitors.

We achieved our REF2014 aims to translate research for patient benefit, including generating
SCOOP-FRAX (impact case study), an online fracture risk assessment tool (used in 64 countries)
to direct treatment and reduce fracture incidences in the elderly (McCloskey). In 2020, we
launched jointCalc, an on-line tool already used by 15,000 people from 110 countries to assist in
making an informed decision about joint replacement surgery (Wilkinson). Eastell led development
of guidelines for treatment of osteoporosis by the Endocrine Society and we are part of Fidelio, the
EU Horizon 2020 innovative training network on diabetes and bone, working with 10 European
centres. We improved patient identification for osteoporosis in collaboration with the our School of
Health and Related Research (ScHaRR) and University of California, San Francisco. With the
University of California, LA we are co-investigators on an NIH-funded study of bone turnover
markers women across the menopause. Osteolytica has been developed as a powerful research
tool to detect and quantify cancer induced bone destruction using micro-CT (Chantry). We are
developing a novel computational model of myeloma bone disease in collaboration with Sheffield’s
Automated Systems and Insigneo, using deep learning artificial intelligence algorithms.

Future strategy: In collaboration with Insigneo, we will expand our Skeletal Analysis Laboratories
(Skelet.AL) set up to deliver new innovations and customised solutions for the analysis of the
skeleton. These tools will improve methods to assess animal models and patients with bone
diseases and in ageing as a focus of our Healthy Lifespan Institute. We will translate these to
treatments in children’s bone fragility and the diagnosis of rare bone disorders such as
hypophosphatasia. Following our participation in the FNIH Bone Quality project to establish bone
mineral density as a surrogate for drug development in osteoporosis and in 2020/21 we will
complete our Final Qualification Plan submission to the Food and Drug Administration and then
apply to the European Medicines Agency.

Endocrinology and Reproduction

                          This theme exploits Sheffield’s unique strengths and access to important
                          patient populations to perform world-leading research in diabetes,
                          adrenal disease, neuroendocrine tumours, fertility, neonatal imaging,
                          pre-term labour and complications of pregnancy.

                           We achieved our REF2014 aim to translate research and to
                           commercialise diagnostics and therapies for wider patient benefit.
                           Alkindi (impact case study, Ross) was developed and marketed as a
treatment for paediatric adrenal insufficiency, the commonest inherited endocrine disorder. Ross is
founder and Chief Scientific Officer of Diurnal Group PLC, receiving £12M in private investment
and £40M from flotation on AIM in 2015, as well as co-directing Asterion, a company that
engineers novel therapies based on its innovative ProFuse TM technology. We were awarded £2.4M
(MRC-DPFS) for development of a hormone antagonist to treat acromegaly (Ross). We are a
European Centre of Excellence for Neuroendocrine Tumours with strengths in adrenal disease and
neuroendocrine tumours.


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our diabetes research focuses on hypoglycaemia (Heller, Selvarajah), in particular its
cardiovascular effects (Zoungas, NEJM, 2014; Chow, Diabetes, 2014), patient self-management,
and central nervous system effects. We produced a patient training programme for Type 1
diabetes “Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating” (DAFNE, Heller) which has been included in NICE
Guidance since 2015. Subsequent funding from DAFNE led to the REPOSE trial to test
effectiveness of pump treatment in Type 1 diabetes.

In reproductive medicine, our andrology (male fertility) research was ranked second in the UK to
Cambridge for highly cited papers in the most recent 2015 NIHR RAND 10-year report. Using our
imaging expertise (above), we continue to develop improved diagnostic methods of sperm and
semen quality (Reynolds, Mol. Hum.Reprod, 2017) and in-utero MRI scanning of the foetus to
prevent premature birth by accurately predicting the chances of pre-term delivery, up to three
months in advance (Griffiths, Lancet, 2016). In 2020 EveryBaby Ltd. (Anumba) was licenced to
market a novel device to predict premature birth and improve maternal care. We lead a major
Global Challenge initiative (PRIME Global Health) to improve the lives of women and babies
around the world, with awards of over £6M in the last three years alone and partners in Dhaka,
Bangladesh and Cape Town, South Africa.

Future strategy: In reproduction we will strengthen our response to global challenges by
expanding PRIME Global Health to include researchers in Nigeria and India. We will also establish
a new programme with MRC Gambia investigating fertility care in low-income countries. We aspire
to become a centre for reproductive biology and health, and in partnership with the Royal College
of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and the University of Bristol will become part of the Tommy’s
National Centre for Maternity Improvement. In endocrinology we will continue to translate research
into clinical studies and trials, and to expand commercial partnerships, thereby increasing our
impact in improving patient treatments and care.

1.4 Support for interdisciplinary research

Our highly interdisciplinary research themes include researchers from four of the five University
faculties (Medicine, Dentistry and Health; Science; Engineering; Social Sciences). Our investment
of £20M over four years in the flagship Neuroscience and Healthy Lifespan Institutes (alongside
Insigneo) will further such interdisciplinarity through joint programmes, seminar series, pump-
priming seed funding and other ventures.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fig 4:




1.5 Impact strategy

Evidence of our REF2014 strategy to achieve impact from our research is described for each
theme above (section 1.3). We are committed to maximising patient benefit translated from our
medical research, achieving global reach and delivering solutions to health challenges. The
University has supported us by investing substantially into developing and maintaining
relationships between our researchers and external partners, and providing an environment to
accelerate translation, promote innovation and generate impact (REF5a). IP Development and
Commercialisation Fund (IPDaC) investment was £437k and patent expenditure £371k to our unit
over this assessment period. The Sheffield Healthcare Gateway (SHG) provides a single point of
access for business to our healthcare facilities and expertise (section 3.3), facilitating collaboration
with >2,000 organisations, generating >£17M since 2014. We support staff in time allocation to
develop impact from research and reward its achievement through promotion (section 2.2).




                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fig 5: Enabling impact in clinical medicine




We exploit our extensive NHS links to achieve clinical impact. All research themes rely on close
partnerships between discovery and clinical scientists to drive discovery-to-clinical-to-discovery
research. Our clinical research facility (section 3), NIHR Biomedical Research Centre and clinical
trials centres, alongside support of trial design through ScHARR (UOA-2), support translating
research into clinical trials and treatments. We have over 40 Patient and Public Involvement
groups in Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, allowing exchange of expertise and
experience between researchers, patients and families. We measure the impact of our research
through initiatives including VICTOR (Section 1.6).

Relationship of impact cases to our approach to developing impact

Our impact case studies are the result of NHS partnerships, clinical trials, intellectual property, and
commercial partnerships enabled via dedicated support.

Table 1: Summary of impact case studies

 Case study                   Mechanisms enabling impact                Impact
 Ticagrelor: New drug         University supported partnership with     Reduction in risk of
 saves lives following        AstraZeneca to run PLATO and              further heart attack,
 heart attack                 PEGASUS clinical trials in our clinical   stroke, or death in
                              research facility. SHG and commercial     patients on treatment
                              team helped secure IP value.
 DiPALS: Evidence to          NIHR funding to clinically assess the     Shaped global clinical
 inform guidance on           NeuRx/4 Diaphragm Pacing in               policy and safeguarded
 Diaphragm Pacing for         patients with MND with help from          MND patients
 MND patients                 SHG
 MIST: Autologous             Active funding of work through NHS.       Offers the most effective
 haematopoietic stem cell     Phase II and III trials led through our   treatment for this group of
 treatment for relapsing      NIHR Biomedical Research Centre           MS patients. New health
 remitting multiple                                                     guidance.
 sclerosis (MS)

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alkindi: Treatment for       SHG facilitated the formation of the      Preventing patient death
 children with adrenal        Diurnal Group spinout company in          from adrenal crisis. £12M
 insufficiency                2015 to support commercialisation of      private investment, £40M
                              treatments for adrenal insufficiency      flotation. Prescriptions
                              such as Alkindi                           >£350k in 2018.
 Personalised Therapy:        IP registered in 2003 and licenced to     Recommended by NICE
 Novel tailored therapy for   KuDOS Pharmaceuticals (purchased          as first line therapy in
 BRCA-mutated cancers         by AstraZeneca in 2005) ensuring          BRCA-mutated ovarian,
                              commercial development                    fallopian & peritoneal
                                                                        cancer
 Adjuvant                     Clinical trials and experimental cancer   Prevents metastases in
 Bisphosphonates into         centres to support AZURE trials with      breast cancer
 routine practice for         NIHR, underpinning new treatment
 breast cancer
 FRAX: the internationally    FRAX online fracture prediction tool is   Reduces hip fracture
 applicable fracture risk     incorporated into over 120 clinical       incidents
 calculator                   guidelines worldwide

Pipeline of future impact

We will ensure future impact through strategic investment and research support and have built a
strong impact pipeline (section 4.3). For example, Heller, Francis, and Storey are influencing
clinical recommendations based on their research showing that hypoglycaemia is associated with
adverse cardiovascular events in Type 2 diabetes. McDermott & Shaw are improving nutritional
management for patients with MND, Ross is developing hormone antagonists to treat acromegaly,
Skerry is developing bone tumour inhibitors and Anumba was recently granted a licence to
EveryBaby Ltd. to market a novel device to detect the likelihood of premature birth.

1.6 Progress towards an open research environment

The University promotes a culture of open research and has an Open Research Advisory Group,
comprising experienced academics and expert professional colleagues, that reports directly to the
University’s top-level Research and Innovation Committee. Within this unit open research policy is
scrutinised and updated regularly at our Faculty Research and Innovation Committee, supported
by our Research Practice Lead. We are implementing electronic lab notebooks and mirrored
electronic data storage for 10 years in line with UKRI requirements.

We regularly host seminars and workshops on open data, sharing practices, research
communications and OA. In 2014 we introduced training in OA, research design and
reproducibility, data management, thesis completion and careers for our PGRs to embed the
principles of open research early in academic careers. 18 of our staff are editors for 22 OA
journals.

To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all outputs in White Rose
Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 4,246 outputs
deposited over this assessment period were downloaded >235,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder compliance. In addition, staff
increasingly submit papers to preprint services such as medRxiv or bioRxiv to ensure timely
dissemination of research findings.


                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Appropriate data are shared in national or international data centres or repositories, e.g. Gene
Expression Omnibus (GEO). Large-scale research data is deposited to the University’s data
repository (ORDA) provided by figshare to enable it to be preserved, discovered, and accessed.

Accessible Databases: Research within the NHS can lead to significant changes within the
organisation itself, including potential impacts on skills and knowledge, service delivery, patient
and carer experience, as well as economic benefits. To capture and share these effects, VICTOR
(Visible ImpaCT Of Research) was launched in 2019, a tool that we have implemented in our
research capacity development, to make the impact of delivering research visible within the NHS
organisation itself and into the community.

Clinical trials data: In accordance with current guidelines, we ensure that any research involving
patients that is considered a trial, is registered in a suitably accessible database. Many of our
larger projects, managed by NIHR-funded Clinical Trials Research Units, have study specific
websites and/or Twitter accounts, which also help with the recruitment of participants and
disseminating study outcomes. Our policy is to publish findings of all clinical trials regardless of
outcome.

1.7 Promoting a culture of research integrity

We strive to support robust, reliable, and reproducible research. The University is a founder
member of the UK Reproducibility Network, a peer-led consortium which aims to improve the
quality of UK research output, and in 2019 created a new academic Research Practice Lead
position to scrutinise our processes used across the whole lifecycle of research to identify and
share best practice (see REF5a). All recruits to our unit undertake online training. Every PGR
receives compulsory training in research integrity, agrees and signs a Research Data
Management Plan, appraised over the project. We engage closely with the National Centre for the
Replacement, Refinement and Reduction of Animals in Research (NC3Rs, where P.Evans is board
member); we host regular seminars from their representatives facilitating researchers to design
optimal experiments so methods and findings are robust and reproducible.

All research requiring research governance is automatically flagged at costing/application stage.
Post-award, funds are released only when research licencing and ethics governance is agreed and
in place. Sheffield Teaching Hospitals’ Clinical Research & Innovation Office is responsible for
research involving human patient samples. Ethical approval applications for human interventional
studies and clinical trials are supported by our Medical School Research Ethics team. Our flow
chart tool helps researchers identify the appropriate governance requirements for each study.
Human volunteer studies not requiring NHS ethics approval require ethical approval from our
Medical School Research Ethics Committee, chaired by an academic who sits on the University
Research Governance sub-committee. Towards the study end the ethics office flags the
biorepository and the investigator with reminders on sample storage requirements (destroy,
extend, transfer) governed by the agreed ethics. We perform an annual audit of all project-leads
to confirm that all samples are held in accordance with the Human Tissue Act or under active
ethics approval. All PGRs take research ethics training and detail ethics proposals within their Data
Management Plan. We view maintaining strong integrity as essential to conducting impactful
research that is transparent and reproducible.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


We foster a supportive and collegiate
environment and a community where research
excellence and career progression can be
achieved. Our recruitment strategy, mentorship,
support networks and career development
schemes aim to attract, nurture, and grow diverse
and successful researchers. We aim to uphold
the principles and implement the Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers,
of which we are a signatory. We are the only
University to feature in the Sunday Times ‘Top
100 best not-for-profit organisations to work
for’ three years running.

The University is a truly civic university, founded
through the aspirations and financial support of
the people of Sheffield. We are a signatory (2019)
to the Civic University Agreement, where our
medical research and our people align to the
priorities of the city and the local region. Our
place in the wider community, together with a
supportive workplace, underpin the reasons why
our staff choose us as a place to work.

2.1 Staffing and recruitment

Our approach to staffing reflects an overarching
mission to support the research excellence of our
themes. The unit comprises 116 clinical and non-clinical academic staff over a balanced age group
(see Table 2) and we have submitted 100% of Category A staff. Our research and impact activities
are supported by 84 technical and 33 professional staff, funded both internally and externally.

Table 2: Number of staff across grades

                                                  All staff   Clinical   Non-clinical
                Independent research fellows          23         5           18
                      Lecturer/Senior Lecturer        49        27           22
                                   Professorial       42        24           18
                           Professorial Fellow        2          0            2
                                          Total       116       56           60

Our recruitment has centred around a strategy to complement and enhance our research themes.
For example, the Infection and Immunity theme recruited experts to expand our expertise in host
and adaptive immunity, complementing existing staff who work on pathogen biology and innate
immunity. We appointed Sourbron (from Leeds) in 2019 and Su (Cambridge) in 2020 to expand
our imaging strengths. In 2018 Helleday was appointed Chair of Translational Oncology (from the
Karolinska Institute) and our subsequent investment in cancer allowed recruitment of Hussain,

                                                                                         Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Toseland, Gad and Rantala. Our strategy is also to recruit and support independent fellows to
improve sustainability and invest in the future.

Over the assessment period we recruited 17 independent fellows and one professorial fellow (Su),
while five staff from within our unit have obtained externally funded fellowships (R.Thompson,
Morris, Reynolds, Twelvetrees, Fragiadaki) and one a professorial fellowship (Lawrie). These
fellows are given protected research time and have published a number of strong outputs in Cell
(I.Evans), Circulation (Lawrie), Nature journals (Lawrie), eLife (R.Thompson, Twelvetrees), PNAS
and Neuron (Twelvetrees). Several of our recruits are former PGRs who returned at later stages of
their career, testament to their positive experience of our environment: in 2014 Ferraiuolo returned
to Neuroscience as a fellow (PNAS 2016, Nat.Med.2016); Darton, De Silva, Roger Thompson and
Morris began their careers in Sheffield clinical training programmes and are now independent
fellows each with research funding ≥ £1M. Elks, Ruth Thompson, Lawrie and Kemp have been
supported into independent fellowships from within Sheffield.

Our career succession planning strategy led to 40 promotions since 2014. Recruitment policies are
subject to positive selection criteria emphasising Athena SWAN-promoting gender equality. As
expected for any institution with a healthy turnover, not all staff choose to stay. Former colleagues
have made prestigious career progressions since leaving us during this assessment period:
Walmsley is now Chair of Respiratory Medicine (Edinburgh) and Whyte is Head of Medicine,
University of Edinburgh; Hellewell is now Vice Provost and Dean, Brunel University.

We recognise the importance for our research of support from skilled and experienced technical
staff. In the last assessment period we introduced a technician apprenticeship scheme,
recruiting and retaining new staff with excellent potential.

2.2 Staff development and support for ECRs

Mentoring

We have a strong commitment to mentoring staff at all career stages, from both clinical and non-
clinical backgrounds. Formal mentoring focuses on ECRs, but mentored staff appraisal and career
development meetings are offered to all staff, with several having progressed to permanent posts
under the mentorship of senior colleagues (Ferraiuolo, Morris, Weatherley, Mortiboys). The
University’s researcher-led Think Ahead scheme (see REF5a) is open to all research staff
including PDRAs, using established mentoring and coaching techniques. After induction and
mentoring skills training, each mentee is matched with a mentor from outside their department for
six months (extended by mutual agreement). Mentors support research staff at all career stages
and into their next position within and beyond academia. Our unit has 33 trained mentors; >100
ECRs have been mentored in the past 6 years (59% female). This mentoring programme helps
staff enhance skills, maximise potential and develop their careers.

Appraisal

Staff of all grades and contract types (from academic to professional services) are provided with a
tailored induction on arrival. Staff are mentored through an annual appraisal (the Staff Review and
Development Scheme, SRDS), which provides an important opportunity for individuals to reflect on
their previous year’s work, including the most and least satisfying aspects, and consider career
aspirations and how to achieve these. Reviews are performed with a designated reviewer,
designed to support staff who wish to apply for promotion, by building a portfolio of achievements.
Objectives align with both personal and organisational goals and opportunities for staff to achieve



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reward and recognition including promotion following the Academic Career Pathway Framework
(ACP, see REF5a).

Training

Continuous staff development is also achieved through training programmes, which are discussed
and planned at SRDS. A Learning Management System provides a portal for staff to access >170
courses in all areas of development from data management, academic writing to leadership
training. The Sheffield Leader programme (designed to enable individuals to develop the
foundations, practical skills and behaviours required to succeed in their leadership and
management roles) benefitted 32 staff members with 17 subsequently progressing to leadership
positions. Staff have compulsory and additional options for research integrity training (section 1.7).

Early career researchers (ECRs)

To recruit ECRs with strong potential, we provide a supportive environment with opportunities for
career progression. In line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers,
our 'Inspire' and 'Aspire' framework has been adopted as a University-wide charter. We have
developed a Faculty Early Career Group whose representatives champion the researcher career
agenda and steer the Think Ahead programme, a blend of training workshops, career mentoring,
and carefully selected work-based opportunities, designed and developed originally for the Medical
School using a research-led approach. In addition, there is a well-established mentoring and
Integrated Academic Training (IAT) programme for academic clinical fellows and lecturers, who are
mentored by senior clinical academics from other departments. The IAT programme interfaces with
other innovative PGR training schemes (below). By sharing best practice across the clinical/non-
clinical interface we have improved the quality of the training programme offered to both.

Regular research seminars are given by external and internal speakers, averaging twice weekly.
Early career and trainee researchers are encouraged to attend; their involvement is enriched with
interactive follow-up Q&A discussions involving the invited speaker. The session is intended to give
ECRs and PGRs the opportunity to discuss topics such as mentoring, career options and work-life
balance. We hold regular ‘Bitesize’ sessions on career and skills development (e.g. conference
presentations, data presentation) and an annual Medical School Research Day with dedicated
sessions for ECR presentations.

We actively support ECRs into fellowship programmes, with many successes: Darton, De Silva,
Roger Thompson and Morris began their careers in Sheffield academic clinical training
programmes and are now independent fellows each with research funding ≥ £1M. Elks, Ruth
Thompson, Lawrie and Kemp have been supported into independent fellowships from within
Sheffield, whilst we have recruited several independent fellows from external institutions. We
instigated the Fellowships and Beyond (FAB) network (I.Evans), providing peer support and
practical help to staff looking to move towards independence in their research career. We
participate in the Wellcome Trust Café Culture initiative for staff to reflect on and propose
solutions to improve research culture.

Promoting collaboration

Our interdisciplinary institutes and structures promote collaboration via workshops, grant aim
review sessions and internal/external seminars. We provide Learned Society funding to support
staff travel for conference attendance and to establish new collaborations, recognising this benefits
our staff by broadening experience and strengthening impact (section 4.1).



                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Supporting, recognising, and rewarding impact

Impact is firmly embedded as part of our institutional research culture. We engage researchers in
impact-related activities in a variety of ways throughout their careers. The new Academic Career
Pathways explicitly recognises impact in the promotion process and in workload allocation
(REF5a). Staff have access to HEIF and public engagement funds to facilitate activities that build
impact (sections 1.5, 3.3). We offer public engagement masterclasses and host two Faculty Royal
Society Entrepreneurs in Residence to provide mentoring and commercialisation training. A joint
University/Sheffield Teaching Hospital Clinical Research & Innovation Office provides co-ordinated
administrative support for clinical studies (section 4.1 on outcomes from this support). The
Northern Health Science Alliance connects companies with the NHS/University, generating
opportunities to work with external partners and create healthcare partnerships and collaborations
with service providers and pharmaceutical, clinical, life science and biomedical companies. Each
department has an Impact Lead. These meet monthly at the Knowledge Exchange Committee to
influence impact strategy and disseminate University policy and opportunities.

2.3 Postgraduate researchers (PGRs)

We have a thriving community of 197 PGRs, aligned to strategic research priorities. PGRs are
funded through a number of doctoral training partnerships (DTPs), including the BBSRC DTP in
Mechanistic Biology and its Strategic Applications (Leeds, York, Sheffield), the MRC Versus
Arthritis Centre for Integrated research into Musculoskeletal Ageing (CIMA; Newcastle, Liverpool,
Sheffield) and the MRC Discovery Medicine North (DiMeN) DTP (Leeds, Liverpool, Newcastle,
Sheffield), which awards 30 fully-funded studentships (includes 6 iCASE) each year, focussing on
genetic influences on health, ageing and disease, bioinformatics and personalised medicine. The
Wellcome Trust 4Ward North Clinical PhD Academy (Sheffield, Manchester, Newcastle, Leeds)
supports doctoral training for clinical candidates, incorporating the opportunity to compete for our
Leading Scholars Programme in collaboration with the Crick Institute offering 12-month’s research
support post-PhD to pump-prime career development applications.

PGRs are also supported via NIHR training fellowships, EU-ITN training programmes, MRC
standard and iCASE Studentships, MRC National Productivity Investment Funds; BBSRC iCASE
awards, DTP CASE Conversion, EPSRC Standard and iCASE Studentships, our joint PhD
programme with Tongji University Medical School, the A*STAR-Sheffield Research Attachment
Programme with Singapore, clinical and non-clinical training fellowships from the BHF, Heart
Research UK, Chernajovsky Foundation, Rosetrees Trust and several Royal Colleges. 45% of
PGRs complete their PhD with publications. We recruit a diverse cohort of PGRs: 30%
international, 13% EU, 57% UK, and set aside faculty funds to support progression of our top-
ranking masters graduates onto PGR programmes, guaranteeing interviews for those candidates
meeting widening participation criteria. We recruited 77 academic clinical fellows and 30 academic
clinical lecturer posts over this assessment period. Our clinical fellows frequently progress to
higher degrees: 55% obtained a clinical PhD fellowship/MD. Eight staff started their research
careers via NIHR clinical academic training in Sheffield, including Darton, De Silva and Morris.

Monitoring and support: PhD training is organised by Faculty and Departmental PGR
committees, which ensure engagement of PGRs with the University’s Doctoral Development
Programme, monitor progress, and ensure high standards of supervision, mentoring and pastoral
care. All PGRs are assigned two supervisors and one/two impartial advisors/mentors. Supervisors
are expected to attend an annual supervisor update session to share best practice in PGR
provision and in bimonthly supervisor support sessions. Monthly records of formal supervisory
meetings are submitted and checked centrally. Issues with progress are flagged and promptly


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
acted upon. Early in this assessment period, we took steps to improve our 70% on-time
submission rate. A culture-change encouraging PGRs to develop academic writing skills from the
outset, increased support for writing, submission review planning and flexible study leave
arrangements have resulted in 94% in-time thesis submission for PGRs entering in 2014/2015.

PGRs use peer mentoring and are encouraged to use Vitae’s Researcher Development
Framework to plan their development and attend sessions on open access, research design,
reproducibility, data management, thesis mentoring and career planning. Online data management
plans, CV builder and thesis planning tools are reviewed at key checkpoints including confirmation
review and final thesis submission. In the 2019 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey,
99% of our PGRs felt their methodological skills had developed, 95% that their critical analysis
skills had improved and 93% that their understanding of 'research integrity' (e.g. rigour, ethics,
transparency, attributing the contribution of others) had developed during their programme.

All PGRs participate in the Faculty Postgraduate Induction Course in their first week. Designed to
support the transition to a research environment, this provides opportunities for networking and
cohort building alongside training, information on health and safety, ethics and integrity, unfair
means and managing the supervisor-student relationship. New PGRs are offered trained peer
mentors from the same department. We offer non-clinical PGRs a PhD Intensive Clinical
Experience (PhD-ICE) to support understanding of clinical problems linked to their research
projects. Sharing best practice across the clinical/non-clinical interface improved the quality of the
training programme offered to both. Our PGRs are embedded into our research; they develop
presentation skills in weekly theme research meetings, annual Medical School research away days
and are required to give at least two oral and one poster presentations during their PhD. We
organise journal clubs, research reproducibility and integrity seminars to facilitate an understanding
of journal and grant review processes. PGRs organise departmental PhD societies, which provide
peer support, organise departmental seminars and social events.

2.4 Equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI)

The University aims to be a leader in driving excellence through inclusion, providing an
environment in which researchers thrive and achieve their full potential. We were ranked 11th in
the Stonewall Top 100 Employers 2020, our seventh year in the top 100, reflecting the emphasis
the University places on EDI, matching our own ambitions. We recognise the importance of an
inclusive, diverse, and high-performing culture which leads to richer, more creative, and innovative
research. We have altered our structures over this assessment period to ensure that EDI is
considered in all decision-making processes, with EDI Directors in each department and a
Faculty EDI Director sitting on the Faculty Executive Board (the highest faculty management
structure).

Strategies to support EDI

Athena SWAN and gender equality

We achieved an Athena SWAN silver award for promoting gender equality in 2010 and are
seeking renewal in 2020. Female staff in our unit play key leadership roles: P.Shaw was Pro-Vice
Chancellor and Vice-President of our Faculty (2015-19); Francis was Head of a Department (2015-
18), Cox is current Deputy Head of a Department and Kirby is PGT Director. We were cited by the
Universities and Colleges Employers' Association (UCEA) as a good practice example in our work
on the gender pay gap.



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Females comprise 31% of submitted staff (27% of professors). We have introduced several
structural changes to improve this balance. We promote gender equality in recruitment by
removing gender bias from job descriptors, providing unconscious bias training for all selectors and
independent scoring of candidates against job criteria. We instigated the “Dame Pamela Shaw
Awards” in 2018 to give PGRs and staff the opportunity to apply for small awards aligning with the
goals of Athena SWAN, including bursaries of up to £1,000 for conference attendance or projects
to develop and explore equality issues. Staff on parental leave can access the “Whyte payment”
contributing to childcare expenses on keep-in-touch days. The academic pathway for female
surgical trainees has been shortened by focusing on competency rather than time-dependent
progression. T&Cs for trainees moving between University and Hospital posts have been
harmonised. An Athena SWAN Breastfeeding Room and facilities have been provided by the
Medical School since 2014.

The University’s flagship Women Academic Returners’ Programme provides financial support to
women to mitigate the impact of maternity/adoption leave on research progression. These offer
funding for additional posts or research. Over this assessment period 10 WARP awards have been
provided to staff in our unit, 86% of whom achieved subsequent external funding. This was cited by
UCEA as another example of good practice. The University has a flexible working policy with all
applications so far approved; 13% of submitted staff of all genders work part-time.

We established a University-wide Futures Mentoring Programme for senior female academics
where Faculty Vice-Presidents mentor senior female academics enabling discussions on career
progression from outside their own faculty. Our Athena SWAN Champions meet three times per
year to share best practice/learning and celebrate achievements.

Improving diversity

This assessment period the University instigated an action plan to address under-representation,
progression and attainment of minority ethnic students and staff, who constitute 19% of our
submitted staff and 18% of professors. We aim to create a diverse and inclusive community and
reduce the gap in pay, attainment, and representation. Offiah chairs the BAME Staff Network, set
up to address the needs, priorities, and concerns of staff from diverse non-White groups. In
recruitment we use targeted adverts, job descriptions and de-biasing of selection processes. All
staff on boards and committees undertake training in implicit bias and addressing diversity. We are
actively involving ourselves in the recently established Sheffield’s Race Equality Commission,
which held its first hearing focussed on health equality in 2020. We aim to improve diversity from
the ground-up, building and progressing minority ethnic talent from PGR and ECR stages using
mentoring and support networks, with senior role models as advocates.

Support for LGBTQ+ staff

Sheffield’s commitment to promoting diversity and eliminating discrimination includes strong
support for our LGBTQ+ staff and students. We were ranked 11th in the Stonewall Top 100
Employers 2020 survey and a “Top Trans Inclusive Employer”, testament to the importance we
place on LGBTQ+ inclusion, reflected in our own unit’s inclusion policies and community. The EDI
Medical School Committee supports LGBTQ+ via EDI leads and LGBTQ+ champions in
departments, by improving signposting and designing improved mandatory staff training on how to
support other LGBTQ+ staff.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Support for disabilities and neurodiversity

We value diversity and include and support staff or students with disabilities. Our unit has the third
highest proportion of staff with disabilities in the Russell Group. J.Brown co-chairs the University
Disabled Network, which allows staff to gain or offer support, participate in social activities, and
share experiences. We support staff to manage their health/fitness/disabilities by providing leave
for staff adjustment, treatment, assessment or rehabilitation, which includes managing mental
health and wellbeing concerns. Our disability liaison officer (Staton) represents needs and supports
individuals in our unit. Neurodiverse staff are supported with flexible working arrangements and
task management to capitalise on strengths; we value the positive contribution diversity brings to
our unit.

Preparation for REF2021

In preparation for REF2021, all members of the REF Committee undertook institutional REF-
focussed EDI training to mitigate against unconscious bias. Our REF team is representative in
gender and as inclusive as possible, with output selection performed by a range of academic staff
with a breadth of expertise. We selected papers in rank order. It is not possible to maintain
anonymity for authors of submitted outputs, therefore we ensured that where there was an excess
outputs at the cut-off, an appropriate career-stage and gender-balanced selection was submitted.
The unit staffing strategy, including recruitment, development, and support, is assessed and
updated by our EDI Committees, consistent with institutional strategy. This includes a commitment
that there should be no detriment to staff in the number of outputs submitted and that REF
submission data is not used during review or promotion.




 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income

Our strategic aims to translate discovery
science to clinical impact, to grow
partnerships with engineering and
computing for digital healthcare, and to
respond to global challenges in healthcare,
was underpinned by a 50% growth in
funding since REF2014, from £71.7M to
£107.4M over this assessment period
(£1.0M per FTE). This growth is across all
career stages and linked to our research
priorities.

Enabling our research priorities: Over
this assessment period we sought to
diversify our funding sources, reflecting our
strategy to grow commercial partnerships to
widen our impact for patient benefit. We
received 35% of our income from charities,
23% from UKRI and 15% from NIHR.
Grants (108) totalling £3.4M were awarded to fund clinical trials to translate our work. A variety of

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
clinical studies received charity support. For example, Yorkshire Cancer Research Catalyst for
Innovation in Cancer Care and Treatment in Sheffield received £2.7M to improve outcomes in
bladder cancer.

To strengthen translating discovery science into developing new clinical treatments and
diagnostics, we increased the number of our commercial partnerships, with a 187% increase in
industry spend over this assessment period (12% of our income). For example, Neuroscience
received £5.5M funds from Pfizer, Biogen, Forma Therapeutics, Celgene, Cure Fund, New
Zealand Pharmaceuticals, GSK, AstraZeneca, and Benevolent AI to assess neurotoxicity and
genetics in motor neuron disease and to accelerate novel treatments for Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s,
and ALS. Our cancer drug discovery programme was supported by £2.8M Wellcome Trust
Seeding Drug Discovery funds (Skerry). Therapy development for targets we identified for
pulmonary hypertension treatment received >£1.5M support from Pharma including GSK, Bayer,
Actelion, Endotronix and Novartis (Lawrie, Thompson). A number of our commercial projects were
developed from HEIF IAA funded support (£5.9M). Licence income from Lynparza provided £63M
over the assessment period.

We have targeted specific funding to grow areas of strength. In Imaging, we grew our Pulmonary,
Lung and Respiratory Imaging Sheffield (POLARIS) infrastructure with £7.5M from MRC and BHF
to provide new equipment with the capacity to generate novel technological solutions for
hyperpolarised gas imaging, with further £6.7M in research programme funds to advance research
in this area (Wild). The University invested £11.4M including £2M from donations and alumni to
build a new PET-MRI facility and scanner to deliver advanced imaging and powerful new
diagnostics. The £4M NIHR-BRC Neuroscience investment has driven expansion of new
collaborative neurodegenerative disease research initiatives. Global challenges in infection have
been supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation (£836k, Darton) for early infection
diagnosis, by the MRC (£3.5M to a consortia) and £11.4M capital fund (cross-faculty, Florey
Institute) to support antimicrobial resistance research. We received rapid-response funds to
support our response to the COVID-19 challenge in multiple trials and studies, enabling Sheffield
to become the largest recruiting centre for the Oxford vaccine trials (section 1.3). Digital
healthcare research has been underpinned by several EU Commission programmes, e.g. £4.9M
to EurValve to optimise patient-specific intervention in Valvular Heart Disease (Hose).

Our strategy to nurture and develop ECRs into fellowships and successful research careers is
evidenced by £12.4M in fellowship awards to 24 individuals over this assessment period. Half of
our successful junior fellows are female, promoting our aims to improve gender balance and invest
in the future. Our fellows are supported by a diversity of funders including Dorothy Hodgkin (Ruth
Thompson), Kidney Research UK & UKRI (Fragiadaki), EU (Hamilton), MRC and BHF (Lawrie,
Thompson), Yorkshire Cancer Research (Mayland), Versus Arthritis (Ismail) and Wellcome Trust
(Morris, Elks, I.Evans, Henriques, Twelvetrees, Gurevic). A number of our fellows have gone on to
attract significant additional funding (e.g. Roger Thompson £158k BHF, Morris £295k BHF,
Fragiadaki £227k BHF and £1.1M UKRI, Ruth Thompson £136k Royal Society, Henriques £77k
Dunhill Medical Trust).

3.2 Organisational infrastructure and facilities

We expanded our infrastructure to create a research environment with state-of-the-art facilities to
drive our strategic research priorities.

We have dedicated support for translational and drug discovery programmes, including two
NIHR Clinical Research Facilities to support clinical research from first-in-man to late phase; since
2014 supporting 871 studies, recruiting 26,085 participants. Over this assessment period, trials

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
including PLATO and PEGASUS (Storey, 2016, JACC), leading to the Tigacrelor impact case
study, were conducted via these facilities. Sheffield Institute for Translational Neuroscience
received major philanthropic donations to provide a new building (£20m), housing under the same
roof interdisciplinary teams of neuroscientists and clinicians with state-of-the-art equipment to
increase understanding of disease mechanisms, identify new therapeutic targets and translate
these insights into effective therapies and outcomes for patients in the clinical care setting.
Sheffield’s Experimental Cancer Medicine Centre will make more new treatments available to
patients in early trials, help develop new anticancer treatments and develop predictive biomarkers
for personalised treatment planning. The Centre has facilities for imaging, flow cytometry, DNA
sequencing and histopathology, Biobanks (Breast Cancer Now), and trials unit. This centre has led
AZURE and BRAVO trials in this assessment period, resulting in new cancer treatments for
patients (section 1.3). Our drug discovery laboratory provides optimised storage of test drugs
and compounds in a fully automated system using dry nitrogen. Neuroscience and Cancer
programmes benefit from high-throughput liquid dispensing systems for rapid large-scale screening
experiments. We host and manage the Sheffield Biorepository, a Human Tissue Authority-
compliant facility for storage of human tissues and cell samples, used in multiple studies over this
assessment period.

Sheffield houses advanced pre-clinical imaging facilities including our
MRI facility, the Wolfson Light Microscopy and Electron Microscopy
services. We are developing technologies allowing us to image the
same subject across a range of spatial scales and time, enabling
assessment of normal function and disease, capturing better-quality
data from fewer subjects. Over this assessment period, our Pulmonary
MRI facility received major capital investment to add five polarisers, a
radio frequency lab dedicated to creating and building new technology
scanners and a pulmonary function test (PFT) lab to couple functional
breath testing to imaging. Our human brain imaging facilities are
expanding and currently include 1.5T MR scanners, FIREFLY-Neonatal 3T Brain Imaging Scanner,
a 3T Phillips Ingenia MR Scanner and EEG systems. Our £11.4M investment in a ground-breaking
PET-MRI facility in 2020 will transform our understanding of diseases and the way we treat them in
the future. These facilities, alongside recruiting experts in advanced imaging, supports our strategy
to continue to lead in cutting-edge imaging and diagnostic research.

We use high performance computing (HPC) in our research in biomechanics, fluid dynamics,
bioinformatics (below) as well as in imaging for gas exchange modelling simulations, parallel
computing image processing and image registration workflows. Through Insigneo and POLARIS
we have benefited from HPC infrastructure and have invested heavily in this in liaison with central
University workgroups. For example, £350k was allocated from the MRC POLARIS award for
SHARC computing infrastructure and staff (section 3.3).

Neuroscience is part of the Adaptive Behaviour Research Group, housing our Active Touch Lab
facility. Over this assessment period these facilities expanded to include robotics, computational
modelling and methods in animal behaviour, neuroethology, and human psychophysics to
investigate tactile sensing in animals, people and intelligent machines. The group boasts one of the
largest UKRI/EU-funded robotics research programmes in the UK, with specialist laboratories and
facilities for electrophysiology, motion capture, neurophysiology, human psychophysiology,
transcranial stimulation, and optical imaging, building into our digital healthcare strategy.
Translational neuroscience incorporates a drug discovery laboratory (above), neuropathology &
histology, neurogenetics functional genomics, RNA and molecular biology laboratories and a
computational biology team. Our genomics and sequencing (including HiScan SQ) infrastructure is

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supported by a bioinformatics core, with expertise to support cutting-edge research across all
themes. Most recently, our bioinformatics core performed sequencing and analysis for the
COVID-19 Genomics consortium.

We invested in healthy ageing research by continuing to
build our infrastructure. The Bateson Centre houses one
of the largest and best-equipped zebrafish facilities in
Europe, holding a globally important collection of >750
mutant and transgenic lines and accommodating a
behavioural analysis suite, advanced microscopy,
microinjection facility, programmable light boxes and light
cycle incubators and cryogenic storage for IVF. Staffed by
experienced fish husbandry technicians, the facility offers a genotyping service for all facility users
and sorting of fish for breeding. In ageing, immunity, and infection research we study
mechanisms of change throughout life, including growth, remodelling, degeneration, and repair to
improve maintaining health, fighting pathogens and treating diseases of ageing. Cellular imaging
forms an important part of this study, where we are fortunate to access the University’s superb
Imagine facilities. These provide state-of-the-art imaging techniques from molecular structures to
whole organisms, including electron microscopy and the Wolfson Light Microscopy Facility which
includes confocal, multiphoton, widefield imaging, super resolution and light sheet fluorescence
microscopy.

3.3 Infrastructure support

We built a team of dedicated support staff to manage our facilities, provide staff training and
strategic support over this assessment period. An objective in the last five years has been to
increase grant funding. We established a Research Support Hub to improve pre-award
application support and coordinate peer grant review, consisting of two support officers and four
hub managers responsible for supporting grant submission, disseminating information from the
Faculty Research and Innovation Committee, contractual support and internal grant review. This
has been effective, evidenced by growth in grant applications and funding.

Our research facilities benefit from dedicated managers and expert technicians. We are a sector
leader in our support for research technicians (see REF5a and section 2.1) who play a critical role
in maintaining facilities and training staff in their use, ensuring our research benefits from access to
the latest technologies. Staff in our Bioinformatics Core provide advice and training on
experimental design, high-throughput next generation sequencing (NGS) analysis and offer clinical
bioinformatics services and consulting.

Sheffield is a sector-leader in digital infrastructure support, software engineering and high-
performance computing and storage through its SHARC facility (see REF5a). Research in our unit,
particularly in imaging, bioinformatics and digital healthcare, has dramatically expanded its use
of high-performance computing over this assessment period. We have invested in central facilities
(as above), and benefit from support staff who develop software and support our intensive
computing and storage requirements. This is central to our strategy to lead in research
programmes using advanced imaging, bioinformatics and in data-intensive projects such as
VIRTU-Heart and the ECHOES consortium.

The Sheffield Healthcare Gateway provides a single point of access for business to our
healthcare facilities and expertise. They promote and support academic knowledge and
commercialisation by: securing external funding such as MRC CiC; placing Entrepreneurs in
Residence; capturing and progressing IP including directing patent applications; assisting with the

                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
development of the exploitation pathway and IP strategies, that are also required for the planning
and compiling of translational funding bids from a variety of sources (e.g. NIHR, Wellcome Trust,
MRC DPFS, BHF); facilitating agreements/contracts for collaborative and/or contract research so
they meet the needs of all parties; and/or negotiating licences with external partners and working to
set up spinout companies. Over this assessment period the Healthcare Gateway facilitated
collaboration with >2,000 organisations to harness expertise, technology and insights from our
research teams. This supported our strategy to increase our research impact (section 1.5).

Support staff administer our research ethics and governance processes, facilitating review of all
research involving human participants under University NHS ethics processes as appropriate,
under strict data security. Projects required to comply with data security and cyber security are
supported by the University information governance group for policy implementation, and all
staff must undergo annual information security training.




 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Research collaborations

Our mission to improve global health requires an interdisciplinary, collaborative, and international
approach. The mechanisms and funding to support staff are outlined in sections 2 and 3. We
provide our staff with the support and time to build collaborative initiatives to make significant
research advances and to achieve impact.

Our unit has formed a number of strategic national and international collaborations that strengthen
our research and its clinical impact. As examples: we developed global healthcare and infection
research through a number of collaborative initiatives and consortia. We led and formed significant
partnerships across Europe in our digital healthcare programmes, immunity, and ageing research
programmes, while pulmonary hypertension has expanded its clinical impact to join with European
and international centres (see Fig 6). As a result, 46% of our submitted outputs represent
international collaborations.




                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Fig 6: Exemplar collaborations driving our strategic research priorities




Our strategy has been to work closely with the NHS to align research with delivering clinical impact
and improving healthcare. We have actively built our research and institutes to complement our
clinical strengths: Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust includes national specialist
healthcare centres in neuroscience, pulmonary hypertension, infectious diseases, and imaging.
Our collaboration with Sheffield NHS partners is key to developing impact and enriching our
research environment. Submitted staff in this unit work closely with >70 honorary staff; 41 honorary
clinical staff co-supervise PGRs. Their involvement provides research programmes with improved
opportunities to involve patients, collect patient samples, perform studies and trials within clinical
settings and to integrate research to real clinical challenges. In this period, as a result of our NHS
partnerships, the unit has been directly involved in >700 clinical trials and influenced 317 policies
(see Table 3) with 75k Altmetric Attention Score.




                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 3: Summary of policymakers citing our research

                                                            No. papers cited       No. policies
  NIH and Care Excellence                                          100                  73
  UK Government (gov.uk)                                            70                  31
  World Health Organization                                         65                  57
  Other worldwide policy commissions                               194                  156
  Total                                                            429                  317

In Neuroscience, our honorary staff member, Sharrack, is director of the Sheffield Multiple
Sclerosis Research Clinic, Chair of the Sheffield Research Ethics Committee and Member of the
EBMT Autoimmune Diseases Working Party. He plays a leading UK role in MS clinical trials
including MIST (impact case study), the first cell therapy trial at the Sheffield Teaching Hospitals
NHS Foundation Trust and the first phase III autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation
treatment in MS. Sourbron leads image analysis and quality assurance in a 10-year longitudinal
cohort study in 500 patients with chronic kidney disease, partnering with NHS nephrologists.
Kurien and Aziz work closely with Sanders (Chair of the Coeliac UK Health Advisory Council) and
colleagues in the Unit of Gastroenterology, a leading centre in coeliac disease and the NHS
England National Centre for Refractory Coeliac Disease. Kiely is honorary professor in the
Sheffield Pulmonary Vascular Disease Unit, one of the largest pulmonary hypertension centres in
Europe, who works closely with Lawrie and R.Thompson to support translational research.

Sheffield is one of five UK High Consequence Infectious Disease units that respond to
pandemic/epidemic respiratory infections. Rowland-Jones, De Silva and Darton work closely with
NHS colleagues Sabroe, Lawson and Bianchi (respiratory), Mills (critical care, surge planning lead
for COVID-19) and Meiring (infection). This group has been dynamic in supporting COVID-19 trials
and rapid-response research including the UK Coronavirus Immunology Consortium.

In addition to collaborations with academic institutions and the NHS, we expanded our
commercial partnerships to increase our impact by delivering clinical solutions to health
problems. As outlined in section 3, the unit’s income from commercial sources has grown markedly
over this assessment period. This is underpinned by a breadth of industrial partnerships. For
example, imaging work with GE Healthcare, Siemens, Philips, Novartis Sanofi and Bayer (amongst
others) supports development of hardware, imaging markers and artificial intelligence technologies
(Wild, Sourbron). Boehringer Ingelheim funded the NEO-BLADE trial to treat bladder cancer
(Hussain); Artios Pharma and Domainex support cancer therapy research (Collis); Novartis,
Philips, Siemens and Ixico support brain vascular MR imaging (Venneri); NZP UK Ltd., Celgene,
Cypralis, Khondrion, MitoBiopharm and Keapstone Therapeutics support Alzheimer’s research
programmes (Mortiboys); while Pfizer, AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Takeda, Celgene,
BenevolentAI, Verge Genomics SoseiHeptares, Aclipse Therapeutics have funded projects to
identify new therapies in neurodegenerative diseases (Ferraiuolo, P.Shaw, McDermott).

4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries, and audiences

Staff within the unit contribute nationally and internationally to public engagement and
dissemination of research and research principles. A significant body of our research involves
users beyond academia including the NHS, Department of Health and Social Care, NICE,
patients, the public and industry. End-users of research are involved in project and programme
steering groups, patient groups and participation of co-investigators in research planning, delivery
and dissemination. We work with a proactive media team to ensure research findings are

                                                                                              Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
disseminated to the wider research community and the public, using platforms ranging from
University website news articles, social media, press and broadcasting. We engage the local
Sheffield community in disseminating our discoveries and healthcare initiatives through local
media, community relations and public events.

Our unit actively engages patients with our research. The Clinical Research Facility works with
the Sheffield Teaching Hospitals-University of Sheffield Clinical Research and Innovation Office to
support Patient Public Involvement and Engagement (PPIE) activities. We involve and engage
patients and members of the public to promote learning and sharing of healthcare knowledge using
examples of best practice. Patients participate in patient panels, focus groups and events in
every stage of the research process, adding value to both the patient experience and to study
development and impact. Examples of our clinical trials that embedded PPIE from ideas
development to design, delivery and dissemination of the trial are HeadUp, ProGAS, DIPALS
(McDermott) and DAFNE (Heller).

Our staff support a wide range of patient involvement activities, including: International Clinical
Trials Days (Elks); advisory groups to patients and carers with MND (West, Kirby); MND patient
community (Ramesh); nutritional approaches to support healthy ageing (Protein for Life project,
Williams); MRC patient day (Eastell); invited patient seminar at Polycystic Kidney Disease
Foundation, Australia (Ong) and contributing to “Living with Dementia” magazine (West).

We engage with diverse communities and the public to improve public awareness of health and
science and to inspire the next generation of researchers. Our staff delivered events for the
Festival of Science, Festival of the Mind, the Virtual Life Science Project in partnership with
community schools, Researchers Night, and “Pint of Science”; and have given interviews,
documentaries and phone-ins on national and local TV/radio, and lectures at the Cheltenham
Science Festival, the largest such event world-wide. University engagement teams provide
masterclasses, practical advice, activity marketing, evaluation, funding support, partner finding and
online resources to support these activities. Since 2018, 20 of our staff were included in 2,774
pieces of new media coverage, averaging 139 media pieces per individual in under two years.
Altmetrics show that we received 92,801 mentions for 5,492 outputs, including 7,851 in news,
79,936 in Twitter and 224 in policies.

Our staff also contribute to wider society in a range of activities. McDermott is a specialist advisor
who has developed NICE guidelines for MND; Lawrie is an advisor to UK Government Office for
Life Sciences on the use of artificial intelligence; Payne is a member of the SuppoRTT working
group in Health Education England; Chico took part in the EU Scientist-MEP pairing scheme
(2019) to gain an understanding of EU research funding, legislation, and lobbying. Fenner is a
registered clinical scientist with the Health and Care Professions Council; Darton is external clinical
reviewer for the Pasteur Institute, Paris, sits on the Scientific Advisory Board for MRC
Leishmaniasis Human Challenge Model project in York and has served on the Data and Safety
Monitoring Boards for Typhoid Challenge and COV001 COVID-19 vaccine studies in Oxford. Kirby
supports Ethics for the Health & Safety Executive and Offiah has served on the Yorkshire and
Humber Sheffield Research Ethics Committee.

4.3 Wider contributions: impact beyond our case studies

As detailed in section 1.5, we instigated a number of mechanisms to increase our research impact.
We received £5.9M in HEIF and IAA funds (BBSRC/EPSRC), made >132 non-academic
partnerships or work agreements, 75 patents were filed and 14 granted, securing >£17M in
commercial funding. The strategy and pipelines we used to enable impact over this assessment
period are outlined below.

                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have undertaken a variety of activities leading to impact. Examples beyond our impact case
studies include “BresDex”, an online tool used by >12,500 patients to improve choice in breast
cancer treatment, developed following our research showing there were wide variations in surgery
provided to patients (Coleman). POLARIS builds, designs, and sells the world’s highest
performance MHRA approved 129Xe polarisers for lung imaging, sponsored by Novartis,
AstraZeneca, Boehringer-Ingelheim and Galapagos (Wild). We led the European Haemophilia
Safety Surveillance website to report adverse events and regular surveillance of people with
inherited bleeding disorders (Makris). New guidance was implemented for the way infants’ skin is
treated from birth, to prevent allergy and dermatitis, following our research showing wash
products damage the skin barrier (Danby). VIRTUheartTM is an innovative clinical tool using
computational fluid dynamics (CFD) to calculate coronary blood flow, guiding decision-making by
clinicians (Gunn, Morris). We developed a dedicated orthopaedic and neonatal magnetic
resonance (MR) imaging system to safely scan neonates, leading to global commercialisation of a
neonatal MR system and transport incubator, fundamentally changing neonatal MR imaging
(Paley).

Fig 7: Mechanisms: strategy to enable impact from research




4.4 Contributions to the discipline

We recognise that contributing to the discipline also provides opportunities for staff development
and promotes new research partnerships. We support staff and students to develop presentation
skills in weekly theme research meetings, annual Medical School research away days with ECR
oral presentation sessions. PGR students are required to give at least two oral and one poster
presentation. We organise journal clubs, research reproducibility and integrity seminars to facilitate
an understanding of journal and grant review processes. These provide our researchers with skills
to disseminate research at invited talks, review funding applications and research articles for
journals, thereby contributing to our fields of expertise.

Staff from this unit support leading peer reviewed journals through their roles as editors and
reviewers. Over the assessment period staff from this unit have been members of the editorial
boards of >90 key journals in their fields including 24 staff who have been editors. All our staff have
reviewed papers and the majority have reviewed grants for funding bodies. 36 staff work closely

                                                                                              Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with national and international funders with membership on the following panels: MRC Clinical
Training and Career Development, MRC Neuroscience and Mental Health, MRC DPFS, UKRI
Future Leader Fellowships, British Heart Foundation Project Grants and Fellowships Committee,
NC3R Project Grants NIHR EME, MND Association Health Research Board, Heart Research UK,
Alzheimer’s Research UK, EPSRC, Cancer Research UK, Hong Kong Research Council, French
and German National Research Agencies, Academy of Medical Sciences New Lecturers.

We support our staff to make broader contributions to the discipline. These include chairing of
regional, national, or international panels, such as NIHR National Speciality Lead for Early
Phase Cancer Trials (Danson), NCMM Research Council of Norway Evaluation Committee
(Azzouz); Future Neuro Ireland Board (Shaw), Lister Institute Board of Governors (Shaw),
Research Council of Norway Infection and Immunity Panel (Rowland-Jones); ASBMR Rising Star
Awards Committee Co-chair (Eastell). We have significant roles in advisory boards to improve
healthcare, including North West Cancer Research Scientific Advisory Committee (Cox), Breast
Cancer Campaign Scientific Advisory Board (N.Brown), EPSRC Strategic Advisory Team for
Healthcare (Hose) and Wellcome Trust Vaccines Advisory Board (De Silva).

Our unit has 36 members of strategic panels or learned societies including President of the
British Orthopaedic Research Society, Chairs of the European Society for Cardiology Working
Groups, Board of Directors, Zebrafish Disease Models Society, and the Lister Institute Board of
Governors. Staff of all grades, including ECRs and PGRs, have been invited to give notable
international lectures on their research. We have given 43 keynotes or invited lectures at national
and international conferences.

A number of our staff have been recognised for their research contributions to clinical
medicine over this assessment period, some of which we highlight. In 2014 Pamela Shaw was
made a Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire for services to neuroscience, Catto
won the BAUS Karl Storz Golden Telescope, Wilkinson received the Hip Society (USA) Otto
Aufranc Award, Orthopaedic Research Society William Harris Award and the Orthopaedic
Research Society Research Translation Award and Eastell received the Frederick C Bartter Award
of the American Society for Bone and Mineral Research for excellence in clinical research (only
previously awarded to two UK clinicians) and the Translational Cancer Research Prize from
Cancer Research UK for work in the prevention of breast cancer. In 2015 Offiah received group
awards: BIR/Bayer Make it Better Award; Winner and BMJ Awards Highly Commended Imaging
Team. In 2017 Whitby received the British Institute of Radiology medal for distinguished service
and Tahir was awarded Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine Academic Early Career
Prize for significant contribution to the advancement of academic practice and research in medical
physics within 12 years of their career. In 2018 Wilkinson received the British Hip Society
President’s Prize. In 2019 P.Shaw was awarded the Association of British Neurologists medal,
while Venneri received the Italian Women Physicians career achievement award; the Sheffield
Institute for Translational Neuroscience (SITraN) was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for
research that has improved patient outcomes for people living with some of the most devastating
neurodegenerative diseases.

Conclusion

Our staff are a dedicated and highly effective research community committed to improving global
health and quality of life. This is frequently achieved across disciplines and in partnership with the
NHS and industry to find solutions to clinical problems. We have invested in and strategically
developed our research base to maximise our responsiveness to emerging health challenges. The
impacts from our research and professional activities extend far beyond academia, bringing about


                                                                                              Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
new therapies, medical devices, diagnostics, industrial innovation, and competitiveness, and
ultimately improved global healthcare.




                                                                                          Page 32
