Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA27 English Language and Literature

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 UoA 27 research is situated in the subject area of English and Creative Writing (E&CW). E&CW
 has 12 permanent staff: 2 professors (Jessica Malay, Heather Clark), 1 Principal Lecturer
 (Merrick Burrow), 3 Readers (Sarah Falcus, Jodie Matthews, Michael Stewart), and 6 senior
 lecturers (James Underwood, Todd Borlik, Ildiko Csengei, David Rudrum, Simon Crump,
 Stephen Ely). 25% of these staff are classified as ECR as defined by para.148 of the REF
 Guidance for submissions (IR from 1 August 2016) but who for various reasons chose not to
 declare their individual circumstances. Additionally, E&CW has two full-time Research Fellows
 attached to a three-year Leverhulme Project Grant (Mary Chadwick and Daniel Patterson), one
 of whom is classified as ECR as defined above. E&CW has expertise across period specialisms
 from medieval to contemporary literature, and creative writing expertise in script and screen
 writing, novels, poetry and sub-genres of these. Since the REF2014 submission, E&CW have
 added five additional permanent staff, providing additional expertise in Contemporary (post
 1945) poetry, creative writing, and the Early Modern Period.

 E&CW is a constituent subject area of the Department of History, English, Linguistics and Music,
 one of two departments in the School of Music, Humanities and Media. This disciplinary
 structure provides opportunities for interdisciplinary research (see Section 3). Several E&CW
 staff are members of the Centre for History, Culture and Memory. The newly developed Film
 School is a collaborative initiative across all subject areas in the School. Both contain a strong
 research component. E&CW is fully engaged with the University of Huddersfield’s (UoH)
 research strategy as stated in the University environment statement and 2018-2025 Strategic
 Plan. E&CW are fully committed to the UoH Open Research policy, including use of Elsevier
 Pure management information system which makes freely available eligible research outputs.
 We publish open access research in the UoH press including our creative writing imprint Grist,
 and also in open-access journals as discussed below. We are fully compliant with the UoH Open
 Data policy (See UoH environment Statement Section 2).

 In REF2014 E&CW was submitted with Language and Linguistics in UoA29. Our success in
 REF2014 led to the establishment of E&CW as a distinct subject area submitting to UoA27. This
 focus on Literary and Creative Writing research allowed us to pursue our strategic aims more
 effectively. These aims, while drawing broadly upon those outlined in the REF2014 UoA29
 submission, were revised to reflect the opportunities available to the newly constituted E&CW:

 A1: Integration of high quality Literary and Creative Writing research within an ambitious public
 engagement and impact agenda.
 A2: To build upon existing excellence in interdisciplinary research in response to social
 challenges.
 A3: Establishment of The Ted Hughes Network (THN): An international network of scholars and
 creative writers, producing world leading scholarship and creative practice, with a significant and
 wide-reaching public engagement agenda.

 A1 reflects the ethos of E&CW—that public engagement and critical and creative research are
 inextricably linked. We are committed to the principles set out in the Concordat for Public
 Engagement with Research. And that the dialogue created between these is key to high quality,
 relevant, humanities research. We recognize that public engagement, when underpinned with
 critical and creative research, provides a richer cultural environment for communities, contributes
 to community cohesion, and enriches the lives of individuals. This is shown in our two impact
 projects: Discovering Ted Hughes Yorkshire and The Brontë Stones Project. For the researcher,
 public engagement inspires new avenues of research, suggests important research questions,
 and provides the catalyst that enables researchers to respond to social issues, especially
 equality, diversity and inclusion.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Matthews’s research into representations of Gypsies, Roma or Travellers provides an example
 of this. Her research underpinned her co-curation of the ‘Rights and Romance exhibition’ (2018),
 with the charity Leeds Gypsy and Traveller Exchange and members of the Gypsy community.
 This co-curation empowered Gypsy and Traveller communities to directly shape public
 representations of their communities, providing insight about stereotypes and representations of
 Traveller communities to a wide public audience. This experience informed Matthews’s current
 research on these communities published as ‘Visibly Authentic: Images of Romani people from
 19th-century culture to the digital age’, in Heritage as Community Research: Legacies of Co-
 Production (2019), and led to a research collaboration with the Romani academic Ken Lee,
 based in Australia. Matthews was also appointed as the Canals and Rivers Trust (CRT) first
 Honorary Research Fellow (2016). Matthews has given public talks related to the history and
 literature of the canals and railways and the travelling communities associated with these for the
 Railway and Canal Historical Society, the National Waterways museum, and other
 organisations. She was a consultant for an episode of Grantchester dealing with Traveller
 communities, and also consulted for the programme Who do You Think You Are. She
 contributed research expertise to the permanent displays at the National Waterways Museum,
 Gloucester. Her public engagement work has corrected misconceptions concerning Traveller
 communities and contributed to Matthews’s current research in her forthcoming book:
 Industrious: Reading the Waterways. Most recently the CRT commissioned her to write a report
 on the canals and nineteenth-century slavery in order to better engage with current concerns.

 Falcus’s research on Dementia and Literature featured in a partnership with Kirklees Library,
 West Yorkshire. Two ‘Summer Reading Days’ in 2014 and 2016 engaged with the theme
 ‘Ageing and Literature’, and a public facing symposium ‘Words and Pictures: Dementia in
 Children’s Books’ (2015), hosted by the UoH. These events encouraged public discussions
 about how we talk about dementia with children. This partnership made a direct contribution to
 her joint project ‘Ageing and Illness in British and Japanese Children's Picturebooks 1950-2000:
 Historical and Cross-Cultural perspectives' (2018), in collaboration with Dr Katsura Sako (Keio
 University, Japan), and funded by the Japan Society for the Promotion of Science.

 Stewart and Crump’s practice based creative writing research feeds into a long running
 partnership with First Story (2011 to present), a charity that places professional writers in
 secondary schools that serve low-income communities, in order to develop confidence, creativity
 and writing ability in young people. Stewart is a mentor in this programme and hosted five events
 (2015-2020) at UoH. A joint project between the UoH and First Story forms part of E&CW’s ICS,
 The Brontë Stones Project.

 Ely’s work with the creative writing group, Write on Mexborough (2015-present), which he
 founded and continues to mentor. This group has had a transformative effect on over 100
 participants in this area of high economic deprivation. Ely’s involvement with the group informs
 his own creative practice research, and has resulting in the award-winning publication of Zi
 Taah: The Song of the Willow Tit, produced in collaboration with the emerging artist ‘PR’.

 Malay’s research on the seventeenth-century woman writer, the Lady Anne Clifford (an ICS in
 REF2014) continues to engage the public in conversations regarding the role of women in the
 construction of communities, through public talks at the Clifford Association General Meeting,
 Devon (2016); Huddersfield Literature Festival (2018); Leeds Library (2019); Skipton Historical
 Society (2019); and events hosted by the Churches Conservation Trust (2019). Malay discussed
 Clifford and culture on BBC Women’s Hour (2019) and Channel 5, ‘Barging Across Britain, Then
 and Now’, episode 1 (14 Feb 2020). This engagement informed Malay’s research resulting in her
 article: “Becoming Anne Clifford” in Women and the Land (2019), and was the focus of her
 Sassoon Fellowship at the Bodleian Library (2019).

 Burrow has shared his research on the Cottingley Fairies controversy in public talks at the
 Bradford Literature Festival, Tolson Museum, National Science Museum, and his co-curation
 (with post-grad Hartley) of the exhibition, ‘The Cottingley Fairies: A Century of Enchantment’,

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Brotherton Library, Leeds (2018). He served as a consultant for the public exhibition, ‘The
 Cottingley Fairies’ at Nagoya University, Tokyo (2017). The exhibition was a collaboration
 between the Tokyo Photographic Art Museum, Utsunomiya Fairy Museum, Utsunomiya,
 Hitotsubashi, and Nagoya Universities, Tokyo. These activities have stimulated Burrow’s
 research concerning the interplay of scientific reason and the fantastic in Arthur Conan Doyle’s
 work and inform his forthcoming article, ‘On the trail of the Cottingley Fairies Photographs’.

 A2 reflects E&CW’s research engagement across interdisciplinary boundaries, demonstrating
 E&CW’s ability to respond to emerging social challenges. Borlik’s research engages with
 agrarian and environmental history, providing perspectives on the current ecological crisis. Borlik
 is one of three principal investigators of the Earth, Sea, Sky: An Environmental Humanities
 Research Network project, funded by The Oxford Research Centre for the Humanities
 International Partnership, the University of California Davis, and other organisations. Borlik
 produced thirteen journal articles and two books including Literature and Nature in the English
 Renaissance (Cambridge, 2019) through these international and interdisciplinary partnerships.

 Falcus’s research brings together health or medical humanities and English Literature as
 evidenced by her monograph Contemporary Narratives of Dementia (Routledge, 2018). She is
 co-founder and co-director of The Dementia and Cultural Narrative Network that includes literary
 and film studies, anthropology, sociology, gerontology the creative arts, and practitioners
 working with dementia patients. Falcus and Raquel Medina of Aston University co-organized the
 symposium ‘Working Together: collaboration beyond the academy in research in dementia and
 culture’ hosted by the Institute of Modern Languages Research, Senate House, London (2018).

 Clark’s work on Sylvia Plath draws on the history of mid-twentieth-century American psychiatry,
 and she integrates research from the McLean Hospital archives and interviews with psychiatrists
 in the Boston area to explore the treatment Plath received. Her interdisciplinary research
 concludes that Plath found herself at the mercy of an unenlightened mental health industry. This
 research appears in Clark’s major biography of Plath, Red Comet: The Short Life and Blazing
 Art of Sylvia Plath (Knopf, 2020).

 Malay’s research on women’s writing and domestic abuse, published in The Case of Mistress
 Mary Hampson (2014), draws on archival research, legal discourse, cultural and historical
 sources related to domestic relations, and autobiography. It exposes the historical basis of
 current issues surrounding domestic abuse and the cultural mechanisms which underpin this
 ongoing social issue. This research intersects with Malay’s work on autobiography that draws
 upon legal history, court documents, and concepts of the autobiographical which underpins her
 current Leverhulme Project Grant (£335,595), Autobiographical Acts.

 Burrow’s research on Conan Doyle for his forthcoming monograph, History of Deception situates
 Doyle's literary and spiritualist writings within a wider culture of 'rational enchantment' that rose
 to prominence during the 1840s (comprising such diverse cultural forms as photography,
 scientific entertainments, spiritualism, stage magic, newspaper hoaxes, automata and detective
 fiction). Burrow's research uses this historical perspective to illuminate the blurring of fact and
 fabrication in twenty first-century controversies concerning fake news, climate change denial,
 anti-vaxxers, social media bubbles and artificial intelligence.

 Ely’s current creative writing project draws upon the life cycle of the eel, and engages with
 scientific disciplines related to eels, fisheries, river management and rewilding. He works with
 experts in ecology at Yorkshire Wildlife Trust; the University of Southampton; the project Ark
 Netherlands involved in a rewilding project on the Rhine in Holland; the Yorkshire Environment
 Agency; and the Marine and Freshwater Conservation Programme at the Zoological Society of
 London. The aim of this creative practice research is to produce scientifically informed writing
 about nature that departs from traditional pastoral writing and engages more robustly with
 concepts of the Anthropocene.



                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research undertaken by E&CW is fundamentally interdisciplinary and sits at the cutting edge of
 literary scholarship, contributing in important way to crucial societal debates.

 A3: The establishment of E&CW (to be submitted to UoA27, REF2021) in 2014 provided an
 opportunity to develop a flagship area of research and impact expertise. The UoH Research
 Fund provided an initial grant and follow up funding of more than £250,000 for the establishment
 of the Ted Hughes Network (THN). This funding provided a two-year research post, that became
 a permanent senior lectureship post (Underwood) and a 0.4 salary upgrade to enable Ely to take
 up the role of Director of the THN was funded. The University, through its Research Excellence
 Scheme, funded the appointment of Professor Heather Clark, a U.S. scholar and Sylvia Plath
 and Ted Hughes expert from the United States. The University also provided financial support
 for the development of the Ted Hughes Small Press Archive, one of the most extensive
 collections of Hughes’s small press related material in the world. This facilitated the deposit of
 two private Hughes collections, the Crossley collection—Hughes related material collected by
 Donald Crossley, life-long friend of Hughes; and the Christopher Reid archive, made up of
 material connected to the publication of Hughes’s Letters by Faber and Faber (2007).

 The THN hosted a number of public events showcasing Hughes’s work through the archive
 collections that encouraged the public to view and use the material. The THN also supported two
 public exhibitions at Heritage Quay curated by UoH students through their Public Humanities
 Project: ‘Ted Hughes: You Are Who You Choose To Be’ (2018); and ‘Larkin and Hughes: Poets
 and Rivals’ (2019). This last student-curated project, undertaken in collaboration with the THN
 and the Larkin Society, hosted the launch of the Huddersfield Literature Festival 2019.

 The THN was designed to work in partnership with local, national and international academic
 and public organisations. The THN successfully brought together in a consortium community
 groups and civic bodies across Yorkshire, including the Elmet Trust; The Ted Hughes Project,
 South Yorkshire; Calderdale Council; Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council; Hebden Royd
 Town Council; and the Patrington Parish Council which integrates Hughes Research with public
 engagement and impact activities (and forms one of our ICS). The THN was instrumental in
 bringing the premier of Hughes’s Gaudete, adapted and performed by the French theatre
 company, OBRA, to the Lawrence Batley theatre, Huddersfield (2017).

 The THN has driven international research related to Hughes and his contemporaries. In
 partnership with the Ted Hughes Society, the THN co-sponsored the international conference
 Ted Hughes & Place (2017), featuring twenty-six scholars from around the world including the
 keynote speakers: Professor Heather Clark and Professor Neil Roberts. Underwood edited an
 open access and online special edition of the Ted Hughes Journal featuring key papers from this
 conference, Time and Place 7.1 (2018). The THN organized a symposium in partnership with
 the Stuart A. Rose Manuscript, Archives and Rare Book Library, Emory University, U.S.A, ‘Ted
 Hughes and America’ that included a programme of invited international scholars and a public
 lecture, convened by Professor Heather Clark, for (May 2020). This symposium has been
 postponed due to the COVID-19 crisis, but the partnership with the Rose Library and scholars
 involved in the symposium are moving ahead to publish papers prepared for this symposium and
 to convene future meetings. The THN is now established as a world-leading research and public
 engagement organization, that has created a synergy between cultural impact and high-quality
 research.

 In 2017 the subject area ranked 251 in QS World University Subject Rankings.

 Having achieved our REF2014 goals as revised, E&CW have developed a further set of
 strategic aims to underpin our work leading into the next REF:

 A1 Address social challenges by developing further partnerships with First Story, Canal and
 River Trust, and a new partnership with the Peak District National Park following initial
 discussions with this organisation, thus embedding world leading research in an ambitious public
 engagement agenda.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 A2 Development of the recently instituted Centre for International Contemporary Poetry to create
 an internationally leading research centre that integrates critical research with innovative
 creative practice, and public engagement.

 A3 Develop dynamic interdisciplinary research partnerships to address key social issues in the
 areas of ageing and dementia; the environmental crisis; and gender inequality.

 A4 Establish the Brontë Network, drawing on expertise developed through the establishment of
 the THN, and current relationships with the Brontë Parsonage, Bradford and Huddersfield
 Literary Festivals, Brontë Society, Bradford Council and the Birthplace at Thornton. And to
 extend these Brontë-themed relationships to the Peak District National Park and the Hathersage
 Parish Council in order to facilitate public engagement and community development projects
 drawing upon the areas’ largely untapped connections with the Brontës.

 2. People
 The creation of E&CW as a distinct subject area focusing on Literary and Creative Writing
 research in 2014, provided an opportunity to build a team that produces high quality,
 interdisciplinary research and an ambitious Impact through Public Engagement agenda.

 The appointment of Borlik, an American researcher (2014), was part of an international
 recruitment process designed to provide additional, world leading Early Modern Literature and
 Culture research, and to extend this into ecocritical research. The appointment of Ely (2015), an
 award-winning poet and Hughes scholar, was tied to our goal of increasing our expertise in
 creative writing, while his early research into Hughes contributed to the establishment of the
 THN. Matthews was appointed to a lectureship in English (2016) because of her expertise in
 public engagement, grant writing, and her high quality inter-disciplinary research. Underwood
 was initially appointed (2016) to a two-year research post, but was promoted within this period to
 a permanent senior lectureship post. His initial appointment and promotion were connected to
 the expertise he contributed to the THN, his grant capture, and his expertise in Philip Larkin,
 which was relevant to our intention to build the Centre for International Contemporary Poetry
 (CICP). In 2017 the University appointed Clark as part of UoH Research Excellence Staff
 Strategy. Clark’s world-leading expertise in Sylvia Plath, Seamus Heaney and the Irish Poets,
 the Boston women poets and Contemporary poetry more generally was the capstone of this
 series of appointments and, was part of our strategy to broaden our expertise and visibility with
 the CICP, with Clark taking the lead on the design of the new centre.

 In 2019 Chadwick and Patterson were appointed as part of the Leverhulme funded, three-year
 project grant, Autobiographical Acts (PI Malay). Their appointments contribute to interdisciplinary
 research within E&CW, with their research intersecting the fields of History and Literature.

 Support for researcher development:
 UoH is committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, and
 participates in Vitae’s 'Every Researcher Counts'. UoH and the School of MHM both hold Athena
 Swan Bronze awards. E&CW staff work as a team to ensure that staff and student research
 development and support is integral to all that we do and is embedded across the career span of
 individuals within E&CW, from undergraduate to professor.

 We have a research strand across our three-year undergraduate programme which introduces
 apprentice researchers to research methodologies and ethics, and enables them to experience
 professional level research and produce high quality independent research from year 1.

 Undergraduates are offered placements on academic research projects including the MHRA
 funded Anne Clifford Project (PI Malay), the Leverhulme funded Autobiographical Acts Project
 (PI Malay), the Arts Council funded Brontë Stones Project (PI Stewart), the Cottingley Fairies
 project (PI Burrow). Undergraduates have also been heavily involved in our in-house imprint,
 Grist (Editor Stewart), the activities of the Ted Hughes Network (Director Ely), and the Dementia

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Network (PI Falcus), and the COSMIA Festival (Director Falcus). These experiences have built
 confidence and provided undergraduate students—many of whom are first generation in higher
 education and are from local areas of high economic deprivation—with avenues for post-
 graduate research.

 Post Graduate Recruitment and Support:
 E&CW seeks to retain these high quality UoH undergraduate researchers through recruitment to
 our MA by Research programme as part of our broader PGR success strategy, with on average
 three per annum MA by Research students continuing on to the PhD programme. These PGRs
 underpin the supportive and dynamic PGR research environment in E&CW, undertaking
 leadership roles in our Research Seminar series and annual PGR conference. E&CW bi-weekly
 research seminars regularly bring together academic staff, postgraduate, undergraduate
 students and interested members of the public and feature both PGR and International
 academic research in Literature and Creative Writing.

 This continuity from undergraduate to PGR research provides a sense of community which is
 attractive to UK and international PGRs. One of the hallmarks of our PGR culture is the close-
 knit research community that attracts applicants to our PGR programmes.

 PGR recruitment to our MA by Research and PhDs is also supported through UoH’s competitive
 studentships, fee-waiver scholarships, and bursary schemes. 41 PGRs (19 PhD and 22 MA by
 Research) have successfully completed their degrees with this financial support. For example,
 Dr Sairish Hussain received fee waiver scholarships for her MA and her PhD in Creative Writing.
 Her novel, published from creative research undertaken at the UoH, was shortlisted for the 2021
 Costa Prize in the First Novel category. Another PhD completion recently secured an academic
 job at the University of Newcastle. Several successful MA by Research students have gone on
 to full PhD studentships at University of Leeds, Hull, Sheffield, York and elsewhere. Others have
 entered PGCE and Teacher Training programmes, or are now working in the Creative
 Industries.

 In addition, as part of our outreach to the Further Education Community, we have awarded four
 Bridge Fellowships, which provide full-tuition scholarships for an MA by Research to A-Level and
 College English Literature teachers who work in local schools and colleges in areas of high
 economic deprivation. This programme both supports teachers and enhances the student
 experience in these areas. E&CW participate in NECAH (The North of England Consortium for
 Arts and Humanities) and the Heritage Consortium. Five PGRs supervised by E&CW staff
 (Borlik, Malay, Falcus, and Rudrum) have successfully completed PhDs through these
 Consortiums in the past three years.

 All these PGR pathways widen participation and provide significant growth and vitality to the
 E&CW research community.

 Strong support for students is built in to our PGR programmes. E&CW PGRs attend ten
 Research Practice Seminars in research skill development. E&CW partners with History to run
 Graduate Academy providing additional seminars on preparing and publishing research,
 applying for post-doctoral fellowships, career development, etc. Records of supervisions are
 kept by both students and supervisors in SkillsForge. PhDs take part in Progression Review
 Boards the end of year 1 and year 2, where constructive feedback is provided and a skills audit
 takes place, identifying training needs. In 2019 all E&CW PGRs progressed or completed on
 time. PhD’s are eligible for up to £2800 in support to attend conferences and undertake research
 trips. PGRs are provided with opportunities to teach, initially co-teaching with experienced staff,
 and may enrol in the UoH’s Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme course. PGRs are
 mentored in their professional development and are provided opportunities to co-publish, co-
 present at conferences, and co-curate exhibitions with staff. Postgraduates have been heavily
 involved in the UoH COSMIA Arts Festival, events sponsored by the Ted Hughes Network,
 Creative Writing events including participation in the Huddersfield and Bradford Literature
 Festivals, editing and production of publications through the GRIST imprint and other

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities. All PGRs are members of the University’s Graduate School, and may participate
 in the UoH’s Graduate Conference, Graduate Council, and make use of UoH’s Career Guidance
 centre, well-being programmes and services, and Enterprise and Business building support.

 E&CW’s PGR recruitment and support strategy has successfully increased our PGR community,
 and supported a robust research environment. In our UoA29 REF2014 submission, E&CW
 contributed only two PhD and one MA by Research completions. In the REF2021 period (2014-
 2020) E&CW have made 28 PhD awards, and 44 MA by Research awards in Literature or
 Creative Writing (and a further six are in the examination process). This significant increase is a
 direct result of our research environment and recruitment strategy during this REF cycle. It is
 important to note that many of these PGRs come from local areas that rate high on the UK index
 of multiple deprivations and are first generation PGR students. E&CW has been particularly
 successful in attracting BAME students to our PGR programmes who make up 20% of our MA
 completions, 33% of whom continued to complete a PhD, well above the national average.

 Academic Staff Research Support
 In E&CW staff support is underpinned by our commitment to a research environment where
 researchers thrive and produce world-leading research. All staff retain autonomy over their
 research objectives, while at the same time contribute research expertise to team research
 initiatives. This dual focus on individual research, and whole team collaboration that integrates
 staff at all career stages (as well as undergraduate and PGRs as discussed above), is key to the
 success of both individual research and E&CW team initiatives. These team initiatives include
 the development of a Public Engagement strategy that led to the collaborations that produced
 the THN and the Brontë Stones projects. All staff participate in our research mentorship
 programme, which resulted in strong participation of early career staff, as described in Section 1,
 in the present REF cycle. These early career staff contributed 26% of EC&W outputs, and led
 one Impact Case Study submitted for REF2021. All staff participate in an annual research audit
 with the E&CW Research Coordinator and the School’s Associate Dean for Research where
 individualized research goals and contributions to E&CW initiatives are agreed, and training and
 financial support identified.

 E&CW provides staff with ample research time and opportunities. All full-time academic and
 research staff have one research day per week free of teaching and administrative commitments
 and up to 30 days of additional research leave per annum. Staff on fractional contracts have a
 pro-rata allowance. Our innovative delivery of teaching is efficient and encourages staff to
 integrate current research into seminars and lectures. Our teaching programme places
 assessment and skills teaching within modules, while subject matter is set within units which
 explore literature through seminars and lectures. Units can be updated, and new units designed
 and inserted into the teaching programme in a timely manner enabling staff to respond to
 student interests and their current research. For example, in 2018 students asked for a unit on
 Asian Women’s writing. Matthew’s drew on her expertise in this area to design this unit and it
 was offered in 2019/20.

 Staff may apply for a one term sabbatical, free of all teaching and administrative duties (except
 post-graduate supervision), after every six teaching terms (i.e. once every three years). The
 School of Music Humanities and Media also funds Impact Case Study sabbaticals for staff
 involved in the subject area ICS.

 E&CW supports staff with caring responsibilities, part-time contracts, and those returning from
 periods of leave (for example, parental leave). Those who take periods of leave retain their place
 on the sabbatical schedule. Flexible working is the norm within E&CW with individual
 circumstances addressed in research audits and appraisals and through discussions with the
 Head of Subject and Research Coordinator. For example, staff are supported through the
 clustering of teaching responsibilities to free up time early and/or later in the day (Matthew,
 Borlik, Falcus), and teaching has been arranged on three days to accommodate caring
 responsibilities or travel issues (Rudrum, Csengei, Crump, Falcus, Stewart). Accommodation
 has been made for remote working (Chadwick, Patterson, Malay, and Clark prior to COVID-19,

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and all since 23 March 2020). Sabbaticals have been brought forward or delayed as best suited
 the needs of individual staff (Csengei, Borlik, Falcus), and additional shorter periods of research
 leave, and teaching relief has been provided to support research goals. The school funds
 COVID-19 mitigation relief for staff on sabbaticals scheduled in 2020, providing up to six
 additional weeks research leave.

 Financial support for research is available to all academic staff in E&CW. The University of
 Huddersfield devolves the majority of QR funding to the schools, and each UoA has direct
 control of a portion of that funding. This has enabled E&CW to fund UK and International
 conference attendance, research trips, publication costs, and other research related costs.
 School level QR funds are also available to develop ‘proof of concept’ projects.

 Funding is also available through the University Research Fund (URF). Malay and Falcus
 secured funding to host two international conferences in the UK: Dementia and Cultural
 Narrative conference, University of Aston, December 2017 (Falcus); Anne Clifford:
 Engagements in Culture, Abbot Hall Gallery, Kendal, 2018 (Malay). The URF provided funding
 for the international symposium, ‘Ted Hughes and America: A Symposium’, (scheduled for May
 2020, now postponed to 2022) at the Rose Library, Emory University, Atlanta, USA. Ten staff
 have received support for international conference attendance from the URF. Underwood and
 Ely have also received additional funds for their research projects from as part of the URF’s
 Early career staff initiative. Clark received £11,000 to build an international partnership of
 scholars researching Contemporary Irish Poets. The University’s commitment to provide
 additional research funding to staff at all career stages, with particular emphasis on early career
 support, has enabled staff to pursue world-leading research agenda. Five staff (Borlik, Csengei,
 Ely, Falcus, Burrow, Matthews) also received additional teaching relief to produce research
 outputs through a URF grant awarded to the School to promote internationally excellent
 research (2017-2019).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Staff promotion profiles and career development pathways also attest to the vitality of E&CW
 and its commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. Underwood and Ely were promoted to
 Senior Lecturer within one year of appointment. 30% of staff (3 female, 1 male) have been
 promoted through UoH’s conferment process (2014-2020): Professorship: Malay; Readerships:
 Falcus, Stewart, Matthews. UoH and the School of MHM both hold Athena Swan Bronze
 awards.

 An Output Pool Equality Impact Assessment was undertaken for REF2021 with the current
 output selections showing contributions of: 50% female; 50% male. Early career researchers
 have contributed 30% of outputs as well producing one of the ICS for this UoA. Staff with caring
 responsibilities (for children under 10) contributed 43% of outputs.


 The structure of the UOA, and the mechanisms embedded within it, ensure staff are supported
 in their career development in line with individual circumstances. This ensures sustainability and
 fosters well-being. It directly contributes to E&CW’s international reputation for research
 excellence as evidenced by a range of publications with high ranking journals and publishers,
 international collaborations, keynote invitations, and other indicators of research vitality.

 UoH was awarded the Workplace Wellbeing Charter in December 2018, and reaccredited in
 2020.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income:
 Over the current REF cycle we have secured £373,704 HESA recorded external funding, with a
 spend in this REF period of £113,511. Underwood was awarded a British Academy Rising Star

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Award for the project ‘Literature and the Reading Public: Challenges and Opportunities’ £9,000
 (EN160009, spend £5189). Matthews received AHRC funding, £1,000 (AH/J011606/1) for her
 project ‘Gypsies, Roma and Irish Travellers: Histories, Perceptions and Representations, A
 Review’ and an AHRC 10th Anniversary Debates grant of £10,308, for ‘Rethinking the Nation’
 (AAM000116). Malay secured a MHRA Research Fellow Grant of £23,000 for the “Anne Clifford
 Project’ (R00038-01); and a £335,595 Leverhulme Project Grant for ‘Autobiographical Acts in
 17th-century England, Scotland, Wales and New England’ (RPG-2018-370).

 In addition, staff in the UOA have also secured funding from a range of Arts Council, charity, HE
 institutions and local councils. Arts Council funding: Stewart, Brontë Stones Project £28,000; Ely,
 Write on Mexborough and activities of the Ted Hughes Project, South Yorkshire, over £100,000
 (2016-2019); Falcus, Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Ageing and Illness in British
 and Japanese Children's Picturebooks 1950-2000: Historical and Cross-Cultural perspectives,
 £64,000; Malay, Chadwick, and Patterson Bodleian Library fellowships: £3,600(x2), £4,800(x1)
 equalling £12,000; Ely, Rose Library fellowship, Emory University, Atlanta, £1,000; Borlik,
 £2,406, The Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities, £3,350 the John Fell Fund, Oxford, and
 $15,000, University of California Research Institute for the Humanities for the Environmental
 Humanities Research Network.

 E&CW has also received many small grants for impact and public engagement projects from
 local councils including Kirklees Council, Hebden Royd Council, Calderdale Council, Doncaster
 Metropolitan Borough Council, Patrington Parish Council, and Bradford Council.

 This income from the Arts Council, charities, local councils and organizations, and HE
 institutions provided E&CW with more than £250,000 for research and public engagement
 activities (2014-2020). This attention to a wider body of funders assures the sustainability and
 development of our research agenda.

 E&CW research grant strategy includes research grant application mentoring, individualized
 grant application strategy, workshops facilitated by UoH Research and Enterprise, funding for
 attendance at funding body workshops and sessions, peer review, increasing staff participation
 as peer reviewers, increasing our presence on grant funding bodies. E&CW and the School
 (MHM) provide funding for pilot ‘proof of concept’ projects and funding to develop large grant
 applications, with particular focus on supporting early career researchers. UoH holds Global
 Challenges - University Sandpit events annually, which funded Csengei’s Narrative of War pilot
 project. UoH employs a Research Development manager as well as pre and post award officers
 to assist in the application and management of research grants.

 Infrastructure and research facilities:
 The organisational structure of E&CW is based on our understanding that while staff research is
 most often grounded in period or genre specific expertise, staff share skills and methodology
 that can be shared across E&CW. Creative Writing techniques and the insights related to
 practice-based research contribute to research in autobiography, eco-criticism, and other areas.
 Particular skills and expertise are shared throughout the subject area: grant writing (Malay,
 Matthews, Underwood), external partnerships initiatives (Stewart, Crump, Matthews, Ely,
 Burrow), Public Humanities (Rudrum, Underwood), international research networking (Clark,
 Malay, Falcus, Borlik, Csengei). Several staff have expertise working in television and radio, as
 well as other public media (Clark, Stewart, Ely, Matthews, Malay, Burrow), and expertise in
 archival and museum work (Burrow, Csengei, Malay, Matthews, Chadwick, Patterson, Borlik).
 This matrix of skills and methodologies are key components of the infrastructure that supports
 research design, contributing to E&CW’s world-leading research and impact through public
 engagement.

 E&CW is housed in the new (2017) Oastler Building, on the main UoH Campus, shortlisted for
 the Guardian HE Award for Outstanding Building (2019). It features collaborative learning rooms,
 staff offices and meeting spaces. It also includes a large and well-resourced PGR space, with


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual work stations, networked PCs, lockers, a bespoke kitchen, photocopy facilities, and
 social spaces. The library is situated in an adjacent building.

 The University of Huddersfield’s archive, Heritage Quay (HQ, opened in 2014) is an Accredited
 Archive Service (by The National Archives). It includes PD5454 compliant collections storage
 and display, only the 2nd repository in the UK to meet these standards. It has 3 full-time,
 professionally-accredited staff (ARA and HEA) that support teaching & learning, research, and
 public engagement. They provide professional advice on funding applications and research
 development. The industry leading collections storage space has been instrumental in securing
 the Ted Hughes Crossley Papers (2016); the Christopher Reid Ted Hughes archive (2018); and
 the Sir Patrick Stewart Star Trek Archive (2020). HQ has a bespoke 146 square meter exhibition
 space and an 84 square meter group space with large interactive screen. E&CW, in
 collaboration with student curators through our Public Humanities module, have used this space
 to produce two well-reviewed exhibitions (see section 1). The space hosts symposia,
 conferences and public events, which facilitates the use of the archive collections. HQ is
 approved by the Arts Council National Security Advisor to apply for loans from National Libraries
 and Museums. This facilitated the loan of a number of items, including those loaned by the Philip
 Larkin Society, for the ‘Larkin and Hughes: Poets and Rivals’, exhibition (2019), an exhibition of
 Anne Clifford’s Great Books of Record, loaned by the Cumbria Archive Service (2015), and
 items from the Brontë Parsonage Museum (2020). This space has proved particularly useful for
 engaging the public with Ted Hughes’s small press work, and has included a children’s poetry
 and print making workshop (2017), the COSMIA Festival (Science Fiction and Fantasy, 2015-
 2019) and other public interactive activities. The archive reading room is available for all
 researchers and welcomes especially those members of the public who may not have
 experienced archival research, providing workshops and one to one guidance. The expertise of
 the HQ staff contributes to public engagement. They host and facilitate Public Impact and
 Engagement (PIE) Club, an informal network of UoH staff and PGRs working with the general
 public. The School employs a full-time impact and public engagement officer.

 The University Library subscribes to an extensive range of major online journal packages
 (ScienceDirect, Wiley, Taylor & Francis, Project Muse, OUP, etc.), as well as subject specific
 digital collections including JISC Historic Books, EEBO and ECCO, British and Nineteenth
 century periodical collections, and State Papers Online. We have a dedicated Subject and
 academic librarian for E&CW. The Library contributes to a programme of skills development
 sessions for PGRs throughout their studies.

 E&CW also benefits from the University of Huddersfield Press, which utilizes the Janeway
 publishing platform, providing open access to all their publications. The Press works closely with
 the Open Library of Humanities. The E&CW creative writing imprint Grist, (see section 1) has
 published three anthologies and three single author works, focusing on emerging voices in
 creative writing. UoH Press also published Stewart’s Boiled Milk: Anne Brontë’s Final Journey
 (2020). All eligible E&CW outputs are available via the UoH Research Repository & Portal
 (PURE) (see Section 1).

 The geographical location of Huddersfield, with its connection to the Brontës, Contemporary
 poets such as Larkin, Hughes and Plath, and possibilities for ecocritical and creative research
 within the landscape, has contributed to our REF2021 Impact Case Studies, and continues to
 provide a rich resource for the building of future research, and community and industry
 partnerships. These include our developing relationship with the Bronte Parsonage Museum,
 and the Bronte Birthplace Trust and the Peak District National Park regarding opportunities for
 partnering on a creative writing programme and the development of literary cultural heritage
 opportunities in the area.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The Research Ethos of E&CW is underpinned by two principles: Staff research autonomy and
 (often international) research collaboration. E&CW recognizes that world-leading research by
 individuals creates synergies that form networks of collaborators able to make important
 contributions to local, national and international communities.

 International Research Collaborations and Networks:
 All staff are engaged with international collaborations, networks and collaborative projects.

 The Ted Hughes Network (Underwood, Ely, Rudrum, Clark), as describe in section 1, has
 developed a number of international collaborations.

 Clark began her relationship with E&CW as a Visiting Research Scholar and Biography Fellow.
 She continues as a member at the Leon Levy Center for Biography, City University of New York,
 and is a member of the Oxford Centre for Life-Writing, Wolfson College, Oxford University. Her
 new biography of Sylvia Plath, Red Comet has been listed as a best book in 2020 by media in
 the U.S. and the U.K., including The New York Times, The Guardian, The Washington Post, The
 Boston Globe, and Oprah Magazine. Clark is a leading international biographer, who will be
 pivotal in the development of the Auto/Biographical strand of research in E&CW going into the
 next REF period.

 Borlik is one of the of the principle investigators of the international Earth, Sea, Sky: An
 Environmental Humanities Research Network, in collaboration with The Oxford Research Centre
 in the Humanities; the Universities of Huddersfield (UK), Vancouver (Canada), and Davis
 (California). This network examines often contested premodern approaches to the natural world
 and explores how the premodern archive can contribute to contemporary environmental
 concerns. The project also collaborates with Oecologies, a Humanities research cluster of
 scholars supported by the University of British Columbia and Simon Fraser University (Canada).
 Dissemination of Research is through conferences and symposia in Europe and North America,
 as well as high quality research publications.

 Falcus is Primary Collaborator on the project Ageing, Illness, Care in Literary and Cultural
 Narrative in collaboration with Keio University, Tokyo, Japan. This project is funded through the
 Fund for the Promotion of Joint International Research, Japan Society for the Promotion of
 Science. Falcus is also co-director and co-founder of the International Dementia and Cultural
 Narrative Network. This network crosses disciplinary boundaries bringing humanities scholars
 into dialogue with healthcare professionals, dementia support organisations, families and carers,
 and people with dementia. It holds international conferences and symposia and provides a
 unique research model for exploring this pressing social issue.

 Malay is a member of Gender Place and Memory 1400-1900, a research network sited at the
 University of Hull. She works with scholars in Canada, the US, and Europe exploring the social
 construction of gender and the lives of women in the Early Modern period and the continued
 relevance of this research for ongoing gender issues today, including domestic violence,
 property rights and income inequality, social constructions of gender. She has published widely
 in this area in collaboration with international scholars and has been invited and organized
 panels on this subject at major international conferences, many of these under the auspices of
 the Society for the Study of Early Modern Women.

 Staff in E&CW have presented over 90 papers at international conferences since 2014, many of
 these involved organizing panels with international participants. Plenary papers include:
 Matthews, ‘Brindley 300 conference’, National Waterways Museum, Ellesmere Port (2016) and
 the Cyprus English Studies Association conference, Nicosia (2019); Borlik, The Representation
 of Natural Disasters in Early Modern Literature Conference, University of Clermont-Ferrand,
 France (2020); Rudrum, American Textures/American Contrasts conference, National &
 Kapodistrian University, Athens, Greece (2014) and the Literature and Contemporary Philosophy
 Conference, University of Basel, Switzerland (2016); Falcus, New Historical Perspectives on
 Ageing and the Life Course Conference, University of Leeds (2018).

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Industry Partnerships (Arts and Heritage, Local Councils):
 E&CW works closely with a number of industry partners in relationships that have impact on
 communities and inform our research. One of our longest standing relationships is with the
 Huddersfield Literature Festival. This annual festival was established by English at the UoH in
 2006. The Festival became a not-for-profit organisation in 2013, but retains a close relationship
 with E&CW. It welcomes 150 performers and audiences of around 4,000, including major
 international writers, for example Jodi Picoult, Lemn Sissay, Irvine Welsh, Kate Atkinson, and
 Ian Rankin. Crump sits on the steering committee, and many E&CW staff (Crump, Stewart, Ely,
 Underwood, Malay, Matthews, Rudrum, Burrow, Falcus) have featured in the programme. The
 UoH provides extensive support in kind. UG and PGR students gain experience through
 volunteering in a number of roles. This award-winning festival (Best Literature Festival 2018 in
 the Yorkshire & the Humber Enterprise Awards 2018, Examiner Community Award for Arts
 2017) brings recognition, cultural opportunities and tourism to the wider Huddersfield area.

 Another important festival, Sci Fest was established by Burrow and Falcus in collaboration with
 Kirklees Libraries, Kirklees Council and the UoH in 2015. The festival’s remit was to engage the
 public in contemporary science and speculative fiction and film. This has now developed into the
 COSMIA Festival, a collaboration with the Lawrence Batley Theatre, Kirklees Library, Kirklees
 Council, The Media Centre Huddersfield, the Huddersfield Literature Festival and the UoH.
 Falcus remains on the steering committee. Falcus and other E&CW staff and post-grads
 participate in the planning and delivery of this Festival. In 2019 the COSMIA festival exhibited
 material from the Sir Patrick Stewart Archives. This archive has now been deposited in the UoH
 archive, Heritage Quay and is available for public viewing and academic use.

 E&CW’s founding of the Ted Hughes Consortium through the work of the THN as discussed
 above, contributes to the UOA’s impact project ‘Discovering Ted Hughes’s Yorkshire’. Beyond
 the public engagement and impact detailed in that case study, the THN contributes widely to
 public engagement activities with members’ partners: Elmet Trust; The Ted Hughes Project,
 South Yorkshire (THP(SY)); Calderdale Council (CC); Doncaster Metropolitan Borough Council
 (DMBC); and Hebden Royd Town Council (HRTC). Ely has served as Director of THP(SY),
 which holds community events throughout the year and an annual conference featuring major
 writers, bringing much needed attention and tourism to the area. Underwood and Rudrum sit on
 the governing body of the Elmet Trust, Mytholmroyd, which celebrates the work of Ted Hughes
 and also maintains the Hughes Birthplace. They have contributed research expertise to the Trust
 projects, including their annual Ted Hughes Festival. The Trust credits the work of E&CW,
 through the establishing of the Ted Hughes Consortium, with their ability to meet their
 obligations under the Charity Act.

 E&CW staff Stewart and Crump have been involved with the writing charity First Story since
 2011. First Story events are hosted at the UoH. They have worked with eighteen secondary
 schools from the surrounding area including Buttershaw Business & Enterprise College
 (Bradford) and Brigshaw High School (Castleford). First Story collaborated with Stewart on
 activities featured in the UOA’s impact case study, ‘The Brontë Stones Project: Connecting
 Communities with the Landscape through Literature’, engaging with six Bradford area schools.

 E&CW staff are involved in relationships with a number of other heritage and culture
 organizations. Malay works with the Churches Conservation Trust, participating in fund-raising
 events, leading tours, giving talks to support the work of this trust, based on her research on the
 Lady Anne Clifford and early modern women. Matthews serves on the advisory board for the
 Arts Council-funded ‘I Dig Canals’ project run by Alarum Theatre (about women involved in canal
 restoration after WW2) and the Canals and Rivers Trust. As Honorary Research Fellow, she
 provides research expertise that underpins many of the Trust’s projects, gives public lectures, is
 featured in media promoting the Trust, is involved with planning and other activities of the Trust.
 Most recently she was commissioned to write a report on the Canals and its connections to
 slavery as the Trust responds to the canals’ relationship to nineteenth century slavery. Stewart,
 drawing on his critical and creative practice research on the Brontës, is featured in the Brontë

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Parsonage Museum’s annual programme of events and contributes expertise to the
 development of their programme.

 E&CW’s relationship with the Bradford Literature Festival, a major international and award-
 winning literary festival, is ongoing with Stewart, Matthews and Burrow featured in annual
 programmes.

 Finally, E&CW established (in 2017) the J.B. Priestley lecture series, in collaboration with the
 J.B. Priestly estate, which features an eminent figure in contemporary literature. Previous
 speakers include the writer Will Self and the director Sally Wainwright.

 Service to UK and International Scholarship
 E&CW staff serve as peer-reviewers for a number of international journals related to Literary
 Studies including the International Journal of Welsh Writing in English (Chadwick); LSE Review
 of Books (Matthews); Eighteenth Century Fiction; Women’s Writing, European Romantic Review
 (Csengei); Shakespeare: Journal of British Shakespeare Association, Literature Interpretation
 Theory, Criticism, (Borlik); Early Modern Literary Studies (Malay, Borlik); Contemporary
 Women’s Writing; Literature Interpretation Theory (Falcus); English Studies (Underwood) PMLA,
 Textual Practice (Rudrum).

 E&CW staff also peer review for interdisciplinary journals including those related to history,
 sociology, gender and culture more widely, and journals exploring the relationship between
 science and the humanities. These include: Culture and History, History and Anthropology,
 Current Issues in Language Planning, Journal of Marine and Island Cultures (Matthews);
 Humanities (Clark); Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies, Eighteenth Century: Theory and
 Interpretation (Csengei); Victorian Review, Mosaic (Burrow); Early Modern Women, Clio, Early
 Modern Society Journal (Malay, Borlik); Journal of Age Culture and Humanities, Societies; The
 Gerontologist; RIDE; Medical Humanities (BMJ) (Falcus). International Journal of Heritage
 Studies, Culture and History, History and Anthropology, Current Issues in Language Planning,
 Journal of Marine and Island Cultures (Matthews); a/b: Auto/Biography Studies and American
 Studies (Underwood); Angelaki, Synthesis, Humanities, Journal of Philosophy of Education
 (Rudrum).

 E&CW staff served as editors of special editions: European Journal of English Studies (22.1),
 2018 (Falcus); Ted Hughes Journal (7.1), 2018 (Underwood). Rudrum is on the Editorial Board
 of Synthesis.

 E&CW staff regularly peer-review for book publishers, including: Manchester University Press
 (Malay); Palgrave Macmillan (Burrow, Rudrum); Blackwells (Burrow); Routledge (Falcus, Borlik,
 Rudrum, Clark), Oxford University Press, Cambridge University Press, Continuum/Bloomsbury
 Press, University of Toronto Press (Borlik, Rudrum); Louisiana State University Press, Rowman
 & Littlefield (Clark).

 E&CW staff are peer reviewers for funding bodies including: Leon Levy Center for Biography,
 Graduate Center, New York (Clark), the U.S. National Endowment for the Humanities (Clark),
 AHRC (Mathews, Borlik), Carnegie Trust (Scotland) (Matthews), ESRC (Matthews), Social
 Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Borlik), Netherlands Organization for
 Scientific Research (Borlik), PASSHE Faculty Professional Development Grants, USA (Borlik).

 E&CW staff act as external examiners for PhDs during this REF period in the UK including
 University of Birmingham, Bristol University, Kingston University, Bath Spa, University of
 Portsmouth, Nottingham Trent University, Manchester Metropolitan University, and University of
 Edinburgh; and Internationally at: University of Lleida, Spain; Adelaide University, Australia;
 University of Queensland, Australia.




                                                                                             Page 13
