Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Oxford

 Unit of Assessment: 4 – Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Our strategy has been to sustain, energise and expand key elements of the environment that we
 believe enable excellent researchers to do the highest quality research with maximum impact. We
 have made transformational new investments in people and research infrastructure,
 complemented by significant progress in our approaches to career development, staff support,
 equality and diversity, open science, and reproducible research. Reflecting our commitment to
 excellence and vitality, we have achieved significant growth in grant income, and in depth and
 breadth of our impacts.

 Highlights include:
    • £288.3M research income, with 71% increase between 2013 and 2019.
    • New Centres with significant external funding: MRC Brain Network Dynamics Unit (BNDU;
        £11.3M, 2015), Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging (WIN; £11.5M, 2017),
        Wolfson Centre for Prevention of Stroke and Dementia (WCPSD; 2020, £11M).
    •   Award of the mental health-dedicated NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre
        (OHBRC; £12.8M, 2017), and renewal of the NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre
        (OBRC; £114M, 2017) and the NIHR Oxford cognitive health Clinical Research Facility
        (OchCRF; £3.7m, 2017).
    •   186 people (169.35 FTE) submitted, compared with 107 (98.3 FTE) in REF2014.
    •   13 professorial and other senior researchers recruited from outside Oxford.
    •   A Wellcome-funded clinical doctoral training programme dedicated to mental and cognitive
        health.
    •   Significant improvements in representation of women, reflected in acquired and renewed
        Athena SWAN Silver awards, and new initiatives and investments in other areas of
        Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), and in mental health.
    •   Seven spinouts, attracting investments of over £700M.
    •   Substantial new infrastructure projects, including the £202M Life and Mind Building, and
        plans to redevelop the Warneford site.
    •   Leadership of major COVID-19 projects.
    •   Markers of esteem and influence, including eight Presidents of learned societies, and six
        journal Editors.


 1.1 Unit context and structure
 Figure 1 shows the Unit’s structure and context within the University’s Medical Sciences Division
 (MSD). Our research takes place primarily within three departments: Experimental Psychology
 (DEP), Psychiatry (DP), and the Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (NDCN). The
 facilities total approximately 13,800m2 research space, in 17 buildings, on three campuses,
 including two hospital sites (Figure 2).

 Some of our discipline-specific research is best described as occurring within one of these
 departments; this is facilitated by the devolved nature of the University, such that departments
 have a high degree of autonomy and budgetary control. Departments also have dedicated
 research administrative staff and designated research leads. However, departmental boundaries
 are porous, interdisciplinarity is encouraged, and much of our research occurs across departments
 and Divisions (§4.1.1 and §4.1.2).
     • 26% of our researchers are based in one of the Centres described below.
     • 40% of senior recruits in this REF period have joint appointments between departments.

                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Much of our translational and clinical research benefits from local NHS and NIHR-funded facilities
 and personnel, notably the two Oxford-based NIHR Biomedical Research Centres. We also have
 major research ventures with other institutions and partners, reflecting our position as a global hub
 for neuroscience, psychology, psychiatry and neurology (§4.1.3 and 4.1.4).


 In what follows, we cross reference our Institutional Environment Statement (REF4a, IES] and our
 impact case studies (REF3, ICS).




 Figure 1. Components of UOA4 and relationships with constituent departments and
 other partners.
 *BNDU: MRC Brain Network Dynamics Unit.
  WCPSD: Wolfson Centre for the Prevention of Stroke and Dementia.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 Figure 2. Location of the three core Oxford UOA4 departments, our Centres, and
 our major NHS partners. OBRC: NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre. OchCRF: NIHR
 Oxford cognitive health Clinical Research Facility. OH: Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust.
 OHBRC: NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre. OUH: Oxford Universities Hospital
 NHS Foundation Trust.



 1.1.1 Our Departments

 Department of Experimental Psychology (DEP; Head: Nobre; Associate Head for Research:
 Rushworth) is based in central Oxford and employs 166 FTE. Two major events have impacted
 on DEP. First, in 2016, Glyn Humphreys, head of department, died suddenly. Second, DEP was
 based in the Tinbergen Building, which required rapid evacuation in 2017 due to asbestos [IES
 2.1]. Our rapid, multifaceted and successful responses to these challenges are described in §3.4.

 Nuffield Department of Clinical Neurosciences (NDCN, Head: Talbot, [formerly Tracey until
 2018]) is based at the John Radcliffe Hospital, part of the Oxford University Hospitals NHS
 Foundation Trust (OUH, which provides acute medical services). NDCN has 320 FTE staff.
 Research in NDCN is organised into six divisions: Clinical Neurology, Anaesthetics,
 Ophthalmology, and the three Centres listed below (WCPSD, WIN, and BNDU).

 Department of Psychiatry (DP; Head: Geddes; Associate Head for Research: Harrison) is based
 at the Warneford Hospital, and has 207 FTE. Co-located on the site are the Oxford Centre for
 Human Brain Activity, the NIHR Oxford cognitive health Clinical Research Facility (OchCRF),
 and the Oxford Health NIHR Biomedical Research Centre (OHBRC), as well as the base for
 the Oxford Health NHS Foundation Trust (OH, which provides mental health and community
 services).




                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.1.2 Our major Centres

 Wellcome Centre for Integrative Neuroimaging (WIN; Director: Johansen-Berg) was funded by
 a £11.5M award in 2017. It brought together the Oxford Centre for Functional MRI of the Brain
 (FMRIB, based in NDCN), the Oxford Centre for Human Brain Activity (based in DP), and animal
 MRI (based in DEP) to bridge the gap between laboratory neuroscience and human health.

 Medical Research Council Brain Network Dynamics Unit (BNDU; Director: Brown) opened in
 2015 with a £11.3M quinquennial MRC award, renewed in 2020 with increased funding (£12.3M).
 The BNDU focuses on understanding and exploiting the brain circuits underlying movement and
 memory. Based in NDCN and housed in its own building, it includes 70 staff.

 Wolfson Centre for the Prevention of Stroke and Dementia (WCPSD; Director: Rothwell) was
 opened early in 2020 in a new building part-funded by the Wolfson Foundation and the Wellcome
 Trust. It houses 30 researchers.

 NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre (OHBRC): The OHBRC (£12.8M; Director:
 Geddes) is dedicated to mental health and dementia. Hosted by OH, it was established in 2016.

 NIHR Oxford Biomedical Research Centre (OBRC) is a separate BRC, hosted by OUH. OBRC
 covers the rest of medicine and includes several research themes relevant to this UOA, including
 neurology, stroke and imaging. OBRC and OHBRC collaborate closely and are complemented by
 other NIHR-funded infrastructure (§3.3).

 Alzheimer’s Research UK Oxford Drug Discovery Institute. Opened in 2015 with £10M from
 ARUK, with Lovestone as co-lead applicant. It lies primarily in UOA1.


 1.2 Research strategy
 Our fundamental goals are unchanged from REF2014: to recruit and retain the best people, enable
 them to do the highest quality research into timely and important questions, and help them achieve
 the maximum impacts. Nevertheless, at the start of this REF period we recognised the need to
 revitalise our strategy, increase flexibility, refocus priorities, and develop new processes and
 procedures to deliver on the strategy. Our strategy is nested within the University’s Strategic Plan
 [IES 2.1].

 1.2.1 Identification of research priorities
 Our research foci result from combining our collective capabilities with major external strategic
 drivers and opportunities. These include the MRC Global Challenges Research Fund (2015), the
 Prime Minister’s challenges on dementia 2020 (2015), MRC Strategy for Lifelong Mental Health
 Research (2017), OSCHR Life Sciences Industrial Strategy (2017), UKRI Strategic Prospectus
 (2018) and the emerging Wellcome Mental Health programme strategy (2019). Our strategic
 developments in dementia, adolescent mental health, and global health, described below, reflect
 our responses to these policies and initiatives. Equally, our decision to move urgently and
 substantively into COVID-19 research (§1.2.2) illustrates the agility and flexibility of our strategy;
 our successes doing so were enabled by our research environment and culture.

 Shaped by the external and internal drivers, each Department produces a strategic plan that is
 discussed at the Oxford Neuroscience Committee (Box 1) and agreed with MSD to ensure broad
 alignment with overall Divisional objectives, and strengthen the case for financial support from
 Divisional or University funds when required. Each Department and Centre holds an annual
 awayday at which achievements and objectives are reviewed; each has a management group
 where decisions are made and implemented.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Box 1: Oxford Neuroscience Committee (ONC)
  The ONC (Chair: Nobre) oversees and coordinates strategy and all research activities
  across the UOA4 departments, and with the molecular neuroscience returned in UOA5 (see
  4.1.2). The ONC holds minuted quarterly meetings. Each Head of Department is on the
  committee, together with representatives for a range of other parties (e.g. Centre Directors,
  ECRs, graduate studies, EDI, communications, impact). ONC roles include discussion and
  agreement of strategy including major investments (recruitments, buildings); sharing best
  practice for career development; supporting fellowship and grant applications, and building
  an inclusive, diverse community. ONC is supported by a full time Neuroscience coordinator
  funded by the departments.



 These structures and processes provide the framework of support for infrastructure and other
 institutional commitments necessary for research strategy to be implemented and ideas realised.
 However, our researchers are not just enabled but encouraged to pursue their own interests and
 ideas. That is, the culture is one of academic freedom and independent scholarship, with relatively
 little top-down control, allowing researchers’ expertise and enthusiasm to drive the science, form
 the best collaborations, and obtain the necessary funding.


 1.2.2 Examples of strategic developments
     • We recognised the opportunity to extend our reach and impact in translational research.
        Hence a key part of our strategy was to target NIHR funding opportunities as they emerged,
        resulting in our successful award of the OHBRC in 2016, refunding of the OchCRF, and
        our leadership and involvement in other new NIHR infrastructures (§3.3).
     • With the decision to increase our focus on dementia, we recruited Lovestone, N Buckley,
        Nevado-Holgado, Raymont, and Gallacher, who brought the MRC Dementia Platform UK
        to Oxford (§4.1.3), attracted by our research environment and proximity to UK Biobank.
     • We identified that the excellence of Oxford’s neuroimaging – hitherto not underpinned by
        any specific funding stream - made it competitive for a Wellcome Centre application. We
        supported this development in various ways (§3.3), resulting in the creation of WIN in 2017
        (§1.4.1).
     • To support our development in stroke and dementia epidemiology, we provided significant
        funding to complement the Wolfson Foundation’s support for WCPSD (§3.4, ICS-16TIA).
     • Building on our strengths in pain research, we have made major investments in this area
        (§1.4.3).
     • With Wellcome’s new focus on developmental mental health, we bolstered our strategy to
        focus more on childhood (§1.4.5). We recruited Creswell, and will include a new theme on
        adolescence in our OHBRC renewal.
     • Our strategic responses to COVID-19 are shown in Box 2 and future strategy in Box 3.


 1.2.3 Effect of Tinbergen closure on DEP strategy
 Occurring only a year after Glyn Humphreys’ sudden death, the disruption caused by the closure
 of this building led to an urgent review of DEP strategy. Our responses, and how our environment
 enabled successful outcomes are described in §3.4. Efforts now focus on designing the Life and
 Mind Building to help deliver the future strategy (§3.7).




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


   Box 2: Effects of COVID-19 on research strategy

   We made rapid decisions to commit to major COVID-19 research programmes, whilst
   supporting researchers moving to front-line care and managing the disruptions to our research
   facilities. Our ability to respond at scale and speed was greatly facilitated by our research
   environment: the seamless working across departments, the close relationship with our
   Biomedical Research Centres, and our external collaborations. To realise this potential, funds
   were made available to pilot COVID-19 research.
       • The OchCRF was used as the site of the initial trial of the Oxford/AZ vaccine in May
            2020 accelerating this process when other clinical facilities were unavailable. It was
            enabled by the formal roles of Geddes and Cipriani in University and OH management
            structures.

   The success of our initial COVID-19 strategy is shown by the achievements delivered before
   the end of the REF period:
       • External funding, including UKRI/MRC COVID-19 priority grants to Creswell and Singh
          (total £1.2M) and a bequest from the Duke of Westminster to DP (£1M).
       • Via philanthropic funds the University created a COVID-19 Research Response Fund,
          through which our researchers were supported (11 awards, totalling £707k).
       • Rapid COVID-19 publications on mood regulation (Saunders, in JAMA Psychiatry),
          conspiracy theories (Freeman, in Psychological Medicine), and the mental health
          correlates (Harrison and Geddes, in Lancet Psychiatry).
       • Rapid production of advice and support on coping during lockdown, and open-access
          evidence syntheses (Cipriani).
       • D Clark has been instrumental in helping the English Improving Access to
          Psychological Treatments (IAPT) adapt protocols and move to remote working.
       • The C-MORE multi-organ imaging study of COVID-19, with sub-studies focused on
          mental health (Saunders) and neuroimaging (Pattinson, Woolrich), supported by funds
          from MSD and DP.
       • Espie led the International COVID-19 Sleep Study.



 1.3 Impact strategy
 Our impact strategy is inextricably linked to our research strategy, with potential impact being of
 the highest priority in the latter. Equally, in 2014 we recognised that achieving the maximum and
 most rapid impacts requires proactive and ongoing interventions, rather than just being left to
 happen. Our support for impact has thus been enhanced markedly during this REF period.

 Impact Committee. Our Neuroscience Impact Committee (Chair, and Associate Head for
 Impact: D Clark) has visited departments and Centres every quarter, meeting with researchers,
 identifying potential impacts and facilitating achievement of impacts in the broadest sense. The
 Committee includes industry representatives, other research users, and science communicators.
 It reports to the ONC.
      • In 2015, the Committee organised ImpactFEST, to ensure a continuing and sharpened
         focus on impact between REF cycles. A range of speakers from charities and other
         research beneficiaries talking about impact was followed by breakout discussions. 97% of
         attendees said it helped them understand the importance of impact.
      • The University’s external appointments policy helps enable impact by allowing 1 month per
         year of external consultancies without loss of salary [IES 2.2]. 152 new consultancies have
         been held by our researchers during this REF period.
      • The Impact Committee has improved our impact culture and has facilitated achievement
         of impacts of various kinds (§4.3 for examples) in addition to our impact case studies.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Support for industrial links, spinouts, patents, and IP. We have invested significantly to promote
 the financial and industrial impacts of our research, and have been successful in these endeavours
 (§3.5).

 Communications strategy. Early in this REF period, we recognised the need to invest in
 communications to deliver and sustain an ambitious public engagement programme. We
 developed a strategy and have devoted personnel and resources to support this (§4.2).


 1.4 Outcomes of our strategy illustrated by selected research themes
 Here we highlight how our strategic approach has allowed growth and productivity, selecting six
 themes that illustrate our research portfolio. It is not an exhaustive list. The themes introduce the
 interdisciplinarity of much of our research, a feature highlighted further by the many collaborations
 with other UOAs, described in §4.1.2.


 1.4.1 Neuroimaging
 Neuroimaging has been a long-standing strength of Oxford neuroscience, yet until recently it was
 not underpinned by appropriate funding. A strategic decision was made early in this REF period
 to provide foundations of this kind. WIN reflects the success of this approach and has allowed us
 to cement our position at the forefront of neuroimaging. Under the directorship of Johansen-Berg
 and a team of Principal Investigators, WIN has four scientific themes.
     • Cross-species relationships: major investments in animal imaging facilities, and
         development of bespoke pipelines and tools. Achievements include discovering
         homologies between humans, rodents and macaques in brain anatomy, connectivity,
         behaviour, and computational signatures, and using ultrasound as a non-invasive tool to
         manipulate deep brain activity.
     • Cross-scale integration: the relationships between micro and macro level measurements.
         Insights include using biophysical models to define non-invasive markers of neural
         computation with validation against cellular recordings and MRI markers of axonal
         dispersion and myelination validated against histology.
     • Population neuroimaging: leading neuroimaging within UK Biobank (§4.1.3), and central
         roles in the Human Connectome Project and other international programs (§4.1.4).
     • Clinical neuroimaging: WIN is embedded within many projects to bring research findings
         and expertise into psychiatry and neurology. One example is the Oxford Brain Health
         Centre, a partnership between WIN, DP, NDCN and OHBRC (§4.3.1). The clinical element
         of WIN is enhanced by funding of a fulltime clinical imaging coordinator.
 WIN also has a theme on Open Neuroimaging (§1.6) and an innovative Public Engagement
 programme (§4.2). The extension of Wellcome Centre funding until 2024 provides time to ensure
 sustainability and explore opportunities for further growth.


 1.4.2 Behavioural neuroscience
 To investigate neural mechanisms of behaviour, we continue to have a strong capability in
 research using rodents and non-human primates (NHPs). 18 of our researchers have substantial
 activity in this area. Based in the Biomedical Sciences Building, our behavioural neuroscience has
 been strengthened by funding of WIN, which has animal research embedded in three of its themes,
 and which allowed recruitment of Lerch, upgrade of the NHP 3T scanner, and a new 7T rodent
 scanner. Research has also benefitted from the establishment of the MRC BNDU which has rodent
 work as a core component, and by state-of-the-art facilities for neurophysiology, voltammetry,
 optogenetics, calcium imaging, lesioning, and ultrasound neuromodulation. Research using NHP
 behavioural models has been coordinated via a Wellcome Trust Strategic Award (led by Duncan).
 Rodent behavioural research is coordinated by the Jeffrey Gray Behavioural Neuroscience Unit
 (Director, Bannerman), which provides a hub for collaborations across UOA4, and departments
 returned in UOA5.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4.3 Pain
 In the last REF period, a strategic decision was made within MSD to invest in pain research,
 building on the work of Tracey. Recruitment of Bennett in 2014 was an initial important step and
 has been followed by Wiech, A Clark, Slater, and recently Seymour. The work is multidisciplinary,
 ranging from basic science through to clinical trials in infants and adults, and with active
 collaborations with surgeons, engineers, paediatricians, and industry. Our researchers lead or co-
 lead major initiatives including the EU Horizon 2020 DOLORisk project, the NIHR-Bridge
 neuropathic pain consortium, and Wellcome Pain Consortium, as well as three EU Innovative
 Medicines Initiative projects. The growth and success of the pain group is reflected in grant income
 of over £16M, major funding from several pharma companies, award of two patents, and several
 esteem indicators (§4.4).

 1.4.4 Circadian biology and sleep
 Through the activities of the Sleep and Circadian Neuroscience Institute (SCNi), funded initially by
 a Wellcome Strategic Award to Foster (2012-17), circadian neuroscience has become an
 important part of our research portfolio. Strategically, we recruited Kyle, equipped two rooms in
 the OchCRF for sleep studies, and are about to move SCNi into dedicated new space (funded by
 a Sir Jules Thorn Award). Research spans molecular approaches, animal models, psychiatric
 aspects, psychological therapies, and digital methods and interventions. In addition to academic
 outputs, there have been two spin-outs, an ICS [09SLEEPIO], and many media activities.

 1.4.5 Developmental psychology and child mental health
 We have expanded our established research base in child development to enhance clinical and
 social aspects. A strategic decision to increase integration and leadership in this area was made,
 spearheaded by recruitment of Creswell to a joint DEP/DP appointment, to head a large
 programme of work on childhood anxiety, including the UKRI Emerging Minds Network that she
 leads. Her work includes schools-based studies and interventions, and links closely with studies
 of adolescent mental health by M Fazel, Park, and P Waite. Other achievements in this research
 theme include novel interventions for stuttering (Watkins); understanding how early attention and
 executive functions predict numeracy skills (Scerif); explaining how sleep impacts on linguistic and
 cognitive development (Plunkett); understanding interrelationships between neurodevelopmental
 disorders (Bird, Bishop), and study of reading and language processing and development of
 effective interventions (Nation, Snowling).

 1.4.6 Global mental health
 Through the Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF), the Africa Oxford Initiative (AfOx), and
 major external funding, we have a significant and interdisciplinary involvement in global health
 research, especially in children and adolescents. Stein leads collaborative programmes in South
 Africa and Brazil (totalling £6.9M), including a Wellcome/DFID/MRC Joint Global Health Trials
 award to ameliorate depression and enhance child development in mothers with HIV. He also
 leads a component of the GCRF Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents program.
 Bowes works with UNICEF to develop and test bullying interventions in low- and middle-income
 countries (LMICs), and Scerif is working on an MRC-funded study to enhance adolescents’
 cognitive functioning. Newton studies autism and epilepsy in several African countries, with
 projects ranging from genomics to an NIHR-funded trial of caregiver skills training. Singh is
 developing ethical frameworks for research in LMICs, funded by UKRI, British Academy, and
 others.


 1.5 Progress against future plans outlined in REF2014
 Several aims were set out in REF 2014, and we have made substantial progress in most domains.
 As planned:
    • we developed our expertise and capacity in dementia research, notably via the funding of
        the OHBRC, several strategic recruitments (§1.2.2), and support for ECRs in this area
        (Brosnan, Koychev, Suri).
    • we were successful in forming the BNDU and securing funded from MRC.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   we established MRI in DP, and upgraded our magnetoencephalography facility (§3.3).
    •   we achieved our goal of substantially increased NIHR support to drive our translational
        research (§3.1).
 After Humphreys’ death we did not pursue the plan to host a single centre EU Initial Training
 Network, though we are now part of three international networks.


 1.6 Open and reproducible research
 We are committed to an open research environment, beyond open access and archiving [IES 2.4]:
   • In 2015 Bishop chaired a symposium on reproducibility organised by the Academy of
       Medical Sciences. Subsequently she has chaired the advisory board of the UK
       Reproducibility Workshop, and co-organised an annual summer school on reproducible
       methods funded by BBSRC from 2015-18.
   • In 2018, enthusiastic students in DEP set up ReproducibiliTea – a grassroots journal club
       which has rapidly spread to 112 institutions in 25 countries. ECRs and graduate students
       then formed Reproducible Research Oxford (RROx), which holds workshops, hosts
       resources, and promotes good practice (e,g. petitioning to move statistics teaching from
       proprietary programs to ‘R’) [IES 2.4]. In 2019, RROx was awarded £120K by the University
       to employ a full-time reproducibility and open science coordinator.
   • WIN has Open Science as one of its core themes, with resources committed to facilitating
       them, including a full-time Open Science Engagement Co-ordinator. Theme goals cover
       data, protocols, tools, paradigms and communities.
   • We have taken a leading role in promoting openness in animal research, including virtual
       tours of the non-human primate research facility.


 1.7 Research integrity
 In addition to the growth of open and reproducible science initiatives, we have worked to enhance
 and promote research integrity. All our policies and procedures meet or exceed the requirements
 of the UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity [IES 2.7].
     • A mandatory online training course was introduced for all research staff and graduate
         students in Spring 2020, covering diverse aspects of research integrity, and requiring a
         test to be passed.
     • As part of the OHBRC and the allied new Clinical Trials Unit (led by Raymont), new
         governance structures and procedures have been introduced, applying to all trials and
         experimental medicine studies, to improve quality and ensure regulatory compliance.
     • Through Singh’s leadership within the Wellcome Centre for Neuroethics, clinical
         neuroscience research ethics and integrity has been an active research focus.


 1.8 Future research strategy
 Our research and impact strategy for the next REF period is well developed, building on our
 strengths and our horizon-scanning, and shaped latterly by the challenges and opportunities
 provided by COVID-19. Scientifically, our future strategy is concentrating on:

 Enhancing translational and clinical capacity. Our NIHR funding has allowed us to increase
 substantially our clinical and translational outputs and impacts. We see scope to enhance this
 further, seeking renewal and expansion of the OHBRC and OchCRF, and by support for junior
 clinical academics (§2.1.6). We are also committed to growing links with the rest of medicine,
 focusing on multimorbidity research, partnering with the Departments of Primary Care Health
 Sciences and Population Health (UOA2), and others.

 Moving from genomic discoveries to novel therapeutics. Oxford has strengths in ‘omics’ and
 bioinformatics via the Wellcome Centre for Human Genetics, Big Data Institute, Structural

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Genomics Consortium, Drug Discovery Institute, and the new Centre for Medicines Discovery. We
 now plan to better utilise these capabilities for neuropsychiatric disease understanding and target
 discovery. This is being driven by the forthcoming appointment to the Davys Chair in
 Neuroscience, by junior recruitments, and by funding via OHBRC and other partners. The award
 in October 2020 to Tunbridge of the first Psychiatry Medicines Discovery Catapult grant will further
 strengthen this activity.

 Extending reach to other communities. We seek to increase markedly our reach, and to expand
 our research programs to underserved populations, capitalising on our recent recruitment of Bhui.
 Our BRC renewals will include a new focus on how deprivation and ethnicity impact on mental
 health, and we are forging links with other institutions and organisations to help deliver this strategy
 (§4.5).

 COVID-19 research. We will grow our involvement in, and leadership of, the neurological,
 psychiatric and psychological aspects of COVID-19, building upon our clinical academic expertise
 and our close NHS/NIHR partnerships (Box 3).



   Box 3: Future COVID-19 research strategy
    • Geddes leads the brain health component of PHOSP-COVID, the UKRI-funded study.
    • Creswell and P Waite lead the Oxford arm of the UKRI-funded KCL/Oxford RCT
      (~£500K) of a family intervention against the behavioural impacts of COVID-19 and
      lockdown.
    • We are a site in the UKRI COVID-CNS study of the neuropsychiatric sequelae (Husain,
      Harrison, Jezzard).
    • Singh will lead a £1.4M project from December 2020, funded by Wellcome, for the ‘Ethics
      Accelerator’, to provide urgent reviews of COVID-19 issues.




 2. People
 Recruiting, retaining, supporting, and developing our staff is critical to creating the best possible
 research environment. We have made significant strides in ensuring we achieve these goals. Of
 the 186 researchers (169.35 FTE) submitted for REF2021:
     • 70 (38%) are clinicians, including 21 neurologists, 19 psychiatrists, 14 clinical
        psychologists, 4 neurosurgeons and 4 ophthalmologists.
    •   75 (40%) identify as female.
    •   Of the 168 with recorded nationalities, 113 (67%) are from UK, 34 (20%) from EU, and 21
        (13%) from other countries.
    •   13 (7%) have taken up a senior position with us from outside Oxford, during this REF
        period.
    •   31 (17%) are funded by independent Fellowships, including 7 Sir Henry Dale Fellows, 7
        Sir Henry Wellcome Fellows, 4 MRC Career Development Fellows, 3 Wellcome Post-
        doctoral Clinical Fellows, 3 Royal Academy of Engineering Fellows, 2 British Academy
        Fellows, and 1 BBSRC David Phillips Fellow, UKRI Future Leaders Fellow, and MRC Skills
        Development Fellow.
    •   In total, 42 (23%) of our submitted staff (REF1) meet the HESA definition of ECRs (within
        4 years of their first independent post) including those who have developed independence
        through responsibility for a part of a larger project.



                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 We have achieved sustainability and vitality through a range of new appointments and new
 processes to enhance career progression and staff support. All developments have been designed
 to underpin and support our research and impact strategy outlined in §1.2-1.4. Whilst academic
 excellence and potential remain the primary considerations, we have paid increasing attention to
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) and wellbeing issues, through a range of new initiatives,
 policies and procedures.

 2.1.1 Recruitment
 We have made 13 senior appointments from outside Oxford (Bhui, Bird, Creswell, Gallacher,
 Hepach, Kuyken, Lerch, Lovestone, Raymont, Salkovskis, Seymour, Singh, Vincent). Only three
 were refilling of statutory posts; the others were created to invest in research leadership and
 capabilities. These recruitments, together with internal staff development, reflect our strategic plan
 to sustain and expand specific areas in which we already had significant research expertise (e.g.
 neuroimaging and clinical psychology) or to grow areas where we had identified the need to do so
 (e.g. dementia).

 Several of these appointments required significant investment, primarily devolved to departmental
 decisions based upon a scientific business case developed by the senior management team, in
 liaison with MSD and ONC. Departmental commitments have included supporting salary when
 external funding has been applied for but not secured, is insufficient, or has ended. We have also
 funded administrative and research assistants for senior appointees to ensure research
 programmes can start smoothly. Academic staff are encouraged to take sabbatical leave [IES
 3.1].

 We have used honorary departmental memberships and visiting Professorships to recognise key
 individuals who are actively involved with our research programmes to promote further
 collaborations and opportunities for impact, e.g., Linda Richter (University of Witwatersrand), Trevor
 Young (University of Toronto), Daniel Weinberger (Lieber Institute for Brain Development).

 2.1.2 Career development and support
 We have introduced a range of policies and procedures of benefit to all our staff, in addition to
 activities targeted specifically at junior researchers (§2.1.3), graduate students (§2.1.4), and with
 a focus on EDI (§2.2).

 Improved processes include:
    • An induction and welcome pack. Induction includes links to all relevant policies, an
       introduction to Athena SWAN and EDI contacts, and mandatory online courses including
       research integrity, implicit bias, bullying and harassment, and racial bias.
    • Personal development review (PDR) for all staff was introduced in 2014. Initially, uptake
       was low (25-40%). We therefore sought and received feedback, resulting in simplified
       forms and more training for those conducting PDR. These changes have seen a steady
       increase in completion rates and satisfaction (Table 1).
    • Better communications, including weekly Head of Department briefings, newsletters, and
       web-based information on seminars, training opportunities and other events.
    • Support staff have been included in many of these developments, as well as having their
       own arrangements, including a working group, and a fund for career development.
    •   Pastoral and mental health support, through a range of activities described in §2.3.

 We conduct regular surveys of our research and support staff. Table 1 shows responses to the
 largest recent survey (2016; n=409).




                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Question /statement                                                  % of women       % of men
                                                                         agreeing        agreeing
  Were you offered induction?                                                85             86
  Was induction useful?                                                      92             87
  My contributions are valued                                                93             91
  Are you supported to think about professional development?                 84             82
  Do you take time to reflect on, and plan for, career development?          84             88
  Have you had a PDR within the past two years?                              77             72
  If so, was your PDR useful?                                                92             89
  How useful did you find mentoring to be?                                   97             93
  I feel integrated into my team                                             92             95
  Overall I am satisfied in my job                                           91             89
  I would recommend working in my department to a friend                     91             89

 Table 1. Results from staff survey


 2.1.3 Postdoctoral and early career researchers
 Enhancement of opportunities and support for junior researchers is a strategic priority, led within
 MSD by an Academic Advocate for Research Staff Development. Our researchers are
 encouraged to take advantage of the wide range of free training, management, and personal
 development programmes run by the University [IES 3.1]. In addition, we have introduced and
 evolved a range of UOA4-specific efforts to support those early in their careers. Facilitated by new
 departmental administrative appointments, these procedures are increasingly standardised
 across our departments and Centres, with good practice shared.
     • Each department has a faculty lead who coordinates activities, including a peer-to-peer
        support network. The lead reports to the departmental senior management team and
        serves as first port of call for queries from junior researchers.
     • A seminar series ensures regular opportunities for researchers to present their work. All
        formal meetings (e.g. away-days: the annual Oxford Neuroscience Day) have slots
        dedicated to junior researchers. For example, at the DP 50th anniversary 2-day meeting in
        2019, 12 gave a talk, and others led the Q&A sessions.
     • Mentoring is offered (by trained mentors) to all postdocs and ECRs. We have published
        processes for researchers wanting to apply for Fellowships, to ensure these are equitable.
     • We encourage and facilitate fellowship applicants to discuss their ideas with senior
        colleagues. DP holds fortnightly research meetings for potential applicants to present their
        proposals; these meetings are highly rated and attended regularly by 30-100 people. We
        run ‘mock’ grant panel interviews for all fellowship applicants, which are highly rated in our
        surveys.
     • The Colleges provide additional opportunities for developing research independence,
        particularly through formal Junior Research Fellowships (JRF), some of which are
        stipendiary, and all of which provide access to College resources and funding. 12 of our
        ECRs have a JRF.
     • We provide mid-term reviews for all Fellows, with at least two senior researchers, one of
        whom is external to the host department, to review progress and plans.
     • We provide information to enable researchers to understand better the academic career
        tracks, and the criteria for becoming a Principal Investigator in their Department and for
        the titles of Research Lecturer or Associate Professor (and give support for these
        applications).
     • Support specifically for clinical researchers is described in 2.1.6.


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our postdocs and research fellows have
 appreciated these developments:
    • In 2014 only 35% were clear about           Early Career Researchers’
        training and career opportunities; by     experiences
        2018 this figure had risen to 79%, with
        85% agreeing that they were given         “I got a lot of career support in the
        time and support to reflect and plan      department. In addition to lab and PI-based
        for career development.                   support, the ECR workshops were very
    • Mentoring has increased. For                helpful. Certainly, contacts via these events,
        example, in DEP in 2016 35%               as well as direct mentors, were useful in
        reported being mentored; improved         negotiating start up, understanding what was
        advertising       and       procedures    reasonable etc. I also thought the PDR
        culminated in a figure of 92% in 2020,    process, and the idea on self-reflecting on
        with 91% reporting it useful.             what would help one’s career was very useful
                                                  throughout my time as a postdoc.”
 Of the ECRs who left during this REF period,     “I  had a tremendous          amount  of
 onward appointments include: Jerome Sallet       support…which I believe was crucial in
 (Sir Henry Dale Fellow, now at INSERM),          enabling me to successfully obtain the
 Matt Apps (UKRI Future Leader Fellow) and        award. I feel very lucky to work in this
 Pat Lockwood (MRC Skills Development             Department and am grateful for all the
 Fellow), both now at Birmingham University;      opportunities it affords me.”
 Tamar Makin (Sir Henry Dale Fellow, now
 Professor in Cognitive Neuroscience, UCL),       “Staff development and training is very
 Falk Eippert (now group leader, Max Planck       prominent…there are always lots of
 Institute, Leipzig), Erie Boorman (Sir Henry     interesting things to get involved with”.
 Wellcome Fellow, now Associate Professor,
 UC Davis).


 2.1.4 Graduate students
 As with ECRs, we have substantially enhanced and refreshed our provision for graduate students,
 the majority studying for a DPhil. These apply to all students, whether admitted in one of our
 externally funded doctoral programmes (Box 4) or directly to a specific project, funded by
 departmental, University or external scholarships. We awarded 387 DPhils during this REF period
 (REF4a; Figure 3).

 Overall responsibility is taken by the Director of Graduate Studies (DGS) within each department
 [IES 3.3]. Each DGS works with an administrative assistant. Each DGS holds regular one-to-one
 meetings with graduate students. Our DGSs sit on the Graduate Studies Committee, which reports
 to the MSD Educational Policy and Standards Committee. Recruitment is coordinated through the
 Medical Sciences Graduate School for consistency and to share best practice.




                                                                   Figure 3. DPhils awarded
                                                                   during this REF period
                                                                   [REF4a].




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Box 4: Funded DPhil programmes
   Wellcome MSc/DPhil Neuroscience programme. This programme remained highly
   competitive, (193-250 applicants per year) with all 35 students in this REF period having 1st
   class degrees. 60% are female; 53% come from the EU, and 20% from other countries. The
   students have authored 147 papers during their doctorates, including 14 in Journal of
   Neuroscience, 9 in Neuron, 6 in PNAS, and 5 in Nature Neuroscience. Of those who have
   completed, all except two remain in research; one returned to clinical medicine and one is a
   science writer.
   Wellcome clinical doctoral programme – mental and cognitive health. In 2014 Wellcome
   funded a stream of their Oxford clinical doctoral programme dedicated to mental and
   cognitive health, open to psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, and behavioural neurologists.
   This was the first such programme in England. It has so far supported 7 psychiatrists, 8
   clinical psychologists and 2 neurologists. 6 (35%) are men, 11 (65%) are women. 15 (88%)
   were new to Oxford. All students carry out therapeutically focused projects, have placements
   in a research clinic, and complete a range of training courses to equip them for an academic
   clinical career.



 On arrival: All new students attend induction sessions covering academic, administrative, library
 and other resources, safety, welfare and training issues. Materials are available online and
 students are provided with a copy of the course handbook. The websites also provide general
 information relating to buildings and facilities, finance, human resources and communication
 arrangements, and policies on EDI, information security, and harassment and bullying.

 Supervision: All doctoral supervisors complete mandatory training every three years and adhere
 to the Code of Practice for Supervisors. Each student has at least two supervisors, with whom
 they meet regularly and who write termly reports, reviewed by the DGS [IES 3.3]. Any identified
 problems are followed by an action plan and reviewed the following term. Our students have formal
 checkpoints in their 4th term and again in 8th or 9th term, via a written report and viva with two
 independent academics. These allow progress to be assessed and any concerns identified and
 remedial actions put in place.

 Broad and responsive training:
    • Several compulsory courses are completed within three months of starting the DPhil:
        (Avoiding Plagiarism, Research Integrity, Unconscious Bias, Challenging Behaviour, and
        Information Security [redone annually]). Although not mandatory, all first year DPhil
        students are encouraged to attend a series of statistics workshops.
    • After their first year, graduate students are encouraged to gain teaching experience, with
        the agreement of their supervisors, and opportunities are provided. Before doing so, they
        complete the ‘Preparing for Learning and Teaching’ course run by the MSD Skills Training
        Programme. Bespoke courses for lecturing, tutoring and practical teaching are also run.
    • All students have a formal Training Needs Analysis, discussed with their supervisors at the
        start of the DPhil programme and reviewed at every termly meeting.
    • We are responsive to requests for additional training. For example, in 2017, the DP student
        survey revealed a wish for more statistics teaching. In response, we employed a senior
        statistician one day a week, and in 2019 held a one-week statistics workshop. Feedback
        was extremely positive and we will repeat it.
    • Doctoral students are encouraged to learn about and participate in public engagement,
        reproducibility, and open science, via initiatives described in §1.6, §1.7 and §4.2.
    • Our students contribute to the MSD DPhil day, the showcase of Oxford doctoral research.
        NDCN has an annual Thomas Willis Day at which all students present a poster. In DEP,
        doctoral students have a science day dedicated to them at the start of the second year.


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 College support. All students are also members of
 a College, which provides additional pastoral,
 financial and academic support. There is integration      Quotes from graduate students
 between Colleges and departments, with College
 advisers reading and augmenting the termly reports        “I am really grateful for everything the
 written by supervisors.                                   department provides. The academic
                                                           and non-academic staff are amazing
 Our data and surveys show that these processes            – warm and friendly and brilliant. It’s
 are successful, with high and prompt completion           a wonderful place to study. Thank
 rates (85% within 4 years) and a high level of            you.”
 satisfaction. We assess graduate student
 satisfaction annually via anonymous ‘Student              “Thank you to the leadership and
 Barometer’ surveys. These show consistently high          support of the staff for the
 ratings. In 2013, there was a 77-90% overall              exceptional work during this
 satisfaction across our Departments; in 2018 the          Pandemic.”
 figures were 90-95%. In 2018, 100% were satisfied
 with their supervisors, of whom 78% were very             “This was a fantastic
 satisfied.                                                opportunity…these meetings are
                                                           very friendly and provide a great
 To broaden the reach of our recruitment into              setting to practise for when I present
 doctorates, we introduced two new MSc                     my work at more official occasions.”
 programmes:                                               (DPhil student presenting work
    • An on-line MSc in Sleep Medicine in 2016.            internally).
        This was the first online MSc course
        approved within MSD. 43 students have so           “Students spoke very highly of the
        far enrolled (65% overseas; 60% female).           DGS, who was reported as very
    • An MSc in Clinical and Therapeutic                   accessible and responsive”.
        Neuroscience started in 2019. The first year       (From the 2016 external review of
        had 20 places and was oversubscribed.              DP).
        More than half the students in 2019/20 were
        from outside the UK.


 2.1.5 Doctoral training in clinical psychology (DClinPsych)
 In 2018 the Oxford doctoral training programme in clinical psychology (DClinPsych) appointed a
 new Director (Salkovskis). The course has been transformed, moving from Postgraduate Training
 to Postgraduate Research status, and increasing from 14 to 32 students per year. There are now
 strong research links with DEP and DP, and the course is growing the workforce of research-
 trained clinical psychologists.
     • The course is highly competitive, with ~700 applicants for 32 places. Gender distribution
         (5 men, 27 women for 2019 intake) reflects that of psychology as an undergraduate
         degree.
     • DClinPsych students are supported by an equivalent range of processes as described for
         DPhil students.


 2.1.6 Clinical academics and Category C staff
 In addition to the 70 clinical academics returned here, we work closely with many NHS clinicians.
 Through the strong partnerships we have forged with our local Trusts (OUH and OH), we can
 greatly enhance translational research opportunities, accelerate clinical applications, and foster a
 rich collaborative environment in which category C staff thrive, with their contributions – and needs
 – fully appreciated by both University and NHS. Oxford’s unique hosting of two NIHR Biomedical
 Research Centres (OBRC and OHBRC) reflects, and further promotes, the exceptionally close
 relationship between NHS and University (§3.3 and 4.3.1).




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Category C staff: Excluding clinical research fellows (see below), at least 25 consultants from OUH
 and OH make substantive contributions to our research: Examples include:
    • Peter Charbel Issa – consultant ophthalmologist, part funded by OBRC. Collaborates with
       MacLaren on a gene therapy trial.
    • Rupert McShane – consultant psychiatrist, Associate Professor, part-funded by OHBRC.
       Runs a ketamine clinic and works with Harmer and Hunt.
    • Jacqueline Palace – consultant neurologist, leads the Oxford Multiple Sclerosis and
       Neuromyelitis Group. She contributes to research projects with De Luca, Leite and Waters.
    • Sarah Pendlebury – consultant physician and Professor in NDCN. Researches dementia
       and delirium, including collaborations with Rothwell.
    • Arjune Sen – consultant neurologist and Senior Research Fellow in OBRC. He leads the
       Oxford Epilepsy Research Group, holding a grant on pharmacoresistance (£1.3M) and
       working with Newton, Husain and Waters.
    • Philip Cowen is an MRC scientist and psychopharmacologist. He works closely with
       Browning, Godlewska, Harmer, and S Murphy, with sharing of resources.

 To facilitate these interactions:
     • we offer honorary membership of the relevant department (providing access to University
         resources, e.g., library and computing services);
     • we invite them to all academic meetings (and many regularly attend);
     • in 2017, the NDCN Staff Development Officer completed an in-depth analysis of
         challenges for female clinical academics, resulting in formation of the Women in Clinical
         Neuroscience Network, and a meeting for 100 UK female clinical academics arranged for
         2020 (delayed due to pandemic).
     • In 2018 DP designed new consultant psychiatrist posts in which 0.5 FTE is ring-fenced for
         research for three years. To date, two promising academic clinicians have been recruited
         and funded by OH.

 Clinical research fellows. We are fortunate to have many clinical academics on Fellowship
 schemes, including 5 currently funded by Wellcome, 3 by MRC, and 3 by NIHR. They play a key
 role in our research and we support them via the Oxford University Clinical Academics Graduate
 School (OUCAGS), through student provision where relevant (Section 2.1.4), and as specific to
 their Fellowship. Nevertheless, we remain aware of the ongoing challenges that clinical academic
 trainees face, and have worked hard to make the local environment as supportive as possible:
     • In addition to the Wellcome clinical programme (Box 4), we have actively recruited
         neurologists and psychiatrists to NIHR Academic Clinical Fellowships (n=39) and
         Academic Clinical Lectureships (n=8), and support research projects within the Academic
         Foundation Programme.
     • We have a psychiatry mentorship scheme whereby we identify medical students with
         academic potential and continue to support them after qualification and into specialist
         training.
     • Our forthcoming OHBRC renewal application will include funding specifically to support
         trainee academic psychiatrists and psychologists.


 2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

 2.2.1 Gender equality and Athena SWAN (AS)
 All departments have AS Silver awards (DP: 2014, renewed 2018; NDCN: 2015, renewed 2020;
 DEP: 2015, renewal in preparation for submission November 2020) and have shown commitment
 and an upward trajectory consistent with these awards. Examples of our progressive procedures
 include:
     • Each department has an academic AS lead, and an AS working group or committee which
        has wide representation (e.g. for LGBT+, ethnicity) and which oversees all activities and
        reports to the departmental management team. Recommendations that have been


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       adopted include a Parents and Carers fund, a handbook covering parental leave issues,
       seminars on impostor syndrome and gender identity, and Bystander training.
    • A total of £92,610 has been awarded to our researchers from the Returning Carers Fund,
       as grants normally up to £5k to overcome barriers on returning from carers leave.
    • Departments have employed people for time-limited periods to develop specific aspects of
       strategy (e.g. to evaluate views and experiences regarding parental leave).
    • AS and EDI are standing items at all departmental meetings.
    • All meetings and seminars are now scheduled within core hours (0930-1600).
    • Gender balance is audited for a wide range of activities – e.g. application success rates,
       shortlisting, guest speakers, seminars, administrative burden, websites, etc.
    • We identified that women were less likely to apply for professorial titles. Departments now
       invite women to discuss their candidacy with the Head of Department, and we offer support
       with their applications.
    • Reflecting the above efforts, women now have a higher success rate than men in the
       Recognition of Distinction exercise (62% vs. 52%) and in Fellowship applications (46% vs.
       31%).
    • In 2018, DP identified a gender imbalance in the use of fixed-term contracts. A review was
       held, leading to five people (4 female) being moved onto permanent or open-ended
       contracts.
    • To increase visibility, a high-profile
       female psychologist delivers the annual        Experiences of EDI support
       Anne Treisman Lecture.                         “One of the biggest challenges I have
    • In 2016, DEP nominated Bishop as one            faced as a woman in science is
       of twenty portraits to celebrate University    balancing raising a young child with a
       Women commissioned by the University           career. I was very grateful for the
       in 2016. The portrait is on permanent          support that I received... My mentor
       display in central Oxford.                     provided     immense       support  and
    • The EPICS project website celebrates            encouragement. The session on ‘How to
       100 female DEP graduates who have              handle your career with a young baby’
       gone      on    to    make      meaningful     with senior academics offered practical
       contributions in academia and beyond.          advice and personal experience… Upon
                                                      return from maternity leave, I received
 We regularly survey our staff’s views on these       support from the Returning Carers fund
 and other AS-driven changes, with positive           […] which was particularly helpful in
 feedback.                                            speeding up my research and setting me
    • In NDCN, the proportion of people who           up for funding applications. These
       would recommend working in the                 boosted my confidence in continuing to
       department has risen steadily, from 83%        pursue a career in science.” (Junior
       in 2014 to 93% in 2018 (with no                researcher who took maternity leave).
       difference between genders).                   “Very good. Easy to organise, flexibly
    • In DP in 2018, 92% (35/38) of staff with        implemented. Took a lot of stress out of
       caring responsibilities are happy with         things.” (Junior researcher who took
       core hours, and 94% agree that meetings        paternity leave).
       are scheduled to accommodate caring
       responsibilities.

 Representation of women. Of the 186 research staff returned here, 75 (40%) are female.
 Reflecting our efforts, a range of metrics show how representation of women in our departments
 has increased:
    • A significant increase in the proportion and number of female full professors. 23 of 63
         (37%) are now women, compared to 11 of 50 (22%) in 2013.
    • The trajectory towards equality, including at senior level, is set to continue, since 50% of
         ECRs and 48% of Associate Professors are now female.
    • The proportion of female clinical ECRs has increased from 41% in 2015 to 58% in 2019.



                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Women hold more leadership roles. For example, Nobre (Head of DEP and Chair of ONC),
        Johansen-Berg (Head of WIN, and of the Institutional Strategic Research Fund), Tracey
        (Head of NDCN, now Warden of Merton College).

 2.2.2 Broader EDI initiatives
 We are proud of our ongoing efforts towards gender equality but are fully aware that they need to
 be complemented by EDI actions to allow equivalent progress in other domains. ‘Our science is
 better if we are diverse. Our workplace is better when we are inclusive’ is the mantra adopted by
 WIN, now being implemented across all our departments. These efforts occur within the context
 of the MSD setting up an EDI Steering Group, on which we are represented.
 LGBT+. NDCN, DEP and WIN all have groups to support and represent LGBT+, and DP is
 implementing one also. LGBT+ was the major EDI focus of WIN for 2019-20 and involved both
 top-down and bottom-up initiatives, such as role model visibility, ally training, and provision of a
 bespoke information toolkit.
 Race and ethnicity. We realise that we have room for significant improvement in this area, and
 have embarked on several initiatives. In 2019, race and ethnic equality was chosen as our EDI
 strategic priority for the coming year. Many of the initiatives will come to fruition during the next
 REF period, but some were realised before the end of July 2020:
     • Miller received a £77K environment enrichment grant from Wellcome, linking WIN and the
         two other Wellcome Centres in Oxford. This funds a 0.5 FTE post working alongside a
         consultant for two years to develop and implement initiatives in mental health for staff and
         students from marginalised groups. Departments provided matched funding (0.5FTE) to
         translate EDI efforts into the broader landscape.
     • Bhui was appointed in May 2020, and his expertise with regard to ethnicity and mental
         health is being utilised across our research portfolio, as well as informing our EDI activities
         and priorities.
     • Remunerated Associate Head of Department (People and Culture) posts have been
         created in DP and DEP with specific remit to lead on EDI issues, each working with a Race
         Equality Working Group.
     • Our DClinPsych course (§2.1.5) has an active outreach and mentorship scheme for BAME
         applicants and those from deprived communities; the course currently has 25% BAME
         representation.
 Bullying and harassment. All our departments have several Harassment Advisers who have
 undergone formal training provided by the University. The WIN EDI committee have all also been
 trained. In DP and DEP, an anti-bullying week is held each year with a talk and discussion.
 Other areas. Working groups have been set up to focus on neurodiversity, disability, and women
 in engineering. Each area is driven by motivated junior researchers who we encourage to come
 up with activities and initiatives that are then supported by the relevant department(s).
 EDI within this REF submission. The University considered this issue carefully when preparing the
 Code of Practice [IES 3.4]. The UOA4 co-ordinator played no role in decisions about eligibility. All
 nominated outputs were reviewed by at least two reviewers, with scores moderated by the co-
 ordinator. Initial selection and attribution were done anonymously to reduce effects of unconscious
 bias, and to distribute outputs as broadly as possible within the quality profile.

 2.3 Mental health and wellbeing
 This REF period has seen a new and substantial focus on wellbeing. Initiatives and achievements
 include:
     • We have funded >25 staff to attend two-day training courses to become mental health first-
        aiders. They act as a first point of call for staff and students experiencing distress.
     • DP introduced a weekly yoga class which was over-subscribed, and DEP has ‘Mindful
        Mondays’


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Miller and O’Shea lead a cross-departmental initiative, THRIVE, which focuses on
        resilience and promoting wellbeing. It is a funded initiative, informed by personal
        experiences, and provides signposting and materials to support and empower staff with
        regard to mental health.
    •   A two-hour session on mental health for all doctoral supervisors is held annually by the
        University Counselling Service.
    •   Issues related to COVID-19 have been addressed (Box 5).

  Box 5: Staff support and wellbeing during COVID-19
  Our researchers have been active in tackling COVID-19-related mental health issues (Boxes
  2 and 3). We have not neglected our own staff and students in this regard:
     • Mental health training for line managers has been introduced, run by the Charlie Waller
         Memorial Trust, with a focus on skills to support staff who are working at home and at
         risk of mental health difficulties.
     • Departmental briefings and communications have moved on line, and become weekly
         rather than monthly.
     • Webinars have been held to share experiences and tips regarding home working, the
         effect of COVID-19 on career development, and on how to stay healthy.
     • Departmental websites include pages devoted to COVID-19, and link to other online
         resources for information and advice.
     • A WIN survey found 95% of staff felt well supported during the pandemic.


 2.4 Future plans
 Recruitment: We will continue actively to seek endowments and other donations to support
 recruitment, retention and career development. Key areas have been identified where
 recruitments will be prioritised, in line with the strategic plan outlined in Section §1.

 Career development: As well as the new academic clinical posts planned in the OHBRC renewal
 (§2.1.6) we will create further new posts for junior academic psychiatrists using a flexible funding
 model with OH. DEP are creating five career development lectureships as 4-year transitional
 posts, linked to a College.

 EDI: Despite the removal of a Silver award as a requirement for NIHR funding, we remain fully
 committed to AS and all other aspects of EDI. We will remain proactive and innovative to address
 other inequalities through departmental and broader initiatives. We will be involved in the new
 ‘in2research’ mentorship programme for students from low-income and BAME backgrounds.

 Doctoral students. Sustaining and expanding top-quality graduate training is a top priority. With
 the ending of the Wellcome MSc/DPhil Neuroscience program, we look to replace these
 studentships from other sources, including the new NeurotechEU program (§4.1.4). Other
 innovative approaches to fund studentships are also underway.

 2.4.1 Mental health and wellbeing
     • A transformation of mental health services for all graduate students is being developed, to
        provide a bespoke service (led by Saunders and Geddes).
     • A group of senior clinical psychologists in DP and DEP is being established to advise how
        better to develop and implement mental health supports and therapies to staff and
        students.
     • WIN has made Wellness and Mental Health its EDI strategic focus for 2020-21.
     • DEP created a seminar series to educate staff about mental health and how to promote it.
     • DP ran a series of webinars, available on YouTube, where public figures discuss mental
        health issues with our researchers (e.g. Mariella Frostrup with Creswell; Dame Kristin Scott
        Thomas with Foster).

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 We have increased our income to allow new investments in our estate – as well as in our staff
 described in section 2 – enabling us to enhance the quality and capacity of our research.

 3.1 Summary of income
 We have achieved substantial growth of
 research income, with a 71% increase from
 £27.4M in 2013-14 to £49.0M in 2019-20.
 Total funding over this REF period was
 £288.3M (Figure 4A), equating to £1.7M per
 submitted FTE.
 • The increase has occurred across all
   sectors and funders, including Wellcome
   (+28%), research councils (+97%), and
   NIHR (health research, 5-fold), as well as
   industry (+350%) (Figures 4B and 4C).
   In 2019-20, our research income came
   from Wellcome (30.6% of total), research
   councils (27.1%), NIHR (health research,
   13%), industry (8.5%), EU government
   (7.5%), UK public sector (4.6%) and other
   sources (6.7%) (Figure 4C).
 • The proportion of income from industry
   increased from 4.3% in 2013-14 to 8.5%
   in 2019-20.
 • Major grants during this period include
   WIN (£11.5M), WCPSD (£7M), MRC
   BNDU (£23.6M, including renewal), and
   OHBRC (£12.8M).
 • Funding for our COVID-19 research
   obtained by July 2020 totalled £2.45M.
 • Research income reported for 2015/16 in
   REF4b includes £3M capital income that
   was incurred in other years, due to a
   change in HESA reporting conventions.




      Figure 4. UOA4 research income:
      (A) Total per year from all sources
      [REF4b],
      (B) from major funders,
      (C) comparison of 2013/14 to 2018/19.




                                                                                       Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2 Strategies for generating research income
 Our strategy for generating research income is an integral part of our overall research and impact
 strategy. That is, we seek to create the optimal environment to make our research attractive to the
 full range of funders. This includes focusing on research topics which are timely and which will
 produce impact, and having the staff and infrastructure that allow us to deliver major research
 programmes.

 We approach the cost recovery and sustainability of our research income ‘in the round’, taking into
 account the overall benefits to our research activities, and our desire to support young
 researchers. For example, we support junior researchers whom we identify as having the potential
 to apply for Fellowships, even if the scheme is cash limited and cannot fully cover its costs, where
 aligned with our research strategy.

 We support our strategy to generate research income by judicious use of internal funds to pump
 prime and leverage external applications.
     • The Oxford-Wellcome Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) provides funding for
        strategic needs to complement or leverage external support. Our researchers have
        received six ISSF awards during the period (over £246k).
     • The John Fell Fund provides funding to develop research ideas [IES 2.1] and has provided
        £964k in pump-priming awards to UOA4 researchers over the period.
     • Creswell built on data from an award from the COVID-19 Research Response Fund (Box
        2) to apply successfully for a UKRI COVID-19 award.

 3.2.1 Strategic approach to philanthropic funding
 We have increased our efforts to support research with philanthropic funding, coordinating activity
 through ONC and the MSD Development Office. We highlight initiatives that may be attractive to
 donors. We have held events (e.g. at the Royal Society) at which our researchers showcase their
 work and meet with individuals who may be interested. Major donations received in this REF
 period include:
     • The Wolfson Foundation provided £4M towards the WCPSD (Rothwell).
     • The Sir John Ritblat Family Foundation endowed a Chair in Mindfulness and Psychological
         Science (£3.5M, Kuyken) and allowed expansion of the Oxford Mindfulness Centre.
     • A private family trust donated £1M via the Motor Neurone Disease Association to support
         research (Talbot).
     • The Swiss International Foundation provided €1.14M in 2019 to support virtual reality
         research (Freeman).
     • The Duke of Westminster donated £1M to DP to support research into how COVID-19 has
         affected the mental health of adolescents.



 3.3 Development of NHS and NIHR infrastructure
 There is exceptional integration and synergy between our UOA4 departments and local NHS
 infrastructure and resources (Box 6), which we have developed during this REF period, driven by
 our successful strategy to expand dramatically our support from various NIHR funding streams.

 3.3.1 Oxford’s NIHR Biomedical Research Centres
 In the previous REF period, we identified securing major NIHR funding for research infrastructure
 as a priority, taking full advantage of our strong track record in translational research, and our
 excellent NHS partnerships.




                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Box 6: Integration between University and NHS facilities
  Our clinical research environment and relationships are facilitated by close physical co-
  location, with both DP and NDCN based on hospital sites, and having shared as well as
  dedicated buildings. These sites also host our UOA1 and UOA2 departments, promoting
  cross-UOA relationships. Co-location ensures our researchers are in touch with contemporary
  clinical neurology and psychiatry and are – literally – best placed to develop the translational
  impact of their research. Co-location also ensures seamless patient flows and promotes
  research participation – exemplified by the new Oxford Brain Health Centre (§4.3.1). The
  overall environment is a vibrant, integrated and multi-disciplinary health sciences campus that
  underpins the scale, scope, and success, of our research. Our shared University/NHS vision
  and estate will be advanced dramatically by the Warneford Park development (§3.6).


 By the start of this REF period, we had set up the NIHR OchCRF (§1.1), established mental health
 and dementia themes in the Oxford Academic Health Sciences Centre and, critically, had the
 support of MSD and OH to apply for a bespoke mental health and dementia BRC in the 2016
 round (OHBRC) to complement the existing general medical OBRC (§1.1 and Figure 1). OHBRC
 (Director, Geddes) has three research themes: adult mental health, aging and dementia, and
 precision psychological approaches; supported by cross-cutting themes of experimental medicine,
 neuroimaging, digital methods, training and PPI, OHBRC propels our discovery neuroscience
 towards clinical applications.

 OHBRC has contributed significantly to our research infrastructure in several key respects:
   • Part funding of several researchers returned here (e.g. Browning, S Murphy, Saunders) as
      well some category C staff (§2.1.6), and funding posts for ECRs and support staff.
   • Provision of core support and facilities, e.g. pharmacy, assays, image analysis, and
      computing.
   • Provision of support for PPI, PPE, and engagement with local NHS services.
   • Leverage of external grant applications via pump priming and other focused use of funding.
   • Facilitating industrial collaborations (§3.5.4).
   • We benefit in similar ways from themes contained within OBRC, led by Rothwell and
      Husain, which provide support to their research programs and highlight our close working
      across the two Biomedical Research Centres and their host NHS Trusts.

 3.3.2 Other Oxford NIHR infrastructure
 We have also successfully embedded mental health and dementia within other Oxford-based
 NIHR infrastructures, enhancing our research and our ability to achieve translation and clinical
 impact:
     • NIHR Oxford Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care
         (CLAHRC), 2014-2019. Lennox was Deputy Director, and Sharpe led the theme on
         multimorbidity between psychiatric and physical health.
     • Replacing the CLAHRC, the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration Oxford and
         Thames Valley (ARC), includes a major theme on mental health across the life course,
         led by Creswell.
     • NIHR Thames Valley and South Midlands Local Clinical Research Network (CRN,
         Director Lennox) supports clinical research across the region. Our staff lead themes in
         Dementia, Neurological Disorders, Ophthalmology, Mental Health and Stroke.
     • NHS Oxford/Thames Valley Academic Health Sciences Network (AHSN). Funded in
         2013 and renewed in 2018, research networks include psychological medicine (Sharpe),
         early intervention (Lennox), IAPT (D Clark) and patient safety (Vincent).
     • In 2020, the Oxford Academic Health Sciences Centre was competitively re-designated by
         NIHR/NHS England as Oxford Academic Health Partners (OAHP). OAHP links the
         University with OH, OUH, and Oxford Brookes University. OAHP underpins joint working

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         in translational research, clinical research training, streamlined research governance, and
         clinical research facilities, providing additional opportunities for our researchers to increase
         their health, economic and social impacts. Geddes sits on the OAHP board.
 We have added to these various NIHR funding schemes through investments of our own, as
 described in §3.4. These major infrastructure developments are complemented by our strategic
 recruitments, described elsewhere, to enhance our capacity, leadership and sustainability of the
 research.


 3.4 Major investments in infrastructure
 We have complemented our external income with institutional investments to improve and grow
 our research infrastructure beyond our core estate. The latter comprises approximately 13,800m2
 research space across DP, DEP and NDCN.

 Life and Mind Building. As noted in §1.2.3, the sudden closure of the Tinbergen building which
 housed DEP (and Zoology (UOA5)) displaced 700 researchers and led to intensive planning to
 provide solutions. An emergency £30M from central funds [IES 2.1] provided high quality purpose-
 built modular laboratory and other facilities, and other locations across Oxford were adapted to
 provide additional office and teaching space. There was outstanding teamwork across MSD,
 central University, and Colleges, with remarkably limited disruption to research and other activities.
 The current arrangements will remain until the £202M Life and Mind Building is completed (§3.7).

 The Behavioural Neuroscience Unit houses our rodent and non-human primate research (§1.4.2).
 As part of the WIN award, we committed £1.5M to upgrade animal neuroimaging facilities and
 other building works, and DEP has supported the Unit to a total of £113K as part of our
 commitment to maintaining an animal facility of the highest quality – reflected in visits from
 researchers from many countries including China, USA and European countries seeking to
 establish or upgrade facilities in their own institutions.

 WCPSD and WIN annexe. A new building to house WCSPD, and part of WIN, was opened in
 early 2020. The building cost £11M, of which the Wolfson Foundation donation was £4M, £1M
 from Wellcome and the remainder from NDCN and central University capital budgets.
     • As part of the WIN award, we made a range of other financial commitments and
        investments, totalling over £3.5M. This included the £1.5M to expand animal neuroimaging
        facilities mentioned above, plus £500K towards other building costs, funding of 7 doctoral
        studentships, and underwriting of one post for seven years.

 Oxford Centre for Human Brain Activity (OHBA). As part of our strategic plans to expand
 translational and clinical research, an MRI scanner (Siemens Prisma 3T) was installed in DP for
 the first time, located in OHBA. DP budgets provided £2.4M in 2015 to fund the building work and
 the scanner (with central funds providing a further £2M). Additionally, DP funded replacement of
 the magnetoencephalography scanner (£1.7M).
     • These investments have borne fruit with OHBA becoming part of WIN, and allowing
          seamless neuroimaging between NDCN, DP and DEP. Moreover, we have used these
          facilities to integrate research and clinical scanning at the new Oxford Brain Health Centre
          (§4.3.1).

 3.5 Supporting industrial collaboration
 3.5.1 Infrastructure supporting industrial interactions and impacts
 Links with industry are facilitated by the Translational Research Office (TRO) and the Business
 Partnerships Office (BPO).

 The TRO provides support for early-stage translational projects, creating a pipeline for investment
 and commercial uptake. Established in 2019, this £200k/year provision ensures researchers have
 access to expertise from academic, clinical and commercial sectors to enrich research

                                                                                                 Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programmes and maximise their potential for clinical uptake and commercialisation. This support
 helps increase the impact of research and feeds the pipeline of commercialisation projects. 15
 projects in UOA4 have received TRO support during the REF period.

 The BPO provides expertise, advice, and hands-on support for forming and maintaining alliances
 with pharma, and its personnel provide dedicated input to this UOA.
     • A recent example is the precompetitive Oxford Janssen Neuroscience Alliance, with
        funding of projects in dementia, neuroinflammation and mood disorder worth over £2M to
        date.
     • Lovestone is Vice-President for Neurodegeneration, Janssen-Cilag, whilst retaining a part-
        time appointment in DP. Two other senior Janssen scientists hold honorary appointments
        in DP. These relationships, monitored by an independent ethical oversight group, have
        helped drive the current Alliance as well as facilitating strategic discussions.

 3.5.2 Patents and commercial deals
 Facilitated or handled by Oxford University Innovation (OUI), our well-established technology
 transfer organisation [IES 2.2], during this REF period our researchers have:
     • signed 58 commercial deals,
     • filed 156 patents,
     • initiated 90 intellectual property projects.
 OUI’s support has facilitated a number of our case studies [ICS 08OCS, 09SLEEPIO, 10CNS,
 18NIGHTSTAR).

 3.5.3 Spin outs
 OUI also supports our spinout activities, which have benefitted additionally from creation of Oxford
 Science Innovation (OSI), a >£600M venture capital vehicle [IES 2.2].

 Our researchers have launched 7 spinouts since 2014, with investments to date estimated at
 ~£710M:
    • Nightstar was a biotech spun out in 2014 from the MacLaren lab. Within 5 years, Nightstar
        was leading international clinical trials of gene therapies for inherited retinal diseases and
        had become the world’s largest retinal gene therapy company by market capitalisation.
        Nightstar was acquired by Biogen for $877 million in 2019 [ICS-18NIGHTSTAR; IES 2.1].
    • OxfordVR spun out in 2016 to develop virtual reality (VR) treatments for psychosis and
        acrophobia (Freeman). With £14.3M of investments, Oxford VC employs over 30 people
        on three UK sites. The main investor is Optum Ventures, the innovations arm of United
        Health Group (the largest healthcare company in the world), enabling the treatments
        programmed by OxfordVR to reach the US market.
    • Akrivia Health, formerly Cristal Health, was set up by Lovestone and others in 2018 as a
        partnership with the University of Oxford and OH, to make electronic medical records from
        UK mental health Trusts available to accelerate research and improve recruitment to
        clinical trials, whilst retaining the highest standards of information governance. It is the
        largest such dataset in the world.
    • OxSight was founded in 2016 by Hicks (then a researcher at NDCN) to develop and market
        augmented-reality glasses for blind people. OxSight has raised £7.2M, employs 25 full-
        time staff, and has recently been valued at £40M.
    • Circadian Therapeutics (Foster) was established in 2016 with an initial £1.5M, followed by
        a further £7M committed by OSI in January 2020 for development, manufacture and Phase
        I trial of a new drug, working with the charity Blind Veterans UK.
    • Oxford Brain Diagnostics (Jenkinson) applies novel technologies to aid drug development.
        Set up in April 2020, it already employs 8 full time staff. A finalist in the 2020 Nature Spinoff
        Prize, its software received US FDA Breakthrough Device Designation in September 2020.
    • Oxford StemTech (Cader) was set up in July 2020, with an initial £250K investment.


                                                                                                 Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.5.4 Other industrial partnerships
 P1Vital is a CNS clinical research organisation, spun out of DP in 2008. During this REF period,
 P1Vital licensed Harmer’s Emotional Test Battery to five major pharma, and received £5.1M
 industrial funding to conduct clinical trials using the battery. The ongoing relationship between our
 researchers and P1Vital, supported by OHBRC and OchCRF (§3.3.1), is reflected in shared grants
 from IMI, MRC and others, totalling >£7.5M.

 SomaLogic is a US biotech who in 2016 established their European base on the DP site via a
 collaboration with Lovestone. As well as facilitating biomarker translation, the agreement provides
 our researchers with a >30% cost subsidy. Three studies using SomaLogic technology have been
 completed.


 3.6 Wider infrastructure
 College contributions. Some Colleges have neuroscience-focused resources and facilities that
 augment our research environment: e.g. the Centre for the Creative Brain (St Edmund Hall) and
 the Mind, Brain and Behaviour cluster (Wolfson College) both hold regular interdisciplinary events.

 Gardens, Libraries and Museums (GLAM). GLAM provide staff and resources for many of our
 public engagement activities (§4.2). Each department is supported by a named specialist librarian,
 in addition to the central support for Open Research and Open Access [IES 2.4]. We have a
 funded project with the Botanic Gardens and Ashmolean Museum for social prescribing research.



 3.7 Future investment plans
 Life and Mind Building. Planning permission was granted in January 2021, and completion due in
 2024. The building will not only allow DEP to be reunified and deliver on its strategy, it will promote
 substantial interactions and synergies with the newly formed Department of Biology (UOA5) and
 a new centre funded by a gift from INEOS which will enhance interdisciplinary and global
 opportunities [IES 2.1].

 Warneford Park. Plans are being developed to transform the Warneford Hospital (home of DP)
 into Warneford Park, a major re-development including re-provision and expansion of DP, together
 with parts of DEP and NDCN, alongside a new research-focused psychiatric hospital and with
 shared space for industrial partners. A partnership between OH, the University, and a major donor,
 has been put in place, and outline planning permission is expected to be sought as a next step.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 4.1 Collaborations
 A strongly collaborative culture is explicitly encouraged by the ONC and facilitated by our
 organisational structures and their flexibilities.

 4.1.1 Collaborations across this UOA
 The extent of collaborations within this UOA is considerable. The successful funding of our Centres
 (§1.1.2) reflects this collaborative environment, and now enhances it.
     • Collaborative award-type funding includes: Wellcome Collaborative Awards to Behrens
        (2018) and Smith (2019); a Wellcome Strategic award to Duncan (2014), and a Wellcome
        multi-user equipment award (M Buckley, 2016).
     • Of our 423 selected outputs, 142 (34%) include authors from more than one UOA4
        department.

                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   The C-MORE COVID-19 study (Box 2) is an example of a research programme involving
        all three UOA4 departments, and colleagues in UOA1.

 4.1.2 Collaborations with other UOAs
 We work with a range of departments returned in other UOAs (Box 7).
     • 15% of projects during this REF period include a co-investigator from another UOA.
     • 24% of our selected outputs include authors from other Oxford UOAs.
     • These collaborations are promoted by the co-location on hospital sites with UOA1 and
        UOA2 departments (Box 6) and the location of DEP in central Oxford adjacent to other
        UOAs (Fig. 2).


  Box 7: Major collaborations of our returned researchers with other UOAs

  UOA1: 32 researchers collaborate with Clinical Medicine, including the ARUK Oxford Drug
  Discovery Unit, Structural Genomics Consortium, and Target Discovery Institute.
  UOA2: 21 researchers have collaborations with the Nuffield Department of Public Health,
  Nuffield Department of Primary Care, or Big Data Institute (BDI). The links with BDI underpin
  our imaging work on UK Biobank; one of the WIN PIs, Tom Nichols, has a position in BDI (and
  returned in UOA2).
  UOA5: 23 researchers collaborate with neuroscientists in the Departments of Physiology,
  Anatomy and Genetics (DPAG) and Pharmacology. The Oxford Parkinson’s Disease Centre,
  based in DPAG, works closely with NDCN and includes three of our clinical academics (Hu,
  Paarkinen, Antoniades).
  UOA10 (Mathematical Sciences): Fruitful collaborations have been forged with the Alan Turing
  Institute. For example, advanced mathematical methods were applied to demonstrate
  differences between overlapping psychiatric disorders (Saunders).
  UOA12 (Engineering): Some of our researchers are engineers, and 16 actively collaborate
  with engineers. Seymour and Denison have joint appointments with the Institute of Biomedical
  Engineering. Chiew, Okell and Wu are Royal Academy of Engineering Fellows.
  UOA20 (Social Work and Social Policy): Stein leads the mental health component of the £20M
  UKRI GCRF Accelerating Achievement for Africa’s Adolescents Hub, led from the Department
  of Social Policy and involving the Blavatnik School of Government.
  UOA23 (Education): as our research into education, and schools-based research, has grown,
  we collaborate increasingly with colleagues in Education. This includes Snowling’s work (see
  4.3.2) and collaborations involving M Fazel, Hsiao, Nation and Scerif.
  We also have collaborations with: UOA8 (Chemistry; N Buckley, Burnet, Rinaldi), UOA14
  (Geography; Spitschan, Warnaby), UOA16 (Economics and Econometrics; Stein); UOA28
  (History; Bowes, Nation, Snowling), and UOA30 (Philosophy; Cohen Kadosh; Heyes,
  Kringlebach, Singh).


 4.1.3 National collaborations and networks
 91 researchers (49%) report leadership of or involvement in at least one national collaboration.
 These include:
     • Dementia Platform UK - DPUK (Director: Gallacher) works with 18 academic institutions,
        12 industrial partners, and an international network of collaborators. Achievements include
        over 220 publications, a data portal with 42 cohorts totalling 3.4M people, two research
        registers (53,000) and an experimental medicine incubator attracting £11.5M industry
        support. In 2020, DPUK was renewed by MRC until 2025 (£7.5M).
     • UK Biobank. WIN (Smith, Miller, Jezzard and others) lead the neuroimaging component of
        UK Biobank, by far the largest brain imaging study ever carried out. WIN created the


                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        imaging protocol, developed an automated analysis pipeline, and has to date disseminated
        imaging derived phenotypes from 40,000 subjects, with linked genomic data.
    •   Alan Turing Institute. Oxford was a founding partner in 2017, and our researchers have
        contributed to and benefited from the resulting interactions, as noted above.
    •   NIHR Translational Research Collaborations (TRCs). TRCs enhance research by linking
        BRCs together. Our researchers play major roles in both relevant TRCs - Mental Health
        (co-led by Geddes), and Dementia (Mackay).

 Our collaborative work with other UK institutions is reflected in 51% of our selected outputs having
 at least one non-Oxford UK author.

 4.1.4 International collaborations and networks
 117 researchers (63%) are involved in at least one international collaboration or network.
 Examples of our international profile include:
     • WIN has led the majority of the neuroimaging analysis research in the game-changing
         Human Connectome Project (HCP; >$70M across 3 NIH grants). WIN also leads the
         connectivity analysis component in the €15m ERC Developing-HCP "baby connectome"
         project. WIN is also an integral part of Prime-DE, the first open-source non-human primate
         MRI database.
     • WIN is working with other imaging centres to integrate its FMRIB Software Library (FSL)
         into BIDS format. It has transferred its MRI acquisition software to 27 external institutions.
         In 2018 alone, FSL had >20,000 downloads and 5 million web views; FSL is in use in over
         5,000 labs worldwide.
     • IMPRIND is an €8M Innovative Medicines Initiative (IMI) collaboration led by Tofaris,
         started in 2017, to develop models to investigate drugs blocking aggregate propagation in
         neurodegenerative diseases.
     • IM2PACT (led by Cader) is an €18M IMI collaboration between 23 EU institutions and
         pharma, started in 2019, and developing blood-brain barrier models for therapeutic
         research.
     • Neuroscience is a major part of the Oxford-Berlin Partnership [IES 2.6]. In 2018-19 the
         Partnership provided €240K seed funding for 8 neuroscience projects, as well as six
         workshops, and a graduate training alliance for computational neuroscience.
     • We are part of NeurotechEU, the European University of Brain and Technology
         Partnership. Funded by a five-year €5M award in April 2020, it brings together 8
         universities to enhance scientific collaborations, training, and impact.
     • Our work on global mental health (§1.4.6) includes significant collaborations with WHO and
         UNICEF, with commitments to local capacity building and training.
     • 56% of all papers by our submitted researchers during the REF period had at least one
         author from outside the UK (source: SciVal).


 4.2 Communications and public engagement
 4.2.1 Enhancing communications and promoting public engagement
 Early in this REF period we recognised the need for a strategy for, and investment in, public
 engagement. As a result, our departments, as well as WIN and BNDU, have employed
 communication officers and have identified a lead researcher to oversee activities. These
 developments occur as part of the University’s approach to public engagement [IES 2.2].
     • The communications officers report to the relevant senior management team and are
         represented on the ONC. They work within the MSD Communications Team and
         participate in the MSD Communications and Public Engagement Network, which holds
         termly meetings to share best practice, offer training and mentoring support. Our
         communications officers took part in the University’s inaugural public engagement with
         research conference in 2018, and then 2020.
     • In addition to these core communications posts, major research programs have allocated
         funding for their own communications officers to support public engagement; examples

                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        include the Dementia Platforms UK (Gallacher), Sleep and Circadian Neuroscience
        Institute (Foster), and the Young People and Ethics program (Singh).

 The communications officers, and the above processes, have helped embed public engagement
 and communications in our research environment. For example:
    • seed funding is available for public engagement activities. One such award was made,
       along with departmental funding and in collaboration with the Ashmolean Museum, to the
       Picturing Parkinson’s project to help researchers understand better the impact of the
       disease; the insights have already fed into improvements in how clinics are run and how
       questionnaires are phrased;
    • researchers are encouraged to apply for the Vice Chancellor’s Public Engagement with
       Research Awards. It was won by Tunbridge in 2016 for her ‘Neurococktails’ sessions at
       the Science Museum, Cheltenham Science Festival and Royal Society Summer Exhibition
       (> 2000 participants in total). The prize has also been won by Clare and Smithson for other
       activities;
    • WIN and NDCN established a Public Engagement Ambassadors programme, in which
       researchers commit to specific activities and receive bespoke training. Since 2017, 33
       researchers have participated;
    • a departmental annual prize for public engagement is offered, e.g. won in 2019 by S
       Murphy and Creswell;
    • there is an open door for researchers to discuss public engagement opportunities and how
       best to deliver them, publicised in regular e-newsletters;
    • assistance with, and promotion of, press releases via the Science Media Centre (which we
       financially support);
    • a section on communications is included in each departmental and Centre annual report;
    • our websites are regularly updated and interlinked, overseen by the Neuroscience
       Coordinator.

 4.2.2 Examples of specific public engagement activities
     • Annual open days, e.g. in 2015, the Oxford Brain Bank attracted 80 people. Comments
        included ‘‘Excellent day and very, very informative’ and ‘It was an amazing experience’;
     • the annual Oxford Neuroscience Day, at which talks are given and posters presented. It is
        attended by over 300 people, including representatives from charities and funders;
     • a Brain Awareness week held at the Ashmolean Museum, visited by over 900 people;
     • our research featured prominently in the Curiosity Carnival, an Oxford-wide programme of
        activities in 2017 that attracted 42,000 people in person or via webcasts, and 280,000
        online engagements, with strong outreach to disadvantaged groups. Over 90% reported
        that it had been an excellent or good overall experience;
     • the Brain Diaries Exhibition ran from March 2017-January 2018, based at the Museum of
        Natural History with an extensive public programme and online digital resources. It was
        funded by Wellcome and the Negaunee Foundation, and won the Vice Chancellor’s Award.
        Over 50 of our researchers contributed. The programme and exhibition reached more than
        168,000 visitors;
     • a collaboration between Tunbridge and an artist on representations of neuroscience and
        mental health led to a public exhibition at the Barbican and other venues in 2019 (over
        1500 visitors);
     • WIN holds various activities with schoolchildren, including the Big Brain Roadshow, so far
        with over 800 11 year olds, and a week-long Neuroscience Experience for 24 year 12
        pupils;
     • in 2019 we held a Brain Discovery Week which included MRI experiments using Facebook
        Live. Over 3,000 people visited the website, and the videos reached over 70,000 people;
     • a 2-day meeting celebrating the 50th anniversary of DP in 2019 was live-streamed, viewed
        by over 900 people, and generated 2,600 tweets and >36 million Twitter impressions;
     • in 2019, ‘SHElock’ was set up by ECRs and students in WIN, who hosted three hands-on
        sessions for 16 schoolgirls to learn about the brain;
     • an annual open day for the OHBRC is held in DP to promote our mental health research;

                                                                                          Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   89 of our researchers (48%) are active on Twitter;
    •   we have been active in public engagement and openness in animal research (§1.6).

 Our researchers have also been prominent in the media. In addition to many interviews on news
 bulletins, programmes include: The Life Scientific (Foster, Radio 4, August 2013); Start the Week
 (Johansen-Berg, Radio 4, 2014); The Inflamed Mind (Lennox, Radio 4, 2016); Trust Me I’m a
 Doctor Special (Irani and Lennox, BBC2, 2017); How the NHS Changed our World (Aziz,
 FitzGerald and Jagannath, BBC2, 2018); The Life Scientific, and All in the Mind (Tracey, Radio
 4, 2019); A History of Delusions (Freeman, Radio 4, 2019); Desert Island Discs (Foster, Radio 4,
 2019); The New Anatomy of Melancholy (Espie and Geddes, Radio 4, Spring 2020).

 4.2.3 Patient and public involvement (PPI)
 Our involvement in PPI has grown dramatically and is now central to all our human research,
 ranging from identification of priorities, to experimental design and coproduction. Our PPI occurs
 in several ways:
     • OHBRC has a cross-cutting PPI theme (led by Singh), and hosts PPI groups who offer
        input and expertise. PPI groups are also linked to major research programmes; for example
        Freeman works with the McPin Foundation, and WIN and BDNU have dedicated PPI
        arrangements.
     • PPI is the focus of regular meetings involving research users. For example, researchers
        gave a series of talks to explain the research process, and the BRCs hold annual open
        days at which researchers and PPI representatives share ideas and discuss perspectives.
     • We engage with user groups. For example, Bishop and Snowling led development of the
        national support group for parents of children with developmental language delay.
     • Within the Wellcome Centre for Human Ethics, Singh leads a research program into
        medical neuroethics, including the consent and use of big data.


 4.3 Contributions to sustainability and growth
 4.3.1 Contributions to healthcare and the NHS
 A theme running throughout this document is that much of our research contributes to
 sustainability and growth in healthcare and the NHS. These contributions reflect and benefit from
 the environment we have created to facilitate and sustain this, e.g. the physical environment (Box
 6), Category C staff (§2.1.6), the BRCs and other NIHR infrastructure (§3.3), and the leadership
 provided by our three NIHR Professors and our many NIHR Senior Investigators (§4.4.1). Here
 we summarise some additional aspects of this relationship.
     • Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT). Our researchers play a central role
        in the NHS England IAPT programme, beyond the development of many of its effective
        treatments [ICS-05IAPT, 14PTSD]. As NHS England’s Clinical and Informatics Advisor for
        IAPT, D Clark has ensured that effectiveness is rigorously evaluated, creating a unique
        session-by-session monitoring system that collects outcome data on 99.4% of the 606,000
        patients treated each year. Our researchers have now used these data to innovate mental
        health services. For example, local pilots of how to create cost effective, integrated
        healthcare for people with depression/anxiety and long-term physical health conditions
        have been adopted nationally, whilst other analyses identified critical quality standards that
        are now being implemented with demonstrable improvements in outcomes. These
        examples highlight our seamless working between discovery science, clinical trials, and
        population benefits. This is made possible by our collaborative approach, our research
        environment, and our commitment to engage with the NHS to achieve implementation.
     • Oxford Brain Health Centre. Our researchers, led by Mackay, worked with OH and WIN to
        open a research-focused brain health centre on the Warneford Hospital site in March 2020.
        It provides an enhanced, standardised care pathway for patients referred to memory
        clinics, including 3T MRI. It replaces the previous NHS service, which was patchy and used
        CT scans. All patients are invited to participate in research; to date, 95% have consented.

                                                                                              Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        WIN has also contributed to clinical neuroradiology by providing sequences and tools now
        being implemented in the NHS.
    •   True Colours. The True Colours app, developed by Geddes to monitor mood symptoms,
        has been expanded during this REF period to allow remote monitoring of many health
        conditions, including epilepsy and inflammatory bowel disease. It is now in use in many
        NHS Trusts, with benefits for research and for clinical care. A recent example is that True
        Colours has been adopted for data collection by the UKRI PHOSP-COVID study.
    •   Risk prediction. Prediction of violence and suicide are major challenges in mental health.
        S Fazel has developed and validated calculators for estimating these risks among forensic
        patients, prisoners, and those with severe mental illness. They are being rolled out in
        healthcare and prisons, in UK and internationally (e.g., throughout the Dutch penal system,
        thus far on over 40,000 prisoners).

 4.3.2 Other contributions
 Economic: Our spinouts and their economic benefits were described in §3.5.3, and direct
 economic impacts are illustrated by three of our impact case studies (ICS-09SLEEPIO, 10CNS,
 18NIGHTSTAR).
     • WIN has a master-research agreement with Siemens (worth £300K), holds 7 major grants
        with industry partners (~£3.9M), and has 8 researchers who hold joint appointments or
        consultancies with industry. WIN’s FSL tools are critical to the Oxford-Novartis
        collaboration (UOA1) and have been licensed (via Oxford University Innovation) to over 35
        pharma and other companies.

 Education: Snowling developed the Nuffield Early Language Intervention (NELI), shown in
 randomised trials to allow children to make three months extra progress in oral language. NELI
 has been recommended by the UK government to help children held back by COVID-19
 lockdowns and over 5000 schools have registered to receive the intervention.

 Research capacity: In addition to our various graduate and MSc programs (§2.1.4), we grow
 research capacity through specific training initiatives:
    • The well-established FSL training course in MRI analysis. Since 2017, the course has been
        held in five countries, with 572 attendees. A newer annual MEG course of weekly classes
        attracts over 80 applicants for 35 places.
    • An annual 2-day Oxford Autumn School in Neuroscience attracts at least 350 students
        each year (e.g. 589 in 2018).
    • The residential annual 3-day Oxford Course in Experimental Medicine for Mental Health,
        started in 2019, has trained 35 researchers and clinicians from across the UK. Bursaries
        are provided.


 4.4 Markers of influence and esteem

 4.4.1 Honours and Prizes
 National awards
 Knighthood: Lovestone.
 CBE: Bhui, D Clark, Snowling.
 FRS: Bishop, Behrens, Foster, Rushworth.
 FBA: Bishop, D Clark, Duncan, Ehlers, Heyes, Lovestone, Nobre, Snowling.
 FAcSS: D Clark, Nation, Plunkett, Snowling, Vincent.
 FMedSci: Aziz, Beeson, Bennett, Bishop, Brown, D Clark, Ehlers, Foster, Fugger, Husain,
 Lovestone, MacLaren, Rothwell, Snowling, Tracey.

 Senior Fellowships
 NIHR Professors: Freeman, Creswell, Cipriani. These are 3 of the 5 awards made nationally within
 UOA4 disciplines during this REF period.

                                                                                           Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wellcome Principal Research Fellows: Behrens, Bishop, Ehlers, Husain, Johansen-Berg.
 Wellcome Senior Research Fellows: Bennett, S Fazel, Mitchell, Seymour, Slater, Walton.
 MRC Senior Clinical Fellow: Turner.
 NIHR Senior Investigators: D Clark*, Geddes*, Creswell, Ehlers, Lovestone*, Maclaren, Rothwell,
 Sharpe, Vincent* (*emeritus).

 Selected awards
 British Neurosurgical Society Medal 2019 (Aziz); National Academy of Sciences Troland Award
 2017 (Behrens); Blavatnik Award 2020 (Behrens); Patrick Wall Medal, Royal College of
 Anaesthetists 2016 (Bennett); British Association for Psychopharmacology Senior Clinical Prize
 2016 (Browning); Academic of the Year, Royal College of Psychiatrists 2018 (Cipriani);
 Spearman Medal 2014 (Cohen Kadosh); Lifetime achievement award, American Association for
 Behavioral and Cognitive Therapy 2015 (D Clark); Federation of European Research Societies
 Research Prize 2018 (Dupret); American Psychological Foundation Wilhelm Wundt-William
 James Award for Trans-Atlantic Psychology 2015 (Ehlers); President’s Award, British
 Psychological Society 2020 (Freeman); European College of Neuropsychopharmacology Prize
 2016 (Geddes); FENS-EJN Young Investigator Prize 2020 (Hunt); British Association of Cognitive
 Neuroscience mid-career award 2016 (Husain); Broadbent Prize 2019 (Nobre); Fellow, US
 National Academy of Science 2020 (Nobre); Queen’s Anniversary Prize 2014 (Rothwell);
 Psychiatrist of the Year, Royal College of Psychiatrists 2014 (Sharpe); Feldberg Foundation Prize
 2017 (Tracey); British Neuroscience Association Outstanding Contribution Award 2018 (Tracey);
 Wellcome-Beit Prize (Lak, Saxe, Tofaris).

 4.4.2 Other markers of esteem and contribution
 Learned societies: 31 senior positions, including 8 Presidents: Foster (British Neuroscience
 Association); Fox (Society for Affective Science); Harrison (British Association for
 Psychopharmacology); Heyes (Experimental Psychology Society); Jezzard (International Society
 for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine); Salkovskis (British Association for Behavioural and
 Cognitive Therapies); Sharpe (American Academy of Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry); Tracey
 (Federation of European Neuroscience Societies).

 Committees and funding panels: MRC Council (Tracey); MRC (4 people); ERC (5 people);
 Wellcome (11 people); Royal Society (3 people); NIHR (5 people); BBSRC (3 people); UKRI (4
 people); ESRC (2 people); NICE Committees and Groups (5 people including chair, (D Clark));
 NC3R (1 person).

 Journal editorial work: 108 people have held editorial positions, including 6 as Chief Editor: Bhui
 (British Journal of Psychiatry), Cipriani (Evidence-Based Mental Health), Jezzard (Magnetic
 Resonance in Medicine), Husain (Brain, elected), Salkovskis (Behavioural and Cognitive
 Psychotherapy), Watkins (Founding Co-Editor, Language and Brain).

 Contributions to government and policy: Burnet (All-Party Parliamentary Advisory Group on
 the Human Microbiome); D Clark (NHS England’s Clinical Advisor for Improving Access to
 Psychological Therapies; ICS 05IAPT); Espie (led Public Health England Every Mind Matters
 sleep campaign; ICS 09SLEEPIO); Foster (Expert witness, House of Lords Science Committee);
 Kuyken (All-Party Parliamentary Mindfulness Group; ICS 01MINDFUL); Salkovskis (Clinical
 Advisor, Public Health England); Singh (UKRI Covid-19 Research and Innovation Taskforce;
 DAVOS Summit 2019).

 Bibliometrics: In a standardised citation metrics database of 6.9 million researchers across all
 disciplines (PLoS Biology 2019;17:e3000384), 41 (22%) of our staff are included in the top 1%,
 with 15 (9%) ranked in the top 0.1%.
     • 12 researchers are in the 2020 ISI Highly Cited Researchers list, as well as Goodwin and
          A Vincent who retired in 2018. Reflecting the breadth of our research, they include
          psychiatrists (Cipriani, S Fazel, Geddes), engineers (Jbabdi, Jenkinson, Miller), basic
          neuroscientists (Rushworth, Smith, Waters, Woolrich), a psychologist (Kuyken) and a
          neurologist (Rothwell).

                                                                                            Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.5 Future plans for collaborations and contributions
 As part of our future strategy for research (§1.8), people (§2.4) and infrastructure (§3.7), we will
 expand the reach and impact of our collaborations (§4.1) and contributions (§4.3). Specific areas
 include:
     • A strengthened, enlarged partnership with the University of Birmingham based on the
        existing ‘M40 Alliance’, providing mutual benefits in terms of research capability and
        capacity, and allowing us to engage better with diverse communities.
     • We are engaging with organisations in northern and coastal areas to further this reach; we
        already have funded links with Blackpool and are developing a major research programme
        in Liverpool schools (M Fazel).
     • A UKRI/Versus Arthritis Pain Centre, led by Tracey and Bennett.




                                                                                             Page 32
