Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Warwick

 Unit of Assessment: D29 Classics

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1.    Overview

 Since its foundation in 1995, the Department has built a reputation as a dynamic and
 progressive centre for Classics that covers all major aspects of the discipline (language,
 literature and thought, philology, history, art, archaeology) and is actively engaged in redefining
 the field beyond its traditional boundaries. The Warwick Classics Network (founded in
 2018) and our long-standing, renowned Ancient Drama Festival underpin our energetic
 outreach programme; Scott’s co-Directorship of Warwick’s new Institute of Engagement
 (launched 2020; cf. REF5a: 4.3.4) puts Classics at the centre of Warwick’s pioneering vision of
 public engagement.

 In the review period, our core strategy has been to meet the key research objectives outlined
 for REF 2014: i.e. to build on our world-class strengths in numismatics, epigraphy and ancient
 medicine, and to foster multi-directional interdisciplinary dialogue between research clusters.
 We have exceeded these objectives by recruiting new posts to develop world-class expertise in
 ancient literary texts and criticism, with a distinctive emphasis on comparative approaches,
 and are developing a new research cluster (Ancient Literature & Thought). We have grown
 from 13.9 to 17.5FTE, publishing over 23 books and 50 articles in the review period. We have
 been ranked first in the UK for research income per capita 2014-17 (2nd 2017-19), winning 19
 major research grants; research income has risen to £4,062,320 from £1,282,941 in 2008-13.
 We have also attracted 19 fixed-term postdocs and 38 PGR students (MAR and PhD), have
 funded a 3-year rolling research fellowship in Hellenistic culture, and recruited a Research
 Fellow in Impact and Outreach. We produce and foster distinctive research that mediates
 innovatively between the traditionally separate sub-fields of archaeology, art history and
 classical philology, in ways that are discipline-leading. Collaboration within the department is
 enhanced by engagement with the Global Research Priority (GRP) Connecting Cultures (Scott
 Academic Co-Lead), and with Warwick’s Interdisciplinary Centres (e.g. Global History and
 Culture; Centre for Research into Philosophy, Literature and the Arts: cf. 1.4). At every level, our
 research culture integrates widening participation and outreach as part of our commitment to
 support young scholars from all social, ethnic and educational backgrounds.

 Research is focused around three research clusters, two established (Medical Humanities;
 Ancient Visual and Material Culture, incorporating the disciplines of epigraphy and numismatics)
 and one rapidly developing (Ancient Literature & Thought). In keeping with our 2014 objectives,
 each of these clusters is interdisciplinary and outward-facing, i.e. focused both on cultivating
 international research networks and on joining the dots between high-level research
 collaboration and public engagement.

 Our strategic goals for the next 5 years are as follows:

    A) to further develop our already outstanding strengths in visual and material culture, and
       ancient medicine;




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    B) to expand our new research cluster in ancient literature and thought, joining up
       traditionally separate sub-fields in Classics in original and creative ways, supporting staff
       to work innovatively across the study of ancient texts and material culture, and modelling
       the new methodologies and theoretical approaches that result from this work.

    C) to expand the Warwick Classics Network, Warwick Classics Drama Festival and related
       impact activities, reaching ever-wider and more diverse audiences, raising the profile of
       Classics regionally, nationally and internationally, and ensuring the vigour and
       sustainability of the discipline in its twenty-first century reformulations.

 1.2.    Research clusters and objectives

      A. Ancient Visual and Material Culture
 The department is a centre of excellence in research into ancient visual and material culture,
 particularly numismatics (Professors Butcher and Frey-Kupper, Associate Professor Rowan,
 Research Fellows Calomino, Gkikaki and Mondello) and epigraphy (Professor Cooley,
 Research Fellow Carless Unwin): staff work across history, archaeology and ancient art, in
 interaction with art/cultural historians Newby, Scott and Davidson, and collaborate in mentoring
 postdocs and PGs. Our taught MA programmes develop specialist skills (e.g. in epigraphy, coin
 cataloguing and digital humanities), helping to sustain the discipline. We have established one of
 the strongest numismatic research hubs in Europe, publishing new finds and leading the way
 in confronting interdisciplinary questions with broader implications for the study of history and
 archaeology. We host two ERC-funded projects (Rowan’s Starting Grant and Butcher’s
 Advanced Grant) which, together with Butcher’s AHRC project (metallurgy of Rome’s silver
 coinage), have attracted over £2 million in research income. Frey-Kupper is involved in
 international projects on Greek coinage including the Historia Numorum volume for Sicily and
 the coin finds from the Basilica Aemilia in Rome. Research in ancient epigraphy is led by
 Cooley, whose AHRC-funded research has led to a new online edition of the Latin inscriptions in
 the Ashmolean Museum (she now holds a Leverhulme SRF). Newby’s Leverhulme Trust-funded
 Materiality of Ancient Festivals draws together specialists in epigraphy, numismatics and art,
 with Butcher and Cooley serving on the advisory panel. We are committed to introducing these
 specialist disciplines to as wide and diverse an audience as possible, beyond academia (cf.
 case study 1) through a commitment to open research: Rowan’s ERC project on tokens
 includes construction of a Numishare Linked Open Data database, working with museums
 worldwide to enable them to link/present their data to this standard. Key publications include
 Butcher’s The Metallurgy of Roman Silver Coinage (CUP), Cooley and Orrell’s Inventive
 Inscriptions (OUP), Newby’s Greek Myths in Roman Art and Culture (CUP) and Rowan’s co-
 edited volume on Tokens (Royal Numismatics Society). Our 5-year strategic aim for this cluster
 is to build on these strengths, and to cement the Department’s reputation as a leading centre for
 research in numismatics, epigraphy and visual culture, as the results of major grant projects
 come to fruition (Rowan’s and Butcher’s ERCs) and through newly funded research (e.g. Cooley
 2020-22, on Tiberian epigraphy). Cf. strategic goals 1.1A + B.

      B. Medical Humanities:
 Warwick scholars are at the forefront internationally of this rapidly evolving field. The cluster is
 led by Swain (Professor) and Petit (Assistant Professor), together with Vagelpohl (Senior
 Research Fellow) and Hallum (Wellcome Trust Fellow). We have made significant contributions
 to the publication and interpretation of major Greco-Arabic texts, and have undertaken world-
 leading research on Galen, the Galenic corpus, and its reception in the Islamic, Byzantine and
 Western worlds. In the review period, Swain has won extensive funding from the Wellcome

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust (totalling over £1.1 million) for projects on the reception and development of ancient Greek
 science and pseudo-science in late antiquity and the Islamic period. Postdocs on Swain’s earlier
 projects from 2008-2012 (Vagelpohl, Hallum) now hold independent or senior Research
 Fellowships and have become established specialists in the field. A postdoc has also been
 generated (Thumiger, Wellcome Trust Medical Humanities Fellow for project on phrenitis, 2015-
 19). Petit became Discipline Representative for Medicine & Science at the Renaissance Society
 of America in 2018, won the Humboldt Prize in 2020, and has continued her work on Medical
 Diagnosis in Late Antiquity (Wellcome Trust award, 2013-18), also winning grants from the
 Wellcome Trust and BA for collaborative work on Galen. We have held several international
 conferences and conference panels, helping develop an international network of scholars in
 Medical Humanities, led by Warwick (e.g. Swain: panel at School of Abbasid Studies, Yale,
 2018; Petit: conferences on Galen’s De Indolentia, 2014, and on Pseudo-Galenic texts, Warburg
 Institute, 2015). Publications include Swain and Vagelpohl’s editions of Galen’s Commentaries
 on Hippocrates’ Epidemics (de Gruyter), Swain’s co-authored A Literary History of Medicine
 (Brill); Thumiger’s A History of Mind and Mental Health in Classical Greek Medicine (CUP),
 Petit’s prize-winning monograph on Galen (Brill, c.f. 4.4 below) and edited volume on Galen’s
 De Indolentia (Brill). Our 5-year strategic aim is to recruit further postgraduates and ECRs
 within the field to ensure the sustainability and intellectual breadth of the cluster, consolidating
 Warwick’s position as a world centre for the progressive study of Galen and his reception. Cf.
 strategic goals 1.1A + B.

      C. Ancient Literature and Thought
 This major new research cluster, focused on written texts and conceptual structures in antiquity
 and their reception, promotes interdisciplinary dialogue across the Department and ensures
 a more rounded research profile. It is core to our strategic goal (cf. 1.1B) of building equally
 strong expertise in the study of texts and of material culture, and of promoting innovative,
 discipline-leading dialogue between those subfields. It is led by 2 Professors (Csapo, Rimell),
 1 Reader (Fearn), 1 Associate Professor (Bakola) and 1 Assistant Professor (Guisti), and has
 recruited 3 ECRs (Hadjimichael, Laterza, Sanzo). We have made strategic appointments of
 junior and mid-career scholars (Bakola, Giusti, Rimell), who with Fearn work in creative
 collaboration with our experts on material culture, epigraphy, ancient art, rhetoric,
 medical/philosophical texts, gender, sexuality and performance (Rowan, Cooley, Newby, Petit,
 Scott, Davidson): this has led to a sharp increase in numbers of PGs working on literary and
 scientific texts (8 PhDs, 3MATs and 3 MARs have joined us since 2016). In 2018, Csapo, a
 specialist in Greek theatre from the University of Sydney, won one of the first BA Global
 Fellowships in 2019, and his presence has further invigorated our work on ancient texts and their
 performance. The new Taught MA in Ancient Literature and Thought (first cohort 2020)
 complements the MAs in Material and Visual Culture, offering a unique pathway for UK
 classicists interested in literary theory and comparative approaches. A series of workshops
 and seminars have brought together classical philology, history and reception studies: e.g. the
 ‘Classical Connections’ series led by Giusti, 2018-19; international Symposium Cumanum on
 ‘Virgil and the Feminine’, run by Rimell and Giusti, 2019 (edited volume forthcoming), and the
 symposium on ‘Classics in Relation’, led by Fearn and Rimell, 2020 (see also 1.4 below), which
 further develop methodologies for reading classical texts through and with modern political and
 philosophical thought (cf Fearn 2020, Rimell 2015). Key publications include Csapo’s Theatre
 Beyond Athens (CUP), Hadjimichael’s The Emergence of the Lyric Canon (OUP), Fearn’s
 Pindar’s Eyes (OUP), Giusti’s Carthage in Virgil’s Aeneid (CUP), and Rimell’s The Closure of
 Space in Roman Poetics (CUP). Our 5-year strategic aims for this cluster include recruiting
 further PGs and ECRs within the field, developing our new MA by supporting talented UGs from


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 all backgrounds, and further fostering links with Philosophy and English depts. Cf. strategic
 goal 1.1B.

 1.3.   Approach to Impact and context for case studies

 Attention to (enabling) impact is fully embedded in our research culture. The Warwick
 Classics Network (WCN, launched 2018) shows our commitment to supporting impact’s
 vitality and sustainability. This is led by Scott (also co-Director of Warwick’s new Institute of
 Engagement, President of the UK’s largest Classical Association branch and Trustee and
 Director of the charity Classics for All) and supported by a Research Fellow in Impact and
 Outreach (Grigsby): the WCN brings together existing impact events (e.g. our longstanding
 Ancient Drama Festival) and new opportunities for engagement with the key beneficiaries of
 our research, especially schools. The WCN works closely with the national project Advocating
 Classics Education (2017-2020) as well as Warwick Research & Impact Services, and is partly
 funded by the Warwick Widening Participation and Impact Funds as well as two external bodies
 (3.1 below).

 Research-led impact is created at all levels in the department, including UGs, PGs and ECRs
 as well as permanent staff, through on-line content, publications, talks and events. Staff are
 involved in broadcasting and journalism; in addition to Scott (case study 2), Cooley was
 advisor for Bettany Hughes’ series Pompeii: Countdown to Disaster and Petit participated in the
 BBC mini-series The Beauty of Anatomy, 2014. We write for public audiences e.g. World
 History Magazine (Scott), The TLS (Rimell), The LRB, The Guardian, The Daily Telegraph and
 the Sunday Times (Davidson, Scott), BBC History Magazine (Butcher, Cooley, Scott); BBC
 History Extra (Rowan, Cooley, Scott), Omnibus (Scott). Impact is central to all termly Research
 committee meetings, supported by the Arts Faculty Impact Team. Our research facilitates impact
 on three main audiences: schools (pupils, teachers, policy makers), museums (professionals
 and museum visitors) and an interested and informed public. See detail below:

      Schools:
 Our research enables significant impact on secondary school teaching of the classical world.
 Our multifaceted strategy is exemplified by both our case studies. Cooley’s collaboration with
 the Ashmolean Museum has created research that is accessible for schools and has
 empowered educators to work from primary sources in order to develop new approaches to
 teaching the Roman world. Scott’s case study shows how his research-led documentaries have
 actively engaged with schoolteachers to influence the way they conceive of ancient Greece.
 Other initiatives that sustain impact on schools and schoolteachers include:

       our research-led Drama Festival (currently funded by the BA for 5 years) combines
        performances with lectures and workshops, reaching over 600 children and their
        teachers annually;
       outward-facing understanding of the relation between textbooks, cross-over books and
        scholarly publications as a continuum (Cooley’s Pompeii and Herculaneum Sourcebook
        2014 is prescribed for GCSE, cf. 4.2; Rowan’s Using Coins as Sources 2018 is a
        resource for both students and scholars; Scott’s publications have been used in school
        textbooks in Canada);
       we sustain ongoing dialogue with teachers through inset days, schools lectures, and
        training in epigraphy, Greco-Roman art and numismatics; since 2019 we have run three
        regular schools/teachers events each year (each attended by c. 100 teachers); the WCN


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        presents online resources based on staff research which are reaching huge numbers of
        educators in the UK and abroad (100,000+ hits by July 2020 rising to 200,000 in Dec
        2020); from 2019-20 WCN is co-ordinating use of the Departmental collection in schools,
        presenting research by staff;
       Scott’s oiko portal (from May 2020, the focus of a new Monash Australia/Warwick
        Education Exchange project) provides a suite of resources for researching and teaching
        global history in schools and universities worldwide.

      Museums; interested and informed public:
 We facilitate impact by collaboration and interaction with museums, curators and an interested
 public inseparable from our outward-facing research agenda and culture. Cooley’s project (see
 case study 1) involves educational activities, advising curators, substantial online resources and
 gallery redesigns, and publications aimed at school children, the interested public, and advanced
 scholars. Scott’s TV and media work (see case study 2) has clearly shown the effectiveness of
 and demand for broadcasting in disseminating research to the broader public and in involving
 museums and galleries in live scholarly debates at all levels. Other key examples include:

       workshops for the Money and Medals Network designed to train non-specialist museum
        professionals and to share our expertise in numismatics;
       Swain’s events at the History of Science Museum Oxford involving the general public in
        his research on ancient medicine; Swain’s Anecdotes and Antidotes (Oxford World
        Classics 2020) presents the results of his Literary History of Medicine to a general
        audience;
       Frey-Kupper’s and Rowan’s use and creation of online databases in their research,
        which enables museums worldwide to make their collections accessible;
       regular involvement in University outreach and public engagement events, such as the
        British Science Festival (Sept 2019) with sessions by Butcher, Rowan and Scott and
        family activities run by staff, PGs and ECRs;
       funded by Warwick's IAS, Cooley is currently collaborating with Warwick Manufacturing
        Group, together with Chichester Town Council and Fishbourne Roman Palace, to
        investigate ways of using 3-D scans and prints for heritage activities.

 Impact: strategic goals
 Our 3rd strategic aim (1.1C) entails sustaining the success of the annual Drama Festival and
 the Warwick Classics Network (including additional resources e.g. videos, podcasts, the
 #askanacademic Q&A, the WarwickClassics YouTube channel), further developing impact
 activities and events around the ERC Tokens project, and continuing to develop links between
 Scott’s broadcasting, innovative use of VR in schools, the oiko portal, and the WCN, with the
 help of Warwick’s new Institute of Engagement (directed by Scott). We also continue to
 support PG initiatives such as Classical Texting, a PG-led blog-post series, which gives PGs
 training in research impact.

 More specific 5-year goals to support impact and ensure its ongoing vitality include:

       Use of Rowan’s ERC project as a platform for engaging cultural heritage professionals
        and members of the public in debates on how to understand ancient tokens;
       further development of VR to disseminate research in ancient Greek history in schools (a
        symposium in Feb 2020 brought together the Warwick Classics Network, Digital



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Technologists at Warwick, and staff at the company Liminia VR to discuss ideas and
        plans);
       further increasing our offering of teacher study days and training events for museum
        professionals;
       further development of collaborative work between the Department, WMG and museums
        to explore the potential of 3-D scans in research and museology;
       expanding range of local partners, including schools, cultural heritage institutions and
        archaeological sites through Coventry City of Culture 2021. The WCN will lead
        collaboration between the Department, Coventry University and Culture Coventry (the
        Trust managing The Herbert Gallery, Coventry Transport Museum, and Lunt Roman
        Fort) utilising a new dedicated Antiquities Room in the New Faculty of Arts building
        (completion 2021). The University will become a central point for rotating displays of
        Coventry's historic culture from 2021, as part of a permanent legacy (c.f. REF5a: 2.1-2,
        4.3.4).
       embed development of skills in impact and engagement through new practical UG
        module run in association with WCN and Warwick Institute of Engagement.

 1.4.    Interdisciplinary research

 Inter- and cross-disciplinarity, which we understand critically as a space for imagining the future
 of Classics as a complex nexus of fields, is built into and facilitated by everything we do.
 This agenda is supported by the Connecting Cultures GRP and by Warwick’s interdisciplinary
 centres, in conjunction with the Institute of Advanced Study (IAS) and the Humanities Research
 Centre (HRC), whose role is to promote innovative interdisciplinary research. Through the IAS
 and in collaboration with other depts. including Sociology and Chemistry, we have invited
 esteemed international scholars working across disciplines (from Brown, Johns Hopkins,
 Michigan, Princeton, Sydney and Vienna). Cooley and Calomino have worked with the WMG on
 3-D scanning (cf. 1.3). Scott is on the steering committee for the Global History and Culture
 Centre, and Academic co-lead for the Connecting Cultures GRP.

 We have supported the first cohort of WIRL CO-FUND fellows (interdisciplinary postdocs)
 based in IAS (Hadjimichael and Sanzo), and our PGs have published in Exchanges, IAS’s peer-
 reviewed interdisciplinary journal. Cf. REF5a: 2.9.2. Staff and postdocs have organised
 interdisciplinary workshops and conferences, including ‘Heidegger’s Greece’ (Fearn),
 ‘Racing the Classics’ (Giusti, cf. 1.2C), and ‘The Materiality of Mourning’ (Newby); our PGs have
 won HRC funding to hold interdisciplinary colloquia.

 Interdisciplinary research is also embedded in external grant applications, which are supported
 by a peer review college in the Faculty of Arts: e.g. Newby’s Wellcome Trust Medical Humanities
 Grant.

 Collaboration with the British School at Rome has benefited from its ideal research
 environment for interdisciplinary colloquia, which have included 'Latin Inscriptions and Public
 Engagement in Museums' (Cooley 2017); ‘Rethinking ancient pharmacology’, (Petit 2017);
 ‘Tokens, Value and Identity’ (Rowan 2018).




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5.    Open Research environment

 Published outputs by academic staff and postdocs are deposited in the Warwick Open Access
 institutional repository, WRAP. Cf. REF5a: 2.10. This ensures ‘green’ Open Access compliance.
 Publications arising from Wellcome Trust grants and book publications deriving from the ERC
 ‘Token Communities’ project are made available in full via ‘gold’ Open Access route. Databases
 connected with three of our major research projects are Open Access: the AshLI project website
 provides Open Access to the project’s edition of the Ashmolean’s Latin inscriptions:
 http://latininscriptions.ashmus.ox.ac.uk/. The oiko project offers Open Access to the online
 database linked to research in Ancient Global History: https://oiko.world/. The Ancient Tokens
 project provides images, descriptions and find contexts of thousands of ancient tokens
 (https://coins.warwick.ac.uk/token-types/; https://coins.warwick.ac.uk/token-specimens/). We are
 working with Academic Technologists in the Faculty to be the only University in the UK to have
 the numismatic standard database software (Numishare) installed on its servers, allowing open
 access data for all future projects. Frey-Kupper’s research has already contributed to online
 databases making museum materials accessible to scholars, museum professionals and the
 public.

 1.6.   Support for a culture of research integrity

 All research is compliant with the revised Research Integrity Concordat (2019), the principles of
 which are embedded into our research culture at all levels. The HoD and Director of Research
 ensure all staff are kept up to date with legislation and regulatory requirements, professional
 body codes of practice, and university policies and practices, and undertake any necessary
 training. Regular research-focused staff meetings allow staff to scope projects and consult on
 potential ethical implications, which are referred as required to the Humanities and Social
 Sciences Research Ethics Committee (REF5a: 2.5). A devolved ethics committee considers UG
 and PG research. We are committed to promoting the open exchange of ideas, research
 methods, data and results (and their discussion, scrutiny and debate) subject to any
 considerations of confidentiality, and report thrice yearly to the Arts Faculty Research and
 Impact Committee.



 2. People

 2.1.    Staffing strategy and development

 Staffing and recruitment strategy is driven by strategic goals (cf. 1.1) and by our commitment to
 research excellence. The unit comprises 19 Category A staff: 9 Professors, 1 Reader, 2
 Associate Professors, 2 Assistant Professors, 1 Senior Research Fellow, 4 Research Fellows,
 across our 3 main research clusters (1.2.A-C). Five are funded by external research awards
 (fixed term) and a sixth is supported by a departmental early career research fellowship
 (DECRF). One, Csapo, holds a British Academy Global Professorship. We currently host 5
 Research Fellows employed in connection with specific research projects, as well as 1 Emeritus
 Reader (Ireland), and 2 Associate Fellows (numismatists Spoerri Butcher and Howgego, of the
 Ashmolean Museum Oxford). We have strengthened the Ancient Literature and Thought
 research cluster, hiring Latinists Rimell and Giusti, and have consolidated research strengths in
 medical humanities and numismatics by making permanent the Wellcome Trust Senior



                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Fellowship held by Petit and the Departmental research Fellowship held by Rowan.
 We also appointed a Research fellow for outreach and impact (Grigsby).

 ECFs are nurtured to foster excellent career progression. Previous holders of the DECRF have
 secured permanent posts. Doctoral assistants on Swain’s 2008-2012 projects (Vagelpohl,
 Hallum) have become established specialists in the field, both holding research fellowships at
 Warwick, while researchers on Cooley’s AHRC Ashmolean project (Masséglia, Cornwall, Baker),
 are now in permanent posts at Leicester, Birmingham, and Great Northern Museum. Gkikaki, a
 researcher on Rowan’s ERC, now holds a Marie-Curie fellowship to continue her work on the
 tokens of Athens. WIRL-COFUND Fellow Sanzo (2018-Jan 2020) won an ERC Starting Grant,
 Research Fellow Calomino won an ERC Consolidator Grant (2020) and Hadjimichael (left 2019)
 has now secured a permanent post at Birmingham. Starr (AHRC grant 2012-19) won a
 permanent post at Istanbul Technical University.

 Our ongoing recruitment strategy is to recruit excellence in both research and teaching, and
 to build on our research strengths while also allowing flexibility in keeping with the rapid
 evolution of Classics as a field. We also give careful consideration in our recruitment to the
 potential for non-academic impact emerging from research. We continue to advocate for a
 balance between fixed-term research posts or fellowships and permanent teaching and research
 positions (it makes for a stable yet dynamic research culture, and offers career development
 opportunities to a range of ECRs).

 Our staff body is gender-balanced and diverse in terms of age and geographical provenance.
 54% of permanent staff are female, 46% male, with an age range from early 30s to early 60s.
 Females make up 50% of the department’s permanent professors, well above the national
 average in UK Classics Departments of 38.5 % (CUCD 2018-19 statistics). Fixed-term staff are
 67% male, 33% female (fte). 38% of permanent staff were born outside the UK, while fixed-term
 staff and postdocs are predominately not from the UK and/or are trained elsewhere (North
 America, Australia, China, Europe). The prevalence of bi- and tri-lingualism among staff and
 their international outlook (Frey-Kupper won a Warwick Staff Global Award in 2016) helps attract
 international Erasmus and doctoral students.

 Multiple strategies are in place to ensure successful, equitable career development. A
 Research Staff Forum meets several times annually to focus on the furthering of research
 careers. ECRs and new Assistant Professors are supported by mentors; bespoke skills training
 is provided to ECRs by the Institute for Advanced Study; Assistant Professors have probationary
 status for up to 5 years, with reduced teaching and administrative loads. Confirmation in post
 brings promotion to Associate Professor. Staff are fully supported in applying for promotion by
 the Departmental Sub-Committee on Academic Promotions (promotions since 2013: Cooley,
 Frey-Kupper, Newby, Scott and Rimell to Professor, Fearn to Reader, Bakola and Rowan to
 Associate Professor). The department regularly reassesses and reconfirms its commitment to
 furthering the impact of the Concordat to support the career development of researchers, by
 continuing our active recruitment and support of ECRs from a diverse range of backgrounds. In
 the review period, we have mentored 2 classicists holding WIRL-COFUND fellowships,
 alongside 14 research fellows employed on specific research projects, or holding independent
 fellowships (e.g. Marie Curie, BA etc.).

 Further strategies to support and recognise research-active staff, and especially ECRs,
 include:


                                                                                           Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
           financial support for conference attendance;
           full assistance in grant applications from both the department and Warwick’s Research
            and Impact team, with excellent results. Director of Research (Rimell) is working with
            Warwick’s Research Development Officer to advise early-career female and BAME staff
            in writing grant applications;
           staff are fully supported in taking up the permitted 1 term of study leave for every 6
            terms of teaching, and in ‘banking’ leave when desirable.
           we recognise staff achievement in research and impact, and have introduced the
            practice of inaugural lectures (Rimell, Scott 2019) and the annual Humanities Research
            Centre book launch;
           colleagues are encouraged to explore research collaborations within the UOA and
            wider university, which can often help ECRs progress with their careers and publications
            (e.g. Crisà, Gkikaki and Rowan, 2019);
           all staff are encouraged to develop their own new modules that complement their
            research interests. This is especially significant for ECRs who are empowered to
            advance their teaching and research in tandem;
           all new staff receive specific guidance on diversity and inclusion from the HoD
            together with Warwick’s Diversity and Inclusion team; all staff receive Moodle training in
            equality and diversity and in unconscious bias.

 2.2.       Research students

 Increasing our community of PGs has been a key priority in the review period. The PhD
 population has increased from 9 in July 2013 to 24 in July 2020; 17 PhDs have been awarded
 in the review period.

 PG recruitment and funding:
     we are energetic in mentoring Warwick UGs and MA students considering further study;
       we encourage outstanding UGs to develop independent research skills through
       Warwick’s Undergraduate Research Support Scheme and celebrate academic success
       through Departmental prizes;
     we use our Masters programmes to nurture talent and promote our research specialisms
       (cf.1.2C);
     financial support at Masters level is provided through the Warwick Taught Masters
       Studentships (specifically aimed at under-represented groups), and through a
       Departmental fees bursaries scheme;
     Departmental bursaries support 1 full PhD fees/stipend studentship and 2-3 fees-only
       awards per annum; the scheme promotes diversity and inclusion as well as academic
       excellence (e.g. through support for self-funding students with chronic health conditions);
     PhD candidates are supported in applying for University and external funding, with
       excellent rates of success: 70% of completed PhDs were fully funded (21% UK research
       councils, 21% charity, 28% University/Dept) and 62% of the current cohort are fully
       funded (a further 21% have Departmental fees awards).
     PhD students are supported with matched funded as required when applying to
       University and External research funds.

 Internationalism and interdisciplinarity:
      We have consolidated links with international partner universities, establishing co-
        tutelles with Milan, Pisa and Macquarie Australia, and have built on our links with La

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Sapienza to recruit 3 fully-funded PhD students; a new co-tutelle with Paris-Seine is also
        underway as part of the EUTOPIA alliance (REF5a: 2.12.1);
       we promote co-supervision and interdisciplinarity; we co-supervise students with the
        Ashmolean Museum, Oxford, via a CDP, and within Warwick supervise PhDs jointly with
        Centre for the Study of the Renaissance and Dept of History. We are also active
        members of the AHRC Midlands 4 Cities doctoral training centre consortium (2019 -);cf.
        REF5a: 3.9.3.
       PGs have participated in placements abroad via the Erasmus + scheme (La Sapienza)
        and through Warwick’s Humanities Research Centre Fellowships (Columbia NY,
        Johns Hopkins, Princeton).

 Support and Review structures:
     PGR progress is monitored annually via the upgrade to PhD status at the end of Year
      One, and by annual reviews thereafter, each involving two academics from outside the
      supervisory team.
     PG development and wellbeing is supported by close Departmental collaboration with the
      Doctoral College, Centre for Arts Doctoral Research Excellence (CADRE), and
      Wellbeing Support Services;
     All PGs are allocated a personal tutor (not their supervisor) to discuss career progression
      and wellbeing, and a peer mentor.

 Skills development and career progression
     All PGR students receive discipline-specific training within the Department, e.g.
         classes in academic German and French and software training for historians and
         archaeologists (e.g. SketchUp-3-D modelling of ancient cities; and Numishare); PGRs
         participate in Arts Faculty (CADRE) training workshops and palaeography and neo-Latin
         classes run in collaboration with the Centre for the Study of the Renaissance;
     PGs attend external training events, e.g. BES Practical Epigraphy workshop (with
         involvement of Cooley), and the BSR epigraphy summer school (run by Graham,
         formerly Teaching Fellow in the Dept).
     the online platform, Skillsforge, helps to identify professional development needs and
         available training sessions, encouraging students to log training and reflect on their
         continuing professional development;
     Classics PGRs have won funding from Warwick’s Humanities Research Centre to
         organise interdisciplinary colloquia (4 in review period);
     former PhDs have won academic posts at Michigan, Swansea and Warwick.

 2.3.   Equality and diversity, recruitment and support

 We are fully committed to sustaining a stimulating, rewarding, inclusive and egalitarian
 working environment and to helping colleagues achieve a healthy life-work balance through the
 following initiatives:

       All staff have been personally involved and fully consulted in the nomination and
        selection of their REF outputs, in supportive conversation with the HoD and Director of
        Research;
       all staff have been equitably consulted and involved in the writing of this statement;
       all staff involved in recruitment and in the REF receive equality and diversity training and
        instruction on unconscious bias; due attention has been given to our output submission

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        profile in respect to protected characteristics, gender balance and age/career stage, at
        every stage of the process (c.f. REF5a: 3.7);
       all academic committees and appointment panels are gender-balanced, and all research
        staff are treated equally when applying for study leave, funding, promotion, university
        prizes or salary awards. Cf. 2.1.
       we offer flexibility in working arrangements (e.g. in timetabling, remote working) to
        support staff with caring responsibilities;
       2 colleagues have taken up the University’s Academic Returner’s Fellowship, which
        allows staff who take extended maternity/ paternity/ adoption leave to take a matching
        period of research leave on their return;
       for those returning to work after a period of illness, care is taken to ensure that any
        missed research leave is re-scheduled;
       staff are supported in requesting a temporary change to working conditions where
        applicable, e.g. part-time work/career breaks;
       career progression is fully supported for both part-time and full-time staff;
       we are in continual dialogue with Warwick’s Wellbeing Services in order to support not
        just student but staff mental health, and staff resilience in dealing with serious mental
        health issues in the student body;
       due attention is given by the HoD to the equitable allocation of administrative roles to
        ensure even balance across genders and career levels.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1. Research funding

 Since REF 2014 we have almost quadrupled the research income awarded by external funders
 (REF 4b: split by funder: 41% UK charity (competitive); 29% UK Research councils; 26% EU
 Gov; 4% other). We were the top-ranking UK Classics Dept for research income per T&R fte in
 2014/15, 2015/16, and 2016/17, and ranked 2nd in 2017/18 and 2018/19 (HESA research
 income data). 19 major research grants or fellowships have been awarded by the ERC, AHRC,
 British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, and Wellcome Trust to 11 PIs, and 8 smaller grants. In
 addition, Butcher’s projects have involved beam time at the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source
 worth £304,570 in-kind value. This funding has led to several landmark publications, including
 Swain and Vagelpohl’s commentaries on Galen (2014 & 2016), Rowan’s co-edited volume on
 Tokens (2019) and Newby’s Materialities of Mourning (2018). We have also been successful in
 securing internal funding, e.g. from Warwick Impact Fund (£108,847) with a further £25,476
 from other University funds, including the Research Development Fund, the Humanities
 Research Fund, the Humanities Research Centre, the Institute of Advanced Studies, and the
 Connecting Cultures GRP, many serving as springboards for external funding applications, and
 allowing us to bring in international visiting fellows. The Coventry City of Culture 2021 initiative
 is also helping to identify, develop and fund impact activities developed through the Warwick
 Classics Network (e.g. 2019 Schools’ Day, with visits to Lunt Roman Fort and Herbert Gallery).
 University funds support our Ancient Drama festival; from 2020 – 2023 the costs will be
 covered by the British Academy as part of Csapo’s Global Professorship. Since 2019 we have
 won external funding to support the impact and outreach work of the WCN (Leventis Foundation,
 recently extended until 2026 and charity Classics for All). Our research income and funded
 projects therefore have both breadth and depth, strengthening sustainable, long-term links



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 between research and impact. Our marked increase in income has supported many more
 postdoctoral researchers (16), which has greatly enriched our research environment.

 3.2 Organisational and operational infrastructure

 We are supported by Research & Impact Services (R&IS) and by a peer review college within
 the Arts Faculty in developing major grant applications. The Director of Research and the
 Director of Impact lead termly research & impact meetings. R&IS provide dedicated RD,
 pathways to impact support and development and research systems, including opportunity
 horizon scanning, e.g. AHRC Follow-on Funding to support development, costing and tracking of
 research and impact. We are supported on research data management by the University’s
 Research data officer, who is part of the Library team. A termly Arts Faculty Research & Impact
 Committee keeps us in touch with wider developments in research strategy in the UK and
 worldwide. Regular communication informs staff of training and funding opportunities, e.g.
 workshops and initiatives run by Warwick Ventures, the Faculty Impact Team (impact
 development and training, Pathways to Impact, Online Resource Banks, Impact Lunches), IT
 and media training opportunities.

 We have strong links to the Humanities Research Centre, Warwick’s Interdisciplinary
 Centres (Centre for the Study of the Renaissance, Centre for Philosophy, Literature and the
 Arts, and the Connecting Cultures GRP) and the Institute of Advanced Study (cf. 1.3-1.4;
 REF5a: 2.9.2).

 We established a specialist Numismatics Hub in 2016, with a coin collection, specialist library
 resources and technical equipment for photography and studying coins. The hub hosts
 numerous researchers who are working alongside cultural heritage institutions to improve the
 knowledge of numismatic collections worldwide, by identifying previously unpublished holdings
 (e.g. tokens), holding training days, and providing new perspectives on existing collections (e.g.
 through metal analysis). The new Faculty of Arts building opening in 2021 will have a
 dedicated Antiquities Room (cf. 1.3).

 The Department works closely with Warwick Library and has a dedicated Classics Librarian
 (Vernon) who ensures that library purchases reflect our research activities. The Library offers
 subject-specific training sessions for UGs, PGs and staff and assists in making sure new PGRs
 and staff are supported in acclimatising to Warwick’s systems. Library spend on resources for
 the unit has been over £150,000 and we enjoy the benefits of subscription to many e-resources
 (JSTOR, TLG, SEG, Oxford Scholarship Online, Loeb Online)

 The unit’s open-access work is strongly supported by the university. All staff have a profile on
 WRAP (cf. 1.5) which hosts journal articles, conference papers, working papers, and theses, as
 well as providing citations to colleagues’ bibliographies.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1.   Collaborations, networks and partnerships:

 The Department is involved in a large number of collaborative projects with local, national, and
 international colleagues and stakeholders (schools, museums, cultural heritage sites: cf. 1.3)


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and staff conduct a range of peer-review activities. Our research environment actively fosters
 collaboration by emphasizing the interdisciplinary nature of Classics and the opportunities for
 dialogue with Warwick’s many centres for cross-disciplinary research (cf. 1.4). Staff, research
 fellows and PGRs collaborate to use the weekly research seminar, Institute of Advanced Studies
 International Visiting Fellowships, and conferences/symposia at Warwick to bring in prestigious
 scholars from all over the world. We also collaborate on PhD supervision under the AHRC
 Midlands 4 Cities DTC scheme (cf. 2.2).

 Individuals’ research projects, contributing to our 3 key research clusters, have often involved
 national and international collaboration:

       In Numismatics, Butcher was joint PI (with Liverpool) for an AHRC project on
        metallurgy, and worked with Heidemann (Berlin) on his Assur project. For her Historia
        Numorum project, Frey-Kupper works with Rutter (Edinburgh) and has collaborated in
        publishing new coin finds from excavations with colleagues in Berlin (DAI), Palermo,
        Pisa, Malta, Bern, and Zurich, as well as the International Numismatic Commission and
        the Swiss Academy. Butcher has held visiting fellowships in Orleans, Berlin and
        Jerusalem; Frey-Kupper at Padua and the American Numismatic Society in New York;
        Rowan at Sydney. In Epigraphy, Cooley has been PI on the AHRC project on
        Ashmolean Latin Inscriptions, joint with Oxford, and took part in the quinquennial review
        of the Epigraphic Database for the Akademie der Wissenschaften Heidelberg (2017);
        since 2014 she has contributed the section ‘Bretagne’ to Année Epigraphique (led by
        Corbier, Paris), and is on the Advisory Board of the ERC-funded Latin Now project (PI
        Mullen, Leicester) and of MacDonald’s AHRC project (Exeter); she is also President of
        the International Digital Epigraphy Association, Comitato scientifico member of Urbana
        Species (Quasar), and co-editor of the series Ancient Documents, for Oxford’s Centre for
        the Study of Ancient Documents. Newby’s international ‘Materiality of Mourning’
        workshop (2016) led to collaboration and a co-edited volume with anthropologist Toulson
        (Maryland Institute College of Art); her Leverhulme Festivals project engages with
        colleagues on the ‘Connected Contests’ project at Groningen, and she organised a panel
        with colleagues from Groningen and Mannheim at FIEC/CA conference (London, 2019).

       In Medical Humanities, Petit’s work on 'Rethinking Ancient Pharmacology' (BA-
        Leverhulme 2017-2019), and on Galen’s On Simple Drugs, involves collaboration with
        colleagues at Bologna and the BSR, Rome; she has organised international conferences
        (2014, 2015, and 2017) with collaborative outcomes (volume on Galen’s De indolentia,
        2018) and took part in the Warwick-Johns Hopkins staff exchange in April 2017,
        collaborating with colleagues from the history of medicine, classics, and modern
        languages; she also held research fellowships at Utrecht (2018) to work with Teun
        Tieleman, and at the IAS, Durham (2020) to work with Foxhall-Forbes. Swain’s Literary
        History of Medicine results from collaboration with colleagues from the Oriental Institute,
        Oxford.

       In Ancient Literature and Thought, Fearn is a founding member (2015) of
        the International Greek Poetry and Poetics Network, which held an international
        symposium at Warwick’s Centre for Research into Philosophy, Literature and the Arts in
        2018 (Heidegger’s Greece); his Classics in Relation conference (June 2020) brought
        together high-profile scholars in the US and UK. Rimell and Giusti organised the
        Symposium Cumanum (2018-19), the annual international conference for the Virgil Society


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        (which promotes Virgil to an interested public as well as to scholars). Rimell’s collaboration
        with Asper (Humboldt, Berlin) and Acosta-Hughes (Ohio State) gave rise to a series of
        conferences and an edited volume (Rimell-Asper 2017, Imagining Empire, Heidelberg).
        Giusti organised two collaborative international conferences, one on Vitruvius at Penn
        State University in 2018 with Hanses (Penn State) and Laterza (previously, Heidelberg,
        now ECR at Warwick), and Unspeaking Volumes at St Andrews in 2017 with Geue (St
        Andrews). As part of his BA-Postdoc project on Renaissance calendars, Xinyue organised
        a major international conference, ‘Temporalities, Ideologies, Poetics: Ancient and
        Early Modern Perspectives’ in 2019 at Warwick’s Venice Campus, which also involved
        Warwick PGRs.

 4.2.   Impact and contributions to society

 Our impact and public engagement activities have led to ongoing collaborations with and
 benefits to museums, schools, and exam boards (also cf. case study 2).

 Museums:
 The ERC Tokens Community team is working closely with twenty-four separate institutions,
 including major museums in the UK, Germany, Greece, Italy and the USA (e.g. British Museum,
 Ashmolean Museum, Athens Numismatic Museum, Münzkabinett and Altes Museum Berlin,
 Museum of Fine Art Boston), and archaeological superintendencies in Italy and Greece. The
 team is identifying, cataloguing and photographing tokens in these collections, as well as
 providing information to curators about how to understand these objects and the roles they
 played in ancient societies, which will enable tokens to be incorporated into digital and gallery
 display.

 The AHRC Latin Inscriptions Project (cf. case study 1) has edited and digitised the
 Ashmolean museum’s collection of Latin inscriptions, including unpublished material; it also held
 two workshops for curators and education staff in the UK and Europe, enabling the exchange of
 good practice in public engagement.

 Schools and Exam Boards:
 Our impact on local and national schools has been extensive; since 2018 this has been co-
 ordinated by the Warwick Classics Network. Through collaboration with the AHRC project
 Advocating Classics Education and the charity Classics for All, the WCN works closely with
 local schools of the Futures Trust at both primary and secondary levels (cf. 1.3) and makes
 research-led resources available to them. The WCN has reached over 2000 students thus far,
 and students and teachers from over 100 schools have attended events on campus; in Sept
 2019 it introduced Classics lessons to 3 local secondary schools, reaching 540 students per
 week with no previous access to Classics. It has a current network of contacts at 392 schools, all
 of which are able to access our on-line resources. It aims to increase the percentage of local
 schools offering Classics from 18% in 2018 to 45% by 2021 (by Jan 2020 total was 27%). In
 conjunction with the WCN, our Ancient Drama Festival, led by Bakola and inspired both by her
 ongoing research into Greek drama in performance and by her collaborations with professional
 theatre directors and set designers, has supported the learning of over 4000 schoolchildren
 since 2017, with measurable impact on teaching practice in UK schools. The recordings and
 lectures reach an even wider audience via our YouTube channel (totalling 41,000 views for
 Medea, Frogs and Oedipus), and are further supported by schools talks.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We work with the University’s Widening Participation Team to support pupils from under-
 represented groups (Sutton Scholars 2017; Sutton Summer Schools 2016-9), and with the
 Public Engagement Team to engage with a diverse range of local communities (e.g. 8 staff and
 postdocs participated in the adult education Kenilworth Community Course, ‘Greece, Rome and
 the Classical Tradition’, 2014; collaboration in British Science Festival 2019 allowed us to
 engage with families and individuals without a history of familiarity with Classics). Sutton Trust
 Scholars, who have not had access to classical subjects at school are guaranteed a reduced
 offer if accepted onto Classics UG programmes, and in the review period 2 such scholars have
 joined us as UGs.

 In secondary and higher education, Cooley’s work on Pompeii has been a cornerstone of the
 revised OCR GCSE syllabus, and has been used by the Board of Studies, Teaching and
 Educational Standards in New South Wales. Her Res Gestae has been adopted by The Open
 University for its Roman Empire Course (A340), reaching 12,000 students over an 11-year
 period from 2015. Cf. 1.3.

 Impact on the local community:
 A key aim of the WCN is to realise the impact of our research on the local community, working
 with Warwick’s Connecting Cultures GRP to develop the project ‘Coventry: A city of Cultures’ as
 part of Coventry City of Culture 2021, collaborating with Coventry University, Culture Coventry,
 and local schools (cf.1.3).

 4.3.   Contributions to the research base

 Our work, from skilled philological commentary, art history and the analysis of material remains
 to theoretically informed and comparative work in literary studies, reception studies and medical
 humanities, makes a serious and substantial contribution to contemporary Classics. Our often
 collaborative research has a global reach, and all colleagues conduct research within
 international networks, yet our activity also shows energetic commitment to Classics education
 and research locally (in our work with schools and museums) and nationally (in our projects with
 UK charities and other institutions). Several outputs published by colleagues in the review period
 have set the benchmark for their sub-field or have transformed the critical status quo in a
 particular area: major double-weighted monographs representing major advances in their
 respective fields include Fearn (2017), Giusti (2018), Hadjimichael (2019), Newby (2016), Petit
 (2018), Rimell (2015), Swain (2020), Thumiger (2017), Vagelpohl (2014) and Vagelpohl/Swain
 (2016). We are fully invested in championing Classics as a field of study for everyone, and our
 research and impact activities have played a significant role in boosting Classics teaching in the
 UK and in fostering the discipline at grass-roots level, to inspire the next generation of
 students and scholars. The WCN is having a real impact in ensuring Classics continues to thrive,
 in particular by promoting and supporting the study of Latin and Greek in state schools from
 primary level onwards: accessibility and inclusivity are crucial to the sustainability of the
 discipline, and are at the heart of the Department’s strategic vision (cf. 1.1C).

 4.4. Other measures of esteem, wider influence and contribution to the discipline

 In addition to activities detailed under 4.1 above, members of the UOA also play an active role
 across the discipline, as peer reviewers and members of research bodies.




                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Peer review:
 Staff at all levels act as peer reviewers for the most prestigious presses and international
 journals. Cooley, Newby, Rimell, and Scott have also acted as reviewers for tenure and
 promotional boards at Universities in the US, Canada, UK, and Australia.

 Service for grant-making bodies:
 During the review period, members of the Department have acted as expert reviewers for the
 following UK and European grant-awarding bodies: ERC Consolidator Grant panel (Rimell);
 College of Expert Reviewers, European Science Foundation (Butcher, Cooley); Austrian Science
 Fund (Scott); Austrian National Fund (Frey-Kupper), American Academy in Berlin (Frey-Kupper),
 Scientific Advisory Board of the Institute for the Study of Ancient Culture at the Austrian
 Academy of Sciences (Frey-Kupper, deputy-chair); Wellcome Trust (Swain; Petit); Institute of
 Classical Studies Research Promotion and Facilitation Committee (Swain); AHRC (Petit). Swain
 is Vice-President for Research and Higher Education Policy at the British Academy.

 Board Membership of Societies and Research Institutions:
 Butcher and Rimell are Council members of the Society for the Promotion of Roman Studies.
 Butcher acted as committee member and trustee for the Council for British Research in the
 Levant (2015-16). Rimell serves on the Board of Doctoral Studies in Comparative Literature,
 Istituto di Scienze Umane - Scuola Normale Superiore Pisa-Florence and is a member of the
 Fondazione Lorenzo Valla. Cooley is a member of the Faculty of Ancient History and Letters at
 the British School at Rome and chair of the Institute of Classical Studies Library Committee.
 Rowan is council member for the Royal Numismatic Society and in the Nomisma working group.
 Petit is Medicine & Science representative at the Renaissance Society of America. Frey-Kupper
 is a member of the Oxford Centre for Phoenician and Punic Studies.

 Editorial positions
 Staff have also served on the editorial boards of the following journals: Berytus Archaeological
 Studies, Beirut (Butcher, associated editor until 2017); Journal of Roman Studies (Cooley,
 2013-2018); Papers of the British School at Rome, (Cooley, co-editor since 2017); Classical
 Philology (Rimell); Annali dell'Istituto Italiano di Numismatica, Byrsa, Carthage Studies, Journal
 of Archaeological Numismatics, and Numismatische Zeitschrift, (Frey-Kupper); Swiss
 Numismatic Review (Frey-Kupper, co-editor); Journal of the Numismatic Association of Australia
 (Rowan); Special Publications for the Royal Numismatic Society (Rowan, editor from 2019);
 Renaissance Quarterly (Petit).

 Staff members have received the following prizes and recognitions of research achievement:
     Petit, Médecine, littérature et pouvoir à Rome, 2018: quinquennal Médaille de Chénier de
        l'Académie des Inscriptions et Belles Lettres 2019.
     Petit: Humbolt Prize, 2020.
     Rimell was elected member of the Academia Europaea in 2020.
     Rimell, The Closure of Space in Roman Poetics (CUP 2015): ‘Honorable Mention’ in the
        2016 Prose Awards (American Association of Publishers).
     Frey-Kupper: Henry Grunthal Medal (2014).
     Scott: Honorary Citizen of Delphi (2015) in recognition of his research.
     Butcher: 'jeton de vermeil' of the Société Française de Numismatique, Paris (2018).




                                                                                                Page 16
