Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Greenwich

 Unit of Assessment: 20 - Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and structure
 Social Policy and Social Work research at the University of Greenwich (UoG) aims to sustain
 and grow excellence in (inter)disciplinary research and advance co-creation and sharing of
 applied knowledge that makes a positive difference to practitioners and a diverse range of
 communities regionally, nationally and internationally.

 Our priority research themes span four clusters that deepen our cross-disciplinary strengths: (1)
 Social inclusion, citizenship and participation; (2) Social care, health and wellbeing; (3)
 Educational and sustainable communities; (4) Leadership, governance and policy.
 Connecting threads are application of research to address social (in)justice; and methodological
 innovation in development and application of creative and participatory research methodologies,
 focused on community arts-based practices and policy development.

 This submission includes FTEs: 18 from Faculty of Liberal Arts and Sciences; Faculty of
 Education, Health and Human Sciences; Business School. Disciplinary areas include
 education, human geography, social work, sociology, social policy. The Institute for
 Lifecourse Development (ILD) acts as a hub to facilitate cross-faculty interdisciplinary research
 and supports new areas in social policy research.

 1.2 Our research and impact objectives
 This is the first UoG submission to UoA20 Social Policy and Social Work. Our research strategy
 refines and extends the University’s REF2014 submission to UoA25 Education. The REF2014
 panel noted strengths as: research environment conducive to producing research of
 nationally/internationally recognised quality; research excellence in areas of leadership, Higher
 Education, and sociology of education; clear research management structure, range of research
 groups and clusters; good policies to support development of staff; well-supported doctoral work,
 with small but sustained completions over assessment period; research funding derived from
 diverse sources.

 Our main goals were to create new knowledge within and across disciplines applied to social
 policy and social (in)justice, advance methodological innovation, and sustain reciprocal
 partnerships with research users and beneficiaries to better co-produce excellent impactful
 research. Our key aims were to: (1) strengthen our core disciplines by making excellent
 additional appointments at all levels; (2) enhance vitality of our (inter)disciplinary research
 culture; (3) increase the scale, quality, and impact of our research; (4) support sustainable
 partnerships with academic colleagues, practitioners, and research beneficiaries, locally,
 nationally and internationally; (5) increase external research and enterprise funding, especially
 from national and international research funding organisations, and for larger interdisciplinary
 bids; (6) actively and openly support equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) in all our endeavours.

 University restructuring and investment in new Centre for Applied Sociology (CAS), and cross-
 faculty ILD, strengthened delivery of high-quality interdisciplinary research and impact. In 2014,
 Reynolds was appointed to lead CAS, which applied and aligned sociological research to
 reduce social inequalities among disadvantaged, stigmatised communities, in the UK and
 internationally, across key policy themes (wellbeing, welfare, justice, social exclusion, social
 care, education policy, family policy, environmental policy). Synergy was found with Education
 research due to its strong commitment to educational pedagogy, lending itself to interdisciplinary
 research embracing broader professional practice and development. Further partnerships were
 established between Sociology and Social Work research, including a jointly organised seminar
 series on death affairs, and funding applications on asylum-seeking children’s experiences in the
 UK. ILD was established in 2019, advancing UoG’s vision of providing greater infrastructure for

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary research in social policy. It provided a framework to support interdisciplinary
 research and practice across our research groupings’ shared research interests and key social
 policy domains, supplied funding, support for interdisciplinary collaboration, and a primary base
 for research and practice staff to engage with multiple external stakeholders (see Section 3).

 This strategic restructuring and investment allowed our research and impact objectives to be
 more than realised. Using UoA25 Education REF2014 outcomes as our baseline, we achieved:

    ·   Increased staff numbers, almost doubling in size from FTEs: 10 to FTEs: 18, with growth
        across all research clusters.
    ·   New staff appointments: Professors (FTEs: 2), Associate Professors (FTEs: 2); Senior
        Lecturers (FTEs 5), Lecturers (FTEs: 1), Research Fellows (FTEs: 2). Promotions to
        Professor (FTEs: 1) and Associate Professor/Reader (FTEs: 6).
    ·   45% of colleagues are BAME, including two Black Professors (and 1 of only 45 Black
        women Professors in the UK); 72% are women, including 3 Professors and 8 mid-career
        academics.
    ·   80% and 22% of selected outputs attributed to female and ECR staff, respectively.
    ·   70% increase in doctoral completions: 41 doctorates awarded, compared with 24
        doctoral completions 2008-13.
    ·   Improved research productivity through increasing numbers and quality of publications.
        We published 124 peer reviewed journal papers, 12 books, 50 book chapters, 24 project
        and commissioned reports, and edited 27 journal special issues. A total of 212 outputs
        were uploaded to our GALA Open Access repository, a 55% increase from 137 in
        REF2014.
    ·   Greater collaboration with UK and international HEIs. 40% of journal papers co-authored
        with other UK HEIs; 23% of journal papers co-authored with international HEIs in 21
        countries. 36% of research and enterprise grants were collaborations with other UK
        HEIs; 16% with international HEIs.
    ·   998% increase in research and enterprise income from GBP192,892 for REF2014 to
        GBP1,578,275 research income and GBP610,332 in enterprise income. Funders include
        AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, NERC, European Union, Wellcome Trust, Cabinet Office,
        DEFRA-DFID, Department for Business, Innovation & Skills; World Bank.
    ·   Active collaborations with 40 UK and 15 international research users, including United
        Nations Human Settlement Programme (UN-Habitat), Metropolitan Police Service, Public
        Health England, Runnymede Trust. 10% of journal papers were co-authored with
        research users; 48% of research and enterprise grants were collaborations with research
        users.

 We appointed two Professors (Donovan, Reynolds), four mid-career academics (Hanna,
 Linton, Pentaris, Vacchelli), and four early-career researchers (Elliott-Cooper, Kralova,
 Kalocsányiová, North). We invested in retention and progression of early-career staff
 members. This represents a step change since REF2014 in the capacity of social policy
 research at UoG for research grant capture, PGR training, international collaborations, public
 engagement and impact (see Section 2).

 We secured University investment to progress an open research environment that goes beyond
 REF Open Access policy requirements. We host international peer reviewed journals,
 Greenwich Social Work Review, and Compass: Journal of Learning and Teaching, that provide
 immediate open access to content.

 We successfully embedded EDI into our research and practice. Our commitment to advancing
 highly inclusive research was underpinned by communities of practice approaches involving a
 broad range of public, research users, practice and policy stakeholders in every stage of
 research. Our Impact Case Studies highlight our success in improving engagement and
 partnerships with multiple professional and community stakeholders, including front-line public
 services serving disadvantaged BAME/migrant groups.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Our research clusters
 The UoA is organised into four clusters to achieve our strategic aim of advancing co-creation of
 applied knowledge in the delivery of (inter)disciplinary research and practice in key areas of
 social policy: wellbeing and welfare, justice, social exclusion, social care, education policy, family
 policy, and environmental policy. Our use of innovative creative and participatory methodologies
 connects the research clusters.

 Social inclusion, citizenship and participation (Elliott-Cooper, Kalocsányiová, Reynolds,
 Vacchelli). Led by Reynolds, research focused on key policy areas including multi-culturalism,
 citizenship, and inequalities. It created reciprocal partnerships with a diverse range of community
 practitioners and beneficiaries, to improve the presence and involvement of vulnerable groups in
 society. Research areas included racial justice, migrants’ labour, mobility and citizenship rights,
 and multi-lingual inclusive research practices. Participatory methodological innovation and
 activist scholarship were applied to research and analyses of the social needs and wellbeing of
 BAME communities and the evaluation of interventions. Significant achievements in promoting
 high impact, multi-disciplinary, international research include: Reynolds ERSC GBP360,000
 ‘Participatory Arts and Social Action Research’ (2016-18), established ongoing multi-disciplinary
 research partnerships with The Open University and University of York; Vacchelli (with Bard
 University Berlin) established MigART, the first international online repository for academics,
 teachers, activists and practitioners using co-produced creative and collaborative methods, to
 better understand migrant communities, and communicate findings in accessible, interactive
 ways.

 Social care, health and wellbeing (Hanna, Kralova, Mann, Morris, North, Pentaris). Led by
 Pentaris, research connected concerns about the consequences of poverty, austerity and
 environmental issues for policies on social protection, care and wellbeing. Research areas
 covered end of life care and wellbeing, including death, dying and bereavement, at the
 intersection of religion and beliefs; ethical practices in patient and therapeutic relationships; and
 ‘social death’ which considers individuals outside of policy boundaries and often invisible in
 policy debates. Significant achievements include: Hanna extended collaborations with nursing
 and social work colleagues in New Zealand, examining nurses’ educational needs, as well as
 care leavers’ experiences; Pentaris (2018) was commissioned by Health Authorities in Cyprus
 to lead the first research study about end-of-life care in the nation, involving medical, clinical,
 and social care staff, with findings informing policy and practice.

 Educational and sustainable communities (Acott, Molesworth, Owusu-Kwarteng, Patterson,
 Sidorenko). Led by Acott, this cluster pursued policy research on the education and learning
 environment, particularly in marginalised and deprived communities; also practice developments
 concerning natural environment functions and sustainable living. Partnerships were achieved
 with multiple policy stakeholders, beneficiaries/practitioners on the social importance of natural
 and cultural resources for cultural ecosystem services and social wellbeing, with particular
 emphasis on using creative methods to deliver professional training, policy interventions and
 evaluations. Significant achievements included: Acott’s WetlandLife study (2016-2020) funded
 by AHRC/ESRC/NERC (GBP1,300,000), that addressed with multiple stakeholders the socio-
 ecological value of wetlands for wellbeing; Patterson (2013-2014) funded GBP25,000 by UK
 Youth/Cabinet Office, evaluated programmes and policies of 200+ primary schools in the
 Boroughs of Greenwich, Southwark and Lewisham, promoting food-growing practices with
 children in schools, bringing together education, wellbeing and environmental policy as an
 interdisciplinary area.

 Leadership, Governance and Policy (Ade-Ojo, Donovan, Jameson, Linton, McNay). Led by
 Jameson, research addressed leadership and governance in workforce development and
 graduate skills, and developed tools for analysis, and evaluation of policies and services on
 themes of trust, values, leadership development, HE progression, impact and inclusivity.
 Research extended leadership and HE research noted for its strength in REF2014, and
 developed research on trust in enterprise and literacy education in schools, colleges, youth
 education, and universities; work on research governance, evaluation and policy, encompassed

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a wider vision of policy sciences. Significant achievements included: Jameson (with Smith,
 Joslin, now retired) ESRC and government funding, Higher Vocational Education and Pedagogy
 (HIVE-PED) project and related concurrent research (GBP480,000); Jameson and McNay’s
 (2013-14) EU TEMPUS (GBP50,000) project on leadership and management in Ukrainian
 universities; Donovan’s multinational, interdisciplinary (2014-17) EU FP7 Programme
 (EUR2,270,000) ‘IMPACT-EV: Evaluating the impact and outcomes of European social sciences
 and humanities research’.

 1.4 Our impact strategy
 We sought to advance co-creation and sharing of applied knowledge so that our research
 findings added to the evidence base and made a positive difference for practitioners and diverse
 communities locally, nationally and internationally. A vital part of research endeavour centred
 around building and sustaining long-term partnerships with practitioners, policymakers, and
 other research beneficiaries. Maintaining these reciprocal relationships enriched our research
 environment by keeping us up to date with grassroots concerns and emerging policy challenges,
 helping us to be responsive to new priorities and co-create new directions for research and
 impact. We utilised these networks to share and act on our research findings.

 Our research included marginalised communities where we could make the most difference. We
 embedded EDI in our culture, and the way we worked, so that we could improve the presence
 and involvement of these under-represented groups in social policy research and engagement.
 This brought together a broad range of range of stakeholders (the public, research users,
 practitioners, and policy stakeholders) at every step of the research process. Our approach to
 research design embraced co-production throughout the research cycle, and the use of
 participatory action research (PAR) and creative methods to empower research participants
 throughout the research process and beyond.

 We collaborated with local, national and international organisations, including wide ranging third
 sector and user groups, the UK Parliament, local and central government departments and
 bodies, and various national and sub-national governments and UN agencies.

 Maximising the potential reach and significance of our research was boosted by UoG investment
 in ILD, with supporting impact at the heart of its agenda. ILD focused on vulnerable populations
 across the lifecourse, and embedded us in a vibrant research environment, communicating with
 users of research to create impact, new professional solutions that improve people's lives,
 developing high-level academic training and continuing professional development. ILD
 incorporated research and practice staff from across the university and engaged with multiple
 external stakeholders, helping us extend our range of research users (see Section 4).

 Our impact case studies
 These were chosen to exemplify our shared approach to achieving research impact. Jameson
 and Reynolds draw on long-term partnerships with community sector organisations and front-
 line public services serving disadvantaged BAME/migrant communities. Both employed creative
 methods and participatory action research, used co-production, sought to empower individuals
 and communities through knowledge building, and supplied evidence of positive impacts and
 benefits for individuals, communities, practice, and policy.

 1.5 Future Strategy
 We plan to continue to build the scale and reputation of our (inter)disciplinary research, and
 create new knowledge, while advancing UoG values of being inclusive, collaborative and
 impactful. We will develop our research clusters by scaling-up with larger interdisciplinary grants,
 and longitudinal research addressing social justice community partnership and knowledge
 exchange. We shall build on our innovative, small-scale methodological focus, and commitment
 to PAR and community of practice approaches, cocreating research and practice with new and
 existing professional stakeholders, beneficiaries and practice partners. We will continue to work
 through ILD to pursue interdisciplinary research focused on addressing UN Sustainable
 Development Goals.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    ·   Sustain the vitality and excellence of our (inter)disciplinary research culture, while
        actively supporting equality, diversity and inclusion in all endeavours
    ·   Strengthen our research clusters through making excellent new appointments aligned to
        our research priorities
    ·   Continue to develop new, sustainable partnerships with HEIs, practitioners, research
        beneficiaries, locally, UK-wide and internationally
    ·   Develop multidisciplinary larger-scale collaboration in the UK and overseas, to attract
        greater funding from national and international research councils addressing UNSDG
        and Horizon priority areas
    ·   Create a shared community of practice to enhance regional, national, and international
        impact of our research
    ·   Continue to develop practitioner staff through support of staff PhD, EdD and Master’s
        study, fee waivers, and embedding themed work within ILD and CAS supportive
        structures
    ·   Leverage doctoral funding and increase postgraduate provision to develop the next
        generation of future leaders in policy research and practice.
    ·   Mentor and support our PGR and ECR community to succeed as independent
        researchers
    ·   Remain agile, and learning from COVID-19 experiences, pivot engagement with
        stakeholders by utilising online activities

 1.6 COVID-19 disruption to Impact Case Study activities
 Key engagement activities were disrupted while impact stakeholders (keyworkers/emergency
 staff) prioritised COVID-19 community emergency response planning, moved activities online,
 and refurbished COVID-safe physical premises. For Reynolds, the eight-month suspension of
 an AHRC-funded impact project and, for Jameson, funded impact research cancellations in
 Cambridge and South Africa, impeded planned activities.
 2. People

 2.1 Key staff appointments
 In 2014 Reynolds was appointed to FLAS leading development of social policy research as a
 new inter-disciplinary UoA at UoG. Reynolds has an outstanding track record of undertaking co-
 designed PAR projects to improve the lives and wellbeing of the UK’s BAME and migrant
 communities. In 2020, the appointment of Donovan refined our impact strategy, bringing an
 outstanding track record of working on research governance, including large-scale projects
 evaluating impact of social sciences and humanities research.

 Senior appointments replaced professorial colleagues who retired, left the University, or moved
 to fractional non-research positions (Ainley, Lambirth, Parsons). 6 senior staff in Education
 remain from the previous UoA25 REF2014 submission (Jameson, Ade-Ojo, McNay,
 Sidorenko, Patterson, Molesworth), joined by staff members in Sociology who did not feature
 in REF2014 (Acott, Owusu-Kwarteng, Morris, Mann).

 We recruited 8 high-quality staff committed to our aims (Elliott-Cooper, Hanna,
 Kalocsanyiova, Kralova, Linton, North, Pentaris, Vacchelli) through Faculty investment in
 staffing expansion. Visiting appointments with specialist expertise in our key disciplinary
 strengths also supported the Unit’s expansion. In Education (Profs) Davison, Green, Mallen,
 Parsons and (Fellows), Bailey and Webb; Sociology and Social Work (Profs) Fletcher,
 Letherby and Whittington.

 To support impact delivery, ILD recruited: Impact Assessment Officer (Gladwin), Senior
 Research Support Officer (Trudeau); Communications, Events and Engagement Officer
 (Russell-Clark); Knowledge Exchange Fellow (Kucaba).

 2.2 Academic pathways and allocation of scholarly time


                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The university has 3 career pathways staff can select: 1) research, 2) teaching and learning, 3)
 knowledge exchange and partnerships. We support the activities of 79 staff across all three
 pathways, ensuring clear links between research, enterprise practice and impact, teaching and
 learning. The UoG workload model allocates a minimum of 11% time per year for staff research
 and scholarly activity across pathways. However, in accordance with the UoG Code of Practice,
 staff on the research pathway, identified as having significant responsibility for research (SRR),
 receive an allocation ≥ 20%. SRRs with funded projects or key research roles are given
 additional time: e.g., Deputy Head of School Research and Enterprise (Education) Donovan and
 School Director of Research and Enterprise (Humanities and Social Sciences) Reynolds, have
 additional two-day research allocations to undertake their roles.

 We work closely with academic Schools to facilitate (one-term) sabbatical awards. Unit members
 on all three pathways have benefited (Kralova, Linton, Mann, Morris, Owusu-Kwarteng,
 Pentaris, Vacchelli), including time to write up their PhD theses (Phillpot).
 Staff also benefit from visiting fellowships at other universities (Jameson, University of
 Cambridge) and secondments for closer engagement with practice stakeholders (see Section
 4).

 To build capacity, 61 non-SRRs and professional service staff within the Unit, formally affiliated
 to the research centres, contribute to research, enterprise, and impact: e.g., Hockham, Bathway
 Theatre Manager at UoG, won a GBP99,000 impact award from Mercers Fund to upskill BAME
 elders in online digital technologies, 2020-22 (with Reynolds). In 2020, McDonald won the ILD
 Impact prize for his work supporting primary school children’s reading for pleasure.

 Staff promotions across academic pathways
 Ade-Ojo was promoted to Professor (2020); 7 colleagues in FEHHS and FLAS were promoted
 to Associate Professor/ Reader/Principal lecturer: Ade-Ojo (2019), Jeavons, McDonald,
 Patterson (FTE: 0.3); Pentaris, Owusu-Kwarteng and Vacchelli; and 3 to Senior Lecturer:
 Gibson, Jones, Macmillan.

 Mentoring, probation and appraisal
 UoG and Faculties foster ongoing professional development for staff throughout their
 employment. Research is embedded into support mechanisms, including research mentoring,
 personal coaching, access to writing workshops, internal and external training or PhD
 registration for non-SRR. Colleagues benefit from this in terms of staff promotions, improved
 research outputs and further professional development.

 Induction involves 1-2-1 meetings with the academic schools’ research leads to discuss
 personal research plans and support needs. New staff are encouraged to affiliate to a relevant
 research centre and attend ILD/Faculty events and allocated a mentor within Schools.
 Scheduled quarterly probationary review meetings are used to tailor support requirements. The
 annual staff appraisal system by line managers reviews staff performance, ensuring
 individuals’ research objectives, activities and development are proactively supported. During
 appraisal, all staff, regardless of pathway, are expected to identify research objectives. This may
 include a focus on pedagogic research or consultancy for those on teaching and learning and
 enterprise pathways. Staff development needs are reviewed in mid-year meetings. Our strategy
 aligns with the UoG’s Research Strategy, Vitae Researcher Development Concordat and
 UK Research & Innovation (UKRI) action plan to support the career development of
 researchers.

 2.3 Allocation of QR HEIF and RCIF Funds to support growth
 A competitive funding panel, chaired by the FEHHS and FLAS Directors of Research and
 Enterprise and including research strategic leadership teams, assess applications to ensure
 strategic investment of QR funding according to our priorities for impactful research. Panels
 awarded total funds of GBP595,000; allocated as:



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 QR funding GBP420,000 - for conference attendance and external support to experienced
 researchers (GBP152,000), ECRs (GBP18,000) and PGR students (GBP60,000); wider
 research dissemination (GBP6,000), e.g., TedX talks, and seed funding (GBP22,000) for pilot
 projects and impact activities.

 HEIF funding GBP103,000 - to fund strategic academic and public engagement (GBP51,000)
 with national and international collaborators, leading to high-quality outputs of submitted staff;
 support undergraduate students in experience of working with staff on research projects,
 presenting at international conferences (GBP28,000), and research assistance in Education
 (GBP52,000).

 Research Capital Investment Fund GBP72,000 – to support strategic areas of growth and
 impact in the Unit. For example, research looking at virtual reality simulation for police-
 community research and training, led by Jameson, with Goss-Sampson, and Davis (in UoA3).

 2.4 Support for ECR Staff
 Our ECR staff demonstrate excellent track records of inter-disciplinary policy research: 22% of
 the Unit’s outputs are authored by ECR staff. They have been nominated for UoG awards (prize
 for ECR communication and engagement, Elliott-Cooper) and won awards for research impact
 (ILD Impact Award, MacDonald).

 We provide a supportive, stimulating environment for ECRs, with ECR community growth from a
 baseline of zero in 2014 to 5 ECRs (Category A submitted Elliott-Cooper, Kalocsanyiova,
 Kralova, North, non-SRR Oxley).

 ECRs’ Co-ordinators represent ECR views across a range of Faculty and University
 management committees. ECRs are supported by the Concordat, and we also have in/formal
 mentoring schemes in the academic Schools, and the ECR Network. ECRs facilitate their own
 network events, organising writing groups, research cafés, seminars, and conferences for ILD’s
 research centres.

 Central research support investment
 GRE supports research in the University (cf. REF5a). Staffing investment in GRE includes the
 appointment of a Head of Research Services (Cormack-Bissett), Enterprise Development
 Managers (EDMs) and Research Development Officers (RDOs) to support each Faculty. The
 EDMs and RDOs work directly with unit staff to develop enterprise and research bids, providing
 expert advice and costings. The University also invested in a new Research and Enterprise
 Training Institute (RETI), specifically to support research training for all PGR students and staff
 in line with the Concordat (see Section 3).

 2.5 Research Students

 41 students were awarded research degrees:

  Year      2013-14     2014-15     2015-16    2016-17     2017-18     2018-19    2019-20     Total

  PhD       0           0           1          3           2           1          2           9
  EdD       3           2           8          4           5           4          6           32
  Total     3           2           9          7           7           5          8           41
  UoA20

 Recruitment, funding and fee waiver
 We received a substantial increase in doctoral student funding, to support our ambition of
 growing research capacity and increasing diversity in research among practitioner staff. Many
 new staff appointed in teaching and learning pathways were supported through a fees scheme
 and additional scholarly activity funds supporting academic and research career progression via
 EdDs, PhDs and Masters’ Programmes. Faculties waived GBP390,000 in fees for internal

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervision and GBP135,000 in fees at external institutions, including for twenty-five staff in
 Education.

 We were awarded 7 fully funded Vice-Chancellor's PhD Scholarships since 2014: Ade-Ojo (1);
 Fiore (1); Jameson (1); Lambirth (1); Reynolds (2); Sidorenko (1), with 6 of the 7 students
 recruited from BAME backgrounds. Potential supervisors from BAME groups were
 encouraged to apply or to join supervisory teams to be mentored, improving the number of
 BAME staff qualified to supervise research degrees. The scholarships awarded followed a
 rigorous assessment process involving blind-review to minimize selection bias. Representative
 interview panels, including ECRs, ensured a fair and transparent recruitment process.

 Mentoring, Support and Skills Development
 We have 4 doctoral programmes (3 PhDs and EdD) each with a Programme Leader. EdD and
 PhD in Education programmes are supported by Ade-Ojo. Whilst PhD students in Human
 Sciences and Social Sciences are supported by Birtel (UoA3) and Reynolds respectively. Each
 programme provides relevant training and support. Supervisory teams consist of 3 staff with a
 shared minimum of 3 completions. Mandatory RETI training and regular refresher courses are
 provided for all supervisors (see REF5a). ILD provides funding for the UK Council for Graduate
 Education Research Supervision Recognition Programme: Ade-Ojo is ILD’s first Recognised
 Research Supervisor and will oversee roll-out of this accreditation across the UoA.

 Students receive tailored support from RETI, which provides a structured training programme
 guided by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, on topics such as research ethics,
 and preparation for transfer and final viva, to support PGR studies. RETI’s programme is
 supported by dedicated academic staff who mentor PGR students. PGRs have representation at
 School, Faculty and University level committees. In this assessment cycle QR funds
 (GBP60,000) were allocated to PGR students to present at conferences, for external training,
 and external support. ILD offered GBP500 to each student, following a competitive assessment
 process, to provide extra support caused by time lost during the COVID-19 pandemic. All
 doctoral students undergo a process of annual reviews. They have their own dedicated
 workspace on campus, with access to standard and specialist IT equipment and resources. This
 is reflected in scores >80% for research skills, responsibilities, professional development,
 progression, and supervisions in PRES.

 Research culture
 Our doctoral students are members of ILD Centres and Centre for Applied Sociology Research,
 and regularly engage in the range of activities and events organised for staff and students,
 including ILD’s annual Public Lecture Series, research cafés, and annual conferences. Students
 showcase their research at the annual University Research Conference, open to all staff and
 students, the Faculty PGR Student Research Conference, ILD Annual EDI research conference,
 and National Three Minute Thesis (3MT) competition, which is actively supported by the Unit.
 There is also an annual student development conference with sessions organised by academic
 Schools on publication, career opportunities and the doctoral journey. We have a firm
 commitment to developing the future generation of researchers and practitioners, e.g. Our
 submission includes outputs co-authored by staff (Reynolds) and PGR student (Kaptani).

 Research students have access to a section of the University’s Careers Service which run
 dedicated employability events for PGRs, including academic and non-academic career-path
 sessions and doctoral-level placement programmes. Our students have achieved significant
 career progression, e.g., Chadwick (2017) progressed to Vice Principal (Maths) at Passmores
 Academy; Otiotio (2017) from tutor at Orpington FE College to Lecturer, Birkbeck College,
 London.

 2.6 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion
 We are a highly diverse UoA, significantly higher than UoG and the overall sector in terms of
 colleagues represented across all protected characteristics. We were particularly successful in
 supporting the advancement of female and BAME staff:

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    •   80% and 22% of selected outputs attributed to female and ECR staff, respectively.
    •   67% Category A submitted staff are female (>24% difference with UoG overall).
    •   45% Category A submitted staff are BAME (compared with 17% REF2014), incl. 11%
        Black professors (compared with 0.7% in the sector). Our submission includes 1 of 45
        Black female Professors in the UK (Reynolds).
    •   28% of staff work part-time (almost double that for UoG overall) with a high proportion of
        SRR (89%) on permanent contracts.

 Our UoA is well-represented by staff with caring responsibilities. We have flexible working
 arrangements, remote working, and support staff returning from periods of leave (including
 parental leave and COVID-19 related illness) with reduced duties. Staff are granted special
 leave from line-managers for a range of domestic circumstances, including emergency childcare.
 All staff are supported with sabbaticals, study leave, funding for conferences and meetings.
 Personal circumstances are considered by promotions panels in assessing research
 achievement and outputs compared with opportunity. The choice of outputs for REF2021 relied
 on internal and external expert review as the primary means of assessment, using the
 framework and data set out in the UoG Code of Practice.

 Unit members actively contribute to the development and implementation of the University’s EDI
 Strategy and Action Plan as School/Faculty EDI advisors (Pentaris, Vacchelli); Stonewall Co-
 Lead (Pentaris); BAME Staff Network advisor (Ade-Ojo); BAME Student Attainment Champions
 (Owusu-Kwarteng; Reynolds).

 2.6 Future staffing plans
 We will continue to make strategic appointments as existing staff leave, retire, or new posts are
 created. All adverts and interview panels for future staff appointments will explore the ambitions
 of candidates to work within our core research areas, and new areas of policy research. We will
 increase staff secondments, and honorary fellowship appointments with our policy and practice
 partners.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research Income
 Research and enterprise total income is GBP2,118,607 with research income captured by HESA
 from research councils, charities, industry and EU/UK government bodies totaling
 GBP1,578,275. This is a 998% increase in research and enterprise income from GBP192,892 in
 REF2014.

 Senior appointed staff member, Donovan, was PI and CI on several international large-scale
 funded projects hosted elsewhere during the cycle that have supported their work: International
 PI on AUD398,000 ‘Gendered Excellence in the Social Sciences’, Australian Research Council
 Discovery Grant ‘(2015-21, not transferred); CI on the EUR2,270,000 EU FP7 Programme
 ‘IMPACT-EV: Evaluating the Impact and Outcomes of European Social Sciences and
 Humanities Research’ (2014-17) before joining UoG. Other staff recently appointed are highly
 active in enterprise activities that build on large-scale partnership projects with multiple local
 government bodies and agencies.

 The increase in income in this cycle represents funding secured from numerous competitive
 funding sources for both primary research and our success with building international networks
 and collaborations.
    • UKRI: ESRC/National Centre for Research Methods (Jameson, Patterson, Reynolds);
        AHRC (Acott, Miller, Reynolds), NERC (Acott); ESRC (1) and AHRC (2) seminar
        series.
    • EU funds: EU FP7 (Donovan); EU interreg (Acott); EU Tempus Programme (McNay)
    • International funds: Australian Research Council (Donovan)
    • Research Charities: Wellcome Trust (Patterson).
                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff received direct and commissioned research funding from various bodies, including:

    •   Education agencies/institutions: British Council, BAME staff progression (Miller,
        Linton, Henry), Higher Education Academy (Ade-Ojo); Leadership Foundation for
        Higher Education and Linking London; University of Cambridge (Jameson); Association
        of Commonwealth Universities (Reynolds)
    •   Government departments: DEFRA-DFID (Acott) Department for Business, Innovation
        and Skills (Jameson); Ministry of Housing, Communities and Local Government
        (Reynolds)
    •   National bodies: Forest England, Public Health England (PHE) and Natural England
        (Acott)
    •   Charitable Trusts and non-profit organisations: Big Lottery (Jameson, Patterson).

 Most notable, is Jameson’s collaboration with multiple partners on projects Higher Vocational
 Education and Pedagogy in England (HIVE-PED). This work, focused on the educational
 progression of students in tertiary 6th form and FE colleges into Higher Education, has been
 supported by substantial invited sole tender funding from government departments and
 educational bodies, such as the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS)
 (GBP200,000) on a national study tracking the further and vocational education of students. The
 research was also funded by Linking London - a consortium of 49 London-based educational
 member organisations working collaboratively to maximise widening participation, student
 engagement and success, social mobility and social justice through education - exploring higher
 vocational education progression of students in London (GBP96,000).

 In addition to the impact outlined in our Impact Case Studies, this research supported a wide
 range of developing areas of impact activities. Acott’s inter-disciplinary work on marine
 conservation funded as part of larger research consortia by EU interreg, AHRC, NERC, and
 involving national government departments and bodies (DEFRA-DFID; PHE, Natural England)
 was instrumental in developing a community-arts activist framework to support social wellbeing
 and resource management in coastal and small-scale fishery communities. In this assessment
 period the total value of these major and prestigious grant awards was GBP6,500,000 (funding
 shared with NRI).

 Our fractional staff members were highly active in generating research and expertise income
 from consultancy and enterprise activity. Patterson, (FTE: 0.3) generated income >GBP175,000
 for research auditing food growing in London Borough of Lambeth schools (Big Lottery) and a
 knowledge transfer partnership Wider Horizons Trust and TSB Bank on children’s outdoor
 learning. Lambirth (FTE: 0.2) generated >GBP160,000 enterprise income incommissioned
 research from Kent LEA, Royal Greenwich Teaching School Alliance, and Kent primary schools
 (Staplehurst, Sevenoaks) researching literacy practices in schools.

 Other research and practitioner staff generate income for consultancy and enterprise
 activities with:
     • Education bodies: London South East Maths Hub, development of maths pedagogy
         (Field); Royal Greenwich Teaching School Alliance, literary practices in schools Alliance
         (McDonald)
     • Local education authorities: Kent LEA (Lambirth), as above
     • Charitable trusts and other not for profit organisations: Emergency Exit Arts, arts
         therapy with older people living with dementia (Patterson) Charlton Athletic Football
         Club, development of sports players from (Smith); Family Action, evaluation of family
         support interventions (Reynolds); Mercers Fund, training for BAME older people in
         online technologies (Hockham and Reynolds); Lewisham Refugee and Migrant
         Network, training community co-researchers on qualitative and PAR research
         (Reynolds)



                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Government Departments: Dept of Education, develop Stonewall LGBTQiA framework
        (Green), DFID, Informal Economy in India (Dasgupta); UK Youth/Cabinet Office, youth’s
        social journeys (Parsons) and growing food in schools (Patterson)
    •   Financial bodies: The World Bank/ and SMTC Nigeria, educational project development
        in Nigeria (Ade-Ojo), Santander Bank, student mobility study visits (Miller), TSB Bank
        (Patterson) as above
    •   Police bodies: Metropolitan Police, community policing, youth inclusion and hate crime
        (Jameson)
    •   Specialist businesses: ECORYS, an international research, consulting, and
        management service) on Leadership, Intelligence and Talent in Ukrainian HE (McNay)

 3.2 New infrastructure and facilities
 Since 2014, the University invested significantly in estates and infrastructure supporting
 research and impact. In 2017, GBP32,000,000 was spent on redevelopment of the Dreadnought
 Building, which houses the Schools of Education and Human Sciences. The Medway Student
 Hub is a new on-campus entertainment and social space. The award-winning Stockwell Street
 Building hosts the campus library; and the new Powerhouse, home to a community of
 entrepreneurs which delivers an exciting, innovative style of collaboration between staff,
 students, and the local community, and is fully equipped with TV and film studios, as well as art
 spaces. The facilities are used to engage the local community in events and open up university
 spaces to the wider public, including the UoA’s ‘Let Our Legacy Continue’ exhibition, housed in
 Stephen Lawrence Gallery, Stockwell Street, to celebrate the Windrush generation’s (2020)
 contribution to UK society. UoG continues to support research activity with advanced IT and data
 management support systems.

 Investment in the Institute for Lifecourse Development
 ILD, launched in October 2019, emerging from UoG’s strategic review on infrastructure, supports
 our research and practice through research development and funding across a range of UoA’s
 activities (see People section 2). ILD introduced new state of the art research facilities for policy
 research, with GBP2,640,000 spent on capital investment. These new facilities have grown our
 research by creating new physical research spaces, and labs for multi-disciplinary work. ILD’s
 investment in the new GBP15,200,000 Simulation and Research laboratories at the Avery Hill
 campus, led by the Centre for Professional Workforce Development (Simulation Group), and
 including membership of UoA staff, facilitate many research, knowledge exchange and impact
 opportunities for Education and Social Policy. The labs advance blending classroom education
 practices with innovative technological development, supplying realistic, interactive, clinical
 training, whilst also generating simulation-based research and enterprise potential. Jameson’s
 collaboration with sports science and applied psychology researchers in the Centre for
 Professional and Workforce Development delivers virtual reality simulation community police
 training to the Metropolitan Police Service.

 ILD is supported by UoG’s research governance structure, comprising three layers of Research
 and Enterprise Committees at University, Faculty and School level. In turn, the academic
 Schools (Humanities and Social Sciences, Education, Human Sciences), Faculties (FEHSS and
 FLAS) and UoG provide multiple layers of support (e.g., scoping for funding opportunities, peer
 review, sabbaticals, balanced academic workload management) to maximise the success of
 external research grant applications.

 Investment in Faculty Research Support
 UoG investment in the expansion of Faculty services and ILD’s research office provides us with
 dedicated research support. Faculty services include project management support (managing
 funding sources, budget monitoring); event organization; social media and dissemination
 activities media (e.g., public lectures and Greenwich Book Festival); PGR support for
 admissions, induction; enterprise activities (including for short courses, software sales,
 consultancy, digital content management). In addition to these services, the Directors of Faculty
 Research and Enterprise have responsibility for coordinating research strategy objectives with


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Faculty PVCs, ensuring staff have sufficient time to develop and realize individual research
 plans, and pursue interdisciplinary opportunities.

 Faculty investment expanded our partnerships with academic and impact practitioners/
 beneficiaries in the UK and worldwide. Established and ECR researchers have accessed funds
 for building research networks, seed-funding for pilot projects, research development and small
 projects, and international collaboration funds. For example, Acott, Jameson, Reynolds very
 successfully built on faculty funding to then apply for external funding, including larger
 interdisciplinary consortia projects, competitively won, and funded by research councils and
 charitable organizations (see Section 4).

 Faculty investment in the Office for Undergraduate Research (OUR) has expanded support for
 research collaboration with undergraduate students. Unit member Owusu-Kwarteng, Faculty
 OUR Director, leads this work, supported by Sidorenko. Both successfully brought together
 undergraduate students across the Schools of Education, and Humanities and Social Sciences,
 to co-create and publish two e-books addressing the student experience at UoG (2019) and
 auto/biographical reflections on contemporary policy issues (2020). Students presented invited
 papers on undergraduate research engagement at a national conference on undergraduate
 research, University of York (2019), and international conferences, University of Saskatchewan,
 Canada (2019) and University of Ohio, USA (2020).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Support for academic collaborations
 ILD and FLAS infrastructure and QR funding (see Section 3) supplied important financial and in-
 kind support for academic research collaborations, providing a vibrant (inter)disciplinary
 research environment. This helped us organise and host major conferences and seminars,
 support in securing external grants (AHRC, ESRC, NERC, Wellcome Trust). Highlights include:
     · Body Talk: Whose Language?, 2016, 3-day international interdisciplinary conference,
        funded by Wellcome Trust and Association of Medical Humanities, 98 delegates
        (Patterson, convenor)
     · Connected Communities: Participatory Arts and Social Action Research, 2017, 2-day
        international interdisciplinary conference funded by ESRC National Centre for Research
        Methods, 86 delegates (Reynolds, co-convenor)
     · The Values of the Ocean and Coast for Sustainable Development, 2018, 2-day
        international interdisciplinary conference, funded by Marine Conservation Society, World
        Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), 180 delegates (Acott and National Maritime Museum, co-
        convenors)
     · Higher Vocational Education and Pedagogy, 2013-16, 9 seminars, 2 conferences funded
        by ESRC, plus 3-day co-organised conference at University of Cape Town, funded by the
        British Education Research Association (Jameson, convenor)
     · These events were complemented by 19 stand-alone seminars/workshops, and 8 ILD
        public lectures by highly regarded external speakers, initially on campus then online due
        to COVID-19.

 National and international academic collaborations and networks
 Partnerships with academics in other universities enhanced our research environment by
 broadening our research vision, scope, and expanding our contribution to the research base,
 raising our profile nationally and internationally, through 66 national and 39 international
 collaborations across 22 countries. UK institutions included: Universities of Bath, Cambridge,
 Oxford and London (including Kings College London, UCL). International collaborations
 included: Australian National University, Ecole Normale Supérieure (Paris), Universities of
 Princeton, Cape Town, and Hong Kong.

 Visiting fellowships/professorships were awarded to 9 Unit members at 14 universities, 8 in
 UK and 6 overseas, including: Donovan, Department of Education, Oxford University; Research
 School of Social Sciences, The Australian National University; Elliott-Cooper, Brooklyn Institute

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for Social Research, New York; Jameson, Lucy Cavendish College and the Faculty of
 Education, University of Cambridge; McNay, UCL Institute of Education.

 We hosted 2 Visiting Fellows/Emeritus Readers and 7 Visiting Professors (see Section 2).

 Academic project advisory boards: Invitations to join academic advisory project boards
 include Donovan, Oxford University Cultural Value Project (AHRC funded); Reynolds, Family
 and Community Transitions Under COVID-19, Thomas Coram Research Institute, UCL ESRC
 funded); Vacchelli, LondonMood study, Goldsmiths, University of London (funded by Richard
 Benjamin Trust).

 Invitations to speak: we were invited to present research at 71 seminars, lectures and
 workshops, highlights including: Acott, 2016, Institute of Commonwealth Studies, University of
 London; Donovan, 2014 and 2019, Department of Education, Oxford University; 2017, WZB
 Berlin Social Science Centre; Elliott-Cooper, 2017, Department of African American Studies,
 Princeton; Jameson, 2018, Faculty of Education, Cambridge University; 2016 and 2017, New
 College, Oxford University.

 Collaborative research grants: Since 2014, there was a marked increase in our participation in
 national and international consortia, funded by European and international funders (see Sections
 1 and 3). 52% of research and enterprise grants were collaborative, 36% with UK HEIs and 16%
 with international HEIs.

 Co-authored publications: Two-thirds of journal papers (63%) were co-published with other
 HEIs, 40% were UK collaborations including Barts and the London School of Medicine and
 Dentistry; Goldsmiths, University of London; Institute of Psychiatry, King’s College London;
 London School of Economics; University of Bristol; University of Edinburgh. A quarter (23%)
 were co-published with international HEIs in 21 countries including Australian National
 University, Ecole Normale Supérieure, European University Institute, Harvard University, Trinity
 College Dublin, University of Cape Town, University of Delhi, University College Dublin.

 Support for interdisciplinary research: As described in Sections 1 and 3, the ILD provides a
 vibrant environment for interdisciplinary research, and 25% of journal papers were published
 with co-author(s) from another discipline.

 4.2 Relationships with research users, beneficiaries or audiences to develop impact
 Colleagues sought to advance co-creation and sharing of applied knowledge to add to the
 evidence base and make a positive difference for practitioners and diverse communities locally,
 nationally, and internationally. We maintained long-term partnerships with practitioners,
 policymakers, and other research beneficiaries, enriching our research environment, keeping us
 up to date with grassroots concerns and emerging policy challenges. We extended our reach to
 include marginalised communities where our research could make the most difference,
 embracing co-production, participatory action research (PAR) and creative methods to empower
 research participants throughout the research process and beyond.

 Invitations to actively engage with external organisations: 40 invitations in the UK and 15
 overseas or for international organisations, including The World Bank (Ade-Ojo), United Nations
 Human Settlements Programme (UN-Habitat) (Vacchelli), UK Parliament (Owusu-Kwarteng,
 Reyonlds), DEFRA (Acott), Department for Business, Innovation & Skills (Jameson),
 Campaign for Social Science (Donovan), Campaign for Broadcasting Equality (Reynolds)
 Runnymede Trust (Reynolds), NHS health and social care professional support group Loss and
 Bereavement International Network of CHAIN (Contact, Help, Advice and Information Network)
 (Pentaris). Selected collaborations with our local community include:
 Project lead, ‘Across the Seas: In Celebration of Windrush 2020’, funded by Ministry of Housing,
 Communities and Local Government, in collaboration with the Royal Borough of Greenwich, the
 National Maritime Museum (Reynolds); Growing Food in Schools project funded by BIG Lottery
 Awards, in consultation with local schools and community organisations (Patterson); Senior

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Advisor, Stop and Search Metropolitan Police London SE Board (Jameson); Senior
 Research Adviser, Second Wave Youth Arts (Jameson).

 Collaborative grants with research users: 48% of research and enterprise grants were with
 research users.

 Co-authored journal papers: 10% of journal papers were co-authored with research users,
 including the National Foundation for Educational Research (UK), Cancer Council Australia,
 National Breast Cancer Foundation (Australia), Hungarian Academy of Sciences, and Royal
 Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.

 4.3. Engagement with diverse communities and publics through research, and impact not
 covered by Impact Case Studies

 Co-produced research and impact
 We employed a range of innovative creative methods (e.g. community voice method, forum
 theatre, community research cafes, walking methods, digital storytelling, photography,
 auto/biography) to empower marginalised communities throughout the research process and
 beyond, and co-create research impact.

 Our engagement through research also took the form of (co-)producing artefacts, exhibitions,
 and toolkits for public or professional consumption:

 Selected artefacts, exhibitions and performances:
    · Acott: (Jan 2020) ‘Wetlands, Wonder and Place’ photo essay of wildlife of English
        lowland wetlands, 1-week Royal Geographical Society exhibition ‘Reclaiming Wetland
        Values: Marsh, Mud and Wonder’: https://bit.ly/3w3c1rJ, based on research funded by
        UKRI Valuing Nature programme.
    · Reynolds: ‘Let our Legacy Continue’ (Caribbean Social Forum / Stephen Lawrence
        Gallery), used visual arts, sound, music, and words to capture stories of migration and
        being Caribbean, to co-produce an exhibition with the Caribbean community,
        https://bit.ly/3vVX9LZ.

 Selected tools and toolkits:
    · Acott: EU-funded GIFS (Geography of Inshore Fishing and Sustainability) Project team
        (Belgium, France, The Netherlands, UK) created ‘21st Century Catch Toolkit’ for valuing
        economic, social, and cultural importance of inshore fishing. Potential users include local
        authorities, fishers’ organisations, fisheries or marine planning officers, scientists, and
        interested community members from coastal fishing towns: https://bit.ly/3tFi58r.
    · Pentaris: developed research-informed theoretical framework and training tool, Religious
        Literacy in Hospice Care (RLHC), adding to End of Life care research and practice. This
        model is taught on University courses and Hospice training programmes internationally
        (Australia, Cyprus, Germany, Poland, UK), informed training of social workers in England
        led by Local Authorities, and informed policy decisions in Cyprus’ new health system
        introduced in July 2020.

 Media and social media
 We contributed to public debate through interviews/commentary via 54 appearances in
 traditional media and social media. 47 appearances were UK-wide, 7 were international (pan-
 Africa, Italy, Ukraine, USA). Notably, Elliott-Cooper made 33 appearances, including interviews
 for BBC News, Radio 4 (Today Programme, The Moral Maze), Channel 4 News, Sky News, The
 Guardian, providing expertise and commentary on the Black Lives Matter movement in the UK,
 colonialism, racism, hate crime, and policing. He was academic advisor/commentator for BBC
 documentary Fighting the Power: Britain After George Floyd.

 Responsiveness to national priorities and initiatives: 40% of our research and enterprise
 grants were responsive mode.

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base

 Editorial roles: Colleagues were members of 11 journal editorial boards including British
 Journal of Sociology, City, International Journal of Social Research Methodology, Sociological
 Review. Ade-Ojo co-edits International Journal of Multidisciplinary Comparative Studies,
 Pentaris edits Greenwich Social Work Review, Elliott-Cooper is Advisory Board Member
 Antipode Online International, Vacchelli is Associate Advisory Board Member Sociological
 Research Online. Colleagues edited 27 special journal issues contributing to expanding
 (inter)disciplinary understanding of: coastal communities as the missing link in marine policy
 (Acott, Marine Policy), measuring the public value of social sciences and humanities research in
 Europe (Donovan, Research Evaluation), identity politics (Elliott-Cooper, Historical
 Materialism), developing critical and theoretical approaches to educational technology research
 (Jameson, British Journal of Educational Technology), social death (Kralova, Contemporary
 Social Science), religious literacy in end of life care (Pentaris, Religions), migrant mothers
 challenging racialised citizenship (Reynolds, Ethnic and Racial Studies), migration and crisis in
 Europe (Vacchelli, Sociology).

 Peer reviewing and participation on grant committees: Colleagues refereed across 70
 journals, including leading disciplinary publications (Antipode; British Journal of Educational
 Research; Marine Policy; Sociology), interdisciplinary publications (Ageing and Society;
 American Journal of Evaluation; BMJ Open; City; Ethnic and Racial Studies; Critical Social
 Policy), and emerging journals in areas we regard as important for the development of
 knowledge (Methodological Innovations).

 We reviewed research proposals for AHRC, ESRC, MRC, NERC; major UK research funders
 (Wellcome Trust, Nuffield Foundation, Joseph Rowntree Foundation); Research Councils in
 other countries (Australia, Ireland, Finland, South Africa); international Research Councils
 (European Commission, European Science Foundation); and key international research funders
 (Queen Elizabeth Commonwealth Scholarships, UK National Commission for UNESCO).

 Acott was NERC panel member for UKRI Cross-disciplinary Mental Health Network Plus Call;
 Reynolds was AHRC panel member for UKRI COVID-19 Rolling Call, and Academic Advisor for
 Wellcome Trust’s Ideas Hub; Donovan was member of AHRC Cultural Value and Amateur and
 Voluntary Arts Expert Panel, and Panel Review Member for The Newton Prize (UK Department
 for Business, Energy, and Industrial Strategy).

 Academic and professional associations: Colleagues are members of 22 national, European,
 and international academic associations, and networks. Acott is elected Fellow of the Royal
 Geographical Society; Ade-Ojo, Donovan, Jameson are elected Fellows of the Royal Society
 for the Arts; Jameson is elected Fellow of the Chartered Management Institute.

 Prizes and recognition: Patterson, runner-up National Impact Awards for Knowledge Transfer
 Project with Wider Horizons Trust and TSB on children’s outdoor learning (2014); Jameson’s
 ESRC/BIS-funded HIVE-PED Research Project won a Highly Commended UALL Runner’s Up
 Research Award from the Universities Association for Lifelong Learning (UALL) (2015).
 Donovan (prior to joining Greenwich), Australian Research Council International Collaboration
 Award for research on Gendered Excellence in the Social Sciences (2016); national exhibition
 and lecture series, London’s South Bank Centre recognised Reynold’s contribution to HE as
 one of only 45 black female UK professors (2020).

 Invited presentations / conferences / keynotes: Colleagues were invited to give 151
 presentations for academic audiences: 74 in the UK, and 77 overseas in 33 countries. This
 included 18 keynote addresses at major international conferences, 62 major national and
 international conference papers and plenaries, and 71 research seminars, lectures, and
 workshops.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR examination: We were external examiners for 43 doctoral theses: 32 UK (including Bath,
 Birkbeck, Bristol, Durham, Exeter, Goldsmiths, Lancaster, Leeds, Strathclyde, Sussex, UCL), 11
 international (Australia, Germany, Greece, The Netherlands, South Africa, Sweden, West Indies,
 USA).




                                                                                        Page 16
