Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 07 Earth Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 OVERVIEW
 Unit of Assessment (UoA) 7 staff at the University of Exeter (UoE) conduct world-leading research
 across a broad spectrum of Earth and Environmental Sciences and in doing so deliver major
 societal impact by providing solutions to the challenges posed by global environmental change.
 Evidence of the breadth and depth of our research and impact include:

    -   Launch of the transdisciplinary Global Systems Institute.
    -   Over 1750 published outputs and 55,000 citations across the unit.
    -   Major contributions to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and government
        advisory panels on hazardous substances, antimicrobial resistance and ocean
        acidification.
    -   Development of strategic partnerships with Met Office and Plymouth Marine Laboratory.
    -   #1 in Europe (11th in the world) for scientific impact in the Leiden Ranking (based on
        outputs in the top 10% of the field).
    -   128 ISI Highly Cited papers, and 12 Highly Cited authors.
    -   Over £60m research funding awarded during the assessment period.

 The size of the UoA has more than doubled since REF2014 (35 FTE in REF2014 to 78 FTE in
 REF2021), illustrating the University’s strong commitment to this crucial area of research.
 Research and impact quality have notably increased even faster than our research productivity.
 Research income per FTE has risen year-on-year and our published outputs are having far-
 reaching impact. The average number of citations per year has risen from under 3000 in the
 REF2014 cycle to over 8000 in 2020; and the number of Highly Cited outputs has more than
 doubled.

 To facilitate this success, during the period since REF2014, the University of Exeter has pursued
 a vigorous growth strategy in Earth and Environmental Sciences with major investment in staff,
 infrastructure and facilities. This strategic investment has been, and continues to be, a top priority
 for the UoE. A key part of this strategy is the newly launched Global System Institute, with the
 ambition to increase the quantity and quality of world-leading research and societal impact that
 can help steer our stewardship of the Earth system in an era of unprecedented environmental and
 societal change.

 The research presented here is connected to a broader activity of Environmental and
 Sustainability Research, which connects three of the campuses of the UoE (Streatham, Penryn,
 Truro), and its six colleges (Life and Environmental Sciences; Engineering, Mathematics and
 Physical Sciences; Medicine and Health; Business School; Social Sciences and International
 Studies; Humanities). This submission highlights the individuals and research groupings that are
 most closely focussed on the science agenda set out in the UoA7 descriptor, but the research
 presented is necessarily tightly connected to research which is also being submitted to other REF
 UoAs (see Fig. 1).

 RESEARCH STRUCTURE & ORGANISATION
 The structure of the UoA7 submission is presented schematically in Figure 1. The UoA7 research
 activity is divided between Earth System science (46.3 FTE) and Environmental sciences (32 FTE).
 Earth System science has an explicit focus on understanding the planet as a system and tackling
 global-scale challenges such as climate change. Environmental science focuses across scales
 organisms to ecosystems, including humans, and understanding their responses to, and effects
 on, environmental drivers, including global change.


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Earth System science research divides into Weather and Climate (20.7 FTE) – with an emphasis
 on the physical aspects of the Earth’s atmosphere and ocean; Biogeochemical Cycles (10.4 FTE)
 – emphasising the biological and chemical components of the Earth system; and Earth Resources
 & Global Change (15 FTE) – focusing on the challenges that society face in response to climate
 change and the transition to a more circular economy.
 Environmental sciences research divides into Ecosystems (17 FTE) – focusing on ecosystems
 and the goods and services they provide; Environmental Biology (8 FTE) – focusing on the
 effects of environmental pollutants on organisms and the ecosystems they inhabit; and
 Environment and Human Health (7 FTE) – focusing on the interconnections between the health
 of both the environment and humans.




 Figure 1: The six research themes of UoA7 (centre) are embedded within University-wide Institutes (blue outer ring),
 which submit to various UoAs (green ring).


 Earth System science research
 Weather and Climate (Baldwin, Beare, Betts, Boers, Bradshaw, Browse, Catto, Chadburn,
 Chadwick, Collins, Cox, Friedlingstein, Harper, Haywood, Jupp, Lambert, Manners, McNeal,
 Partridge, Robinson, Scaife, Screen, Seviour, Sheen, Stott, Thomson, Unger, Webster, Williams,
 Williamson, Wiltshire) – centres on modelling of the climate system, and quantifying and reducing
 uncertainties in climate projections. This group is based within Mathematics in order to maximise
 the pull-through of mathematics and statistics into the improvement of climate models. Expertise
 in this group spans the understanding and modelling of most of the major uncertainties in the
 response of the climate system to anthropogenic forcing: clouds and water vapour, carbon cycle,
 aerosols, sea ice, land surface, stratosphere. In addition, this group is committed to quantifying the

                                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 overall uncertainties in climate projections through probabilistic climate projections and reducing
 these uncertainties through the application of statistical emulation methods and data-assimilation.
 This group is primarily based within the college of Engineering, Maths and Physical Sciences at
 the Streatham campus, many of whom are founding members of the Global Systems Institute.
 Biogeochemical Cycles (Belcher, Brewin, Dyke, Halloran, Lenton, Mercure, Messias, Rowland,
 Schuster, Shutler, Watson) – focuses on the understanding, measurement and modelling of
 interactions between biogeochemical cycles and climate, across a broad range of timescales and
 epochs. Particular areas of expertise include the ocean carbon and nutrient cycles, marine
 ecology, forest fires, and the co-evolution of life and environment. This group is primarily based
 within the college of Life and Environmental Science at the Streatham campus, and has strong
 links to the Weather and Climate group through common interests in climate-carbon feedbacks
 and climate tipping points.
 Earth Resources and Global Change (Andersen, Bailey, Broom-Fendley, Hesselbo, Hickey,
 Hudson-Edwards, Hughes, Kender, Littler, Moore, Newsome, Shail, Ullmann, Wall, Williamson) –
 focuses on the challenges that society face in response to climate change and the transition to a
 more circular economy. Major areas of research include the security of supply of critical raw
 materials (such as the rare-earth elements, platinum, indium, lithium and cobalt) needed for the
 transformation of our energy infrastructure away from fossil fuels, how deep geothermal heat can
 be harvested, how the Earth’s environments respond to climate change, and how society will need
 to respond to natural hazards caused by increased weathering, erosion and environmental
 degradation, and from volcanic eruptions. The group is based on the Penryn Campus with
 members residing within the Camborne School of Mines and the Environment and Sustainability
 Institute.

 Environmental sciences research
 Ecosystems (Bearhop, Chapman, Cresswell, Early, Gaston, Godley, Hawkes, Hodgson, Kaiser-
 Bunbury, Maclean, Osbourne, Razgour, Thurston, Van Groenigan, Van Veen, Witt, Yvon-
 Durocher) – focuses on understanding the impacts of environmental change and land
 management on the goods and services provided by the Earth’s ecosystems. The group uses a
 multifaceted approach, combining field, laboratory, and modelling studies, which integrate with the
 work of engineers, mathematicians and social scientists. Studies are carried out in many
 ecosystem types from the ocean, to farmland and industrial mining sites, and for a range of taxa
 and systems including microbes, plants and biogeochemical cycles, insects, agri-environment and
 pollination services, marine vertebrates, fisheries, birds, and climate change. This group is based
 both on the Penryn and Streatham campuses, with a large proportion of staff co-located in the
 Environment and Sustainability Institute.
 Environmental Biology (Galloway, Hawkins, Lewis, Roberts, Santos, Simpson, Stevens, Tyler)
 – studies the interactive effects of aquatic organisms and ecosystems with environmental
 contaminants and other anthropogenic stressors. Key areas of research focus on understanding
 the mechanisms of action and physiological adaptations of aquatic organisms to pollutants
 (including endocrine disrupting chemicals, pharmaceuticals, microplastics and nanomaterials) and
 other environmental stressors and the broader implications for ecosystem functions.
 Methodologies include in vitro and in vivo experimentation (including genome wide sequencing
 and transgenic fish models) and field studies of unique habitats and degraded environments across
 the globe. Research into the basic biology of test and sentinel organisms underpins all of the
 ecotoxicology work and is enhanced by complementary bioimaging techniques within the Living
 Systems Institute. This group is based within Biosciences on the Streatham campus.
 Environment and Human Health (Fleming, Gaze, Leonard, Morrissey, Murray, Taylor, Vos) –
 carries-out transdisciplinary research into the interconnections between environmental change,
 human health and wellbeing. Particular areas of expertise include the benefits to human health
 and wellbeing from interacting with the natural environment, and the evolution and ecology of
 antibiotic resistance in natural and farmed environments and subsequent transmission to humans.
 The influences and interconnections of climate and other environmental change and demographic
 change are key features of this research. The group is based within a larger interdisciplinary


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research community at the European Centre for Environment and Human Health and is part of the
 College of Medicine and Health.

 Institutional Structure and Integration
 Interdisciplinary Institutes – UoA7 staff sit within several interdisciplinary institutes and research
 centres across the UoE’s three campuses, including the newly launched Global Systems Institute,
 the Environment and Sustainability Institute, Living Systems Institute and the Institute for Data
 Science and Artificial Intelligence. The Global Systems Institute is a trans-disciplinary institute with
 a focus on modelling of complex human-environment systems, based on the Streatham campus
 in Exeter. The Environment and Sustainability Institute is an interdisciplinary centre leading cutting-
 edge research into solutions to problems of environmental change, based on the Penryn Campus
 in Cornwall. The Living Systems Institute, on the Streatham campus, merges research in biology
 and medicine with ground-breaking physical sciences technologies and powerful mathematical
 modelling capabilities to pioneer transformative science to engineer control of complex biological
 systems. The Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence provides a hub for data-intensive
 science and artificial intelligence activity within the UoE and the wider region.
 Since REF2014, the UoE has made major investment in strengthening its existing interdisciplinary
 research institutes (namely, the Environment and Sustainability Institute) and adding new ones in
 key areas for strategic growth (namely, the Living Systems Institute, Global Systems Institute and
 the Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence). These institutes provide flexible co-
 location for staff from diverse disciplinary backgrounds across our six traditional colleges, to tackle
 major global challenges from antimicrobial resistance to poverty alleviation and sustainability. Co-
 locating staff from diverse disciplinary backgrounds has been a huge driver of the vigour and vitality
 in the research culture of UoA7 and represents a major commitment from the UoE to facilitate
 ground-breaking interdisciplinary research. Indeed, this institute model has facilitated a sense of
 trust and shared purpose among staff to enable them to embark on deeper, more fundamental,
 more risky activities, through working together. Whilst many of the institutes are still very young
 and it is still too early to assess the impact of this unconventional model, the Environment and
 Sustainability Institute is the longest running of the institutes, established in 2012 and had its first
 external review in 2016 carried out by the late Dame Prof. Georgina Mace, who stated the “already
 there seems to be evidence of innovative products and projects emerging from this approach”.

 Cross-campus integration – To ensure integration of Earth and Environmental science research
 across our campuses and institutes several university-wide activities have been created to foster
 collaboration and a collective community ethos. For example, the Centre for Resilience in
 Environment, Water and Waste brings together academics from Geography, Biosciences,
 Engineering, Economics, Medicine/Health, and Psychology, who work with partners in industry,
 government and NGOs, to develop a shared understanding of the issue related to sustainable
 water services and water security. Exeter Marine brings together world-leading researchers
 committed to understanding all aspects of the marine environment, and through partnerships with
 industry, policymakers and conservation agencies, delivers innovative solutions to real world
 problems. We also have annual (or biannual) research strategy retreats, which are attended by
 the majority of UoA7 staff. Faculty from the different campuses also contribute to one another’s
 local seminar series, and these are invariably associated with research discussion and associated
 social events. Cross campus interactions are also leveraged for fellowship and grant preparation,
 encouraging embedded internal review and playing an important role in interview preparation, a
 factor reflected both in our ERC and fellowship application success (see Section 3).

 Strategic partnerships – Integration of UoA7 activity also benefits from strategic partnerships
 with leading UK research institutes and international Universities. The UoE is part of the Met Office
 Academic Partnership and UoA7 researchers are engaged in around 80 joint projects, with an
 estimated total value of £18m, including studentships and research projects. Collaboration
 between UoE and Met Office has been strengthened since 2014 through the creation of 10 new
 joint Global Systems Institute-Met Office positions, and in 2020 has been further strengthened with
 the formation of the Joint Centre for Excellence in Environmental Intelligence, which is part of the
 Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence. The Joint Centre will provide a hub for cutting-

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 edge research and training that builds on the existing strengths of both centres and is intended to
 spearhead the development of Environmental Intelligence and promote the UK as a global
 trailblazer in this new field.

 Strategic collaboration between UoE and Plymouth Marine Laboratory has resulted in research
 funding of nearly £3m and led to flagship research and impact on marine microplastic pollution
 (see Section 4). The UoE has worked with the Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture
 Science on a number of environmental research projects, including on pollutants and pathogens
 relevant to environmental and human health, and climate change (see Section 4). The
 organisations have formed a strategic alliance to support joint research projects and studentships
 as part of the Great Western Four+ Doctoral Training Partnership. Significant collaboration also
 occurs with the UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology with > £2m in recent funding, and multiple
 joint PhD projects, on the environmental dimension of anti-microbial resistance. The UoE and
 University of Queensland have partnered to establish the QUEX Institute, a new multi-million-
 pound partnership designed to bolster their joint global research impact, with Environmental
 Sustainability being a crucial theme. ENSURE is a £1.9m joint research centre established by
 Chinese University of Hong Kong and the UoE in 2018, with a mission to embark on large-scale
 inter-disciplinary collaboration designed to provide sustainable solutions to today’s most important
 environmental threats including climate change, air and water pollution, the environmental
 dimension of anti-microbial resistance and biodiversity loss.


 RESEARCH STRATEGY
 Summary
 The UoA7 research strategy described here forms part of broader strategy for investment by the
 UoE in ‘Environmental and Sustainability’ research. Our working definition of environmental and
 sustainability research is that it is truly transdisciplinary, spanning the natural and social sciences,
 medicine, humanities and arts, with a shared focus on the core challenge of achieving a
 sustainable future for humanity on Earth. Such diverse research activity is built on a solid scientific
 core of understanding environmental systems. This UoA7 submission covers the scientific core of
 environmental and sustainability research at the UoE.


 Achieving our 2014 Strategy
 The key strategic aims during the assessment period were to strengthen the core UoA7 scientific
 component of Earth and Environmental science research at UoE, and to increase our standing
 among UK Universities delivering world-leading research in Earth and Environmental science.
 More specifically, we aimed to increase our critical mass in alignment with our existing research
 strengths, and to build on our strategic partnerships with the Met Office and Plymouth Marine
 Laboratory, amongst others.
 Our rate of growth over the current REF cycle has far surpassed expectations, with a more than
 doubling of size of the UoA (35 FTE in REF2014 to 78 FTE in REF2021). This growth has occurred
 across all research areas. Increases in markers of research quality have notably increased even
 faster than our research power. For example, income per FTE has increased from £97K in 2014/15
 to £133K in 2018/19 (up 17%); citations per year per FTE have increased from 82 to 110 (up 34%);
 and PGR completions per FTE have increased from 0.17 to 0.35 over the same time periods (up
 106%). Notably, Life and Environmental Science at the UoE was ranked #1 in Europe, and #11 in
 the world in the Leiden Rankings based on the proportion of outputs that are top 10% in the field,
 underscoring the world leading nature of our research in Earth and Environmental Sciences.
 In July 2019, the Global Systems Institute was launched. The Global Systems Institute is a trans-
 disciplinary institute with a focus on modelling of complex human-environment systems to better
 predict global changes through understanding the interactions between the climate, natural
 ecosystems, social and economic systems, and the built environment. The Global Systems
 Institute aims to become a ‘go to’ place for global change researchers from around the world,
 bringing them together with industry, policymakers, students and other stakeholders to tackle
 shared problems, and acting as a catalyst that enables translation of this research into applications

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 that deliver tangible and sustainable social and ecological benefit. The institute currently includes
 44 staff from across the Weather & Climate and Biogeochemical Cycles groups along with
 physicists, social scientists and biologists from across the UoE. The UoE has invested in recruiting
 10 FTE new academic staff to join the Global Systems Institute and form an integral part of the
 UoA7 submission.
 Collaboration between UoE and Met Office has been strengthened since 2014 through the creation
 of 10 new joint UoE-Met Office positions at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer level, in addition to the
 existing 5 joint positions at Professorial level. Eight Met Office scientists have completed PhDs or
 Masters degrees at Exeter. UoE–Met Office collaboration is also central to the 3rd UK Climate
 Change Risk Assessment, a major collaborative project led by Prof. Richard Betts (joint UoE–Met
 Office chair), which will directly inform UK government policy under the Climate Change Act.
 Strategic collaboration between UoE and Plymouth Marine Laboratory, part of the new Exeter
 Marine initiative, has resulted in research funding of over £3m and contributed to significant
 research and impact on marine microplastic pollution. The UoE has worked with the Centre for
 Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science on a number of environmental research projects,
 including on pathogens relevant to environmental human health and climate change, and renewal
 of a collaboration agreement which will help support a further 8 jointly funded PhDs.

 Impact Strategy
 Our strategic approach to impact is to engage strongly with the communities we serve locally,
 nationally, across the world, and in the digital realm, to enable our research to fully benefit society.
 We have embedded an entrepreneurial and enterprising culture in our transdisciplinary institutes
 and initiatives and aim to foster close collaboration and partnership with industry, policy makers,
 practitioner networks, grass roots groups, and citizens to co-create evidence-based solutions to
 global problems. Researchers are supported by a dedicated impact, innovation and business team
 who help foster these links.
 Support and training to encourage impactful research includes cross-disciplinary and early-career
 workshops, policy reading groups and themed away days; for example, around complexity science
 and systems of decision making. We have successfully established knowledge exchange
 fellowships in key areas, including our work on antimicrobial resistance (Gaze) and human health
 and wellbeing (Fleming).
 This impact strategy is augmented by key exemplars of impact that provide a template and
 inspiration for others, such as in the areas of international and national policy on climate change
 (Lenton), marine plastics (Galloway), design and implementation of marine protected areas
 (Godley), aerosol detection and aviation policy in the face of major volcanic eruptions (Haywood),
 policy, regulation and practice in understanding and managing risk associated with the
 environmental dimension of antimicrobial resistance (Gaze), and the importance for human health
 and wellbeing of equal access to high quality natural environments (Fleming). UoA7 academics
 have also generated major societal impact by improving ocean literacy in the classroom (Lewis),
 through contributions to the Lancet Countdown on health and climate change (Cox), and through
 early-stage interventions on mining projects to ensure a responsible supply of essential rare earth
 elements for green technologies (Wall).

 Research and Impact Strategy Post 2020
 Global Systems Institute – The growth and development of the Global Systems Institute remains
 a strategic focus for UoA7 and the UoE as a whole. We aspire to recruit a further 27 FTE by 2024,
 across all career levels, and to rapidly increase post-graduate research student intake to above 15
 per annum from 2022. In addition, the expansion strategy includes recruitment of 5 Research
 Fellows and 8 FTE for Professional Service staff to enable and support the full societal impact of
 our research.
 Exeter Marine (http://www.exeter.ac.uk/research/marine/) – Brings together over 130 principal
 investigators (40 in UoA7) across our 3 campuses that carry out research on the marine
 environment, including 11 of ISI Highly Cited researchers in UoA7 (Bearhop, Collins, Fleming,
 Galloway, Gaston, Godley, Lenton, Roberts, Screen, Tyler, Watson). Marine research, drawing

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 upon the humanities, physical, social and natural sciences, is a key area for future strategic growth
 at UoE, building on our existing strengths in this area, and recognising the critical importance of
 marine environments and ecosystems for planetary functioning and human wellbeing. We will
 appointment at least 3 new faculty before 2022, with the aim of further increasing research
 integration within this area. Specific areas include: Fisheries management and conservation and
 mechanisms underpinning climate change. New areas include the Global Challenges Research
 Fund Blue Communities Project in Southeast Asia (https://www.blue-communities.org/Home) and
 the growing area of ocean(s) and human health (https://sophie2020.eu).

 Environmental microbiology – Microbiologists based at the Environment and Sustainability
 Institute form an integrated team of internationally distinguished scientists who deliver some of the
 UoE’s most impactful and high-profile research into solutions to problems of environmental
 change. This includes research into the evolution and transmission of anti-microbial resistance in
 the environment, the evolutionary and ecological responses to global warming, the bioremediation
 of heavy metal contaminated areas in the environment, and the optimization of microbial
 fermentations for biogas production. Microbiology research is a major driver of research excellence
 on the Penryn campus, and delivers around 7% of the UoE’s research income from just 10 PIs.
 Expansion of the pan-college Microbiology research group is a key strategic priority for the UoE
 over the next REF-cycle, turning the UoE into a global centre of excellence in environmental
 microbiology. We will develop our expertise in innovative applied microbiology by new targeted
 investment of ca. £10m to the construction of a new, state-of-the-art laboratory to provide
 laboratory space for an additional 50 microbiologists, including the appointment of two chairs.

 Environmental Intelligence – The increasing availability of large and complex data sets from
 diverse sources, including environmental monitoring, satellite remote sensing, climate modelling,
 electronic medical records, social media, and contributions from citizen science, presents and
 exceptional opportunity to transform our understanding of both the effects of environmental change
 and our planet-transforming power. The application of Data Science and AI to understand the
 complex interactions between the environment, climate, natural ecosystems, human social and
 economic systems, and health is a growth area at UoE. The UKRI-funded Centre for Doctoral
 Training in ‘Environmental Intelligence: Data Science & AI for Sustainable Futures’, which will fund
 50+ PhDs between now and 2025; and the new Institute for Data Science and Artificial Intelligence
 will be key stimuli for broader activity in this area. The Institute for Data Science and Artificial
 Intelligence will work closely with the Global Systems Institute.

 Open Research and Research Integrity
 Our institutional approach to Open Research and Research Integrity is detailed in the Institutional-
 Level Environment Statement, including the investment in Open Research Exeter, the UoE’s online
 repository for storing and providing access to research outputs. Within UoA7 we ensure there is
 an understanding of the San Francisco Declaration of Research Assessment (DORA) and open
 research compliance through our weekly staff announcements and the regular discussion forums,
 described in Section 2, as well as during Staff and Student Personal Development Reviews. There
 is mandatory online training in research integrity for all research staff. We have dedicated ethics
 officers at both the Streatham and Penryn campuses - academics who are well informed of all the
 UoE ethics policies and who are able to advise on any issue relating to research integrity and
 ethics of working with animals and humans.

 2. People
 The UoE is committed to the Researcher Development Concordat to support the career
 development of researchers and is accredited under the European Human Resources Excellence
 in Research Award. The concordat sets out a framework of working practices, roles and
 responsibilities to attract and sustain research careers in the UK, ensuring the continued provision
 of well-trained, talented and motivated researchers that is essential to the continuation of research
 excellence. UoA7 brings together a diverse constellation of researchers from multiple departments
 across our 3 campuses. Our strategy for supporting the career development of our researchers is


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 guided by the UoE’s Concordat, allowing for the organic development of local-scale initiatives
 tailored to the needs of individual departments.

 Staffing overview
 To contextualise this section, our current staff profile for permanent Education and Research
 academic staff, and the gender and career stage distributions of our outputs are as follows.

  Grade                     Total            Male             Female
  Professor                 27               20               7
  Asc. Professor            14               10               4
  Senior Lecturer           28               16               12
  Lecturer                  14               7                7
 Table 1: Staff totals in UoA7 by gender and career stage.




 Figure 2: The gender (including nonbinary) and career stage distributions of UoA7 staff and outputs. Figures given as
 % of all FTEs returned to the unit. Early-career researchers (ECR) are here defined as Lecturers; senior researchers are
 here defined as Senior Lecturers, Associate Professors and Professors.


 Recruitment & retention
 Our strategy for staff recruitment and retention has been a major component of our overarching
 goal to deliver a greater quantity of world leading research outputs in our key priority areas (see
 Section 1). Since 2014, we have more than doubled in size from 35 to 78 FTE, recruiting and
 developing a large number of outstanding research-intensive staff at both junior and senior levels,
 aligned within our areas of strength. The implementation of our staffing strategy has allowed us to
 radically increase our research outputs both in terms of quantity and quality, to increase our income
 and our research student base. Nevertheless, our staff and output profile (Fig. 2) highlights a clear
 gender and career stage imbalance, with a greater proportion of our staff and outputs coming from
 senior males. Mindful of this imbalance, we have adopted a recruitment and professional
 development strategy that takes great care to consider gender, career stage, experience and
 expertise in making new hires and internal promotions (see section below on equality and
 diversity). Progress to this end has been made and is reflected in the near 50:50 gender balance
 at Lecturer and Senior Lecturer levels, where we have focused the overwhelming majority of our
 recruitment; but more work is clearly needed. It is our ongoing aim to ensure that this equitable
 gender balance is reinforced across all career stages as staff develop their careers at the UoE.
 Our PhD students are the drivers of a buoyant research community and thus, recruitment and
 training of postgraduate research students is of crucial importance for the health and sustainability


                                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of UoA7. We have increased core funding for PhD students in line with the increasing number of
 active research staff in UoA7. Annual PhD intake into UoA7 has been increasing year-on-year, in
 line with our increasing FTE and remains stable at around 2 students per FTE on average. We
 continue to recruit excellent applicants from home and overseas, in particular through our Centres
 for Doctoral Training and Doctoral Training Partnerships, which are highly competitive and attract
 the strongest students. In this REF cycle, the UoE was part of consortiums that won the NERC
 Centre for Doctoral Training in Freshwater Bioscience and Sustainability, and the UKRI Centre for
 Doctoral Training in Environmental Intelligence: Data Science & AI for Sustainable Futures.
 Together these Centres for Doctoral Training have funded 36 PhD students up to 2020, many of
 whom are supervised by UoA7 staff. UoA7 has also been very successful in securing PhD
 studentships through UoE’s Doctoral Training Partnerships (NERC-GW4+, SWBio-BBSRC, MRC-
 GW4+, EPSRC). A high percentage of UoA7 PhD studentships have industrial or stakeholder
 partners, with CASE support from Department for Food and Rural Affairs, the Environment Agency,
 Centre for Environment Fisheries and Aquaculture Sciences, Plymouth Marine Laboratory, Met
 Office, Syngenta, Natural England and AstraZeneca. International partnerships with the University
 of Queensland, and with the Chinese Scholarship Council have enabled recruitment of exceptional
 international students, for whom funding is not typically available under UKRI schemes.

 Support & career development
 Academic Staff – All academic staff are allocated to an Academic Lead who is a senior academic
 working in a related research area and provides bespoke 1:1 mentorship throughout their career
 development. Through the system of Academic Leads, each research group has representatives
 on the College-level Management Group. We aim to provide a stimulating and supportive research
 environment allowing all colleagues to flourish, supporting international collaboration at every
 career stage, and encouraging interdisciplinary research. We have an extensive career
 development support system, which includes an annual review exercise that enables us to be
 flexible in the allocation of time and resources, and to ensure that our staff are able to maximise
 the quality and impact of their research outputs. The University operates a 3-year induction and
 probationary process for academic Lecturer appointments, during which appropriate research
 goals for each appointee are specified. At the end of a successful probationary period (which may
 be accelerated by early achievement of goals), the expectation is that staff are promoted to Senior
 Lecturer grade. New academics are assigned to an Academic Lead who offers guidance and
 support from the outset. Annual Personal Development Reviews monitor and assist with progress.
 As part of their induction, new academics are encouraged to gain experience of supervising a PhD
 student within the first two years of appointment, as first or second supervisor. This aspiration has
 been achieved through access to a wide range of sources for studentship funding. New academics
 are encouraged to apply for appropriate EPSRC, NERC, BBSRC and CASE studentship funding
 as appropriate, and they are supported in this by their Director of Research, Research
 Administrators, and by their Academic Lead. Expected targets for research income are set. In the
 grant application process, all applications are first seen at an early stage and then receive close
 support in their development to full proposals with the required pilot data. A Strategic Research
 Fund has been established that is used to pump-prime research projects, enabling time allocation
 to allow completion on key pieces of research/papers, and to support new researchers in obtaining
 vital ‘middle tier’ equipment for their research.

 The success of the Academic Lead structure to mentorship is evidenced by a large increase in
 rates of Academic Promotions during this REF Census Period:

    •       Lecturer to Senior Lecturer: 14 (Hawkes, Jupp, Taylor, Vos, Moore, Halloran, Littler,
            Bailey, Early, Sheen, Hickey, Catto, Hughes, Kender)

    •       Senior Lecturer to Associate Professor: 11 (Santos, Witt, Williamson, Beare, Lewis,
            MacLean, Lambert, Screen, Shutler, Morrissey, Andersen)

    •       Associate Professor to Professor: 8 (Hodgson, Wall, Van Veen, Gaze, Belcher,
            Yvon-Durocher, Simpson, Unger)

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A further testament to the success of our mentoring is evidenced by the high number of staff
 members with independent fellowships, the vast majority of which have been won by existing,
 often ECR staff with the help of our mentoring programme. These include a European Research
 Council Advanced Grant (Cox) and Starting Grant (Yvon-Durocher); 3 NERC Independent
 Research Fellowships (Broom-Fendley, Chadburn, Rowland); 2 NERC Industrial Innovation
 Fellowships (Leonard, Murray) and an EPSRC Living with Environmental Change Fellowship
 (Harper). In many cases, those who have been awarded long-term fellowships during the census
 period because of their excellent research performance have also been offered permanent
 positions at the end of their fellowship (Chadburn, Rowland, Harper).

 Our Post-Doctoral Research Fellows (PDRFs) form a large and diverse research community in
 Earth Sciences. Whilst these staff roles are non-permanent, and reliant on externally funded
 grants (obtained by permanent staff), we do a lot to support our PDRFs in submitting fellowship
 applications and grant proposals. As part of this training towards research independence, PDRFs
 are mentored by a permanent academic staff member. We offer support in the form of reviewing
 documents, costings and training for interviews (usually using an excellent external consultant).
 This career support for PDRF’s includes a very comprehensive Research Development Manager
 (RDM) facilitation of fellowship clinics through our ECR network, guidance on eligibility, liaising
 with directors of research and academic leads. Our support structures for PDRFs provides
 excellent career trajectory options for these non-permanent ECRs. We find that a significant
 number of research fellows at the PDRF level develop independence and obtain permanent
 positions as proleptic lecturers and/or open-ended research contracts (see evidence above).

 We have also invested heavily in new and existing buildings to ensure that our working
 environment facilitates trans-disciplinary collaboration. Our aim has been to develop a friendly,
 collaborative and supportive environment with fair and transparent governance in which leadership
 roles (e.g., Heads of Departments, Directors of Research and Education) alternate on a 3-year
 cycle. The implementation of our staffing strategy has allowed us to radically increase our research
 outputs both in terms of quantity and quality, to increase our income and our research student
 base, whilst simultaneously maintaining a happy, healthy and supportive working environment.

 Postgraduate Research Students – First year PhD students must undertake a programme of
 attendance and assessment consisting of at least 100 hours of advanced PhD training modules,
 associated with taught masters-level programmes (e.g., MSci – climate science). These
 compulsory modules provide training in world-leading methods including advanced modelling,
 statistics, computing, sequencing, imaging, and so on. Students are also encouraged to attend
 relevant external courses and workshops.
 Exeter uses the Research Councils and the Quality Assurance Agency interpretation of
 transferable skills to provide training in research management, personal effectiveness,
 communication         skills,  networking,    team     working,     and    career    management
 (http://as.exeter.ac.uk/support/development/researchstudents/). In addition to formalised Generic
 Skills training, UoE also provides employability skills training to equip postgraduates with the
 necessary skills, knowledge and training to enter academic or industrial research careers.
 Students develop a learning agreement and plan with their supervisor, and all meetings are
 documented and signed off through an electronic ‘myPGR’ system. Students undergo a formal
 monitoring process, which varies somewhat between departments. For example, students get
 assessed at 6 months through a written report and viva by two academics independent to the PhD.
 They then have a full report (part of this can be as a research paper) and a viva at 18 months
 before they can progress to register for a PhD. All PhDs are now funded for 3.5 years and some
 (e.g., SwBio BBSRC DTP) are fully funded for 4 years. More generally, first year monitoring
 includes a report, presentation to a small group of academic staff, a viva, and a review of formal
 training undertaken - only those students who are making progress and have clear objectives on
 entering their second year are permitted to continue. PhD students must give at least one research
 seminar during the first two years of their degree and are actively encouraged and funded to
 participate in relevant international and national research conferences and workshops. Our
 students are encouraged to write their thesis chapters wherever possible as research papers,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 further developing their skills in scientific writing and helping to ensure they have the currency they
 need (i.e., papers) when they graduate.
 The Colleges have separate Directors of Postgraduate and of Postdoctoral Research, who
 champion all aspects of infrastructure and career development for postgraduates and research
 fellows. The UoE’s Impact, Innovation and Business, and Research Services departments provide
 support and guidance to those involved in all forms of research and consultation, from providing
 contacts, negotiating contracts and intellectual property agreements, to an annual “impact award”
 that aims to promote excellence in impact and innovation as well as in research.

 Diversity & equality
 A strong commitment to Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity (EDI) underpins all research and impact
 activities in Earth Systems and Environmental Science at the UoE. Indeed, EDI training is
 accessible via the central Researcher Development programme and is part of the mandatory training
 for new PGRs and research staff. In this REF period, initiatives and policies emerging from our EDI
 work have shaped many of the staffing strategies, actions and successes discussed in preceding
 sections. For example, we have provided funding for non-routine care costs, virtual connections
 to many of our key events, and we ensure that staff and speaker selection is reviewed for diversity
 amongst protected characteristics via confidential EDI monitoring forms. We take a
 complementary and well-balanced approach to leadership that is considerate of gender, career
 stage, experience and expertise. Consistent with the UoE’s own REF Code of Practice, all staff in
 senior management roles, including those involved in REF output selections receive training in
 Unconscious Bias and how it can influence decision making. Each of our institutes and centres
 have EDI committees which includes Heads of Department (HoD), Directors of Research,
 Directors of Education and representatives from post-doctoral, postgraduate and undergraduate
 communities. The Director of EDI is a senior role, reporting direct to HoD and to College-level EDI
 committees.

 The strength and robustness of our approach to EDI issues is evidenced by our success in Athena
 SWAN. All the component departments/divisions of UoA7 hold Athena SWAN Bronze Awards,
 with many achieving Silver Awards (Geography, Mathematics and Computer Science, Bioscience
 Cornwall, College of Medicine & Health).

 Athena SWAN has a primary focus upon gender and career-stage but has also provided an
 effective springboard for our EDI work more widely (e.g., with respect to race, religion/belief,
 disability, sexual orientation). EDI considerations are thus systematically embedded within all our
 recruitment, career-development and promotions processes. All staff involved in academic
 recruitment (from PGR to Professorial level) are required to have undertaken and passed
 mandatory EDI training, with training refreshed every two years. All interview and promotion
 panels in the Colleges are gender balanced. We have recently introduced, sector-leading policies
 to support Shared Parental Leave. There is no qualifying length of service requirement for Shared
 Parental Leave or University Shared Parental Pay. We are also fully committed to considering
 flexibility in working arrangement, and staff with caring responsibilities are entitled to make flexible
 working requests, to reduce both fractions and available working hours.

 Our approach to EDI recognises the need for ongoing critical reflection and continuous
 improvements to our policies and practices. Our applications for Athena SWAN Silver re-
 accreditation in 2020 and 2021 will provide one mechanism to achieve this.

 Recognition & value
 The UoE rewards staff for going “Above and Beyond” in their roles. The Above and Beyond awards
 range from “thank you” notes, through small financial awards, to Silver (£1k) and Gold (10% of
 salary) awards. A total of 150 awards have been made since the inception of the scheme in 2015.
 Heads of Departments hold budgets for small awards. Silver and Gold awards are recommended
 by Heads of Departments and decided annually at College level.


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Associate Deans of Education, Research or International Development, acting for the College,
 receive bonuses linked to achievement of targets that are reviewed annually. Heads of Department
 and members of relevant Learned Societies regularly nominate faculty, early career researchers
 and postgraduate research students for national and international prizes. Important personal
 achievements are also highlighted at regular staff meetings as well forming the foci of annual
 performance development reviews between individual staff and their academic lead (see below).

 Researchers’ responsibilities
 The Colleges operate workload systems including a reduced lecturing and administrative load for
 new academics. The workload system is used to balance the demands of teaching, research and
 administration for all staff. Academic Leads have flexible funds to support academics via a
 research travel fund for research conferences, visitors and related expenses. The UoE aims to
 provide staff of all levels with appropriate training, including an academic leadership programme
 for senior academics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income
 Our total income during the census period was £62.0m, amounting to £796K per FTE, and up 7-
 fold from £8.8m during the last REF period. Our annual income per FTE has risen steadily between
 2014 and 2019 (£97K and £133K, respectively), which is all the more impressive given the
 doubling of staff during this period. Research Council income within the UoA comes from a wide
 range of sources, with funding streams from NERC, EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, ESRC, GCRF, NIHR,
 ERC, ERDF, EU H2020 and the World Bank. Other income includes funding from industrial
 partners such as the Met Office, Cefas, AstraZeneca, Syngenta, the Nanotech Industry
 Association, BASF, BUPA, and also from Government policy customers and regulators including
 DEFRA, Natural England, and the UK Environment Agency. Especially important for the UoA has
 been the membership of the Met Office’s Academic Partnership. This partnership has co-funded
 a number of posts in UoA7 (currently Haywood and Collins). Also important is our strategic
 partnership with Cefas, which has funded a number of studentships.

 Key Funding achievements.
    -   7 Early Career Research Fellowships; 4 x NERC Independent Research Fellowships
        (Broom-Fendly, Chadburn, Rowland, Screen), 1 x Freigeist Fellowship Volkswagen
        Foundation (Boers), 1 x EPSRC Living with Environmental Change Fellowship (Harper), 2
        x NERC Industrial Innovation Fellowships (Leonard, Murray). These fellowships secured
        highly competitive funding for some our brightest emerging young talent. It is notable that
        most of these fellows are ‘home grown’ and have been nurtured in our mentorship
        programme to secure their fellowships.
    -   3 ERC Grants; 1x Synergy (Roberts), 1 x Advanced (Cox), 1 x Starting (Yvon-Durocher).
        These represent the most prestigious and highly competitive individual awards for blue
        skies research.
    -   11 NERC Large Grants (Collins x 2, Browse x 2, Freidlingstein, Galloway, Halloran,
        Hayward, Hesselbo, Lambert, Watson). These awards are for large scale, adventurous,
        world leading multi-disciplinary projects in Earth and Environmental Science.
    -   6 GCRF Grants (Fleming, Galloway, Morrissey, Tyler, Van Veen, Wall). These are large
        interdisciplinary projects that tackle challenges faced by developing countries.
    -   Coordination of 2 x EU H2020 Large Grants (Friedlingstein, Betts).
    -   5 European Space Agency (ESA) grants (Shutler x 4, Brewin). These include 3 direct
        negotiations where ESA requested UoE academics to organise European and/or
        international consortia and lead the research.

 Strategies to maximise grant success.
 We run biannual grant and fellowship hustings, where staff can pitch initial ideas in a supportive
 environment, and then receive feedback on the content and the most appropriate funding sources.

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We employ extensive mentoring and peer review, through both local Research committees and
 University-wide Funder Advisory Networks. The model in both cases is akin to journal editorial
 boards, with members both providing feedback as well as assigning at least two other colleagues
 to peer review. For interdisciplinary grants, Funder Advisory Network chairs send proposals over
 to other networks, who undertake the same process. Every grant application is supported by a
 dedicated, experienced research administrator who helps with finances and personnel details, as
 well as ensuring compliance.

 Research Facilities at the Streatham campus
 The Major Research Facilities below have core financial support from the Colleges supplemented
 by cost recovery through grant-funding (to cover staff and maintenance). Each has an academic
 director supported by experimental officers.

 The DNA Sequencing Facility houses Illumina HiSeq 2500, Illumina MiSeq and PacBio Sequel
 (for long reads). The HiSeq was replaced by a NovaSeq 6000 in 2019 and a 10X Chromium
 instrument, enabling single cell genomics and transcriptomics (£1m: 50% Wellcome trust; 50%
 UoE matched funding). The facility supports a wide range of applications for genomics,
 transcriptomics and epigenetics. Development of single cell approaches is facilitated by a joint
 clean room at Plymouth Marine Laboratory along with a joint appointment (UoE Environmental
 Single Cell Genomics Facility), funded by NERC and the Wolfson Foundation. The facility employs
 a Senior Research Fellow, two bioinformaticians, two wet-lab technicians, and a laboratory
 apprentice. Academic oversight is provided by a joint Biosciences/Medical School team. The
 sequencing facility is a major user of the UoE’s new high-performance computing facility (Isca).

 The Bioimaging Centre has a large array of light microscopes to support all key bioimaging
 techniques (e.g., FRAP, FLIM, FCS, photoactivation). We have confocal laser scanning
 microscopes (Leica TCS SP8, Leica TCS SP8, Zeiss LSM 880 with Airyscan FAST); Leica SP8X
 HyVolution II system for super-resolution live cell imaging and cross correlation studies; Olympus
 IX81 spinning disc system for fast life cell imaging; and Olympus IX81wide-field system with TIRF
 module. It was several electron microscopes: JEOL 1400 JEM transmission electron microscope;
 JEOL JSM 6390 LV scanning electron microscope; Zeiss GeminiSEM 500 scanning electron
 microscope. Facilities for sample preparation include a Baltec HPM010 High pressure freezer and
 RMC Boekeler freeze substitution unit. Data analysis is supported by a large software suite. The
 Centre is supported by an Experimental Officer, two technicians and a finance administrator.
 Additional bioimaging capability is provided via Physics and LSI, and includes super-resolution
 microscopy, multiphoton imaging, and label-free techniques to probe physical and chemical
 structure (second harmonic generation and coherent anti-Stokes Raman scattering microscopy).

 Aquatic Resources Centre. Over £12m has been invested to provide a world-class teaching and
 research facility. It includes 14 aquaria rooms, including marine and freshwater, facilities for small
 and large scale mesocosms and the recent addition of a 3000-tank zebrafish unit, which houses
 a wide range of freshwater and marine species. The facility is supported by a Wolfson Imaging
 Unit with specialist microscopes, video and imaging equipment, together with several preparation
 and laboratory rooms that contain automated respirometry, dosing and gas control systems that
 allow for sophisticated developmental, physiological and behavioural research. A computer-
 controlled water treatment plant with 12 recirculating and 7 flow-to-waste systems allows us to
 provide high quality water of the desired salinity and temperature. Each room also has its own
 dedicated building management system for air temperature control and independent day-night
 light cycles.

 The Mass Spectrometry (MS) Facility, operated by an Experimental Officer, houses two LC-MS
 systems (LC-triple quadrupole MS/MS and LC-QTOF MS/MS) along with a GC-QToF MS/MS and
 HPLC with diode array, fluorescence and refractive index detectors. The facility supports custom
 targeted small molecule analysis and untargeted metabolite profiling plus data analysis pipelines.
 Chemical analysis by MS is complemented by a 400 MHz NMR spectrometer (Bruker) and IR
 spectroscopy. An additional MS outside the facility is equipped with hydrogen-deuterium exchange
 for protein structure studies.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Plant growth facilities. Plant and plant-pathogen interaction research is supported by controlled
 environment growth rooms, standalone cabinets, and a climate-controlled seed store. Due to
 refurbishment, four existing growth rooms are currently being replaced by a ~£400K investment
 in ten controlled environment chambers with LED lighting and CO2 control. Our glasshouse has a
 footprint of 375m2 divided into three compartments, with independent climate control,
 supplemental lighting and 57 m2 of bench space with automatic watering. One of the
 compartments is built to GM containment specifications. The facilities are supported by two full
 time plant growth technicians.

 Isca is the University's high-performance computing (HPC) environment. It represents a £3m
 investment by the UoE, designed to serve the advanced computing requirements of all research
 disciplines, including researchers in UoA7. The first of its kind in a UK University, Isca combines
 a traditional HPC cluster with a virtualised cluster environment, providing a range of node types in
 a single machine. Isca is available free of charge to all research groups on all campuses. The UoE
 is also a full partner in the GW4 Centre for Advanced Architectures, allowing access for research
 staff and PhD students to the Isambard supercomputer.

 The wildFIRE lab is a specifically designed experimental laboratory to test the flammability of
 natural fuels. The wildFIRE lab comprises equipment that is more typically used in fire safety
 engineering, such as a calorimeter and microcalorimeter. The facility is used to understand as
 much about the flammability of natural plant-based materials in order that we can understand the
 flammability of our planet both in the present and the past. The wildFIRE lab also hosts a range
 of standard laboratory equipment necessary for the preparation of modern and fossil samples,
 and an adjoining microscopy room for sample preparations and microscopic analysis of charcoals
 complete with digital image capture and analysis facility.

 Our carbon cycle and environmental chemistry laboratories were heavily refurbished in the
 current REF cycle. They provide state-of-the-art facilities for the measurement of marine carbon,
 chlorofluorocarbons, and atmospheric greenhouse gases. Investment in fixed laboratory space
 has been supplemented by the provision of a well-equipped container laboratory for use on
 research ships, which has supported participation by the group in six major research cruises, as
 well as regular observations on commercial shipping routes and at atmospheric stations in the UK,
 Cape Verde Islands and Northern Norway.

 Research Facilities at the Penryn campus
 Drone lab. We have a dedicated drone laboratory and a range of systems, including a heavy lifting
 delta wing aircraft, heavy-lifting octocopter, lightweight powered gliders, and lightweight multi-rotor
 aircraft. We combine drone survey flights with expert ground-support using field validation
 methodologies, which we have developed and refined. We have a high accuracy differential GPS
 to support registration of data and access to a high-performance computing cluster with bespoke
 software for rapid data processing.

 Controlled Environment Rooms. With the addition of a further 6 controlled environment rooms
 associated with our recently completed Wolfson Evolutionary Entomology suite, we now have 17
 large programmable environment rooms with variable temperature and light regimes, and shelving
 for insect rearing and plant growth applications, arranged across 3 suites. Each suite is managed
 by the technical manager of each building.

 Greenhouses. Two large (69m2 & 46m2) fully programmable greenhouses with automated blinds
 and lighting systems and full racking for plant and insect rearing.

 Radars. Our Vertical-Looking Radar is used to investigate the abundance and behaviour of
 insects flying at high altitudes (150 m to 1200 m). Our harmonic radar enables individual tagged
 low-flying insects to be tracked continuously as they fly over several 100 metres to ~ 1 km. There
 are only two institutions in the UK and three in the world that currently possess such technology,
 facilitating research into animal navigation and animal cognition in a field setting.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Chemical analysis. Complementing our Streatham Mass Spectrometry Facility, we have a fully
 equipped laboratory for oxidative stress research, run by a core funded technician, including a gas
 chromatography-single quadrupole MS and a high-performance liquid chromatograph with diode-
 array detector and fluorescence detectors.

 Aquarium. We are currently expanding our existing 100 tank freshwater aquarium facility to
 include 50 marine tanks to facilitate our expanding aquatic research in Penryn. The outdoor
 facilities provide aviaries ranging in area from 7-30 cubic metres. The indoor facility has full
 temperature and light control including simulated dusk and dawn cycles to provide state-of-the-art
 housing.

 Camborne School of Mines facilities. Recent investment at Camborne School of Mines includes
 a FEI Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscope, a laser ablation system for our Inductively
 Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometer, an Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission
 Spectrometer, and a Scanning Electron Microscope. A stable isotope facility was developed in
 2015 along with a preparation and microscopy facility for sedimentology and micropalaeontology
 in 2018. In total, this is an investment of £700K in new research facilities since the last REF.

 Research Field. The University owns 5 hectares of agricultural land close to the Penryn campus.
 This includes two large (50m x 50m) secure fenced compounds with mains power and water,
 along with laboratory, workshop and poly tunnel facilities and hard standing for vehicles and heavy
 equipment. The facility provides access to space for a variety of large-scale experiments in the
 general fields of ecology and environmental science.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The diverse, interdisciplinary expertise of academic staff in Earth Systems & Environmental
 Science at UoE, has ensured that we are exceptionally placed to participate in major research
 collaborations, and deliver outstanding contributions to economy and society both nationally and
 internationally. The work of academic staff at UoE is also integral to the vitality and sustainability
 of Earth and Environmental Science both in the UK and internationally. This section outlines our
 key roles in major research networks and scientific organisations, our engagement with research
 users and audiences, and our contributions to the research base.

 Research networks and collaborations
 The researchers involved in this UoA7 submission are very actively engaged in a wide range of
 national and international collaborations. The breadth of our international research collaborations
 is global, and researchers in Earth Systems & Environmental Science are actively involved in >100
 networks and collaborations with researchers worldwide. Here, we focus upon some highlight
 activities from this REF period that are indicative of breadth and scope of our international
 collaborations.

 Prof Betts, joint UoE–Met Office Chair in Climate Impacts, led the EU-funded HELIX project,
 which ran 2013-2017 and saw a consortium of 16 partner organisations, including the Met Office,
 assess the future impact of global warming at different levels. Over one hundred papers have
 been published from the consortium which has provided input to the Intergovernmental Panel on
 Climate Change special report on the impacts of climate change at 1.5 degrees and above, and
 what we can do to reduce greenhouse gases to maintain that level. The report has fed into the UN
 negotiations process and is widely credited as kick-starting recent public concern on climate
 change, triggering the wave of school strikes and Extinction Rebellion protests that have swept
 across the country this year. The HELIX project has raised public awareness of climate science
 through interviews with mainstream media and a popular @helixclimate Twitter feed.



                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prof Lenton is a member of Earth League, which is an international alliance of prominent scientists
 from world‐class research institutions, who look to work together to respond to some of the most
 pressing issues faced by humankind, as a consequence of climate change, depletion of natural
 resources, land degradation and water scarcity. The alliance focus includes how we can manage
 anthropogenic global change according to the principles of sustainable development. The Earth
 League aims to provide decision makers with multiple options for addressing pressing
 sustainability issues, by delivering robust background information and enhancing transparency of
 the choices available.

 Members of the Ecosystems and Environment and Human Health groups (Bearhop, Godley,
 Fleming) have played an integral role in establishing a £1.9m joint research centre with the
 Chinese University of Hong Kong, “Environmental Sustainability and Resilience” (ENSURE). The
 first of its kind in Hong Kong, this joint endeavour is embarking on large, impactful interdisciplinary
 collaborations to tackle emerging issues related to a changing environment and human health and
 wellbeing. ENSURE serves as a platform for international academic exchange, promoting policy
 related works, and nurturing the next generation of young researchers to address sustainable
 development challenges.

 Members of the Ecosystems (Bearhop) and Climate Dynamics (Cox) groups have helped develop
 the QUEX partnership between the UoE and the University of Queensland. A multi-million pound
 partnership that strengthens a joint commitment to co-produce research of the highest quality,
 boost industry and business collaboration, and publish high-level policy reports, designed to inform
 and shape key government initiatives across the globe. The two Universities are working together
 under the overarching banner of ‘Global Sustainability and Wellbeing’. The high-level collaboration
 brings together the UoE’s global-leading expertise in pioneering environmental research with the
 University of Queensland’s world-leading reputation in genetic and environmental research.

 Members of the Environmental Biology group (Galloway, Lewis, Godley) have developed an
 international consortium to tackle ocean plastic waste, through circular economy approaches in
 the eastern Pacific and iconic Galapagos islands. Multi-million funding from GCRF, government,
 research councils and benefactors supports a network of scientists, practitioners and industries
 across Ecuador, Chile and Peru. This ground-breaking research has led to a new fundamental
 understanding of ocean contamination dynamics and impacts in the region and generated award-
 winning research on remediation of outstanding societal benefit and contributed towards policy
 documents for countries across the Eastern Pacific rim for controlling plastic waste.

 Contributions to the discipline and research base
 Researchers in Earth Systems & Environmental Science at the UoE have a distinguished record
 of providing external disciplinary leadership. This section outlines our contributions to international
 scientific committees and organisations over the REF period, and our work to sustain the research
 base across the subject area.

 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Earth System Science researchers have
 a high-profile role in the IPCC process. Four academics from this UoA (Betts, Collins, Cox, Unger)
 are currently lead authors for the 6th Assessment Report or Special Report on the Ocean and
 Cryosphere (SROCC).

 Third UK Climate Change Risk Assessment (CCRA3). The UoE also leads the scientific
 analysis for CCRA3 directed by joint UoE–Met Office chair Prof Betts. This government report,
 which is provided to parliament every five years, evaluates the risks climate change poses to the
 country and how our health policies, utilities and infrastructure can best protect us under the
 National Adaptation programme. The final report will go to parliament in January 2022 and will
 inform the National Adaptation Programme and other government policies on climate change.

 Conference of the Parties (COP). The UoE has had a strong presence for many years at the
 annual Conference of the Parties (COP) to United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
 Change, presenting research on a global level. Results from the HELIX project were presented at

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 COP21 in 2015 where the historical Paris Agreement was signed. COP25 in Madrid in 2019 saw
 the UoE deliver a number of talks including on climate risks, tipping points, increasing climate
 resilience in vulnerable regions, and progress on the Climate Change Risk Assessment 3 report.
 UoE will have strong presence again at COP26 which will take place in Glasgow, providing the
 opportunity to work alongside other UK universities in bringing the latest climate science research
 to governments, policy makers, scientists and the general public.

 Anti-Microbial Resistance (Gaze, Leonard, Murray, Vos). The group, led by Prof Gaze, has
 contributed to United Nations, World Health Organisation, European Food Safety Authority and
 EU Water Framework Directive policy. Prof Gaze co-authored a UNEP report on anti-microbial
 resistance and the environment, which he presented at UNEA3 (2017) in Nairobi. Countries
 around the world, including the UK, pledged to tackle marine litter and combat anti-microbial
 resistance for the first time at this meeting. The report was one of only two publications on the
 environment cited by the UN Interagency Coordination Group on anti-microbial resistance final
 report to the UN Secretary General. The group has also informed UK government policy on anti-
 microbial resistance contributing vital parts of the evidence base, which underpins the UK
 government 5-year anti-microbial resistance strategy. Strong links with the Department for Food
 and Rural Affairs and the Environment Agency in England have been facilitated by a NERC funded
 Knowledge Exchange Fellowship awarded to Prof Gaze and supervision of a PhD student, by Dr
 Leonard, based within the Environment Agency’s national laboratory service delivering microbial
 testing of bathing waters. Key exemplars of research that have informed policy include the work
 by Dr Leonard and research fellow Dr Zhang on environmental surveillance and anti-microbial
 resistance transmission in bathing waters. Leonard et al. 2018 was the only paper on anti-microbial
 resistance and water (of 1000 publications in the last 5 years) to be cited in the UK anti-microbial
 resistance strategy. Research by Dr Murray and PhD student Isobel Stanton, in collaboration with
 AstraZeneca, has informed inclusion of two additional antibiotics on the EU Water Framework
 Directive hazardous substance watch list of environmental contaminants.

 Plastic pollution (Galloway, Tyler Lewis, Godley). Environmental biology researchers play a key
 role in advising governments worldwide on pollution-related issues, including chemical and
 hazardous substances risk, impacts on natural populations and conservation actions, and future
 strategies for remediation. This includes expert membership of the UK government Hazardous
 Substances Advisory Committee and the UKRI Innovate UK Smart Sustainable Plastic Packaging
 Steering Committee (Galloway); OECD Working Group on Manufactured nanomaterials
 (Galloway, Tyler) and Sustainable Plastics (Galloway); expert advisory roles to both the UN
 General Assembly and UN Environment Programme on global impacts of marine plastics and
 microplastics; and informing EU policy making on microplastics through the Group of Chief
 Scientific Advisors Science Advice Mechanism.

 Health and Wellbeing in Natural Environment (Fleming). Prof Fleming leads research that has
 provided evidence that equal access to high quality natural environments can improve human
 physical health and mental wellbeing. This research has been recognised by World Health
 Organisation Collaborating Centre for Natural Environments and Human Health, with incorporation
 of this evidence in the Department for Food and Rural Affairs 25 Year Plan for the Environment,
 Public Health England Healthy Places, Natural England MENE Survey, and World Health
 Organisation policy recommendations. In particular, evidence around the importance of Blue
 environments has led to the development of a Strategic Research Agenda in Oceans and Human
 Health for Europe and Beyond under Horizon 2020 (https://sophie2020.eu/strategic-research-
 agenda/).

 Editorial roles. Academics in this UoA7 submission contribute to the discipline and wider
 knowledge base through editorial roles.
            - Baldwin – editor of the Quarterly Journal of the Royal Meteorological Society.
            - Collins, Friedlingstein, Screen – editors of Journal of Climate.
            - Galloway – editor in Chief Chemosphere.
            - Early, Hodgson – editors of Ecology Letters.
            - Gaston – editor of People and Nature.

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Advisory roles. Academics in UoA7 also make major contributions through engagement on
 government advisory groups.
          - NERC science and innovation strategy board (Cox).
          - Defra Science Advisory Council (Cox).
          - UK government Hazardous Substances Advisory Board (Galloway).
          - Advisor to Department for Food and Rural Affairs Chemicals and Nanomaterials
              Division and OECD test guideline panel, Chief Scientific Advisor for the UK-Japan
              partnership on Endocrine Disrupting Chemicals (Tyler).
          - NERC peer review College (Collins [chair panel B], Friedlingstein, Tyler, Simpson,
              Wilson, Yvon-Durocher).
          - Assessments of other research centres (e.g., Cox – review group of MPI-
              Meteorology, Lenton – review group of MPI-Biogeochemistry, Friedlingstein –
              member of the Met Office Hadley Centre Science Review Group).
          - Involvement in international programmes (e.g., Baldwin – member of the SPARC
              scientific steering committee; Cox & Lenton – co-chair and member of IGBP-
              AIMES; Friedlingstein, member of ESSP-GCP).
          - International review of grants and through involvement in international scientific
              assessments (such as the IPCC).

 Contributions to economy and society
 Research, development and innovation. Since 2014, Earth System & Environment Science
 scholars have led and partnered a number of regional and national research, development and
 innovation projects supporting economic and social transformation. Much of this work has been
 catalysed through European Regional Structural Investment Fund Programmes and UKRI
 Industrial and Impact focused programmes, such as BBSRC Industrial Partnership Awards and
 NERC Regional Impact from Science of the Environment.

 The UoE is engaged in over £120m of European Regional Structural Investment Fund projects,
 with a total value to the University of £25m (2020). Throughout this European Regional Structural
 Investment Fund portfolio, over 700 regional Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) have been
 engaged. Many of the ESIF projects have a strong Earth Systems & Environmental Science
 component including:

 Agri-tech Cornwall and Isles of Scilly, a £11.8m project to increase regional and national research,
 development and innovation in the Agri-tech sector across Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly, started
 in 2016 and will run to June 2021. The programme is led by Duchy College (The Cornwall College
 Group) and partnered by Rothamsted Research, Cornwall Development Company and the
 University of Plymouth. The Agri-tech Cornwall programme has engaged over 100 SMEs and
 supported the new-to-market development of over 15 new products and services. Exeter led RD&I
 projects have focused around: microclimatic modelling for novel crops (Maclean, Early), edible
 insects, COVID-19 Impacts on the regional food and drink sector, Starling management for farms
 (Bearhop), fungal pathogen management for viticulture (Yvon-Durocher), and lobster genetics
 (Stevens). European Regional Structural Investment Fund plays an important role in catalysing
 industrial partnership and applied research; for example, the biogas optimisation from anaerobic
 digestion project (Yvon-Durocher) initially supported by the Agri-tech Cornwall Programme led to
 a successful BBSRC Industrial Partnership Award with Associated British Agriculture (AB Agri) in
 2019.

 The Tevi Programme (Gaston) www.tevi.co.uk, led by the UoE and delivered in partnership with
 the Cornwall Wildlife Trust, Cornwall Council and Cornwall development, started in 2018 (£3.08m),
 and has worked with 258 SMEs and delivered 46 regional events with over 2,283 participants.
 Tevi is a key regional resource supporting businesses to improve their resource efficiency,
 transition to increasingly circular economy business models, and contribute to the region’s
 environment growth, net-gain and low-carbon targets. Tevi has developed a state-of-the-art
 regional environmental intelligence platform (www.lagas.co.uk), now adopted by Cornwall Council
 to support their spatial planning and deployed a network of 130+ environmental sensors to support

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 real-time environmental monitoring and engagement with the Tevi-Community. The Tevi
 programme is to be extended for a further 2 years from 2021 (£1.2m).

 In addition to business benefit, environmental science scholars have engaged in regional projects
 aimed at directly enhancing the quality of the region’s natural environment, its biodiversity and
 accessibility. Green Infrastructure for Growth 1 & 2, £3.47m (Osborne, Gaston, Maclean) is a
 programme led by Cornwall Council and partnered by UoE. These programmes have collectively
 delivered over 100 hectares of habitat improvement and improved access to urban green
 infrastructure in deprived towns. St Austell Bay Resilient Regeneration (StaRR – Gaston) is one
 of the largest fluvial and coastal flood defence projects in South West England (£11.1m ESIF and
 £22m Environment Agency). This programme is led by Cornwall Council and the Environment
 Agency. The UoE and Westcountry Rivers Trust are partners within the project supporting the
 modelling of natural flood management measures, habitat creation and improvement. Over 36ha
 and 7km of river corridor are to be improved, in terms of habitat quality and access, as a direct
 consequence of the project, in addition to over 600 homes and 275 business experiencing
 decreased risk of flooding.

 The South West Partnership for Environment & Economic Prosperity (SWEEP) is a £5m NERC
 RISE/EPIB funded programme with the express aim of delivering, through 5 themes, increased
 resilience and business benefit through natural capital. The programme is led by the UoE in
 partnership with the University of Plymouth and Plymouth Marine Laboratory. SWEEP has funded
 a number of impact case studies including: Mainstreaming Environmental Growth (MEG – Gaston,
 Maclean); Policy for Pollinators: impact on the development of New Environment Land
 Management Scheme Policy (Osborne); Managing Green Space; Quantitative Habitat Mapping;
 leak detection in the water industry; and One Coast: to establish the foundations of a South West
 coastal corridor for nature and people (Gaston). SWEEP’s mid-term evaluation report (April 2020)
 reported that the programme had engaged 165 new partner organisations, delivered 45 new
 impact projects, supported the development of 38 newly created tools, services, products and
 protocols, generated £6.8m in direct stakeholder match funding, and levered an additional £47.5m
 investment into the South West region.

 Engaging Expert and Public Audiences. Researchers in Earth Systems & Environmental
 Science at the UoE have a distinguished record of encouraging wider participation and increasing
 public awareness of key issues in climate and environmental science. Key examples include:

 Science in the Square is an annual outreach event for families, which regularly has over 3000
 attendees each year. The event involves approximately 70 volunteers at all levels (undergraduate
 to senior academics) and includes interactive talks and displays, held in Falmouth town centre.

 Science of the Sea is an annual event held at the National Maritime Museum and includes
 approximately 20 volunteers to deliver interactive talks and displays for children and families.

 Science of Christmas is a collaboration with local schools to enable every child in every year-3
 class in surrounding schools (7 primary schools) to attend. As a result, approximately 90 children
 attended to listen to interactive talks linking science to Christmas.

 How Science Works is a collaboration with a local secondary school to work with all feeder Primary
 schools (7 in total). Our undergraduate students visit the primary schools and the secondary
 school over four weeks to help the year-5 children design and carry out a science investigation
 and then produce a poster of their results. All the primary schools then meet on campus for a
 conference, which includes oral and poster presentations. This programme occurs twice a year in
 the autumn and spring terms.

 Student-led activities. Our students lead an annual Bioblitz for local families to visit campus.
 Generation Wild is a student society to get children engaged and inspired about nature and the
 environment through providing environmental education sessions. In addition to these large


                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 projects, we also have multiple ad-hoc visits throughout the year. We visit between 9 and 10
 schools per year and have a similar number of visits from schools on campus.

 The Creative Exchange Programme brings together creative practitioners and researchers on our
 Cornwall Campuses. The programme offers the opportunity to create a unique exhibition to
 explore environmental and sustainability issues (be it through the medium of photography,
 narrative, pottery or artwork), and this is then displayed in the Environment and Sustainability
 Institute’s Creative Space next to the cafe. Through this programme we seek to develop the
 region’s creative industries, inspire research and stimulate opportunities for public engagement
 and collaborative learning. It has been hugely successful and has become a focal point for UoE's
 Arts and Culture Strategy. Since COVID19 has meant that in house exhibitions are not feasible,
 the Environment and Sustainability Institute team have supported moving the exhibitions online
 and support it via social media to publicise the work. In the past year, we have supported projects
 covering topics as varied as wave energy, material relationships, seashells and climate change,
 solar panels as art, and microbial underworlds.

 The Health and Environment Public Engagement (HEPE) Group (https://www.ecehh.org/about-
 us/engagement/) was established to improve public engagement and involvement with scientific
 research about health and the environment. In addition to interacting with researchers and
 students, before and during research projects to provide feedback and citizen involvement, HEPE
 has taken on its own citizen science projects including My Blue Health.

 Eden Project. Several staff (Lenton, Gaze, Hudson-Edwards) from across the unit have been
 extensively involved in establishing and contributing to the Eden Project’s Wellcome Trust funded
 long term exhibition “Hidden Worlds”.

 Awards & Recognition
 Galloway was appointed OBE for services to Environmental Sciences in 2019, led the team (with
 Lewis and Godley) that was awarded the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for Academic Excellence in
 2020 and received a NERC Outstanding Societal Impact Award for research to prevent
 microplastic pollution of the world’s oceans in 2018. Friedlingstein received a Royal Society
 Wolfson Research Merit Award in 2014, the Vladimir Ivanovic Vernadsky Medal from the
 European Geophysical Union in 2020, and an Alexander von Humboldt Award in 2019. Scaife
 received the Copernicus Medal in 2018, an Atmospheric Sciences Ascent Award from the
 American Geophysical Union in 2016, the Met Office CEO Award for Excellence in Science &
 Technology in 2016 and the Adrain Gill Prize of the Royal Meteorological Society in 2014.
 Simpson received the Zoological Society of London Medal in 2019 and the Fisheries Society of
 the British Isles Medal in 2016. Cox received a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award in
 2017. Yvon-Durocher received the Founders Award from the British Ecological Society in 2019.

 REF2020 SUMMARY
 Earth System & Environment Science research at the UoE has seen major advances in critical
 mass and performance since REF2014. The size of unit has more than doubled since 2014 from
 35 to 78 FTE. We have recruited outstanding research-intensive staff and supported the
 development of our existing staff to achieving our aim (set out in 2014) to increase the critical
 mass of UoA7 facing research at the UoE. We have seen substantial increases in total income
 and income per FTE, as well as the strength and quality of our research and scientific impact as
 indicated by the position of the UoE as #1 in Europe in Leiden rankings for Life and Environmental
 Science. Our researchers are in high demand for advising governments and NGOs in areas as
 diverse as climate change, plastic pollution and anti-microbial resistance. UoA7 staff have also
 been instrumental in driving the UoE’s interdisciplinary research agenda, which has featured the
 establishment of new research institutes that facilitate the co-location of staff from diverse
 disciplinary backgrounds to tackle global challenges in Earth System & Environment Science. Our
 broad research portfolio is helping to address many of the most important contemporary scientific
 challenges faced by society and continues to deliver agenda-setting research.



                                                                                            Page 20
