Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Exeter

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

    1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 (a) Context and overview
 Exeter Law School is an energetic, engaged and expanding School within the College of Social
 Science and International Studies. In this REF, we are submitting 52.92 FTE staff compared to
 14.95 in 2014. The Law School has a vibrant, collaborative and interdisciplinary research culture
 nurtured through our centres and networks, with breadth and depth of research across the
 School, University and beyond. Pre-existing strengths in family law and legal history have been
 supplemented by a strategic focus on international law and on science, culture and the law.
 Commercial law remains important, with particular strength in insurance and consumer law. New
 research clusters in environmental justice, human rights and democracy, and migration have
 emerged. There has been an increased focus on maximising the impact of our research, with
 substantial engagement with the academic community, users, government and civil society,
 reflected in our Impact Case Studies (ICS) and Section 4 of this statement.

 Our overarching aim, following REF2014, was to enhance research excellence by building a
 sustainable research culture and investing in the next generation of researchers. Our success is
 evidenced not only by our growth but by the increased quality and quantity of outputs, awards,
 postgraduate research students (PGRS), international partnerships, impact and engagement.
 There has been a considerable expansion in empirical and interdisciplinary work in several
 areas, exemplified by the establishment of a Centre for Science Culture and the Law (SCuLE)
 working with technology and the arts. Our aim for the next period is to build on our existing
 excellent track record of empirical, critical and doctrinal work to become an interdisciplinary law
 school working to the highest scholarly standards, consolidating existing strengths and
 developing new areas. In particular, we will pursue future global excellence in interdisciplinary
 thinking and empirical methods to address real-world problems.

 (b) Structure
 Our research groups have been key to ensuring support for all research active staff, particularly
 for our 16 early career researchers (ECRs). The aim is to ensure colleagues, PGRS and post-
 doctoral researchers working in related areas can develop their research capacities in a
 supportive and collaborative environment. The groups all operate in different ways (see Section
 1(c)), but activities include seminars with internal and external speakers, conferences and other
 external events, collaboration and feedback on outputs and grant proposals, reading groups,
 writing retreats and informal mentoring. These activities are enabled and monitored through
 funding and work programme allowances for Centre Directors, some Network Directors, and a
 robust reporting structure.

 Every member of staff and PGRS is affiliated to at least one of seven research groups (Centre,
 Forum or Network), with many working in more than one:
     Bracton Centre for Legal History
     Centre for Commercial and Corporate Law
     Centre for European Legal Studies (CELS)
     Exeter Centre for International Law (ECIL)
     Human Rights and Democracy Forum (HRDF)

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Network on Family Regulation and Society (NFRS)
       Science Culture and the Law (SCuLE)

 Centres reflect established areas of research excellence while Networks extend beyond the Law
 School, with other members coming from inside or outside the University. Forums enable
 emerging research groupings to coalesce around common areas of interest. The number of
 groups has expanded since the last REF, and there has been some evolution in their identity,
 reflecting added areas of strength. For instance, SCuLE has grown from a research cluster to a
 successful interdisciplinary centre, with an excellent track record in funding, publication and
 impact. ECIL was an aspiration at the time of REF2014 and the assessment period has seen it
 emerge as a significant force globally in the law of military operations, armed conflict and cyber
 security. In 2017, some members of CELS and ECIL, subsequently joined by colleagues from
 Politics, Sociology and Criminology, created HRDF, enabling them to focus collaboratively on
 domestic and comparative public law, human rights, and democratic norms and practices. New
 interdisciplinary groups currently under development include Routes (migration, displacement
 and mobility), the Gender Network, and Exeter Extreme Environments.

 Beyond the research groups, a range of structures ensures effective and consistent support for
 research within the School. Individual support comes from Academic Leads who provide
 mentoring and guidance (see Section 2(b)). School research strategy is decided by the Head of
 School (HoS; Moorhead) and Director of Research (DoR; Wray), within the context of
 institutional priorities and policies. School-wide engagement and input is sought through School
 meetings and a Research Forum, and policies are set out in the Law School Handbook. The
 DoR is a member of the School Executive Committee, which meets weekly, ensuring research
 interests are represented in decision-making, and she acts as a conduit for information,
 guidance and support from the College and University to the School and a source of informal
 advice to colleagues.

 The DoR is supported by two Deputies (DDoR), Smith who works on academic leadership and
 Sari who oversees the process of review for funding applications and publications (both
 discussed in Section 2(b)). The HoS, DoR and DDoRs form the Research Executive, meeting
 ad-hoc as required and overseeing the School research environment, including research
 mentoring, peer review, information sharing, PGRS, weekly research seminars and reading
 groups, writing days, and away days.

 Other key research-related posts in the School include the Director of Doctoral Studies (DDS;
 Griffin). While PGRS are members of and benefit from the University’s Doctoral College, the
 DDS has responsibility for ensuring effective supervision and the development of a cohesive and
 supportive Law PGR community (see Section 2(c)). The Director of Impact (DoI; Trinder) has
 overseen implementation of the School’s impact strategy, ensuring that impact work is given the
 practical support needed in terms of workload, funding, and mentoring. The School Ethics
 Officer (Fenton) sits on the College Research Ethics Committee and provides ethics advice,
 guidance and support to colleagues within the Law School, individually and collectively. The
 School Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Committee addresses issues relating to its remit,
 feeding back to the Executive via the HoS who sits on the Committee (with the DoR also in
 attendance when research matters are under discussion).




                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Law School is one of five Schools in the College, the others being Education; Politics;
 Sociology, Philosophy and Anthropology; and Arab and Islamic Studies. Under the management
 of the Associate Dean for Research (Barlow 2014-2020), the College sets research priorities
 within the University’s research and impact strategy (see Institutional-Level Environment
 Statement (ILES) 2.1), promotes co-operation and interdisciplinary research, provides resources
 and guidance, oversees research monitoring and allocation of research allowances,
 discretionary funds, Centre budgets, and study leave (see Section 3(b)). The latest College
 strategic research themes reflect the input of Law and include Governance Policy and
 Regulation, Global Securities, and Evidence-Based Professional Practice, all areas where the
 School makes a strong contribution, providing opportunities for increased inter-School working
 within the College. The DoR is on the College Research and Impact Strategy Group, which
 meets twice a term and is a forum for discussion, and policy and information sharing. The
 School also benefits from the wider research ecology of the University, particularly the Research
 Institutes, Research Services, Impact Innovation and Business Directorate (IIB), and the wide
 range of University-sponsored schemes to support research collaborations, knowledge
 exchange and impact (see Section 3(b) and e.g. ILES 4.6-4.8).

 (c) Research and impact since 2014
 Consistent with the objectives in the 2014 statement, we have focused on the recruitment of
 high-quality research staff and the development of international and cross-disciplinary
 collaboration. This is reflected in the increased size of the School and the breadth and quantity
 of research activity. In 2014, our principal strengths were in family law, legal history, European
 law and commercial law. These have remained important, and through strategic appointments
 and staff development, we have successfully built new clusters of expertise in international law,
 human rights law, science and law, intellectual property, comparative constitutional, contract and
 consumer law, migration and environmental justice, while also creating strong links across
 disciplines. In 2019, the School re-established a significant presence at the University’s campus
 in Penryn, Cornwall, where we see particular potential for interdisciplinary research in areas
 such as environmental and marine law.

 During the assessment period, our current scholars have produced fourteen research
 monographs. Nearly 300 articles have appeared in generalist, specialist and interdisciplinary
 peer-reviewed journals, and colleagues have produced 44 edited collections and nearly 200
 book chapters. We have also authored several significant research reports, funded by research
 grants or commissioned by bodies such as Ministry of Justice, Bar Council, and European
 Commission (EC). Our research has had a significant impact across society, government and
 the academy (see ICS and Section 4) while, as Section 3 shows, there has been a substantial
 increase in the amount of successful funding awarded. This success has been facilitated by
 support provided by the School, College and University, but our research groups have been the
 crucible for creating new knowledge by both established scholars and ECRs.

 Network on Family Regulation and Society (NFRS)
 The NFRS has continued to flourish and expand. Barlow and Trinder, both working principally
 on the regulation of relationships, established the Network with colleagues from law and social
 science at Bath, Bristol and Cardiff, and a Leverhulme International Network Grant (New
 Families, New Governance, 2012-2015) followed. The appointments of Probert (Professor),
 Smith (Associate Professor), Ohana (British Academy Postdoctoral Fellow, then Lecturer) and
 Pimm-Smith (Lecturer) have added strength and depth on the empirical, doctrinal and historical


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study of family justice, including on marriage laws (Probert), representation in family cases
 (Smith) and the history of child protection (Pimm-Smith).

 Significant funders include the Department for Education, ESRC, Family Justice Council,
 Leverhulme Trust and Nuffield Foundation. Seven PGRS have received funded scholarships.
 Barlow’s ESRC-funded project Mapping Paths to Family Justice led to a prize-winning
 monograph (with Hunter et al) and Trinder’s work on divorce reform (Finding Fault) funded by
 the Nuffield Foundation was instrumental in securing no-fault divorce in the Divorce, Dissolution
 and Separation Act 2020 (see Trinder ICS). Barlow is Co-I for the multi-disciplinary Wellcome
 Centre for Cultures and Environments of Health and has led the Shackleton Relationships
 Project.

 The Network holds regular meetings and research seminars, supports collaborative funding bids
 and supports junior researchers through workshops, mentoring and other support. For example,
 the Network funded an externally facing seminar on Intimate Image Abuse by Bishop’s
 interdisciplinary Gender Network. This led directly to Bishop working with the Law Commission
 and national helplines, and will support future publications and funding applications. The
 Network also provides support to PGRS and post-doctoral researchers, for example, hosting
 international PGRS from other institutions, co-authoring papers (e.g. Ewing and Blake with
 Barlow) and facilitating fieldwork by arranging a visiting scholarship to Uppsala. Several PGRS
 have been successful in obtaining academic posts, including Bremner (Sussex); Garland
 (Manchester); Heenan (Cardiff).

 The result has been substantial scholarly activity, including monographs and edited collections
 (Barlow; Probert; Smith), involvement in special issues of Child and Family Law Quarterly and
 Journal of Social Welfare and Family Law, and publications in specialist, generalist,
 interdisciplinary and international journals (including The International Journal of Evidence &
 Proof; Cambridge Law Journal; Public Law). Potential for future impact is represented by
 Probert’s appointment as advisor to the Law Commission on reform of marriage law and
 Smith’s work on Mackenzie Friends and family law self-help and information provision.

 The Exeter Centre for International Law (ECIL)
 ECIL was established at the start of the current REF period and has since expanded in size and
 depth, with considerable impact and research activity. The continuing work of Schmitt (see
 ICS), the appointment of Nasu and the promotion and development during the REF period of
 Mačák and Sari have established Exeter as a leader in the law of armed conflict and the newer,
 related fields of space and cyber law. The Centre has an active culture of internal events
 (workshops, seminars and reading groups), has held two large external Centre conferences, and
 is home to a working paper series, which, since its inception in 2017, has published fifteen
 papers with revised versions of the majority later appearing in edited collections or journals. This
 culture enables a virtuous circle of feedback and improvement. For instance, Sari’s article
 (2020) ‘Legal Resilience in an Era of Gray Zone Conflicts and Hybrid Threats’ in Cambridge
 Review of International Affairs began as a working paper, was discussed at the ECIL conference
 in 2019, and then further revised for publication.

 There has been a series of successful bids to funders such as ESRC, British Academy, NATO,
 and Ministry of Defence (Jachec-Neale; Sari). Published work has displayed scholarly
 excellence through monographs, edited collections and publications in internationally focused

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journals including Chicago Journal of International Law, Virginia Journal of International Law,
 and Vanderbilt Journal of Transnational Law. There has also been considerable impact.
 Schmitt’s Tallinn Manual has become the international point of reference on the application of
 international law to cyber conflicts (see Schmitt ICS). The Woomera project, involving Schmitt,
 Nasu and Mačák, has potential to similarly influence laws on the militarisation of space. Mačák
 is also general editor of the Cyber Law Toolkit and Sari’s work on hybrid threats has informed
 policy at the international level, including the Council of Europe, NATO and the European Union
 (for more, see Section 4(b)).

 Science Culture and the Law (SCuLE)
 SCuLE grew from an informal research cluster in 2014 to become a Centre in 2016, focusing on
 the relationship between law and cultural heritage, digital arts, and technology. Through its
 programme of seminars, events and mentoring, it has provided a base for the development of
 new scholars. Pavis, for example, came as a PhD student to SCuLE in 2013 and was appointed
 as Lecturer in 2016. The support of SCuLE colleagues led to several joint publications and she
 is now a Senior Lecturer and key SCuLE member, building a strong research profile in her own
 right.

 The Centre has successfully attracted funds for a range of interdisciplinary work. Hawkins’
 research into patents and translational research has been funded by an ESRC Future Leaders
 award, made in 2013 but carried out during the assessment period. Griffin’s work with 3D
 printing companies in China has been funded by several sources, including the ESRC. The
 ESRC also funded Beduschi’s research into digital identities, Wallace’s work on 3D
 reproduction with the Uffizi Gallery and Virtual World Heritage, Pavis and Wallace’s work on
 performance art with the Scottish National Galleries and Hawkins’ research on intellectual
 property and genomic platforms and biobanks. Caine was funded by the ENSURE partnership
 between Exeter and the Chinese University of Hong Kong to research food security in China and
 the UK. Helm’s work uses scientific and psychological insights to understand the criminal trial
 process and is the subject of a UKRI Future Leaders Award, leading to the creation of an
 Evidence-Based Justice Lab, with potential for significant impact.

 The outcome has been a range of publications in well-regarded legal, interdisciplinary and
 scientific journals, including Science and Public Policy; Psychology, Crime and Law; Cornell
 Journal of Law and Public Policy and European Intellectual Property Review as well as
 collaborations with partners such as OECD, the GLAM (galleries, libraries, archives, and
 museums) sector and others. Wallace’s work, for example, has had a significant impact on the
 National Heritage Lottery Fund’s open access policy, leading to her current collaboration with the
 Wikimedia Foundation and Creative Commons, and Fenton’s work on bystander interventions
 has resulted in work with a wide range of public bodies (for more, see Section 4(c)).

 Other Research Groups
 While we have highlighted the three largest research groupings, all groups contribute to the
 research environment. Bracton Centre for Legal History is a forum for those working on legal
 history, whether as a primary focus or background to contemporary research. It hosts external
 speakers and holds informal brown-bag lunches where any colleague can drop in for advice and
 feedback on historical elements of their research. Since 2019, the Centre has hosted annual
 workshops for PGRS and ECRs to present their work, book-ended by sessions on ‘getting
 started’ (discussing methodologies and funding opportunities) and ‘getting published’. Draft


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 publications discussed at these events include Gimson’s article published in Legal Studies and
 Pimm-Smith’s article in Continuity and Change.

 The Centre for Commercial Law holds regular seminars and fosters collaborative research. For
 instance, a sub-group interested in energy law started working together, presenting and
 reviewing their work collectively, resulting in several high quality publications in that area (for
 example, by Cole, Dodsworth and Saintier). The Centre for European Legal Studies also
 holds regular meetings and seminars as well as hosting the annual Lasok lecture on European
 law, given by prestigious speakers including Advocate General Eleanor Sharpston. The Human
 Rights and Democracy Forum (HRDF) was established only in 2017 but has become a site of
 collegiate activity, with a regular programme of events. Significant work emerging from the
 Forum includes Dupré’s work on human dignity and Skinner’s work on law under fascism,
 democracy and human rights, both of which have resulted in several publications with Hart, as
 well as Dupré’s work on the Icelandic constitution, Bicknell’s work on the prevention of torture
 with the Council of Europe, McCann’s work on assisted dying, Hudson’s work on internal
 displacement, and Skinner’s interdisciplinary work with colleagues in sociology and criminology
 (see Section 4(b)).

 (d) Goals, aims and strategy for the next assessment period
 Our goal is to establish the Law School as a leading interdisciplinary law school with an
 emphasis on social justice. We will continue to support high quality, theoretically informed,
 empirical and doctrinal scholarship, particularly where it can positively affect the quality of justice
 and regulation nationally and globally. We will build on existing strengths - international law,
 family justice, commercial law, human rights, and law’s interface with technology and culture -
 while developing areas such as migration and environmental law through support for established
 and emerging research groupings in these areas and strategic appointments that reflect these
 strengths. Our values of research integrity, ethics and open access (see Section 2d) will
 continue to inform our practice, with particular attention paid to the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA), signed by the University in June 2020. We anticipate that the
 Law Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity (EDI) Committee and the Decolonising Law Working
 Group will play an increasingly important role in ensuring that our values are reflected in our
 practice.

 Doing this successfully will require consolidating, nurturing and developing the research
 capacities and skills of the School, particularly but not only for ECRs. To complement the
 activities of our research groups, we will improve the School’s research support infrastructure
 through the Academic Excellence programme, developing a community of Academic Leads as
 mentors and providing targeted research skills training and support (see Section 2b).
 Appointments and promotions policies will aim to embed a strong body of experienced research
 leaders within the School.

 We already have strong links with other disciplines, as discussed throughout this Statement,
 including medical and digital sciences, politics, and other social sciences. We anticipate that
 these will be a continuing and increasing feature of our research, through the new Evidence-
 Based Justice Lab, interdisciplinary research groupings such as SCuLE, HRDF and Routes, and
 through engagement in the University’s institutes. Law’s new presence at the University’s
 campus in Penryn, Cornwall, also creates potential for interdisciplinary research in areas such
 as environmental and marine law.

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Part 4 of this statement and the Impact Case Studies demonstrates the strength of the School’s
 external collaboration and engagement. This will continue to be a major feature of our work.
 Several of our junior scholars have already made some impressive impact (see Section 4b), and
 this will be nurtured within the School, through the DoI, with support in terms of infrastructure,
 funds and time, the inclusion of impact and engagement when setting targets for progression,
 and continued close engagement with College and University support systems.

 2. People

 (a) Context and Background
 The school has more than 50 FTE research active staff compared to 33 at the start of the
 assessment period, of which only 15 were entered in REF2014. Of our current Education and
 Research (E&R) staff, sixteen are ECRs as defined for REF purposes. The assessment period
 has therefore seen huge changes in the profile and personnel of the Law School; the increased
 size of our cohort of researchers and the substantial number of ECRs present both challenges
 and opportunities. Against this background, we have created a cohesive and supportive
 research community that supports our junior researchers and provides an outstanding
 environment to build a successful research career.

 (b) Recruitment, Progression and Development
 An aim at the time of REF2014 was to invest in high-quality, diverse research staff and that aim
 is reflected in the excellent appointments at all levels during the period, including, amongst
 senior staff, Moorhead (professional ethics), Probert (family law and legal history) and Nasu
 (international law) as Professors, and Danov (competition law), Luzak (consumer law), Synge
 (charity law), Smith (family law) and Wray (migration law) as Associate Professors, with a
 further cohort of mid- and early-career researchers. Several promotions have taken place during
 this REF cycle: Lista and Skinner have been promoted to a Chair; Dupre, Tamblyn, Hawkins,
 Mačák, Saintier, Sari, Griffin and Beduschi to Associate Professor and Bicknell, Pavis,
 Helm, Bishop, Stech and Wallace to Senior Lecturer. The significant number of promotions to
 Associate Professor reflects the dynamism and development of the ECRs appointed earlier in
 the assessment period.

 Supported by the University’s Exeter Academic framework (see 3.3-9 ILES), a range of
 structures and processes enable mentoring and development of all staff, ECRs in particular.
 Each colleague has an Academic Lead (AL), at least at the level of Associate Professor, who
 provides individualised support and advice on all aspects of academic life, including research.
 Meetings take place at least twice yearly when individual goals are agreed and progress
 reviewed, with informal advice between regular meetings. To strengthen and reinforce the AL
 system, we implemented in 2020 an Academic Excellence programme led by Smith as DDoR.
 The first arm of the programme was the recruitment of a smaller, focused team of ALs who
 undergo a tailor-made training programme covering expectations, coaching and mentoring, and
 leadership training. The team meets regularly to establish a community of practice and develop
 the confidence and effectiveness of the AL system. The other part of the Academic Excellence
 Programme is a series of tailor-made Law School workshops to commence in the academic year
 2020-21 and repeated on a rolling cycle on matters such as funding bids, research methods,
 book proposals, improving the quality of publications and similar, as well as on pedagogical



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 matters. The aim is to complement existing institutional support by responding to the particular
 needs of the School.

 Numerous staff have undertaken training within the wider University, including specialist
 provision for ECRs through the Researcher Development Programmes, bespoke training and
 coaching mapped against the Researcher Development Concordat (RDC) and HR Excellence
 awards, and access to provision in other Colleges. Hawkins, for example, undertook training in
 the use of qualitative analysis software in the College of Medicine and Health which has been
 used in her empirical research and publications. Also useful has been Social Science Online
 Methods Training under the Strategic Priorities Fund. Walsh’s training in interview data analysis,
 for instance, enabled more effective analysis of her interviews with judges in patent courts.
 Luzak undertook training in Narratives and Storytelling methods, helping her to refine a
 methodology central to her research into consumer protection. Fenton and Helm benefited from
 a university initiative to promote the policy impact of research, Policy@Exeter, that enabled them
 to work with a data scientist/mathematician on advanced modelling of their data.

 Feedback on draft publications and funding bids is central to our practice. Informal feedback by
 research groups is complemented by a School system of internal review. ECRs obtain feedback
 from their AL on draft publications prior to submission, and may be helped to seek feedback
 more widely as appropriate. Senior staff are encouraged to obtain feedback either from their ALs
 or from elsewhere. All funding bids are sent in draft form to the DDoR for Reviews (Sari) who
 will, on his own or supported by other senior colleagues, review and provide systematic
 feedback, building a bank of knowledge and experience. This may be supplemented for
 interdisciplinary or large applications by College feedback. Beduschi’s successful UKRI Covid-
 19 rapid response bid on Covid-19 digital certificates and human rights, for example, received
 several iterations of feedback from the School and College. The University Funder Advisory
 Networks, comprised of interdisciplinary colleagues with a successful funding track record,
 advise on large applications, such as for Helm’s UKRI Future Leader’s Fellowship and Stech’s
 New Investigator Grant, and all applicants have access to a School-facing partner in Research
 Services and to those with specific expertise (such as IIB, the Research Ethics and Governance
 Office, and Research Data Officer).

 Impact has become critical to our research activity. Its central importance is reflected in the Law
 School’s ‘Engaged School Strategy’ adopted after REF2014, which sets out a series of impact-
 related goals and ways of achieving them. Expectations as to impact form part of the criteria for
 progression and promotion. IIB have been an important catalyst in this process, providing impact
 awaydays (with the DoI), training through the Impact and Engaged Researchers Network, an
 online impact toolkit, and individual support for the development and execution of impact
 strategies. Other examples of key IIB support include collaboration with IBM, and Fenton’s work
 on Bystander Intervention (see Section 4(b)). Study leave has also been used to build impact;
 Trinder partly used her leave to work with Baroness Butler-Sloss on the Private Members Bill
 that triggered the government’s divorce reform consultation and the Divorce Act 2020 (see
 Trinder ICS).

 Workload management is key to a sustainable research environment. All E&R staff receive a
 time allowance for research and research development, with an additional allowance for ECRs
 and buyout for funded work. To secure a consistent and transparent workload allocation across
 the school, the post of Director of Workload and Community was established in 2019 with a

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 place on the School Executive. Some results are already visible. A reduction in the number of
 modules that colleagues must teach was agreed to allow streamlining of teaching preparation
 and one day each week during term time is left free of teaching commitments.

 Study leave is managed by the College and is available in six-month blocks through an
 application process via the School. ALs and the DoR support applicants through the application
 process, with high levels of success being achieved. Applications are evaluated according to
 strategic research aims, with particular recognition of those who have undertaken heavy
 administrative or teaching duties. The College is flexible in applying the University’s former
 requirement of five years (now three years) service before leave is granted. Pavis, for instance,
 received early study leave after undertaking unusually onerous administrative responsibilities
 and making a compelling case that leave would benefit her research. Mid-career researchers
 such as Mačák, Saintier and Beduschi also received leave at an earlier stage to build new
 research connections through fellowships at the Max Planck Institute. All these colleagues were
 able to achieve promotion based, in part, on research carried out during study leave.

 c) Postgraduate Research Students (PGRS)
 Our PGRS are a vital part of our present and future research community. We currently host 73
 PGRS (compared to 50 in 2014), and the number of annual completions has risen markedly over
 the period. At the same time, we have maintained the positive quality of the postgraduate
 experience, with consistently good scores in Postgraduate Research Experience Survey across
 a number of measures, including on quality of supervision, research skills, and progression.

 Around half our PGR cohort are overseas students, and diversity of background and research
 areas is considerable across the whole cohort. Several are doing interdisciplinary projects, co-
 supervised with Psychology, the University of Exeter Business School and the College of
 Medicine and Health while some based elsewhere, including in Accounting, Education, Politics,
 and Geography, have supervision from Law. A few are co-supervised with external institutions,
 including Universities of Amsterdam and Queensland. During the period, seven students have
 been funded by ESRC and AHRC Doctoral Training Partnerships with other awards coming from
 Vice Chancellor’s Award, Global Excellence/International Scholarships, Wellcome Trust,
 Leverhulme Trust, Chinese Scholarship Council, and College scholarships. A number are
 sponsored by national governments, including Saudi Arabia and Turkey. Several come from a
 professional background, including the legal profession. Six entered from the armed forces,
 returning to senior roles after completing their studies. Two students have successfully
 completed the PhD in Legal Practice and three are currently studying on that route.

 PGRS are based in the University’s Doctoral College (see 3.8-13 ILES), where matters such as
 registration, recordkeeping, and progression are handled by a dedicated College team led by the
 Director of Postgraduate Research (an academic position) and reporting to the Graduate Faculty
 Board and the Dean for Postgraduate Research. The Researcher Development Programme
 offers university-wide training aimed at PGRS. Within the School, Law PGRS receive subject-
 specific training and support and are encouraged to attend Doctoral School and Doctoral
 Training Partnership events. A rolling series of tailored seminars alternates between PGR
 presentations of their research with sessions on matters such as careers or publication. PGRS
 are encouraged to attend events such as the School reading group and weekly staff seminars,
 where students may also be invited to present their work. The School hosts a Doctoral Students



                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conference each January, convened and run by the PGRS themselves with support from the
 DDS, at which all students are encouraged to present their work to peers, supervisors and staff.

 All Law PGRS take a fifteen-credit module Approaches to Research in Law and are encouraged
 to follow relevant substantive or research methods modules. AHRC- and ESRC-funded students
 undertake a Masters in Research before embarking on their main PhD studies. There is also
 individual support for PhD writing skills through the University’s academic learning support
 service. Each student belongs to the research group most closely aligned to their interests,
 where they are actively encouraged to participate. Internal seminars and informal mentoring
 within the research groups as well as tailored events, such as the dedicated PhD workshops run
 by the Network on Family Regulation and Society, help them refine their research and develop
 their presentation skills. PGRS are encouraged to attend the Socio-Legal Studies Association
 and the Society of Legal Scholars (SLS) conferences, with four students, for example,
 presenting at the 2020 SLS Conference. PGRS have a £1,000 fund for use over the course of
 their studies on personal research development, including external training and conference
 attendance.

 PGR supervision is by a team of two (or sometimes three) supervisors, who must be active
 researchers. Law School policy is that one supervisor must have at least one prior completion
 but ECRs have the opportunity to supervise as second or third supervisors. Allocations are
 made based on subject expertise and capacity and supervisors must undertake University
 training. Students and supervisors complete a supervision agreement, clarifying how supervision
 will take place, and a training-needs analysis, both of which are uploaded to the electronic
 MyPGR system and reviewed at least annually. Supervision meetings take place ten times a
 year (pro-rata if part-time) and notes are agreed and uploaded to MyPGR, which is monitored by
 the DDS. Meetings, supervisor reports and associated data are reviewed yearly for each student
 during the annual monitoring review, which decides on progression or identifies problems and a
 path for these to be resolved. All students register initially on the MPhil programme and progress
 to PhD after an upgrade viva. Since September 2019, the upgrade process has been moved to
 earlier in the programme, so that potential problems can be identified and addressed at an early
 stage.

 Each PGR has a research active mentor unconnected with the supervision team who has
 attended a mentoring workshop and meets the student once a term to discuss welfare and
 academic issues. Broader issues relating to the position and welfare of PGRS are considered at
 the PGR Staff/Student Liaison Committee. Steps taken as a result include additional library
 acquisitions, provision of office equipment and greater involvement in Law School events. The
 University employs a professional Education and Welfare Officer exclusively for PGRS and
 PGRS have the same access as all students and staff to the University’s wellbeing services (for
 more, see ILES 3.13).

 In addition to University and College services and events, employability is enhanced by
 dedicated sessions in the School seminar series on, for example, finding academic posts. PGRS
 can specify career-related needs in their training-needs analysis and have full access to the
 University Employability Service. Around ten PGRS are offered Graduate Teaching Assistant
 and Research Assistant positions in each year. Former PGRS, Bishop, Martin, Pavis, Ozsoy,
 Keliher and Channon, were all appointed as Lecturers at Exeter while others found academic
 positions elsewhere including at Universities of Cairo, Cardiff, Manchester, Soochow (Taiwan),

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Sri Jayewardenepura (Sri Lanka), Sussex, and Tripoli. Graduates also entered a wide range of
 non-academic posts, including in the civil service, judiciary, international organisations such as
 the Red Cross, and the legal profession.

 We are aware of the importance of EDI to our PGR programme. We increased the number of
 student representatives to the Postgraduate Representative Liaison Forum to ensure wider
 representation and allocated one representative specifically to distance learning students, an
 especially diverse student body with particular needs. The Covid-19 pandemic has recently
 raised particular concerns for well-being and progress of our PGR community and additional
 well-being webinars have been provided. The DDS has kept in touch with PGRS throughout,
 and automatic extensions have been made available for submissions and vivas, with a light
 touch approach to interruption requests. All external and university-funded PGRS have had their
 funding extended by 6 months.

 (d) Equality, Diversity, Inclusivity (EDI), Ethical Research & Open Access
 The School is strongly committed to EDI in all its dimensions. Underlying values of equality of
 opportunity have been fully embraced alongside formal University policies (see ILES 3.14-17).
 The Law EDI committee was established during the assessment period and meets regularly. Its
 membership includes the HoS and representatives from across the School, with the DoR
 attending when research related items are on the agenda. Uniquely in the College, the HoS and
 Chair of the EDI Committee also sit on the College EDI Committee. Since 2014 the UoA has
 worked hard to improve EDI with regards to gender, race, ethnicity, sexuality and disability. REF
 output selection was undertaken by a small group that was diverse in terms of gender and
 career stage. Those involved in selection had previously undertaken training on bias in decision-
 making. The panel was mindful of the need to ensure representation within the submission by
 gender, ethnicity, early career staff, part-time staff, and all the major research groups within the
 School.

 All new staff undertake compulsory training in diversity and inclusion and Heads of School also
 take unconscious bias training. Recruitment panels in Law are gender-balanced. Female
 researchers represent nine out of 16 academic promotions during the REF period; Bicknell was
 promoted to Senior Lecturer while on maternity leave. Four out of the School’s nine Education
 and Research Professors and more than half of the School’s Associate Professors are female.
 One third of appointments to Lecturer and Senior Lecturer and one of our professorial
 appointments have been to BAME staff. 28 academic staff members come from outside the UK,
 and 12 have backgrounds in other disciplines than law.

 The Law School benefits from the University’s excellent parental leave policies, which include 52
 weeks for new parents, 26 at full pay, and six weeks’ paternity/partner leave as well as a shared
 parental leave scheme. Nine colleagues have taken maternity leave, one has taken shared
 partner support leave and another has taken parental leave. We are committed to flexible
 working arrangements. Staff with caring responsibilities can request flexible working and all staff
 can ask to reduce their fraction and available working hours, with particular regard to wellbeing
 and mental health concerns. Staff can make annual applications for teaching restrictions so that
 those with family responsibilities can tailor their teaching commitments to their needs. Staff who
 are pregnant are given added flexibility and are offered some cushioning for their teaching
 before and after maternity leave.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 While we are proud of our gender diversity, we appreciate the need to ensure the continued
 progression of women to senior positions and we are preparing to make an application for
 Athena Swann accreditation during the next REF assessment period, supported by the
 University which has a Silver institutional award. We also need to do more to secure the
 recruitment, retention and promotion of BAME staff, and to ensure a welcoming and inclusive
 atmosphere for all minorities, where we see the EDI Committee playing a major role.

 Wallace is a founder member of the Exeter Decolonising Network, which now has more than
 150 members across the University and sits, with Lee, on the Steering Group. The Network
 works with the local community and the University on issues relating to decolonisation of
 knowledge and knowledge production. Wallace is also co-researching with students decolonised
 and anti-racist pedagogies and curriculums through a University-funded project. With Ohana
 and others, she established the Decolonising Law Working Group to focus on these issues
 specifically within the Law School. A first School workshop introduced the concept of
 decolonisation, and further research into a decolonised legal curriculum is planned.

 There are several colleagues whose research promotes values associated with equality and
 non-discrimination, some of which has had considerable impact (see Section 4) such as Bishop
 (intimate partner abuse), Fenton (bystander interventions), Wallace and Pavis (decolonisation
 and digitisation of cultural heritage), Ohana (Grenfell families and trauma), Wray (families
 separated by the immigration system), Barrett (regulation of equality duties), Bicknell
 (protection against torture), Hudson and Beduschi (vulnerable migrants) and Moorhead (non-
 disclosure agreements and sexual harassment).

 The School has a firm commitment to ethical research and benefits from the University’s policies
 and guidance. All new staff must complete research integrity training, and this may be updated
 annually. Skinner, the School’s Ethics Officer between 2016 and 2018, was Co-Chair of the
 College Ethics Committee between July 2018 and December 2019. He created, with
 contributions from Fenton, new College guidance on several matters including illegal or harmful
 activity encountered during research. Fenton, who is now the School’s Ethics Officer, is also a
 University Speak Out Guardian, having led establishment of the scheme across the University.
 Following signature of DORA by the University in June 2020, the School is committed to full
 engagement with University processes for ensuring responsible research metrics (see ILES 2.8-
 9), beginning with a Law School facilitated workshop in September 2020.

 Open access (OA) to research is seen as a matter of ethics and equality. Colleagues routinely
 publish in OA journals and use Open Research Exeter (ORE), the University’s OA repository, as
 well as platforms such as SSRN, Academia and ResearchGate. There have been more than 350
 deposits to ORE and 60,000 downloads of Law School outputs during the assessment period.
 The University has paid the Author Processing Charge when not covered by a research grant
 and there is a case for ensuring wider availability, spending £11,948 for 15 articles during the
 assessment period. Colleagues also publish their work in report form (for example, Beduschi’s
 work on unaccompanied or separated migrant children, published by the UN Committee on
 Migrant Workers) or as working papers (for instance, in the ECIL working paper series) and
 share their data via repositories such as Reshare (e.g. Barlow’s Mapping Paths to Family
 Justice project).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 (a) Income
 The assessment period has seen considerable expansion in the amount of research funding
 awarded to the Law School. Awards (excluding consultancy) have increased from £2.4 million in
 the previous assessment period to around £8.9 million in this one, including ~£5.4 million of
 capital investments in 15/16. Of this, £833,458 came from the ESRC, £419,406 from the
 Wellcome Trust, and £394,095 from the Nuffield Foundation. Other significant funders include
 the EC (£357,524) and British Academy (£299,279), with smaller amounts from the AHRC, Open
 Society Foundation and other charitable and government funders. 42 colleagues at all levels in
 the School received a total of 112 awards, with a total award value per head (of current E&R
 staff) of £76,091, a creditable figure in the context of rapid growth and the large number of
 ECRs.

 Our well-established scholars have had significant success often with a strong impact
 orientation. Barlow is PI on a HASS-STEMM team awarded funding in 2015 of £4.1 million over
 5 years for the Wellcome Centre mentioned above (renewed in 2020). Of this, £409,468 came to
 the School for her work on transitions across the life course. The Nuffield Foundation awarded
 £385,669 to Trinder for her research into separation and divorce and also funded Probert to
 investigate non-legally binding wedding ceremonies.

 We are also pleased by the success of our more junior researchers. The largest individual award
 was Helm’s UKRI funded Future Leader’s Fellowship of £945,069 on the evaluation of witness
 testimony in criminal trials. Other successes by early and mid-career academics include Stech’s
 New Investigator award on sustainable finance, Ohana’s British Academy post-doctoral
 fellowship on trauma in legal proceedings, Walsh’s British Academy award on European patent
 law, Griffin’s ESRC-funded work on 3D printing and intellectual property and Beduschi’s
 ESRC-funded projects on vulnerable migrant children, and privacy and digital identity during the
 Covid-19 pandemic.

 Research consultancy work has also been a strength with work funded by, among others,
 HEFCE (Fenton on bystander interventions), Department for Work and Pensions (Barlow on
 support for disadvantaged families), OECD (Hawkins on collaborative platforms for converging
 technologies), NATO and the European Centre of Excellence for Countering Hybrid Threats
 (Sari on hybrid warfare).

 (b) Infrastructure and Facilities
 The Law School sits within one of the fastest growing universities in the UK, with an outstanding
 infrastructure, including for research. The University is accredited under the European HR
 Excellence in Research Award, and has been committed to the Researcher Development
 Concordat since 2008. It provides a strong, supportive environment through its overall
 institutional management, structures, resourcing, training and policies (see ILES 4.2-13).

 University Research Services provide horizon scanning and training as well as detailed
 individual support for funding applications and through the entire life cycle of a project.
 Academics DDoRhave access to the online Research Toolkit, providing them with instant access
 to a wide range of research-related resources, while a dedicated Law-facing business partner
 works with the Director of Research to provide individualised support. Specialist support is also
 available to develop, for example, data management plans or ethics statements. The Funder

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Advisory Networks provide strategically targeted support through cross-college peer-review of
 grant applications, advice on institutional bids, and grant and fellowship hustings and mock
 interviews, supporting, for example, the applications by Helm and Stech mentioned in Section
 3(a). They also promote interdisciplinary applications, such as that which led to the Wellcome
 Centre (discussed in Section 3(b)). The GW4 Alliance (involving the Universities of Bristol, Bath,
 Exeter and Cardiff; see ILES 1.8) has enabled the Law School to work with regional academic
 partners, facilitating the development, in particular, of NFRS. The University’s Institutes facilitate
 interdisciplinary working including with law. The Institute for Data Science and Artificial
 Intelligence, a new investment during this REF period, has supported Beduschi and Helm,
 while Martin is part of the Environment and Sustainability Institute in Penryn, and Hawkins has
 collaborated with EGENIS, the Centre for the Study of Life Sciences. The new (provisionally
 named) International Institute for Cultural Enquiry, where Wray sits on the management board,
 will bring together social scientists, humanities and legal scholars.

 The Global Partnerships team enables strategic partnerships with overseas universities. Lee’s
 work with Tsinghua, for instance, was facilitated by the Outward Mobility Academic Fellowship
 Scheme (OMAF), the Exeter-Tsinghua Fellowship Programme and the Visiting International
 Fellowship Programme and resulted in a series of research seminars and a joint edited volume
 on takeover law. Sari’s OMAF award led to a workshop with Pennsylvania Law School and a co-
 edited volume and Luzak’s award funded visits to University of Amsterdam, facilitating her joint
 leadership of an ORA funded project. The University’s relationship with the University of
 Queensland led to Hawkins’ appointment at the QUEX Institute, (see1.9 ILES), where she will
 lead research on Digital Worlds and Disruptive Technologies.

 Further impact support is provided by IIB, through a dedicated Law impact specialist, who works
 closely with colleagues, supporting applications for funding and the development of impact (as
 demonstrated by the ICSs and in Section 4 of this statement) and running informal monthly drop-
 in sessions. A particular area of success has been ESRC Impact Acceleration Awards, where
 Law has won 27 separate awards during the assessment period.

 E&R staff have a personal allowance from the College of at least £1,000 per year and Post-Docs
 have £500 for any research development activity (such as conference attendance, acquiring
 publications, research assistance, subscriptions), and these have played a critical role. Luzak,
 for example, used the fund to attend the EU Consumer Summit in Brussels, leading to the
 creation with Dutch and Belgian colleagues of a research network on consumer law and
 sustainability. This support is particularly vital for ECRs who may not receive invitations to
 present their work and need to develop their networks. Collins’ membership of the Society of
 Legal Scholars, paid for through her allowance, enabled her to apply for and receive two SLS
 grants to support her research. The allowance also allowed her to attend conferences in the
 Netherlands, leading to a forthcoming jointly authored article with a colleague from the Hague
 University.

 Further discretionary funds are available from the College, which typically makes between eight
 and ten awards each year in Law with an average value of around £1,500. The School also has
 a discretionary budget for strategic purposes typically used for workshops, funding bids,
 transcriptions, research assistance, research visits and similar. Outcomes related to these funds
 include new links with bodies such as the International Committee of the Red Cross (Mačák),
 the Shanghai Stock Exchange and Chinese Securities and Regulatory Commission (Lee) and

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding bids. Stech’s award enabled him to attend the World Bank annual conference, making
 contacts that strengthened his successful application for an ESRC New Investigator Grant.
 There are also significant university funds available and the Provost Fund gave £100,000
 towards the international collaboration that led to the Tallinn Manual (see Schmitt ICS).

 The Law School at Streatham occupies three floors of the Amory Building, including a purpose
 built dedicated Law School wing. The Amory Building has been subject to recent significant
 improvement, with an extension where School support staff have been relocated to a single
 open plan ground floor office, while a popular new café and public meeting area provides
 opportunities for informal meetings and interaction. The School has its own Moot Court, a law
 clinic and a suite of meeting and seminar rooms that can be booked. Staff at Associate
 Professor level and above have their own offices. Junior academic staff may have their own
 office or share an office with a colleague who has related research interests. Some members of
 SCuLE decided to share a larger open plan office to facilitate interaction and community within
 the Centre. Staff at Penryn occupy a suite of modern, purpose built offices with colleagues from
 the Business School in the Daphne du Maurier building, with proximity to the Environment and
 Sustainability Institute, a major reason for Martin choosing to relocate to this campus.

 The Streatham Law Library is located in the modern, purpose-built Forum Building. The Library
 underwent a major refurbishment during the previous REF cycle and improvements continue to
 be made. Access is possible 24/7, and specialist staff are available during working hours. The
 library at Penryn is also purpose built with extended opening hours, a well-stocked law collection
 and specialist staff. If a physical copy of an item is required, it can be brought from Exeter within
 24 hours.

 Library budgets are managed institutionally to maximise value in negotiating access to both print
 and electronic materials. Total university spending on information provision has increased from
 £4.3 million in 2014-5 to £5.98 million in 2018-9 with particular benefits for HASS researchers
 under the University’s 21st Century Library initiative (see ILES 4.15). The University has a digital
 first policy to maximise access for researchers, wherever they are based, taking advantage of
 sophisticated online search interfaces. The Law collections have increased substantially
 through the assessment period with investment in several new research resources. Book
 collections have been boosted by the purchase of annual book collections from Edward Elgar,
 Taylor & Francis, Oxford Scholarship and Oxford Handbook series. ‘Try before you buy’ policies
 allow the full ebook collections of publishers such as Bloomsbury, Hart and Cambridge
 University Press, and content on the JSTOR platform, to be made available to researchers once
 they have sampled the text and asked for extended use.

 As well as offering core research databases such as Lexis, Westlaw, HeinOnline and Justis
 One, a range of new databases have been introduced, and researchers now have access to 60
 law databases including:
     Darts-ip
     International Encyclopedia of Comparative Law Online
     Investment Claims Database
     Oil, Gas & Energy Law Portal
     Oxford Legal Research Library




                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 (a) Overview
 Engagement with academic colleagues, government, policy makers and civil society
 organisations enriches our research and builds impact. In 2015, the School adopted its
 ‘Engaged School Strategy’ on the development of impact and engagement. While the ICSs
 highlight our most significant impact, this section demonstrates how Exeter Law School research
 is deeply enmeshed in research networks and with users, beneficiaries and audiences as well as
 our impact, influence and standing across the whole of civil society, the academic community,
 government and the legal system.

 (b) Collaborations. Networks and Partnerships
 We recognise that research is often best done collaboratively and that building and sustaining
 relationships with all stakeholders is key to ensuring research achieves its maximum potential. In
 consequence, almost every member of the School is involved in academic and user networks,
 partnerships and collaborations. Relationships with our academic, industry, governmental and
 non-governmental partners are inevitably interconnected and we have found that it is more
 coherent to address them thematically by legal area. Even so, that does not do justice to the
 cross-disciplinary character of many of these relationships. For instance, the School’s
 collaboration with IBM has involved colleagues working in different legal areas and with other
 outside partners: Dodsworth and Saintier are working with both IBM and the Land Registry to
 detect patterns in sale contracts; Barlow is developing a ‘divorce wizard’ to improve
 understanding of the legal steps in financial relief proceedings on divorce; and Noussia and
 Griffin are working on 3D printing, artificial intelligence, arbitration and mediation.

 Also worthy of note is the enthusiastic and independent involvement of our junior researchers,
 including ECRs. We discuss the work of Pavis, Wallace and Jachec-Neale below but there is
 also Cole’s submission on 'Brexit, competition and state aid' which was cited by the House of
 Lords European Union Committee, and Channon who met with the Law Commission and
 Centre for Connected and Autonomous Vehicles, Department for Transport, to discuss
 autonomous vehicles, and whose submission on artificial intelligence was cited by the Lords
 Select Committee on Artificial Intelligence in its report. Barrett’s submission to the Women and
 Equalities Committee was cited in its report on ‘Enforcing the Equalities Act: the law and role of
 the EHRC’, contributing to the recommendations. Martin has worked with the National Maritime
 Museum and Royal Museums Greenwich on ethical acquisition, treatment and display of
 underwater cultural heritage and with the Shipwreck Centre and Heritage Centre in Charlestown
 on a court case on collection of artefacts from the Titanic

 The outstanding impact of the Network on Family Regulation and Society is the outcome of
 years of focused work and research programmes, building connections and working with
 academic colleagues and stakeholders. Barlow and Trinder founded the Network, leading to
 interdisciplinary collaborations with academics from Notre Dame, Melbourne and the Free
 University of Amsterdam, Cardiff, Bristol, Bath, Kent, Oxford, Cambridge and the LSE. There
 followed substantial engagement with government, policy-makers and the wider concerned
 public, and the national legal framework for adult relationships has been shaped directly by
 Barlow and Trinder’s work on equal civil partnerships, cohabitation and divorce. Barlow’s and

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trinder’s ICSs explain their work on family mediation and divorce. Barlow’s research into
 attitudes to civil partnership and public misunderstanding of the legal rights arising from
 cohabitation was cited in the Commons and Lords debates respectively, influencing the
 introduction of opposite-sex civil partnerships, the Cohabitation Rights Bill and Scotland’s reform
 of Cohabitation law.

 Trinder’s work on litigants in person has been cited by the Ministry of Justice, Public Accounts
 Committee, Justice Select Committee, Judicial Executive Board and other key stakeholders
 including Cafcass, the Law Commission, House of Commons Briefing Paper, Citizens Advice
 Bureau, Resolution, and the Law Society, influencing national debate with strong potential future
 impact. Probert is currently seconded to the Law Commission for two years from August 2019 to
 work on its weddings project, and Smith is leading the development of the new Family Law
 Assistance and Self-Help (FLASH) pro bono scheme, designed in collaboration with colleagues
 from Cardiff University and to be piloted in 2020. Barlow’s work on the Shackleton project has
 led to lesson plans and materials kite-marked by the PSHE Association for the new
 Relationships Education curriculum.

 Network members have built strong relationships with the judiciary and government in other
 ways. Trinder has delivered training via the Judicial College to all 1200 family judges on litigants
 in person. Barlow served as the Academic Member of the Family Justice Council between 2011
 and 2015, working with judges, lawyers and other experts to promote an inter-disciplinary
 approach to family justice. She was the English law expert for the Commission for European
 Family Law (2007-2019), working with other experts in family and comparative law from across
 the EU on the harmonisation of family law in Europe. Trinder is a member of the Family Justice
 Panel on Domestic Abuse (Minister of Justice). There has also been significant public
 engagement, for example, Probert’s regular appearances as a legal history expert on the BBC’s
 Who Do You Think You Are? and A House Through Time as well as public lectures on marriage
 law, bigamy and divorce to the Society of Genealogists, the Register of Qualified Genealogists
 and numerous local history societies.

 During the assessment period, Exeter Centre for International Law has become a major force
 in the development of international law, working with academic partners and non-academic
 stakeholders globally in a range of projects with significant actual (see Schmitt ICS) or potential
 impact. The Centre is a leading partner in the Woomera space law project, with Mačák, Nasu
 (Vice President) and Schmitt all engaged with partners at Universities of Adelaide, Nebraska
 and New South Wales in developing a manual of international law principles applicable to
 military space operations. Schmitt has been Director of the Tallin Manual 2.0 project on the
 application of international law to cyber operations and sits on the US Secretary of State's
 Advisory Committee on International Law, the Institute for International Peace and Security, and
 the Advisory Board of Cyber Peace Institute. He has twice briefed the North Atlantic Council
 (Ambassadors and Secretary General of NATO) on cyber affairs. He has directed international
 cyber law capacity-building courses for government officials with cyber portfolios, involving the
 Netherlands, Singapore, Australia, USA, UK, Canada, Switzerland, Organization of American
 States, and Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.

 Mačák has co-created a Cyber Law Toolkit with partners including Wuhan University, NATO Co-
 operative Cyber Defence Centre of Excellence, the Czech National Cyber Information Security
 Agency and the International Committee of the Red Cross. He has also been a legal advisor for

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the International Committee of the Red Cross since 2019. Sari’s expertise in international
 conflict and military operations have led to his position as Fellow of the Supreme Headquarters
 Allied Powers Europe, member of the Expert Pool, European Centre of Excellence for
 Countering Hybrid Threats, and Fellow of the Allied Rapid Reaction Corps. He has convened the
 training course for RAF Legal Services since 2016 and contributed to the Initial Officers Course
 (UK Army Legal Services), the Advanced Command and Staff Course (Joint Services Command
 and Staff College, UK Defence Academy) and French Higher Institute of National Defence
 Studies/European Security and Defence College. He was awarded the Serge Lazareff Prize for
 excellence in legal services by Allied Command Operations Office of Legal Affairs. Jachec-
 Neale is a key figure in the International Society of Military Law and Laws of War, an
 international association whose aim is to research and disseminate in the areas of international
 humanitarian law, military law, and the law of peace. She sits on the Board of Directors and is
 President of its International Humanitarian Law Committee, working with members of the armed
 forces to increase understanding in this area. She has also offered training through the Ministry
 of Defence short courses and other organisations. Beduschi has acted as an external expert for
 the Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in Geneva, the International Organisation
 for Migration (IOM), the European Commission (EC) and the European Asylum Support Office
 (EASO) and her work has been cited by the United Nations Special Rapporteur on Racism.

 Our colleagues in the Centre for Commercial and Corporate Law and the Centre for
 European Legal Studies also work with a wide range of interested parties both inside and
 outside the academy. Our insurance law scholars (Merkin, Lista, Noussia, Tyldesley and
 Channon) have had an international impact, reflected in citations in the ECJ, Supreme Court
 and the Singapore Court of Appeal, and have run workshops for insurance markets across the
 world on the impact of the Insurance Act 2015. Merkin became an honorary Queen’s Counsel in
 2015 and won the 2018 International Association of Insurance Law Gold Medal and the 2017
 British Insurance Law Association Book Prize for The Law of Motor Insurance. He has acted as
 consultant to the Special Public Bills Committee of the House of Lords on the Insurance Bill
 2014 and to the English and Scottish Law Commissions, the New Zealand Ministry of Business,
 Australian Royal Commission on Banking, Disciplinary Committee, and the Financial Services
 Council (NZ). Lista has acted as advisor to the EC on the implementation of EU Directives on
 consumer protection in UK and Italy and on the drafting of the next EU Block Exemption
 Regulation on the insurance industry. He is also Counsel for UK Flood Re (a UK government
 initiative on flood insurance reforms) and a member of the Italian Civil Law Steering Group
 Committee (consulted by the Italian Government on commercial and corporate law reform).
 Noussia has been a member of the Presidential Council of the International Insurance Law
 Association since 2014 and is Vice President for Europe (2018-2022).

 There has also been considerable impact on corporate regulation. Addo’s work on business and
 human rights is discussed in his ICS. Lee’s research on corporate governance officers has led,
 via collaboration with the Taiwan Company Law Reform Group and the Taiwanese Stock
 Exchange, to the introduction of mandatory corporate governance officers for Taiwan Stock
 Exchange listed companies and Taiwanese financial institutions. Luzak has been involved in the
 development of EU Consumer Law, with country reports for the EC on the implementation of the
 General Product Safety Directive and Directive 2015/2302/EU on package travel and linked
 travel arrangements. Dodsworth’s work on price caps led to an invitation to participate in a
 European Policy Forum round table of all UK regulators of utilities and services in 2019,



                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 following which both Ofcom and the Financial Conduct Authority announced they were no longer
 considering using price caps.

 SCuLE has seen a flourishing of engagement by colleagues working in intellectual property.
 Griffin, with colleagues from Durham, Sussex, Nottingham Ningbo (China), SLM (Singapore)
 and CUPL (Beijing, China), was funded by the AHRC to investigate digital licensing of 3D-
 printed content. This has led to close collaboration with several Chinese companies and the
 grant of a patent in China. Pavis and Wallace’s ESRC funded ‘IP and Living Works’ project will
 co-develop intellectual property guidelines in the UK GLAM sector with Scottish National
 Galleries. Wallace is leading the Wikimedia Foundation initiative to draft an official International
 Declaration on Open Access for Cultural Heritage and has advised several prestigious
 international heritage institutions on open access policies. She co-wrote the National Heritage
 Lottery Fund Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) policy, implemented in 2020, that requires funded
 projects to provide open access to their research and the Fund has adopted her
 recommendations on disability accessibility, culturally sensitive materials, user-generated IPR,
 and other topics. Pavis has worked with Equity to create stakeholder-facing content on IPR, and
 best practice on performer contracts and also co-founded the New IP Lawyers Network. Pavis
 and Wallace’s submission to the French Ministry of Culture on the Sarr-Savoy Report on the
 digital aspects of restitution of African Cultural Heritage was signed by 108 legal and heritage
 experts, academics and practitioners and received wide media coverage.

 Hawkins has worked with the OECD on collaborative platforms and, with Walsh and McMahon
 (Maynooth), is a founder member of Patent Scholars’ Network, leading to conferences and
 collaborations such as a planned special issue in European Intellectual Property Review. Helm
 has been working with charity Transform Justice to produce a policy report on guilty pleas by
 children and best-practice guidelines for working with children making plea decisions, supported
 by the Law Society of England and Wales. Since her appointment in 2017, Fenton has shared
 her work on bystander interventions with Universities UK, the British Army, the NWG Network
 and sports organisations including the English Football League, Lawn Tennis Association, and
 Premier League and has given evidence to the Women and Equalities Select Committee

 There has also been substantial work around human rights, migration and vulnerability. In the
 Human Rights and Democracy Forum, Dupré is a founding member and sits on the board of
 the Dignity Rights Project, Delaware. She co-organised two workshops on human dignity with
 Garden Court Chambers, leading to a special issue of European Human Rights Law Review with
 contributions from, among others, Sir James Munby and Nicola Braganza. Her work on Icelandic
 constitutional reform has engaged with the leading actors in Icelandic politics and constitutional
 affairs including the Icelandic Prime Minister and President, receiving substantial media
 coverage within Iceland. Bicknell has worked closely with the Committee for the Prevention of
 Torture to produce a study of prisons in Europe. Skinner has worked on a collaborative project
 funded by Open Society Foundations and the Oak Foundation reporting on European and
 African states’ accountability for police use of lethal force, co-convened an international experts
 meeting at the Netherlands Police Academy, and has organised workshops with Doughty Street
 Chambers, Institute of Advanced Legal Studies and University of the Third Age.

 Wray co-founded the Routes network on migration, mobility and displacement, providing a
 forum for interdisciplinary, impact focused research. She has worked with University of Montreal
 and other partners on a project funded by the Canadian Social Sciences and Humanities

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Council on the global regulation of family migration as a security issue. She led an
 empirical project on the impact on children of the UK’s family migration rules for the Children’s
 Commissioner that received widespread media attention and was cited by the Supreme Court to
 support its finding that the rules breached the government’s legal obligations to children. She
 was interviewed by numerous media outlets and appeared on BBC Radio 4’s File on Four,
 delivered training to the Judicial College and the International Centre for Parliamentary Studies,
 co-authored the chapter on family migration for the in-house handbook of the International
 Organisation for Migration and worked with University of Bristol and national pressure groups,
 Joint Council for the Welfare of Immigrants and Reunite Families, to create a short book on the
 experiences of families affected by family migration law. Bishop’s interdisciplinary Gender
 Network held a seminar on intimate image abuse and, in consequence, has worked with the
 Law Commission and with national helplines, leading to planned publications and a collaborative
 funding application. Ohana’s work as a British Academy Post-Doctoral Fellow has led to
 workshops with the bereaved and survivors of the Grenfell Tower Fire. Beduschi’s ESRC-
 funded work on migrant children’s rights led to the creation of training materials used by NGOs
 and practitioners in Greece.

 c) Academic positions and recognition
 As well as our extensive external engagement, Exeter colleagues are committed and
 authoritative members of the academic community, making significant contributions and
 receiving significant recognition. Several colleagues edit the best-regarded journals in their field
 of expertise. Merkin is editor of Journal of Business Law, Stebbings edits Journal of Legal
 History and Wray edits Journal of Immigration Asylum and Nationality Law. Probert is one of
 three editors of Child and Family Law Quarterly. Bosch is editor in chief of the European Journal
 of Legal Education. Others have been guest editors for special issues, for example, Griffin in
 European Journal Law and Technology in 2017, and International Review of Law, Computers &
 Technology in 2020, Dupré in European Human Rights Law Review in 2019 and Lee in
 Masaryck Journal of Law and Technology in 2017. Particularly pleasing is the involvement of
 ECRs in journals. McCann is co-editor of the recently founded European Journal of Comparative
 Law and Governance and Channon is on the editorial board of the Legal Issues Journal. Other
 colleagues undertake a variety of editorial roles in at least ten national and international journals.

 Colleagues have won awards and occupy positions at prestigious institutions, universities and
 research bodies. Probert, Moorhead and Barlow are Fellows of the Academy of Social
 Sciences and Moorhead has been elected to the FRSA. Barlow and her co-authors won the
 Hart Socio-Legal Studies Association Book Prize in April 2018 for Mapping Paths to Family
 Justice: Resolving disputes in neoliberal times. She was a member of the ESRC Grants
 Assessment Panel B from 2010-2014 and Vice Chair of the SLSA 2011-15. Stebbings was
 Chair of the Hamlyn Trust between 2014 and 2019. Probert was Vice President then President
 of the Society of Legal Scholars in 2018-20and won the SLS Best Paper Prize 2018. Colleagues
 have delivered numerous keynote and guest lectures, for example, Stebbings delivered the
 prestigious Youard lecture in 2018, and the Selden Society lecture in 2019 and Probert gave
 keynote lectures at the 2019 SLS conference and at the 2019 British Legal History Conference.
 In 2016; Stebbings was the invited keynote speaker at the 2016 SLS Conference; Wray gave
 the fourth Sarah van Walsum memorial lecture at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam in 2019;
 Dupré gave the opening address to the 2019 Law Centres Network annual conference and
 Wallace was the invited keynote speaker at New Zealand’s National Digital Forum in 2017.



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Several colleagues hold honorary appointments. Merkin is Honorary Professor at the Chinese
 University of Hong Kong, the University of Queensland and the University of Sydney. Lista is
 Distinguished International Scholar and Visiting Professor, Dalian Maritime University, China and
 Probert was Distinguished Visitor at the University of Alberta in January 2019. Luzak is Guest
 Associate Professor at the Centre for Transformative Private Law at the University of
 Amsterdam. Eighteen institutions on all continents have welcomed Law School colleagues as
 visiting scholars.




                                                                                          Page 21
