Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Kent

 Unit of Assessment: 31: Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 For the majority of this REF cycle, the Department of Religious Studies at the University of Kent
 was based in the University’s School of European Culture and Languages and Faculty of
 Humanities. Following the institutional re-organisation in 2020 described in the accompanying
 REF5a document, the Department is now located in the Division of Arts and Humanities, which
 includes all humanities subject areas within the University. Despite being one of the smaller units
 in this subject area nationally, with 6.8 FTE Category A staff, the Department has built on its
 success in REF2014 to make significant achievements in its research and impact activities over
 this REF cycle. Key examples include increasing its external grant awards by more than 300% to
 over £2.5m (including a landmark research programme on ‘Understanding Unbelief’ funded by the
 John Templeton Foundation), the organisation and hosting of major national and international
 conferences, a significant increase in the Department’s doctoral completions, and major impact
 activities that have shaped public understanding and public policy.

 Staff in the Department have expertise across a wide range of areas in the theory and method of
 the study of religion, including biblical studies, modern theology, critical theory and religion, and
 the psychology, philosophy, and sociology of religion. In addition to specialisms in Abrahamic and
 Asian religious traditions, the Department also has an internationally recognised focus on the
 study of contemporary worldviews, meaning, and values beyond institutional religion, including the
 life-worlds of those who identify as non-religious.

 The Department places a strong emphasis in its research culture on the cultivation of inter- and
 multi-disciplinary conversations, both amongst its members and with other researchers within and
 beyond the University of Kent. This ethos is evident in the range of scholars invited to present their
 research at Departmental seminars and symposia (which have become a key means for the
 cultivation of interdisciplinary discussions), the interdisciplinary nature of research published by its
 staff, and the role of its staff in initiating the development of new University-wide multi-disciplinary
 research networks on migration and movement (Sherwood; this network is now one of the
 University’s three Signature Research Themes) and conflict, security, rights, and violence (Lynch).
 Whilst drawing on longer historical insights to inform its work, much of the Department’s research
 focuses on major contemporary issues in the study of religion, with recent examples including
 blasphemy, religion and migration, religion in urban contexts, religion and child abuse, and religion
 within the organisational structures of the United Nations.

 Research strategy
 During this REF cycle, the Department has successfully met the six strategic research aims
 outlined in its submission to REF2014. These aims were to:

    1. Undertake and complete major research projects. Research projects outlined in REF2014
       have all been successfully pursued, with publications from these forming the core of the
       Department’s outputs submission to this REF. In addition to the projects outlined in the
       Department’s 2014REF submission, other major new research projects have also been
       initiated, and, in many cases, completed, including on non-religion in a global perspective
       (Lee), non-religious childhoods (Strhan), William James and love (Carrette), mindfulness
       (King), religion and nostalgia (Deacy), and the Bible and feminism (Sherwood).

    2. Nurture creative cross-disciplinary research within the Department. Our weekly research
       seminar and additional research symposia have supported and enhanced our vibrant
       research culture. All of our staff members have organised and participated in symposia run
       by the Department during this REF cycle, and these have involved researchers from
       around the world who work in anthropology, the creative arts, history, law, philosophy,

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        psychology, and sociology. Topics addressed in these symposia have been the study of
        the sacred, religion and the global city, the anthropology of the good, blasphemy and
        freedom of expression, health, well-being, and the body, global philosophies, scripts and
        scriptures of the queer family, understanding unbelief, the uses of historical research in
        child abuse inquiries, and religion and atheism.

    3. Convene major conferences that will allow staff and research students within the
       Department to shape discussions in wider networks. Over the course of this REF cycle,
       the Department has successfully hosted and curated six major national and international
       conferences, in which its staff research and wider multi-disciplinary approaches to the
       study of religion have been showcased (see Section 4 below).

    4. Use the Leverhulme Professorship and the internally funded Kent Institute for Advanced
       Studies in the Humanities (KIASH) Visiting Experts schemes to support a programme of
       senior visiting scholars who will engage with the Department’s staff and research students.
       External and internal funding have been used to support the Department’s engagement
       with senior visiting scholars. Internal KIASH funding supported Kathryn Lofton’s visit from
       Yale University in 2014, and internal Dean for Europe funding enabled collaboration with
       colleagues at Columbia University in 2019. A Leverhulme Visiting Professorship enabled
       Mia Lovheim (Uppsala University) to work with the Department in 2015. Other visiting
       scholars who have spent time at the Department during this REF cycle, both to present
       their work and have discussions with staff and research students, include Johanna Sumiala
       (Helsinki) and Karin Barber Neutel (University of Oslo).

    5. Work with our partners in the CHASE consortium (the AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership
       of which Kent is a member) to develop high-calibre cross-institutional doctoral supervision
       and training in the study of religion. The Department has continued periodically to provide
       an intensive, week-long methods training course in the study of religion, which is open to
       students at Kent and at the other members of the CHASE consortium, and which has also
       attracted participants from institutions across the UK and continental Europe. More than
       fifty delegates, mainly from universities other than Kent, have attended this training during
       this REF cycle. Our Department has also been one of the lead sponsors for a CHASE-
       funded workshop on ‘Ethics, Reflexivity and Writing in the medical Humanities’, scheduled
       for 2021.

    6. Continue to build our base of AHRC doctoral awards. Since 2014, the Department has
       secured four new AHRC doctoral studentships: an AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Award on
       women’s experience of life in Magdalene Laundries in post-independence Ireland; and
       three AHRC BGP2 doctoral studentships through the CHASE consortium. An additional
       institutionally funded studentship was created by the University for a project on non-religion
       amongst adults in later life linked to the Understanding Unbelief programme, and another
       student was awarded a fully-funded Vice-Chancellor’s Research Scholarship. Given the
       comparatively small size of this unit, securing six fully-funded doctoral studentships (nearly
       one per staff FTE) is a notable achievement. In conjunction with this, there has also been
       a significant increase in the number of doctoral completions over this current REF cycle
       compared to REF2014, with 18 of our students receiving their doctoral awards. This
       represents 2.5 doctoral completions per staff FTE, more than doubling the rate of 1.12
       doctoral completions per staff FTE for our Department in REF2014.

 Strategic aims for the next six years
 Over the next six years, we will build on this existing research strategy to deliver further major
 outputs and activities. Specific plans include hosting the major international conference of the
 Society for Biblical Literature in 2021 and the development and submission of major external grant
 applications. Current major applications under review or in development include projects on social
 and psychological factors underlying non-religion, and organisational, policy, and personal
 dimensions of abuse in religious contexts.

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The development of the new Division of Arts and Humanities at Kent, operating as a single
 financial and administrative unit, will also create significant new possibilities for collaborations with
 other colleagues across the Division. For example, the bringing together of Religious Studies and
 the School of History in the same Divisional structure has enabled the creation of a new Centre
 for Anglican Studies co-directed by Carrette (Religious Studies) and Fincham (History), approved
 by the University in the summer of 2020. This initiative draws both on the University’s existing links
 with the Church of England through its endowed Michael Ramsey Chair (currently held by Lynch),
 as well as its expertise in the history of Anglicanism.

 Whilst wider uncertainties within the HE sector caused by COVID-19 have made detailed forward
 research planning more difficult in the short term, our future strategic aims for this research unit
 are:

     1. To sustain a high level of grant capture within the unit to sustain substantial research and
        impact activities of world-leading quality;
     2. To extend further the international profile, reach, and impact of established areas of
        research within this unit, including the study of non-religion and religion and abuse;
     3. To develop further the role of the unit’s staff in leading interdisciplinary collaborations at
        Kent, regionally, nationally, and internationally;
     4. To continue to provide excellent training and support for our postgraduate researchers,
        and in particular to work towards increasing the representation of BME students in our PhD
        student cohort.

 Impact strategy
 The Department has maintained and scaled up three main types of impact set out in the impact
 strategy in our REF2014 submission. As stated in our REF2014 submission, we work with:

     1. Public sector and third sector organisations, for whom our research helps develop a clearer
        understanding of issues of religion, ethics, and the sacred in ways that inform their policies,
        training, and professional practice. In the current REF cycle, collaborations with external
        partner organisations undertaken by our staff have included social-mapping exercises,
        policy development, collaborative research initiatives based on stakeholders’ archives,
        expert witness work for national inquiries and legal proceedings, film production, work in
        the creative arts, and a major museum exhibition. An illustrative list of key national and
        international stakeholders with whom we have worked closely in this REF cycle is supplied
        in Section 4.

     2. Wider public audiences, through public media, blogs, films, podcasts, and other public
        events, where our research contributes to deeper public understanding and debate of
        particular religious issues or traditions or introduces new conceptual frameworks for
        understanding public life. Staff have been interviewed by broadcast and print media
        nationally and internationally (see examples in Section 4), authored articles for popular
        online websites such as The Conversation, as well as for specialist religious press, and
        delivered events through the AHRC ‘Being Human’ programme. The media audience
        reach for activities set out in our impact case studies alone is in excess of 50 million people.

     3. Religious and humanist institutions and organisations, where our research helps to
        influence their understanding of their tradition, social context, and organisational practices.
        Examples from this current REF cycle include: Sherwood’s leadership of a major series of
        talks, See-Through Stories, with Canterbury Cathedral; Day’s work with the Church of
        England in relation to her project on older laywomen; articles in specialist religious press
        by Day, Lee, Lynch, and Strhan; Lee’s collaborations with the British Humanist Association
        and the Pontifical Council for Culture; and invited public lectures at churches and temples
        given by Carrette, Day, Deacy, King, and Sherwood.




                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The exceptional range of this impact work for a small academic unit has been made possible by
 our continued emphasis on delivering high-quality impact activities in conjunction with leading
 national and international partners supported by substantial external funding. These projects are
 designed with strong pathways to impact from the outset, and delivered on the basis of
 collaborations with partner organisations who benefit both from the research and from the financial
 resources that we provide, and who contribute substantial value to our work through their expertise
 and reach. We have also benefited from generous internal funding through impact bursaries
 provided by the School of European Culture and Languages (see Sections 2 and 3).

 Whilst some of our impact activities occur through members of the Department being approached
 directly by external organisations, many of our major activities have been undertaken by us
 proactively approaching organisations whom we recognise as being the best placed nationally or
 internationally to deliver a particular form of collaboration. Developing these collaborations on the
 basis of sustained conversations, in some cases over several years, has been invaluable in
 developing our understanding of the different timescales, priorities, structures, and delivery
 mechanisms of partner organisations, as well as issues involved in discussing academic research
 with a wide range of professional groups. We recognise the importance of cultivating long-term
 relationships with specific individual and organisational stakeholders (such as TrueTube,
 Humanists UK, the RE Council, and specific national journalists and media producers) as a means
 of developing sustained impact over a succession of activities which build on each other. We also
 recognise the value of grounding our impact work in our long-term research interests, both in terms
 of building our credibility with external partners and in providing a framework in which we can
 continue to contribute original research insights to this work. Future impact premised on this
 approach will include public engagement work by Lynch with researchers and civil society
 organisations in Ireland to develop spaces and activities of ‘national conscience’ in relation to
 historic institutional abuse, and Lee’s ongoing work with the RE Council to support a major
 paradigm shift in UK religious education in schools structured around the concept of the study of
 worldviews.

 Open Access
 Our Department is fully committed to making our research as accessible as possible to academic
 and public audiences. We benefit from strong institutional support for open access publishing in
 the form of the University’s APC Fund, which meets the cost of Gold Open Access (with a CC-BY
 licence), both for published work arising from research funded by UKRI grants, as well as for other
 outputs identified through internal review as being of high quality. Since the creation of this
 scheme, the APC Fund has paid for the costs of three journal articles and one monograph by the
 Department’s staff to be published open access, and will look significantly to increase the
 proportion of our outputs published in this way over the next six years. To support the wider
 dissemination of our research we have also produced three films about our research for the Think
 Kent digital platform and KMTV. The Understanding Unbelief research programme has also
 produced ten short films explaining its research approaches and findings to academic and wider
 public audiences, including content for the digital channel History Hit TV, presented by the
 historian Dan Snow. Two films on our research have also been produced by the BAFTA-awarding-
 winning digital educational channel, TrueTube.

 Research ethics and integrity
 We are committed to the highest standards of integrity in our research. Our concern with the social
 relevance of the study of religion is reflected in the range of research in which we engage and our
 recognition of the need for the study of religion to attend to histories and structures shaped by
 inequalities of power, status, and resource. Staff in the Department have also sought to raise wider
 issues of power, injustice, and inclusivity in our subject areas, exemplified in a national event on
 ‘Decolonising the Social Scientific Study of Religion’, organized by Lee and Day, in conjunction
 with the British Sociological Association’s Sociology of Religion Study Group in 2018. A significant
 amount of our research involves working with people as research participants, and staff in our
 Department always obtain the necessary institutional ethics approval for this, following University-
 wide and disciplinary guidance about appropriate ethical standards.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 At the end of this REF cycle, our Department had seven members of staff on Education and
 Research (E&R) contracts (Blanton, Carrette, Deacy, King, Lee, Lynch, and Sherwood), with an
 unusually high proportion of senior staff, compared to other units in our subject area, consisting of
 four Professors (Carrette, King, Lynch, and Sherwood), two Readers (Blanton, Deacy), and one
 Senior Lecturer (Lee). One of these professorial posts – the Michael Ramsey Chair – is an
 endowed position with an associated research fund. The Department also has an ongoing Lecturer
 in Asian Studies on an Education and Scholarship contract (de Vries), and has also recently
 employed another Lecturer in the Sociology of Religion on an Education and Scholarship contract
 (Carpenedo) to cover for the period of Lynch’s AHRC Fellowship. Research support for de Vries
 and Carpenedo is discussed further below. Three fixed-term postdoctoral research fellows (Amy
 Unsworth, Rachel Shilitoe, and Oliver Gibson) were also employed in the Department during this
 REF cycle through external grant funding.

 All E&R staff in the Department are employed on permanent contracts, reflecting the University’s
 commitment to the long-term development of staff. Where possible, staff on research fellowships
 have been supported with permanent appointments and further career progression. For example,
 after completion of her Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, Strhan was given a permanent
 contract and promoted to Senior Lecturer. Similarly, Lee was appointed to the Department in
 January 2017, initially as a Senior Research Fellow and then, in 2020, as a permanent Senior
 Lecturer.

 Although there has been a slight reduction in staff over this REF cycle between August 2013 and
 July 2020 equivalent to 1.0 FTE, we have benefited from considerable stability in our staff group.
 All but one members of staff in this REF submission were in post at the time of our submission to
 REF2014. Frazier left the Department in 2017 to take a post at the University of Oxford, and Strhan
 left in 2018 to take up a post in Sociology at the University of York. Abby Day, who had a
 temporary, fractional post, also left the Department in 2016 and took up a post in Sociology at
 Goldsmiths, University of London. Remaining staff in the Department fall within the age range 35-
 55. The effects of these staff changes on the gender balance of the Department are discussed
 later in this section.

 Staff support and development in the Department operates within the University-wide structures,
 processes, and resources set out in the REF5a institutional statement accompanying this unit-
 level submission. Members of our Department have both benefited from, and made substantial
 contributions to, this University-wide provision. Specific examples of this in the current REF period
 include:

    •   All staff in our Department have received study leave according to the University policy of
        one term’s study leave in every seven terms. The University also provides additional,
        internally funded research leave for projects of exceptional significance, and Lynch
        received an additional term of leave through this provision to undertake full-time expert
        witness work for the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse.

    •   Both Frazier and Strhan successfully completed the University’s probation process, and
        benefited from the University’s workload reduction scheme for probationary staff.

    •   Frazier, Strhan, and Lee all received support and advice from members of our School
        Promotions Panel, and achieved promotions to Senior Lecturer/Research Fellow at their
        first time of applying.

    •   All E&R staff in our Department have participated in annual Individual Research Planning
        (IRP) meetings with the Religious Studies REF Coordinator and the School Director of
        Research. These have provided staff with opportunities to reflect on their longer-term
        intellectual trajectory and research plans, review progress on specific projects, discuss
        opportunities for their development, consider additional internal and external funding

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        resources, and receive suggestions for possible research and impact collaborations within
        and beyond the School.

    •   Reflecting the emphasis in the Researcher Development Concordat on supporting the
        research development of all staff regardless of contractual status, the Department has
        sought actively to support the work of colleagues not on permanent E&R contracts. De
        Vries and Carpenedo have participated in Departmental research events, presented their
        own research for discussion and peer feedback, and been supported in specific activities
        such as the development of grant applications. Unsworth was actively involved in the
        development of Departmental research events. Shilitoe’s research profile was supported
        through her involvement as a full co-author in publications arising from her project, and
        time was costed into Gibson’s contract to allow him to work on publishing his own research.

    •   The University participates in the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education (LFHE)
        Aurora Leadership and Management Programme. This programme has been led at Kent
        by Sherwood in her capacity as University of Kent Aurora Champion. The School of
        European Culture and Languages also received an Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018,
        and relevant elements of our Athena Swan Action Plan are discussed in the Equality and
        Diversity sub-section below.

    •   Staff in the Department both participated in, and led, workshops delivered through the
        University’s Grants Factory and Impact training programmes.

    •   The School of European Culture and Languages offered a generous impact bursary
        scheme (up to £15,000 per applicant) to support high-quality impact activities. Through this
        provision, Lynch received £9,198.64 to enable the recording of songs for the Ballads of
        Child Migration project and the development of this into a full album.

 In addition to having opportunities for regular discussion about impact plans and opportunities in
 the context of their annual Individual Research Planning meetings, our staff have also benefited
 from the proximity of major partner organisations in London and the South-East to develop a wide
 range of public engagement activities.

 Research students
 As a Department, we are committed to supporting the academic development of researchers from
 groups currently under-represented in our subject area nationally. We are conscious of a
 continuing gender imbalance amongst research staff in Theology and Religious Studies in the UK
 (see Equality and Diversity below). Whilst equally assessing all strong doctoral applicants to our
 Department, we have been particularly keen to encourage strong female applicants who have the
 potential for future academic careers. As noted in Section 1, our Department has secured six fully-
 funded doctoral studentships over this REF cycle, of which five were awarded to women.

 The Department has continued its strong provision for doctoral supervision and training. Our
 postgraduate research students participate in the Departmental research seminar (at which they
 have the opportunity to present work in progress), a postgraduate reading group, and the wider
 programme of symposia and workshops run by the Department. Postgraduate students in the
 Department also organise their own workshops, either at the University or in collaboration with
 other institutions and subject associations. The Department has also offered an intensive week-
 long methods training course, which is open to students at Kent as well as other universities, and
 has attracted participants from institutions across the UK and continental Europe. Substantial
 training opportunities have also been provided by the University’s Graduate and Researcher
 College (formerly the Graduate School), as described in the accompanying REF5a document.
 Additional resources provided by the Graduate and Researcher College include Postgraduate
 Experience Awards (up to £1,500 per student), which provide research students with the
 opportunity to apply for funding to run an event or project with an interdisciplinary and/or external
 focus, and which will enhance their development.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In addition to the Departmental Research Seminar, our research students are able to attend
 research seminars at other schools and departments across the University. There are also 50
 research centres across the University that provide opportunities for research students to attend
 presentations and other events. The Annual Postgraduate Research Festival, organised by the
 Graduate and Researcher College, provides an opportunity for postgraduates to showcase their
 research to fellow students and staff through posters, the 3 Minute Thesis competition, and Pecha
 Kucha presentations. The festival provides an excellent networking opportunity for both
 postgraduate students and academic staff members. One of our students, working on women’s
 experiences of life in Magdalene institutions in Ireland, was awarded the best student presentation
 prize for a similar showcase event organised by the University in conjunction with the University
 of the Third Age.

 Our doctoral students are supervised by a team, including first and second supervisors, and an
 additional supervisory Chair if required. The Department makes use of cross-Department and
 cross-School supervision arrangements where this benefits the multi-disciplinary training of the
 student. We recognize the importance of maintaining clear supervision structures, while also
 allowing flexibility in these where this suits the training and development of an individual student.
 In the current REF cycle, we therefore supported the transfer of one of our AHRC DTP-funded
 doctoral students to Goldsmiths (a partner institution in the CHASE consortium) so that she could
 develop interests in religion and higher education policy that were better supported in its Faiths
 and Civil Society Unit.

 Our School’s Graduate Studies Committee has been responsible for monitoring student progress,
 approving the recommendations of review and examination panels, and mediating in the cases
 where panels are unable to reach a consensus. Online monthly supervision records are completed
 by the student and first supervisor to record meetings, topics of discussion, and plans for future
 action. Each postgraduate research student undertakes an induction review (after 3 months), end-
 of-year reviews, and a submission review (3 months before the end of the minimum registration
 period). This review system has proven extremely helpful in monitoring effective student progress
 and identifying points at which students may be needing additional forms of support. Alongside
 strong supervision and training, this process of periodic review has contributed to a high proportion
 (over 90%) of our students submitting their theses according to expected deadlines and receiving
 their doctoral awards.

 Students in the Department benefit from being able to attend training provided through the AHRC-
 funded CHASE Doctoral Training Partnership, which gives them access to academic expertise
 and interdisciplinary training delivered by staff members from across all the institutions in the
 consortium. Our CHASE-funded students have, for example, participated in the biannual CHASE
 Encounters conferences, which provide opportunities for students to present work-in-progress,
 develop their own themed panels, and meet with other doctoral students from a wide range of
 AHRC-funded subject areas. Over this REF cycle, two of our doctoral students have also served
 as convenors of the international NYLON Doctoral Research Network (originally convened by
 Craig Calhoun and Richard Sennett for qualitative social researchers at the LSE, New York
 University, and Goldsmiths), which provides high-calibre training in critical and reflexive methods
 in qualitative research.

 The Department is committed to the development of postgraduate researchers as academic
 teachers. Postgraduate students in our Department have taught seminars and occasional lectures
 in our undergraduate programmes, and are supported in this work through specially designed
 training for new postgraduate teachers provided by the University’s Unit for the Enhancement of
 Learning and Teaching.

 Each research student is allocated up to £150 per annum to attend a conference at which they
 are giving a paper, plus an additional £500 towards research expenses over the course of their
 registration. Exceptional research expenses (such as specialised training, the presentation of
 papers at overseas conferences, and visits to overseas archives) are supported from the Faculty
 (now Divisional) PhD Support Top-Up Fund.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Equality and diversity
 The Department, School, and University are committed to employing and supporting excellent
 researchers across all stages of their careers in accordance with best equal opportunities practice.
 We are very conscious of national issues in relation to gender progression in our subject area,
 demonstrated both by research undertaken by Mathew Guest, Sonya Sharma, and Robert Song
 in 2013, and the British Academy report on Theology and Religious Studies provision in UK higher
 education in 2019. The latter noted that whilst there had been a very slight increase in the
 proportion of female to male staff in this subject area (37% female; 63% male) over the past five
 years, this level of gender imbalance was still significantly worse than in many other humanities
 subjects. We were already conscious of these problems of gender imbalance in our discipline, and
 in our Department, before the important work done by Guest, Sharma, and Song. Since 2011, we
 have worked closely with Human Resources at Kent to ensure that the under-representation of
 female staff in our Department was explicitly recognised in job advertisements, and that, where
 two interviewed staff were found to be equally strong applicants, we would prioritise the
 appointment of the female applicant.

 For much of this current REF cycle, this approach helped us to achieve close to a 50:50 gender
 balance in the Department. Despite the permanent appointments of Lee and Strhan in this REF
 cycle, the departure of Day, Frazier, and Strhan has, however, created a significant gender
 imbalance in the Department again. We will therefore continue to maintain our recruitment strategy
 for supporting the appointment of female members of staff to our Department when vacancies
 arise. We are also conscious of the lack of ethnic diversity amongst our staff, again reflecting
 national under-representation of BME staff in UK higher education. We believe that an important
 element in addressing under-representation of BME staff in our subject area is increasing the
 number of BME students being trained and mentored at doctoral level. Since 2017, the University
 of Kent has invested substantially in its award-winning Student Success programme to address
 inequalities in attainment between white and BME students, and to increase the progression
 routes of BME students into postgraduate study. We anticipate that this work will lead to improved
 representation of BME students amongst our PhD cohort in the coming REF cycle, and have
 explicitly identified this as an important aim in our future research strategy. With the representation
 of BME students in our undergraduate programmes having increased significantly during this REF
 cycle, we will seek to achieve this by providing additional support and mentoring to BME students
 who have the academic potential to move successfully through postgraduate studies to future
 academic careers.

 After staff have been appointed, we seek to achieve equality in our promotions process through
 the support and advice given by our School Promotions Panel, whose membership is gender
 balanced and includes the School’s Athena SWAN lead as an observer. Part of our Athena SWAN
 Action Plan is both to ensure that staff who wish to make a promotion application receive one-to-
 one support on this from a member of the School Promotions Panel, and that any staff who have
 not made a successful promotion application for three years are assigned a mentor if they would
 like this. Our Athena SWAN Action Plan also includes a commitment to provide any member of
 staff returning from parental leave, who has secured sufficient leave entitlement, with an
 immediate term of research leave on return to work alongside additional staffing resource to cover
 their work during their parental leave. Our School’s Athena SWAN Action Plan also included
 measures to increase the number of female reviewers available to meet with staff for their annual
 RPD review, and this has been successfully achieved with seven trained female reviewers now
 available within the School.

 All staff involved in the selection of outputs for this submission have undergone Equality and
 Diversity training, which has addressed both relevant equalities legislation and the ways in which
 conscious and unconscious bias can affect REF selection decisions in ways that generate
 inequalities. Our output selection has been guided by the University’s Code of Practice, and
 closely reflects the profile of our staff group according to protected characteristics and career stage
 across this REF cycle. The University established a confidential and voluntary system by which
 Category A staff have been able to register individual staff circumstances that they believe would

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 be relevant for consideration for possible output reductions for their unit. This process was
 centralised in our Human Resources department to ensure consistency in the management of
 these requests, and has had a good level of uptake from staff across the University. In our
 Department, individual staff circumstances have been approved for three members of staff (i.e.
 43% of our staff group). To maintain confidentiality, the identities of these staff members are known
 only to the REF Coordinator for this submission, our Head of Division, and our Divisional Director
 of Research and Innovation, who have reviewed our output selection and confirmed that the
 selected outputs take reasonable account of the position of staff members for whom individual
 circumstances have been approved.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since REF 2014, our Department has continued to increase its income from external research
 grant funding. This has provided substantial additional investment for our research activities. Staff
 have benefited from an excellent range of support provided centrally by the University’s Research
 and Innovation Services team. In part, these are structured around the University-wide Grants
 Factory training programme, as well as events specifically tailored to researchers in the Division.
 The latter include grant-writing weeks, in which researchers can work collectively on grant
 applications with staff from Research and Innovation Services and other academics with
 experience of securing grant income, and a ‘mock’ AHRC awards panel, in which researchers are
 able to use previously submitted applications from the University to the AHRC (with the PI’s
 permission) to get a better understanding both of the grant assessment process and the standard
 of grant application that is likely to be successful. A full-time Research Support Officer works with
 staff across the Arts and Humanities to identify suitable grant schemes for their interests, provides
 feedback on drafts, and arranges internal peer-review feedback on their applications.

 This excellent internal support has seen our Department advance in the RGCI benchmarking
 above both peer and subject averages, despite our small staff group. Research income per staff
 FTE has significantly increased for our Department, with income per staff FTE at over £170,000
 for REF2021, compared to £49,917 per staff FTE for REF2014. In personnel terms, external grant
 funding during this REF cycle has enabled us to expand beyond our core permanent staff base to
 employ a research project manager (for the Understanding Unbelief programme) and the three
 postdoctoral research fellows noted in Section 3. The four AHRC-funded doctoral studentships
 secured by the Department in this REF cycle (listed in Section 1) also constitute a slight increase
 on the three AHRC studentships held by the Department in the cycle assessed in REF2014.
 Specific external awards won by staff in the Department in this current REF cycle have been:

    •   Carrette (PI). ‘William James on Love: Literature, Biography and the Divine-Human
        Relation’. William James Archive, Houghton Library, Harvard University. British Academy
        Small Grant. £2,584.
    •   King (Co-I). ‘Mapping Mindfulness’. Leverhulme Research Project Grant. £212,578.
    •   Lee (PI). ‘Understanding Unbelief’. John Templeton Foundation Grant. £2,170,735.
    •   Lynch (PI). ‘British Child Migration Schemes to Australia, 1947-1970: Historical
        Perspectives and Public Memory Today’. AHRC Fellowship. £201,709.
    •   Lynch (PI). ‘Remembering Britain’s Child Migrants: Supporting Public Reflection through a
        National Exhibition, Media and Organisational Engagement’. AHRC Follow-On Funding
        Grant. £79,977.
    •   Lynch. ‘Leverhulme Visiting Professorship – Mia Lövheim’. Leverhulme Trust. £24,421.
    •   Sherwood. ‘See Through Stories: Windows on the World’ Cathedral Project. Ahmanson
        Foundation. £1,000.
    •   Strhan (PI). ‘Nonreligious Childhood: Growing Up Unbelieving in Contemporary Britain’.
        John Templeton Foundation Grant. £108,634.

 Over this REF cycle, staff research has been supported by a range of internal funding
 mechanisms, with this support continuing into the new Divisional structure. Internal grant awards
 of up to £2,000 have been made available annually to support cross-disciplinary collaborative
 initiatives, visiting senior scholars, and public engagement and impact activities, with support
                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 particularly encouraged for early career researchers (ECRs) who are extending their research
 profiles. Substantial funding for preparatory work necessary for the submission of major research
 grants has also been provided, as well as £1,000 towards teaching buy-out for the preparation of
 research grant applications for awards in excess of £200k. A further £6,000 per annum has also
 been allocated to support research activities within the Department such as workshops, symposia,
 and visiting experts. Each member of staff is also able to apply for £800 annually (£880 for ECRs)
 to support conference attendance. The University also operates a Public Engagement Research
 Fund, through which staff are able to apply for up to £2,000 to support specific engagement
 activities. Additional funds are also available from the Faculty (now the Division) and University to
 support internationalisation activities, as well as from the University to support the completion of
 major outputs for the REF. These funds constitute a substantial reinvestment of QR funding
 received by the University of Kent to provide direct support for research.

 Staff in our Department have benefited significantly from these different sources of internal
 funding. Over this current REF cycle, staff in our Department have received, £12,172.60 from the
 School conference fund and £35,972.53 from other funding schemes in the University and Faculty.
 Internal awards have included: £1,473.89 for a Rome research trip (Blanton); £1,000 towards the
 costs of the conference on ‘Sex after ’68’ (Carrette); £1,250 towards public engagement activities
 on unbelief (Lee); £760.00 to support costs of a workshop run as part of the 2017 AHRC Being
 Human festival (Lee); £9,198.64 for the Ballads of Child Migration project (Lynch); £1,500 to
 support the development of an AHRC Fellowship award (Lynch); £1,200 funding towards a
 conference on blasphemy (Sherwood); £7,000 funding for development of research links with the
 University of Oslo (Sherwood); £3,500 REF output funding (Sherwood); £2,790.00 to support the
 development of the EuroBlas ‘European Blasphemies’ research project (Sherwood); £2,800 for
 the ‘See-Through Stories’ events with Canterbury Cathedral (Sherwood); and £2,000 to support a
 symposium on the social life of the Good (Strhan).

 Research capacity in the Department has also been substantially supported in this REF cycle
 through the Michael Ramsey Research Fund, linked to the endowed Michael Ramsey Chair, which
 is administered by Lambeth Palace. Over the course of this REF cycle, £39,000 has been claimed
 from the Ramsey Fund, with major costs supported by this being the employment of four research
 assistants over five years to undertake extensive copying of archival material in the United States,
 Australia, and the United Kingdom, which has been used by Lynch for his academic and public
 engagement work on the history of UK child migration programmes. An additional £23,000 was
 provided from other internal funds in the School of European Culture and Languages to enable
 the re-location of several hundred books from the David Clines library from Sheffield to the
 University Library at Kent. In total, internal funding from the University and Ramsey Fund to
 support research in the Department of Religious Studies in this REF cycle was £110,145.13.

 The University also recognizes the achievements of its staff through annual University research
 awards. Over this REF cycle, Lynch received two University research prizes for his work on the
 history of UK child migration programmes: the Research Prize for the Faculty of Humanities in
 2016 and the University’s Public Engagement with Research Prize in 2019.

 Staff in our Department have benefited from the substantial internal investment in the University’s
 site and resources described in our institutional environment statement (REF5a), including the
 considerable expansion of the Templeman Library on the main University campus. Library
 resources for our subject area have benefited particularly in this REF cycle through the donation
 of several hundred books from the David Clines collection of key primary texts in nineteenth- and
 twentieth-century biblical studies. The University’s location, and high-speed rail link to London,
 enables staff to make use of other outstanding research facilities in the region, including the British
 Library, which is less than an hour’s rail journey from Canterbury.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Members of the Department have a sustained track record of substantial international research
 collaborations, and have worked with key national and international stakeholder organisations on

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 projects with significant social benefits. This work has included new national and international
 collaborations to lead the development of emerging areas of study or approaches to research, as
 well as contributing to the continued work of major national and international subject associations.
 A notable example of this has been the landmark ‘Understanding Unbelief’ research programme,
 for which Lee and the other programme directors commissioned and coordinated 20 research
 projects, involving more than forty researchers from across Europe, North and Latin America, and
 Asia, as well as delivering major international networking activities. This programme constitutes
 the largest global collaborative research initiative in the study of non-religion to date.

 Research outputs
 Since January 2014, members of staff within the Department have produced seven monographs,
 eight edited books, twelve journal articles, twenty-three book chapters, and two edited special
 journal issues. Lee’s monograph Recognizing the Non-Religious: Reimagining the Secular was
 shortlisted for the British Sociological Association’s Philip Abrams Memorial Prize in 2016, and
 Strhan’s Aliens and Strangers? The Struggle for Coherence in the Everyday Lives of Evangelicals
 was shortlisted for the BBC/British Sociological Association’s Thinking Allowed Ethnography
 Award in 2016. Two of the edited books represent particularly major interventions within our
 subject area. Richard King’s edited book, Religion, Theory, Critique (Columbia University Press,
 2017; 56 chapters), is one of the most extensive texts yet produced on the critical study of
 concepts of religion with contributions from world-leading scholars, including detailed
 consideration of postcolonial concepts and approaches. Yvonne Sherwood’s edited book, The
 Bible and Feminism: Remapping the Field (Oxford University Press, 2017; 37 chapters) is also a
 landmark volume, setting out the current state of the art in feminist biblical studies, again involving
 leading scholars from around the world.

 Invited keynotes and lectures
 In this REF period, staff within the Department have given over 60 keynote lectures and other
 invited presentations, demonstrating international recognition of their contribution to a range of
 sub-disciplines and research areas within the study of religion. These have included: Blanton’s
 keynote at the Vicissitudes of Pistis conference (Radboud University of Nijmegen, 2015); Blanton’s
 keynote at the Nordic Society for the Philosophy of Religion Conference (2017); Blanton’s keynote
 at the Phenomenology and Religious Existence conference (Oxford, 2016); Carrette’s keynote
 address at the 50th Anniversary Conference of the Alister Hardy Research Centre (Oxford, 2019);
 Carrette’s special paper for the Boston University Institute on Culture, Religion, and World Affairs
 (2017); Frazier’s plenary at the Logic and Religion conference (Warsaw, 2017); Lee’s keynote on
 non-religion and the law at an international conference convened by the Eurel and GOBA research
 networks (Oslo, 2018); Lee’s keynote at the International Conference of the Nonreligion and
 Secularity Research Network (London, 2018); Lee’s keynote at the 12th International Study of
 Religion in Eastern and Central Europe Association conference & European Sociological
 Association RN 34 (Sociology of Religion) mid-term conference (Zadar, Croatia, 2016); Lynch’s
 keynote at the British Sociological Association’s Socrel Annual Conference (Lancaster, 2015);
 Lynch’s plenary presentation at the Towards Transitional Justice international conference (Boston,
 MA, 2018); Sherwood’s keynote at the North American Association for the Study of Religion (San
 Diego, 2014); Sherwood’s keynote at the Society for Old Testament Study (Manchester, 2016);
 and Sherwood’s delivery of the prestigious Oxford University Speaker’s Lectures in Biblical
 Studies (Oxford, 2016);

 The impact of King’s book Orientalism and Religion on the study of religion was the subject of a
 panel at the annual American Academy of Religion meeting (San Diego, 2014). Lee’s book
 Recognizing the Non-Religious was the subject of a panel convened at the Association for the
 Sociology of Religion Annual Conference (Seattle, 2015). Strhan’s edited collection The
 Bloomsbury Reader in Religion and Childhood was the subject of a panel convened by the
 Childhood and Religion group at the annual American Academy of Religion meeting in 2016, and
 her monograph Aliens and Strangers was the subject of a reviewer-meets-reviewed event at the
 Royal Anthropological Institute in 2017.


                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff have also delivered invited international lectures and seminars at the universities of Alabama
 (King); Boston (Carrette); Columbia Theological Seminary, Atlanta (Sherwood); European
 University Institute, Florence (Lee); Frankfurt am Main (Lee); Ludwig Maximilians University,
 Munich (Blanton, Sherwood); Lutheran School of Theology (Blanton); Sodertorn (Lee); Uppsala
 (Lee); and Utrecht (Sherwood, Strhan).

 Editorial work and other professional contributions
 Lee is the editor of the journal Secularism and Nonreligion, published by Ubiquity Press. Staff
 have served on the editorial boards of the American Journal of Cultural Sociology, The Bible and
 Critical Theory, Biblical Interpretation, Foucault Studies, the Journal of Biblical Literature, the
 Journal of Hindu Studies, Religion and Society, the Journal of Beliefs and Values, Political
 Theology, Postscripts: Sacred Texts and Contemporary Worlds, Religion and Theology, and the
 Journal of Theory and Method in the Study of Religion. Deacy is co-editor for a proposed book
 series for T&T Clark on Contemporary Writers in Theology and Popular Culture. King is senior
 co-editor for the Studies in the History of Religions monograph series (Brill). Lee is series editor
 for De Gruyter’s Religion and Its Others: Studies in Religion, Nonreligion and Secularity
 monograph series.

 Both Carrette and Lynch served on the REF2014 sub-panel for Divinity, Theology and Religious
 Studies, and Lynch serves as chair of the sub-panel for Theology and Religious Studies for the
 current REF2021 exercise. In addition to serving as peer reviewers for the AHRC and British
 Academy, our staff have also acted as external reviewers for the John Templeton Foundation
 (Lee), Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research (Deacy, Lee), and the Austrian Science
 Fund and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Lynch). Blanton is
 Chair of the Social History of Modern Biblical Scholarship within the European Association of
 Biblical Studies. Deacy is on the Steering Committee of the Theology, Religion and Popular
 Culture Network. Lee is founding director of the Nonreligion and Secularity Research Network.

 Conferences and workshops
 In 2014, the Department organised and hosted the biennial International Media, Religion and
 Culture Conference, with keynote papers given by Kathryn Lofton (Yale) and Jonathan Walton
 (Harvard Divinity School). In 2015, the Department organised and hosted the British Association
 for the Study of Religions annual conference (in conjunction with the 50th anniversary booklet on
 50 years of Religion at Kent), with a keynote lecture delivered by Peter van der Veer (Max Planck
 Institute). In 2016, the Department convened and hosted the Futures of Biblical Studies
 conference, involving participants from the universities of Kent, Exeter, Sheffield, and St Mary’s
 Twickenham, with a keynote by David Clines (Sheffield). In 2018, the Department worked with
 Loren Wolfe (Columbia University Global Centre) to convene a conference on Sex After ’68 hosted
 at the University of Kent’s Paris School of Arts and Culture. In 2019, a major international
 conference presenting findings from the Understanding Unbelief programme was organised by
 the Department at the Vatican. The Department also organised and hosted a conference of the
 Theology, Religion and Popular Culture Network on ‘Play and Protest’.

 Public Engagement
 Staff in our Department have long-standing collaborative working partnerships with a wide range
 of external organisations undertaking key national and international work with a bearing on our
 subject area. These include Lee’s well-established partnerships with Humanists UK (formerly the
 British Humanist Association), as well as her project work on non-religious life-worlds with NatCen,
 the British Library, the RE Council, and RE Today. Carrette and Sherwood have worked closely
 with staff at Canterbury Cathedral. Lynch’s work over this REF cycle has involved extensive
 collaborations with the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse, the Scottish Child Abuse
 Inquiry, and the V&A Museum of Childhood, TrueTube, and the production company, 7digital.

 Led by Lee and the other project PIs, the Understanding Unbelief programme delivered the most
 substantial schedule of public engagement activities ever undertaken internationally to raise public

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and professional understanding of non-religious life-worlds. This has included commissioning films
 on forms of non-religion in different national contexts that have been shown across the world, a
 prize for the best journalistic coverage of aspects of non-religion (which has led to publications in
 a number of major newspapers and magazines), the commissioning of new educational materials
 for use with secondary-school students in the United Kingdom, the development of policy-relevant
 reports and infographics, and the production of a photographic exhibition on non-religious lives
 displayed at the Vatican.

 Our staff have also worked closely with the Religion and Media Centre to provide key insights on
 topical debates that have been of interest to media professionals. Staff members have undertaken
 extensive national and international media work, including discussing their research on BBC1 (Big
 Questions); BBC Radio 2 (Jeremy Vine Show); and BBC Radio 4 (PM Programme; In Our Time;
 Beyond Belief; Thinking Allowed; Sunday Programme; as well as other one-off programmes such
 as A Believer’s Guide to Atheism). Staff have also been interviewed for the national press in the
 UK and internationally, including for The Times, Independent, Sunday Express, and Kristeligt
 Daglbad.

 In 2014, a national Learning on Screen Award by the British Universities Film and Video Council
 was awarded for a film co-produced by Lynch on women’s experiences of Magdalene Laundries
 in Ireland. Two films co-produced by Lynch with the BAFTA award-winning educational charity,
 TrueTube, were also shortlisted for national religious broadcasting awards by the Sandford St
 Martin Trust. Deacy’s Nostalgia podcast series has to date received almost twenty thousand
 listens worldwide.




                                                                                              Page 13
