Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The Open University

 Unit of Assessment: C20: Social Work & Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Description of the Unit
 This Unit pursues internationally excellent, impactful and engaged research that transforms lives
 and promotes educational opportunities and social justice. We adopt a broad view of social work
 and social policy research as being policy relevant, capable of speaking to some of the most
 pressing social problems and challenges of contemporary life and of transforming and improving
 organisational practices.

 The Unit combines a wide range of disciplines and research topics which cohere around four
 signature areas of research: health, care and social welfare (HC&SW), crime and social harm
 (CSH), migration, borders and rights (MBR) and gender, intimacy and sexualities (GIS).
 There are two noteworthy synergies between each of these signature areas: an interest in
 marginalisation and disadvantage and an interest in gender, sex and sexualities. Researchers
 across the unit also share a commitment to public engagement and connectivity with research
 communities. We have substantial expertise in a wide range of qualitative methodological
 expertise – narrative analysis, life history analysis, discourse analysis, content analysis, thematic
 and grounded analysis – and a strong commitment to interdisciplinarity and participative and
 innovative methodologies.

 1.2 Research and Impact Aims since REF2014
 We explore the intended and unintended consequences of social policies as well as the lived
 experiences of individuals within social and public policy domains, nationally (within the UK) and
 internationally. We analyse the economic, social, political and ideological contexts of policies and
 social issues and how these contexts shape the lives of individuals or the experiences of
 communities or groups. Our research spans theoretical, theoretically informed, empirical and
 applied social science research that has relevance to matters of social work and social policy. Our
 aim is to produce research of the highest quality where public engagement and impact is
 embedded within the research process itself.

 We achieve these aims by having a wide disciplinary base (including social policy, criminology
 and zemiology, psychology, economics, and sociology), a commitment to interdisciplinarity and
 collaborative approaches and research structures that emphasize openness and porosity. Hence,
 the analysis of gender, whilst a cohering principle for the GIS signature area, nevertheless is a
 key component of research in CSH as well as HC&SW. Likewise, an interest in analysing sex and
 relationships in domains of health policy is fundamental to HC&SW and is also a key interest in
 the CSH & MBR research group. Moreover, regardless of the signature area, most of our research
 is interested in exploring the relevance of various aspects of social differentiation, inequalities,
 marginalisation, disadvantage, exclusion and poverty as they pertain to the topic of investigation.

 Our approach to public engagement, impact and connectivity with research communities, policy
 makers, government, international bodies, reform groups, service users and people with lived
 experience is distinctive among universities in the UK. We not only embed engagement, impact
 and connectivity into our research processes, we utilise the advantage of the institution’s unique
 digitally networked capacities (particularly through its partnership with the BBC and online learning



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 platforms like Open Learn) and its physical national presences in Belfast, Cardiff, Edinburgh and
 Milton Keynes (see Section 4 for more details).

 Assessment of achievement since REF2014
 Since REF2014, individuals in this unit have published: nearly 100 monographs and edited
 collections, more than 400 peer reviewed articles, 200+ research, government and policy reports
 and more than 300 chapters. In addition to the voluminous blogs our researchers have posted or
 hosted, we have also published more than 150 Open Learn courses, articles or modules
 underpinned by our expertise and research. This unit has also produced 5 ICS relating to youth
 violence, policing, sexualities and intimacy, migration and abortion in the UK context with a further
 17 in development.

 This submission is significantly different than previous submissions. The period since REF2014
 has been a time of energetic and strategic expansion of social policy research at the OU, with the
 effect that the unit is now three times the size of the REF2014 submission (57 FTE compared with
 REF2014 18.6 FTE). Researchers come from 6 departments located across three Schools and
 spanning two Faculties.

 Three factors produced step-change for this Unit:

    •   Firstly, the University made significant investments in research-led criminology curriculum
        (i.e., new single and joint honours UG programmes and PGT modules) which supported
        the appointment of 12 new criminology FTE).
    •   Secondly, an institutional level strategy to increase the number of UOA submissions to
        REF2021 became a driver for exploring new commonalities of interest in policy-relevant
        research with researchers who previously faced other UOAs (such as sociology).
    •   Finally, national government-driven changes to social work education and training had a
        significant impact on the OU and on social work staffing. This created new possibilities for
        rethinking the social policy research landscape at the OU.

 In 2016, the University agreed to a ‘broad church’ approach in defining social work and social
 policy research and as a result, the following were identified as aims specific for the enhancement
 and development of this Unit:

    •   To be proactive and interdisciplinary in our approach to impact and engagement. Detailed
        below, the success of these initiatives is evidenced by the breadth of subjects covered in
        our submitted ICS and in the range and diversity of engagement activities.
    •   To increase the quality of research outputs. To this end, University investment was
        provided for writing retreats and writing mentoring schemes were established across the
        unit for all members.

 Other generic research aims (such as increasing the level and diversity of research grant income
 and PGR numbers) were addressed through University level infrastructures (such as the Strategic
 Research Areas) and/or faculty, school and department level research, impact and engagement
 infrastructures (described in Section 2 and 3).

 Evaluation of strategies
 The stated aim in REF2014 was to build on the signature areas identified within Health, Care and
 Social Welfare and this aim was mostly met.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Health, Care and Social Welfare: Multidisciplinary research within this area builds on and
 expands the innovative and high-quality research submitted to REF2014. An emphasis on
 examining non-normative trajectories across the life-course continues to be a significant theme,
 underpinned by innovative methodologies with so-called ‘vulnerable’ or ‘hard-to-reach’
 populations. Researchers in this area investigate a range of issues including: ageing and later life
 (Deepak-Gopinath, Jones R., Vseteckova), care and caring (Copperman, De-Henau, Larkin,
 Samra) death, dying and end-of-life care (Borgstrom, Jordan, Jones K., Watts), spirituality and
 wellbeing (Mackian), reproductive loss (Murphy), suicide (Mallon) HIV, biomedicine and care
 (Keogh) sexual and reproductive health (Earle S., Waterhouse) contraception and abortion
 (Hoggart, Newton) learning disabilities and inclusion (Tilley), masculinities, youth and wellbeing
 (Robb), black women’s health and activism (Douglas), mental health (Rixon, Vicary), autism,
 ADHD and childhoods (O’Dell), teaching and learning in social work and social care (Leverett,
 Gray), global social policy and governance (Yeates) and youth social welfare and unemployment
 internationally(Fergusson, Yeates). Ongoing interdisciplinary research is being carried out on:
 menstruation and vernacular knowledge, bringing together sociology, social policy, folklore studies
 and ELT (Newton) as well as on ageing, inclusion and loneliness where gerontology and
 technology studies intersect (Marston), along with research that brings together psychology and
 health studies to explore stress/ burn out amongst health professionals (Samra), social care policy
 and heritage studies in an examination of mental capacity legislation in relation to public archives
 (Tilley), geography, theology and health studies to explore the role of spirituality in wellbeing
 (MacKian). Inclusive and participatory research with service users and people with lived
 experience underpins our impact and engagement work. One of the impact case studies submitted
 for REF2021 comes from work in this area (Hoggart, Newton).

 New to the Unit for REF2021 are the following signature research areas:

 Crime and Social Harm: The Open University is now home to several leading researchers
 working in the areas of social harm, zemiology and at the cross-roads between this and studies of
 justice, punishment and criminalisation. Research here represents the most significant critical
 mass of zemiological and (broadly) critical criminological work in the country. We explore a variety
 of social harms and justice related issues including: gendered and sex-based harms and justice
 (Canning, Downes, Boukli, Phoenix, Rowe, Westmarland), workplace, food safety and state
 and corporate harms more generally (Tombs), institutional violence (Cooper, Tombs), harms of
 housing policies, poverty, criminalisation and homelessness (Cooper, McCulloch), harm to non-
 human animals (Cole), youth violence, youth custody and youth justice (Fergusson, Irwin-
 Rogers, Earle R., Phoenix), prison and other forms of detention and punishment (Drake, Rowe,
 Scott, Speed), policing (Irwin-Rogers, Westmarland) and theoretical explorations of utopia,
 zemiology, abolitionism and convict criminology (Copson, Earle R., Scott). Interdisciplinary
 explorations have been conducted on post-conflict societies (Kent), social welfare and urban
 studies (Mooney), and connect criminal justice with cultural studies (Dimou). Methodologically,
 there is a strong emphasis on co-production and innovative and participatory research
 methodologies (Downes, McCulloch). Two of the five impact case studies submitted (ICS-4 and
 5) arise from work associated with this research area (Irwin-Rogers, Westmarland).

 Migration, Borders and Rights: There is a concentration of interdisciplinary research that
 explores, theorises and analyses borders, migration, conflict and global inequalities. Here
 research work focuses on various aspects of the race and migration nexus (Erel), refugees’
 solidarity structures (Dimou), experiences of refugees and technology (Gillespie), development
 and use of internal border control as racialised governance (Medien), healthcare worker

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruitment and migration within and across ‘rich’ and ‘poor’ worlds (Yeates) and the
 reconfiguration of global social governance of borders and rights in international development
 contexts (Yeates). ICS-2 emerges from work in this area (Gillespie, Erel).

 Gender, Intimacies and Sexualities: There is a concentration of research interest related to
 matters of gender, sexualities, relationships and intimacy. We explore gender, intimacies and
 sexualities across a range of different empirical settings including family lives and personal
 relationships (Gabb, Erel, Deepak-Gopinath, Keogh), the gendering of care among migrant
 mothers (Erel), in the labour market and in relation to fiscal and social policies (De-Haneu), the
 interconnectedness of humans and non-humans in new societies (Watson, Cole), gendered
 subjectivities of contemporary creative work and creativity (Taylor), and feminist theorizing of
 power, surveillance and governance (Medien). There are synergies with HC&SW that has
 produced gendered analyses of ageing (Deepak-Gopinath), sexuality in later life (Jones R.), how
 gay men manage their sexual, intimate and social lives (Keogh), analyses of social constructions
 of bisexuality (Jones R.), changing legislation and socio-cultural norms of lesbian and gay
 parenthood (Gabb), and the impact of families on the mental health and wellbeing of LGTBQ+
 young people (Gabb). Via the synergies with CSH researchers also theorise the links between
 discourses of sex, gender and sexualities and regulation and control (Phoenix, Boukli, Copson)
 and in specific criminal justice contexts, including sex trafficking (Boukli), prostitution and child
 sexual exploitation (Phoenix), prisons (Rowe), victimisation and victim services (Boukli), and in
 relation to welfare reforms (Cooper, McCulloch). ICS-1 emerged from work in this area (Gabb).

 1.3 Main Objectives Looking Forward
 Our main objectives are to consolidate and strengthen the new unit, its research and its
 engagement activities. We will continue carrying out high-quality, robust research that increases
 knowledge, transforms lives and promotes educational opportunities and social justice. Our
 agenda is driven by theoretical, methodological and substantive research questions. As Section 3
 describes, the unit operates within a polyvalent research infrastructure that facilitates organic as
 well as strategic growth. Our four signature areas are, and will continue to be, supported by the
 appropriate SRA and/or research collaborative (see Section 3). The main future objectives of each
 signature area are:

    •   Health, Care & Social Welfare – to investigate the intersections between theory, practice
        and lived experience in health and social care combined with an enduring commitment to
        innovative participative and inclusive research methodologies. Research here will continue
        to build on areas of established and extant expertise and do so in a way that is responsive
        to changing policies and social circumstances, taking account of the multiple scales of
        policy, practice and governance.
    •   Crime & Social Harm – to continue to expand our rigorous, critical, inter-disciplinary-
        based research on and around evidence, harm and crime, processes of non/criminalisation
        and alternatives; to further develop the emergent area of zemiology and zemiological
        approaches to social problems; to explore alternatives to criminal justice, to prioritise public
        engagement and knowledge transfer.
    •   Migration, Borders & Rights – to deepen understanding of the socio-cultural,
        technological, geographical and political ways that borders and boundaries are constructed
        between and within nation-state, ethnic and racialised groups and gendered groups of
        migrants and non-migrants, globally; to continue to combine academic rigour and dialogue
        with communities of practice and policy, as well as the communities affected; to establish
        further knowledge exchange, often through arts.


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Gender, Intimacies and Sexuality – to probe the public/private & macro/micro
        dimensions of citizenship and governance, illustrating how the personal is profoundly
        political; to bring together empirical investigation, methodological innovation and theorizing
        on intimate and sexual citizenship; to examine the intersections of sex, gender, sexuality
        and power.

    The Open University’s research strategy is scheduled for renewal in 2021. The identification
    of our priority developmental areas will necessarily be shaped by that renewal. However, the
    unit has already identified the following as key strategic priorities to feed into the institutional
    consultation:

    •   expanding PGR numbers through securing internal and external funding for studentships
    •   securing national and international funding for research and PGRs with the support of
        SRAs (see Section 3)
    •   strengthening and deepening our expertise in the areas identified above
    •   continuing to build research capacity across the unit through research-led appointments,
        especially where new curriculum is being developed
    •   continuing to prioritize impact and engagement work with ring-fenced budget to support
        that work and through the Faculty Impact Co-ordinators.

 1.4 An Open Research Environment
 We are committed to the University’s well-known mission to be ‘open to people, places, methods,
 and ideas’ and enact that accordingly. Many of our research projects – based on collaborative
 engagement with our communities and publics – are underpinned by the principle of shared
 knowledge production. Two examples here include: the co-production of Time to Think a unique
 oral archive which documents OU study in British and Irish prisons during the conflict in and about
 Northern Ireland (Kent); and the co-production of The Inclusive Archive of Learning Disability
 History (Tilley). Further examples are listed in Section 4 where we also provide information about
 how our research is disseminated at very large scale, both formally (through OU teaching), and
 informally, through the production of Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCS), Badged Open
 Courses (BOCS) and Open Learn (the University’s award-winning and free global learning
 platform), as well as through far-reaching public engagement in collaboration with the BBC and
 others. More practically, our research publications are available through the OU publications
 repository Open Research Online (ORO) and research data are made available through Open
 Research Data Online (ORDO).

 1.5 Research Integrity and Ethics
 The University is a member of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and its Code of
 Practice is underpinned by the ethical principles of inclusion and of respecting the diversity and
 values of individuals, groups and communities. We implement these principles within the Unit in a
 range of ways. For example, all new staff and research students receive briefings on good
 research practice and complete online training on research integrity and ethics. Mandatory training
 on issues relating to equality, diversity and inclusion is undertaken by all staff and post-graduate
 students, including Visiting Researchers and is refreshed periodically. All research projects
 undergo scrutiny by the University’s Human Research Ethics Committee (HREC). Westmarland
 was deputy chair then chair of HREC between 2014-2019. Some projects are also subject to
 Health Research Authority Research Ethics Service scrutiny including NHS and Social Care REC
 and Hospital R&D approvals.



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development
 The OU’s staffing strategy is to employ the best person for a role, providing development
 opportunities to enable them to develop within that role. Academic staff at the OU are appointed
 principally to contribute to departmental priorities in curriculum development, in addition to
 contributing to research. In the case of the latter, staff are encouraged to participate in the Unit’s
 rich research environment and substantial complementary programmes of research support are
 provided to enable all staff to contribute and achieve professional fulfilment.

 This submission consists of 58 Category A staff including 14 Lecturers; 30 Senior Lecturers; 11
 Professors; and 3 Research staff (Research Fellow/Senior Research Fellow) totalling 57 FTE.
 Included are five ECRs. This compares with a substantially smaller submission of 18.6 FTE in
 REF2014, when no ECRs were submitted.

 Twenty-five new academics have been appointed during this REF period reflecting considerable
 change within the University, particularly in relation to new curriculum. As such, this has enabled
 us to further enhance existing research, while bringing fresh expertise: Borgstrom (end-of-life),
 Deepak-Gopinath (later life), Jones K. (bereavement) Jordan (end-of-life), Keogh (sexualities),
 Larkin (care and caring), Marston (gerontechnology), Newton (reproduction), Samra
 (occupational health), Vseteckova (later life) and Waterhouse (health demography) in health and
 wellbeing; Downes (gender and sexuality); Boukli (victimology), Canning (border criminology),
 Cole (critical animal studies) Cooper (homelessness), Copson (utopianism), Dimou
 (decoloniality), Irwin-Rogers (youth justice), Kent (education and conflict transformation),
 McCulloch (homelessness), Median (power, surveillance and governance), Phoenix (criminal
 and social justice), Scott (penal abolitionism) and Speed (death and psychiatric detention) in
 crime and social harm. Eight people have also been promoted internally to Professor and seven
 to Senior Lecturer.

 In each Faculty, the Associate Deans for Research (ADR) have overall responsibility for research
 strategy including researcher development. Strategy is implemented at School and Department
 levels by the Associate Heads of School (AHoS). Annually all employees of the university take
 part in the University’s Career Development and Staff Appraisal (CDSA) process and have
 contractual entitlement to research and study leave (described in REF5a). As part of their CDSA
 academics complete a Research Development Plan (RDP). The RDP is developed and agreed in
 consultation with a senior researcher in the Faculty who acts as a critical friend, supporting the
 academic to reflect on what they want to achieve, and what development they might need to
 accomplish this.

 FASS and WELS provide researcher development programmes which complement the training
 and development provided by the University; some events are organised cross-Faculty (for
 example, writing retreats). Faculty development opportunities are tailored to the needs of
 individual academics and have included training on coaching and mentoring for researchers and
 impact training. Academics have access to a research mentoring programme which is organised
 within Schools and all academics are allocated a mentor on induction: the mentoring programme
 is suitable for all levels. Senior academics in the Unit support more junior colleagues in a range of
 ways and particularly through collaboration in the various research groups. Senior colleagues are
 expected to read the outputs of more junior researchers and joint authorship is also used as a
 means to support junior colleagues and research students. In addition, academics have
 opportunities to access both internal and external training opportunities; individuals and/or

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research groups can access ‘research support’ funding for this purpose. Other funding to support
 research activities is also available including funding for conferences and in FASS, academics
 have an annual personal research allowance of £500. We have paid particular attention to
 supporting academics that were not previously research active, particularly in WELS (where many
 staff have strong practice backgrounds) or are new to the academy (for example, the majority of
 new appointees in Criminology). We also focus on the career development needs of early career
 researchers and contract researchers (e.g., through more intensive mentoring); and, applications
 for bridging funding are usually supported institutionally.

 Academics within the Unit have participated in various leadership development programmes
 including AURORA (Advance HE’s women-only leadership development programme), as well as
 in the ASPIRE programme for people who self-identify as BAME or disabled.

 2.2 Support, Training and Supervision of PGR Students
 Our thriving multi-disciplinary research student cohort embodies our commitment to inclusion and
 diversity; they both enrich our research environment and benefit from it. Thirty-three students
 completed their doctoral studies in the submission period. In 2014 16.17 FTE research degrees
 were awarded and the REF sub-panel judged that one of the strongest aspects of our research
 environment related to PhD provision. We have continued to maintain the excellence of our
 provision in this regard and have made additional positive enhancements effective now and for
 the future.

 We now have three main routes into postgraduate research within the Unit and only the first of
 these was in place during the last assessment period.

 (a) A PhD programme, which is offered within both Faculties as either a 3-4-year on-campus
 route, or a 6–8-year part-time route.

 (b) Two Research Council Doctoral Training Programmes (DTP), the ‘Grand Union’ ESRC
 DTP in partnership with Brunel University London and Oxford University, and the ‘OOC’ AHRC
 DTP, in collaboration with the Universities of Oxford and Cambridge.

 (c) A new Professional Doctorate in Health and Social Care (DHSC) offered as a part-time (4-
 8 year) blended learning research degree in WELS.

 In both Faculties a Director of Postgraduate Studies (DPS) has overall responsibility and oversight
 for PGR students. They are line managed by the ADR in each Faculty and are members of the
 University’s Research Degrees Committee. Postgraduate Convenors (PGC) (Gillespie,
 Waterhouse, Yeates) also provide students with more localised and discipline-based support. In
 collaboration with the University’s Graduate School, the respective DPS and PGCs manage the
 whole PGR student journey from recruitment through to completion, and beyond. They are also
 responsible for the training and support of research supervisors, in collaboration with the Graduate
 School Director (O’Dell).

 An annual Open Day is held each year in October, providing potential applicants with information
 and support on studying for a postgraduate degree. Further information is available online to
 support candidates with their application for study. We recruit students within our areas of research
 excellence in line with Faculty and School research strategies.



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 All research students are supervised by two supervisors (occasionally three) to ensure that they
 have tailored supervision which provides appropriate substantive, disciplinary and methodological
 support in compliance with the University’s regulations and QAA expectations. Research
 supervisors are also required to complete the University’s online learning module ‘Introduction to
 Research Degrees Supervision’ (IRDS), while ongoing supervisor training and development is
 undertaken both at University and Faculty levels as part of continuous professional development.
 For example, Research Supervisor Practice Sharing Forums are organised by Faculties to enable
 a focus on discipline or practice-specific issues, complementing the more generic University
 training.

 Full-time PGRs have access to computers and office space and all students have access to annual
 research training allowances and an excellent online infrastructure including ICT support and our
 world-class library resources.

 (a) The PhD programme
 Each year, the WELS Faculty funds between 1-3 full-time PhD studentships as part of our
 established PhD programme. Students also join the programme on a self-funded basis including
 funding by employers (in both Faculties). All research students take part in a comprehensive
 induction at the start of their studies. The Graduate School provides core and mandatory training
 and Faculties provide discipline-based induction as well as pastoral support and training. Students
 also have access to further pastoral support via the University’s Employee Assistance
 Programme. There is an established and robust system of progress reporting and monitoring as
 described in REF5a.

 Ongoing training is provided by Faculties and the University: some training is unique to the
 programme, but other training is provided cross-programme or cross-University. Through the
 University’s Graduate School Network, all students have access to online and campus-based
 training modules benchmarked against research council expectations for PGR training, in addition
 to comprehensive research career development framed within Vitae’s Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers. Students within the Unit also make regular use of the
 University-led Professional and Academic Communication in English (PACE) training and writing
 circles; this training is available to all but provides additional support for individuals whose first
 language is not English. Each full-time PGR student has a Research Training Support Grant
 (RTSG) of £1000 per year for three years to support any additional training needs (PT students
 £500 per year). Students are supported to develop a wide range of skills throughout their studies
 (for example, media training). Both Faculties have a recently introduced teaching scheme whereby
 PGRs can contribute to teaching and the development of formal and informal learning. They can
 also take part in tutoring with The Brilliant Club, which supports local pupils from under-
 represented backgrounds to access University. The OU also has a new commercial 3-month
 internship programme (co-funded by Santander Universities) available to students who are in the
 middle of their studies or near to completion.

 All research students take an active role within their Departments, Schools and Faculties, for
 example through participation in research seminars, competitions and through membership of
 research groups. These activities support student development and training as well as contributing
 to the overall research environment (students are required to give an oral presentation as part of
 the upgrade process). Students are also encouraged to organise their own student-led seminars
 and workshops and have often been successful in securing funding for such activities (e.g., from
 the BSA Support Fund).


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (b) Research Council DTPs
 The Open University is also part of two Research Council DTPs. The ‘Grand Union’ ESRC DTP
 unites the OU with Brunel University London and the University of Oxford, providing 35 ESRC
 studentships per year between 2017 and 2022. Staff within the Unit are involved in two of the five
 DTP clusters: Society and Wellbeing, and Rights and Freedoms. Within these clusters, we are
 involved in two of the nine pathways: Citizenship Studies (led by the OU) and Health & Wellbeing
 (led by Brunel). Both of these pathways have successfully recruited between two-three students
 per year since 2017. Going forward these will contribute four PGR completions per year from
 2020-21 onwards. The ‘OOC’ AHRC DTP which unites the OU with the Universities of Oxford and
 Cambridge registered its first students in 2019.

 DTP students are able to access a rich programme of activities which supplement that which is
 available to OU students on the already established PhD programme, including an annual DTP
 induction programme and an end-of-year conference. Within both DTPs OU students are able to
 access all of the Research Council DTP training at Brunel University London and the Universities
 of Oxford and Cambridge. Training days that are hosted at the OU are opened up to other non-
 DTP OU research students thus also enriching their experience. DTP students have access to the
 same RTSG but can also access other funding such as overseas fieldwork expenses, an incubator
 fund and funding to undertake knowledge exchange placements or internships.

 (c) Professional doctorate programme
 The DHSC is a new programme of study with a focus on valuing professional practice and
 engaging in applied research. It is designed to enable students to make a unique and original
 contribution to their profession, while continuing to work and progress professionally. It is a flexible
 part-time degree, recruiting 20 students per year to four pathways: Care & Advocacy, Nursing,
 Leadership in Health & Social Care, and Social Work & Social Care.

 The DHSC is an innovative programme designed both for health and social care professionals
 (including registrants) that work in public, voluntary and private sectors but it is also open to people
 who work as either formal or informal carers including ‘experts by experience’, ‘expert patients’
 and advocates. Students on the DHSC programme study together with students who are enrolled
 in other Professional Doctorates and are supported via a blended programme of online supported
 distance learning, in combination with compulsory intensive residential weekends. Students have
 access to a wide range of stimulating teaching and learning opportunities including online
 materials, guided discussions with research experts in their field and advanced research methods
 workshops. Applicants can register for the DHSC from anywhere in the world although supervision
 is UK-based. The first cohort of students on this programme will graduate in 2022/23, contributing
 very positively to our future PGR environment.

 2.3 Supporting and Promoting Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 A commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion is central to the University’s mission to be open
 to people, places, methods and ideas and is core to our academic endeavour. An Equality Scheme
 was introduced in 2018 and since then every Faculty has appointed an Equalities Lead (Downes
 and Samra) who is responsible for coordinating an annual Equality Action Plan. These plans set
 out annual objectives which are regularly monitored; they encompass a range of measures but
 include staff and student recruitment, staff development, and academic promotion.

 Our commitment to the principles of equality begins with the recruitment process for all academic
 and research staff and research students which, through interview and selection procedures,
 establishes the commitment of candidates to promoting equality, diversity and inclusion.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment panel chairs and panel members are all required to undertake equality and diversity
 training which is available through the University’s state-of-the-art online learning centre. In the
 event of long-term absence from work or study due to reasons such as sickness absence or
 parental leave, staff and research students are able to use ‘Keeping in Touch’ (KIT) days and,
 following their return, would have a ‘return to work/study’ interview which is a supportive
 conversation to make sure that the right support is in place. Staff and students would also
 commonly have a ‘phased’ return.

 The diversity of our postgraduate student community also strongly reflects our commitment to
 equality, diversity and inclusion. In comparison to sector norms, we have proportionately higher
 numbers of PGRs who study part time (39%), are over the age of 25 (97%) or have a declared
 disability (15%). Students with additional needs have access to extra support including the
 University’s Mental Health and Disability Processes Adviser. This diverse population is not only a
 testament to our strong inclusive culture and our reputation for openness and equality but reflects
 our commitment to investment in capacity building for students with lived experience to become
 the social researchers of the future.

 Our processes for staff development and support exemplify our commitment to equality, diversity
 and inclusion. The University is genuinely supportive of flexible and remote working. Given the
 nature of OU teaching, the majority of staff within the Unit work flexibly but there are also formal
 systems in place whereby staff can request to change their work mode (e.g. part-time working, job
 sharing and compressed hours) on either a temporary or fixed-term basis. Staff are also
 encouraged to take part in a variety of leadership mentoring programmes. For example,
 approximately 20% of staff within the Unit have participated in AURORA as both mentors and
 mentees, as well as in the ASPIRE programme. In this assessment period, all of the staff promoted
 to Professor have been women.

 The University has a vibrant community of self-organised staff diversity networks. The networks
 assist staff with career development but also play a role in providing subject-matter expertise for
 consultation on equality, diversity and inclusion issues. Staff within the Unit play a very active role
 in these, especially in the Care and Caring, BAME and LGBT+ networks. The Care and Caring
 Network @ OU is a staff network which promotes carers’ rights and offers advice and guidance in
 carer-related development. This network was a finalist in the Staff Experience category of the
 Guardian University Awards 2020. It was established by Larkin, drawing on her research
 expertise in caring and supported by an NIHR SSCR grant (2016-17) awarded to establish a carer-
 related knowledge exchange network (CAREN). Douglas is a leading member of the BAME
 network which has strong links to the Black Women’s Health & Wellbeing Research Network
 hosted in WELS. The BAME network has been instrumental in establishing the Race and Ethnicity
 Hub on The Open University’s free learning site, Open Learn. Inspired by the debates and actions
 of BLM, it was launched in 2020, to offer insight, thought-leadership and up-to-date reactions to
 current affairs. Boukli and Gabb are active members of the LGBT+ network and have been
 responsible for the development of a gender and sexualities hub on Open Learn. Looking forward,
 a LGBT hub is being developed for an anticipated launch in 2021. Gillespie also leads the
 University’s application to become a recognised University of Sanctuary, securing a sustainable
 commitment to funding scholarships and to producing free online, open access resources for
 asylum-seekers and refugees.

 The University has a strong commitment to equality, diversity and inclusion but this is further
 enhanced by bespoke programmes of activity within the Faculties. For example, the
 ‘Wellbeing@WELS’/’Wellbeing@FASS’ programmes raise awareness of mental health issues

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 within Faculties, complementing University-led initiatives that promote wellbeing, such as the
 Wellbeing+ service (an employee assistance programme). These bespoke Faculty programmes
 are open to all staff and students. In FASS a new initiative on identifying and reducing barriers to
 BAME participation in research has also been adopted. The initiative provides guidance to
 researchers on how to avoid barriers to participation for marginalised ethnicities and other
 disadvantaged groups. It focuses on consideration of both majority and minority ethnicities,
 intersectional inequalities, as well as the different contexts of research (UK, Europe, Global
 South) in response to the Rethinking Research Collaborative’s recommendations to the UKRI,
 which focuses on fair and equitable research partnerships.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Our strategy for securing research income is guided by a commitment to research that is multi-
 disciplinary, theoretical, theoretically informed, empirical and applied. We maintain a balanced
 portfolio of research funding that reflects these aims. Our approach is also driven by a strong,
 long-term commitment to research that addresses the everyday lives of communities and
 individuals that experience intersecting and cumulative disadvantage, marginalisation and
 exclusion. As detailed in REF5a, the University, through its Research, Enterprise and Scholarship
 Unit (RES), has a robust infrastructure for supporting research and research impact activities.

 In this REF period, total grant income was c. £4.5 million. Research funding came from: UKRI
 (65%), UK-based charities (6%), UK central government (9%), UK central government NIHR (8%),
 UK industry (3%), EU government (6%), EU-based charities/other (2%) and non-EU-based
 charities/other (1%). Of note is a proportionate increase in UK government funding, particularly
 NIHR. This compares to income of just over £1m in REF 2014. Between 2008 and 2014 there had
 been a decline in research income within the Unit which, by 2013/14 had already shown signs of
 recovery. This positive trend has continued, reflecting our success in implementing our research
 strategy.

 We have sought to maximise external funding within the PhD and DTP programmes, and this has
 been effective although challenging in a period of austerity. We have secured co-funding from
 Relate (2012-15), Willen Hospice (2017-21), Public Health England (2018-22), Western Sussex
 Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (2020-24) and income in-kind from Beyond Words (2019-22).

 3.2 Organisation and Support for Research
 The University has made significant investment in research during this assessment period,
 particularly in initiatives that support collaboration across the University and externally and
 especially in interdisciplinary research. Investment has been made in five University Strategic
 Research Areas (SRA), two of which contribute to this Unit: the Citizenship & Governance and
 Health & Wellbeing SRAs. The Citizenship & Governance SRA is led by an SRA Director, an
 Associate Director (Gabb) who spend 20% of her time in this role and several research leads
 (Boukli, Erel, Gabb). The Health & Wellbeing SRA is led by the SRA Director (Earle S.) who
 spends 40% of her time on this, supported by additional investment of one Research Fellow
 (Marston) and a University Research Board with cross-discipline representation. Both SRAs have
 received additional investment for research administrator posts. The SRAs support several pan-
 University Special Interest Groups the majority of which contribute to this submission. The SRAs
 use strategic investment to create a collaborative interdisciplinary research environment within the
 University facilitating external grant income through initiatives such as ‘Research Sandpits’
 ‘Bidding for Funding Factories’ and networking events with key stakeholders. The Harm &
 Evidence Research Collaborative (HERC), located in FASS, is a multidisciplinary cross-Faculty

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiative currently led by McCulloch. HERC is a unique initiative that seeks to unite contemporary
 practice-based research with critical policy analysis. It runs an interdisciplinary programme of
 events, hosts seminars and runs conferences, and has a vibrant blog series.

 Faculties receive an allocation of QR funding from the University to support research. This is used
 to manage the cost of Faculty and School research infrastructures, including administrative
 support, researcher development and pump-priming. In this assessment period the Faculties have
 invested in two new full-time Senior/Research Fellows (Newton (permanent), Jordan (fixed
 term)). Each Faculty has a research support team (RST), led by the ADR, which co-ordinates
 research within Faculties and across Schools and Departments but providing more localised and
 discipline-based support. RSTs provide administrative support to academic and research staff,
 providing a range of pre- and post-award services including targeted horizon scanning, support
 with pricing and costing of grants, budget management and monitoring. RSTs are also responsible
 for organising the peer-review of research grant applications prior to submission; each grant is
 reviewed by one or two reviewers (depending on the size and complexity of the grant) providing
 either substantive and/or methodological, or funder expertise.

 Under the leadership of the ADRs and AHoS, Faculties each provide a comprehensive programme
 of research activities that support external grant income capture (and research impact). Within
 Schools, the AHoS organise activities such as research proposal clinics and bidding workshops
 that complement other staff development activities. Unsuccessful grants are reviewed by RSTs
 with a view to supporting the applicant with potential resubmission. Regular ‘Bidding for Funding’
 workshops are held and designed, in particular, to support more junior staff. Each School also has
 a ring-fenced budget specifically available to support activities that help generate external
 research income. The type of activities supported include seed-funding to develop small projects
 that enable staff to leverage larger grants and (in HC&SW) the funding of proof-of-concept studies.
 Research bidding is also included in individual RDPs and is discussed with line managers as part
 of CDSA.

 These formal activities are in addition to the more informal day-to-day mentoring, support and
 collegiality that is found within research groups where more senior colleagues work alongside
 junior colleagues in the development of research proposals.

 3.3 Supporting Research Impact
 The approach we take to generating research income is directly entwined with our strategy for
 research impact. We highly value research that promotes social justice through critical enquiry
 and engagement with the lived experiences of individuals and communities. We have a robust
 infrastructure to support and develop research impact at Faculty level, which complements the
 support provided by the University. We have made significant investments and support research
 impact within the Unit in three key ways.

 (1) Our preparations for REF2014 promoted a more pro-active and interdisciplinary approach
 to impact activities than had previously been the case and we have continued to develop this.
 Two strategic initiatives, in particular, have strengthened our ability to be more pro-active.

 First, the reconfiguration of research with social work and social policy within the University. As
 part of this change, we appointed two academic Impact Co-ordinators (one in each Faculty) who
 work collaboratively within the Unit; each Impact Co-ordinator spends 20% of their time on this.
 The Impact Co-ordinators work with staff on a 1:1 basis to develop research impact but also
 regularly organise cross-Faculty research impact workshops to support the development of impact

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through the research life cycle, from proposal stage through to the generation of impact based on
 existing research findings and recommendations.

 Second, the establishment of the SRAs. The Health & Wellbeing SRA, for example, has
 established an ‘impact buddying’ system which encourages collaboration between researchers
 across the OU particularly in relation to strengthening stakeholder engagement with patients,
 service users, carers and other publics including policy makers, professionals and practitioners.
 The SRAs have also organised impact workshops and other activities within their substantive
 interdisciplinary areas of interest.

 The Impact Co-ordinators drive our research impact agenda, supported by the provision of a ring-
 fenced budget for impact and public engagement activities and staff development. Within the
 SRAs budget is also set aside for activities that develop and support impact. Further pump-priming
 funding is also periodically made available via central institutional budgets for additional impact
 work or special projects.

 (2) We continue to support inclusive and participatory forms of research that enable key
 stakeholders to contribute to and inform our research agenda. We have a long history of this within
 the Unit as showcased in REF2014 and RAE2008 submissions. Selected examples within this
 submission include: (i) The ‘Salvage Research Project’ (Downes), which created knowledge about
 the lived experience of harm, violence and abuse in radical activist communities in the United
 Kingdom using participatory action research; (ii) McCulloch’s work on visual methodologies and
 ‘marginalised’ populations; (iii) The establishment of an inclusive UK/Japan network on learning
 disability and belonging involving teams of academics, people with learning disabilities and family
 carers (Tilley); (iv) Yeates’ PRARI project where academics work with civil society groups,
 government departments and regional secretariat across 15 countries in southern Africa. (See
 ICS-2 on migrants’ rights).

 (3) We seek to build long-term strategic partnerships that facilitate research impact especially
 through the fostering of cross-sector alliances and research hubs. Examples of these include: (i)
 the Black Women’s Health & Wellbeing Research Network (Douglas) (see Section 2.3) (ii) the
 Carer Research and Knowledge Exchange Network (CAREN) (Larkin), (see Section 2.3) (iii) the
 Harm and Evidence Research Collaborative (HERC) (McCulloch), which has advanced public
 understanding crime and criminal justice through a partnership with the Centre for Crime and
 Justice Studies (2010-2020).

 3.4 Research Infrastructure
 The strategic research areas and research collaborative form a key component of our research
 infrastructure allowing both discipline-based, multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research to
 thrive. Participation in these groups is fluid and staff are often aligned to one (or more) of these
 groups. They also form a vital part of our infrastructure for income-generation, as detailed below.

 Citizenship & Governance SRA
 The Citizenship & Governance SRA provides the framework for research that focuses on the
 changing relationships between governance, institutions and citizens. Our research excellence in
 globalist social policy conceptions of Migration, Borders and Rights has been further developed
 by Yeates through a Canadian Institutes for Health Research grant on health worker migration
 and recruitment (2012-13) and an ESRC/DfID Joint Fund grant on world-regional governance of
 health-related poverty reduction (2014-15). Erel’s work centres on how gender, migration and
 ethnicity inform practices of citizenship, funded by AHRC (2013-15) and ESRC (2016-18).

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gillespie has secured numerous research grants to continue her work in the areas of migration
 and media, cultures of diplomacy, and security and citizenship. Collaborative research on Syrian
 refugees and smartphones has supported the creation of a new digital service for refugees by
 international broadcasters (European Commission 2016-18). Gillespie has also secured several
 other grants to develop innovative methods for cultural research in partnership with the British
 Council (for example, AHRC, 2013-14; British Council, 2016-19). This research by Erel and
 Gillespie underpins the case study on research with refugees. Watson’s long-standing expertise
 in markets as sites of public space and social interaction has been extended through a HERA-
 funded international project on moving marketplaces (2018-20). She has also continued to
 develop her expertise in the relationship between individuals and their environment and the
 governmental and regulatory practices that surround them through a research project on city water
 (Thames Water, 2014-15).

 Emphasis on issues relating to intimacy and relationships have extended the research within the
 SRA. Building on her research (ESRC, 2011-2014) on adult couple relationships Gabb continues
 to explore the application of this to the development of sex and relationship tools. The findings
 from this work inform ICS-1 on couple relationships and a new project on sex and relationship
 tools will extend this work in the future (Wellcome, 2020-22).

 Harm and Evidence Research Collaborative (HERC)
 The signature theme of crime and social harm is focused on the research of the multi-disciplinary
 and cross-Faculty research group, the Harm and Evidence Research Collaborative (HERC).
 Tombs’ Leverhulme Leadership Fellowship (2013-14) explored social protection through
 exploring the dynamics of local authority enforcement against business. Canning secured an
 ESRC Future Research Leaders award (2016-18) on gendered experiences of social harm in
 asylum. Contributing to the theme of gendered harms, Downes has also contributed to the
 expertise in this area through a participatory action research project funded by the Feminist
 Review Trust (2016-17) on lived experiences of harm, violence and abuse in radical activist
 communities in the UK. In addition to his work on homelessness and crime, McCulloch’s research
 also contributes to the Unit’s expertise on innovative research methods. His ESRC NCRM award
 (2017-19) on participatory visual methods focuses on the concept of ‘giving voice’ and the
 understandings of these ‘voices’ by various audiences, including advocacy groups and
 practitioners. Participatory methods were also used by Earle R. in his evaluation project on the
 development of services for young people in custody (Howard League Youth Participation, 2016-
 18). He has also received funding for an ethnographic study on the perspectives of men defined
 as convict criminologists (ISRF, 2016-17).

 A new project ‘What worked? Policy Mobility and the Public Health Approach to Youth Violence’
 awarded to Irwin-Rogers in collaboration with The London School of Economics and The
 University of Edinburgh will continue to extend research within HERC (ESRC, 2020-22).

 Health & Wellbeing SRA
 Research within this SRA focuses on (non)normative trajectories across the lifecourse
 underpinned by the innovative and participative research methodologies highlighted in the
 REF2014 submission. Our agenda-setting research on age and ageing continues to be extended
 by new staff including Deepak-Gopinath who has been awarded a British Academy grant on
 ‘coupledom’ and the impact of separate living in later life (2017-19). O’Dell has received funding
 to support her research on children and families who are in some way ‘different’ including a British
 Academy (2017) grant on young women and girls with ADHD. She was also funded by Leverhulme
 (2014-2017) for an international interdisciplinary critical autism network and by the Family Rights

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Group to explore the impact of child protection on families (2014-15). Robb collaborated with the
 charity Action for Children on a project exploring the role of male role models in the lives of young
 men who use welfare services (ESRC, 2013-15). He was also funded by the charity Promundo to
 explore young men’s views of masculinity and wellbeing (2016-17). Participatory and collaborative
 research with people with learning disabilities continues to be a central feature of research on
 health and wellbeing. Earle S. and Tilley received funding from Open Society Foundations (2014-
 15) for inclusive research on contraceptive decision-making by women with learning disabilities.
 They have also carried out research on service delivery and commissioning including projects
 funded by MacIntyre Care (2013-14; 2014-15) and The Home Farm Trust (2014). Tilley was
 funded by AHRC (2014-17) to develop a co-produced, inclusive archive of learning disability
 history in collaboration with the Rix Centre at the University of East London and the University of
 Leeds. Tilley has also been involved in leading a number of ESRC-funded research networks and
 seminars including a research seminar series on the methodological challenges of inclusive
 research (2013-14) and a UK/Japan inclusive network on ‘belonging’ and intellectual disability
 (2019-20). Research on death, dying and bereavement continues to examine the intersection
 between theory and practice. Borgstrom collaborates with LSHTM on the ‘forms of care’ project,
 a three-year ethnographic study on palliative care (ESRC, 2017-21). MacKian’s SpELS project,
 funded by AHRC (2014-2016) has extended our work beyond the focus on end-of-life and palliative
 care with its focus on spirit and spiritual awareness. Research on reproductive and sexual health
 has especially flourished within the submission period. Earle S. received the unit’s first NIHR
 award (2014-2016) for her research on women’s experiences of pre-conception care policy and
 practice. She also received funding from Together for Short Lives (2018-2020) to develop
 evidence-based, inclusive open educational resources on sex and intimacy for young people with
 life-limiting conditions. Research on sexualities has been extended by Keogh who has received
 NIHR funding (2018-2020) on the integration of health care for adults who identify as trans.
 Hoggart and Newton have been funded for their work on abortion policy and politics (Bayer, 2014-
 16; 2017-18 and Marie-Stopes International, 2014-2016). In collaboration with the University of
 Oxford, they have also received funding from the ESRC for a programme of knowledge exchange
 activities which extend this work further. Hoggart has secured funding from DfID (2019-23) for a
 project using participatory, people-centred approaches to respond to international sexual and
 reproductive health and rights priorities. Newton has also recently received an AHRC early career
 grant (2020-21) which adopts innovative participatory research on the role of vernacular
 knowledge in women’s’ contraceptive decision-making in partnership with Public Health England
 and The Folklore Society. The research by Hoggart and Newton underpin ICS-3 on abortion
 stories.

 New projects in health and wellbeing include a NIHR-funded grant with University of Oxford on
 ‘Improving the support for older people with learning disabilities and behaviours that challenge’
 (Tilley, Larkin, Vseteckova, 2020-22); a Wellcome Trust award on experiences of abortion during
 COVID-19 (Newton, 2020-21); and a collaborative project on the impact of participation in the arts
 for families with disabled children with Milton Keynes Gallery (O’Dell, Rixon, 2020-21).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Forging collaborations, networks and partnerships with a diverse range of publics, stakeholders
 and constituencies has been central to our research and impact strategies and will remain so in
 the future. Our collaborations are framed within The Open University’s social justice and public
 education missions, the breadth of our global reach and the networks facilitated through the
 national centres.


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.1 National and International Collaborations
 Our collaborations are research and engagement driven and supported through departmental and
 Faculty policies, strategic investment, as well as the University’s mission. This open environment
 has proved effective in that researchers within the Unit are partners in a wide range of national
 and international, academic and non-academic collaborations. Selected formal collaborations (i.e.
 visiting positions and/or work on collaborative funded projects) are detailed below. Our unit also
 has other informal collaborations with 90+ leading UK and international universities.

 Selected formal International and National Academic Collaborations:

 Visiting Positions – University of Glasgow (Borgstrom); Teesside University, King’s College
 London, Oxford Brookes (Boukli); Auckland University of Technology, Law School, New Zealand
 (Boukli); Academic Advisory Group, Social and Policy Sciences, University of Bristol
 (Fergusson); Flinders University (Gabb); Örebro University, Sweden (Gabb); University of
 Verona, Italy (Gabb); Cardiff University and Glyndwr University (Green); Public Health England
 (Hoggart, Newton); London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (Keogh); Centre for British
 Studies, Humboldt University Berlin (Mooney); Queensland University of Technology (Phoenix);
 University of Toronto, (Phoenix, Scott); University of Padua, Italy (Scott); University of Turku
 (Tombs); Monash University, Australia (Tombs); Max Planck Institute, Germany (Watson);
 Centro de Estudios Nacionles de Desarrollo Alternativo, Santiago, Chile (Yeates).

 Funded Collaborations – Greenwich University and UCC Ireland (Erel); collaborative research
 centre Global Dynamics of Social Policy, University of Bremen (Fergusson, Yeates); UCL and
 Cardiff Universities (Gabb); Flinders University, Boise University and Florida State University
 (Gabb); Universities of Uppsala, Virginia Tech, Polish Academy Sciences (Gabb); University of
 Southern Queensland Australia, Rosqvist Umea University Sweden, University of Ottawa Canada,
 State University of Rio de Janeiro Brazil (O’Dell); Memorial University Newfoundland, Canada
 (Phoenix), University of Toronto (Phoenix), Istituto Affari Internazionali, Napoli, Italy, Durham
 University and Teesside University (Phoenix); Tenri University Japan, University of Oxford
 (Tilley); University of Adelaide (Taylor), University of Lingnan, Hong Kong, Balsillie School of
 International Affairs, Waterloo, Ontario, University of Johannesburg, South Africa and University
 College Cork (Yeates).

 Researchers in the Unit collaborate with a tremendous variety of non-academic bodies, as the five
 ICS bear witness. Below is a selected list of the more significant formal collaborations.

 Selected formal non-academic collaborations
 Consortium with International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF), London School of Hygiene
 and Tropical Medicine (LSHTM), International HIV/AIDS Alliance (Alliance), Women’s Refugee
 Commission (WRC), and Internews Europe (Internews) (Hoggart, Academic Director), Howard
 League for Penal Reform, Research Advisory Group (Irwin-Rogers, Phoenix), STAGE Women
 Influencers Group (Phoenix), Wellcome Trust, Relate, Brook, One Plus One (Gabb), International
 Conference on Penal Abolition (Scott), Reclaim Justice / Abolitionist Futures (Scott), Youth
 Violence Commission (Irwin-Rogers, Academic Lead); Victim Support Scotland, Aberdeen,
 Liverpool, HESTIA (Boukli), Welsh Government (Green), Career Wales (Green), Carers Wales
 (Fergusson); FLACSO (Argentina), SAIIA (South Africa), UNU-CRIS (Belgium), SADC
 (Botswana), Health Systems Trust (South Africa), UNRISD (Geneva), WHO, People’s Health
 Movement, ILO, UN Women, OECD + 15 governments worldwide and the World Bank (Yeates),
 Centre for Crime and Justice Studies (Phoenix, Trustee); Griffins Society (Phoenix); INQUEST
 (Tombs, Trustee), Hazards and Institute of Employment Rights (Tombs), NICE (Vice Chair for

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 committee transitions between hospital and community care (Vicary), the International Stillbirth
 Alliance Bereavement Working Group (Jones, K.) Larkin is the carer research and evidence lead
 on numerous government committees including the Ministerial COVID-19 Adult Social Care
 Taskforce (2020), the NHS England Commitment to Carers Oversight Group (2017-), the NICE
 Guideline Committee on provision of support for adult carers (2017-), and the cross-Government
 Independent Advisory Group on Carers (2016-17), Dementia Voices (Tilley).

 4.2 Collaborations with the BBC and Open Learn
 The research and expertise of many of the academics in this unit have underpinned a range of
 public engagement activities including documentaries, podcasts and Open Learn materials.
 Selected highlights include:

    •   Exodus: Our Journey to Europe (Gillespie, Erel, winner of 8 awards, including BAFTA
        best factual series)
    •   Psychosis and Me (Vicary, winner of Mind Media Awards, Speaking Out Category (2019)
        and nominated for Learning on Screen, Educational Film)
    •   Drugsland (Earle, R. nominated for BAFTA Television Awards, Best Factual Series and
        Best Director, 2018)
    •   Hospital, Series 1 & 2 (Samra, winner of 4 awards and shortlisted for 2 more including a
        BAFTA, Best Factual Series in 2018)
    •   The Fires That Foretold Grenfell (Tombs, winner of Learning on Screen Broadcast 2019
        and Royal Television Society Journalism, Current Affairs (Home) 2019)
    •   Why Slavery? (Boukli, nominated for two awards)

 Selected other collaborations with the BBC include:

    •   Documentaries: Ed Balls: Travel in Euroland (Phoenix); Child of Our Time (Gray), A Time
        to Live (Jones K.), Protecting Our Parents (Vicary), People’s History of LGBTQ+ Britain
        (Gabb)
    •   BBC Ideas: Alternatives to Nature (Dimou), What would a world without prisons be like?
        (Scott and Drake) How I went from prisoner to PhD (McCulloch)
    •   Regular appearances of our academics on Radio 4 Thinking Allowed (Westmarland,
        Watson are the academic consultants for this programme) and All in the Mind
        (Vseteckova)
    •   Open Learn: of the 184 currently available courses, MOOCs and BOCs on Open Learn,
        researchers in this unit are responsible for in excess of 40 of them, including two social
        work courses that between them had in excess of 50K visits in 2019-2020 alone.

 4.3 Engaged Research and Enterprise
 University and Faculty strategies for impact, engagement and enterprise stress the
 interconnectedness of these activities with research. To that end, the approach we take to
 generating research income is directly entwined with our strategy for research impact. We have a
 robust infrastructure to support and develop research impact at Faculty level, which complements
 the support provided by the University (see Section 3). We have made significant investments and
 support research impact within the Unit through: a pro-active and interdisciplinary approach to
 impact activities facilitated by academic Impact Co-ordinators and through support from SRAs
 (see Section 3)’; supporting inclusive and participatory forms of research that enable key
 stakeholders to contribute to and set our research agenda; and building long-term strategic



                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships that facilitate research impact especially through the fostering of cross-sector
 alliances and research hubs.

 Selected evidence demonstrating success of this approach:

 •      Social History of Learning Disabilities Group (Tilley), established in 1994, is well known
        for its inclusive conferences and co-publishing with people with lived experience and
        service users. Its highly participatory approach is exemplified by the employment of the
        first learning disabled person on an RA contract as part of an AHRC-funded (2014-17)
        project on inclusive archives.
 •      The establishment of an inclusive UK/Japan network on learning disability and belonging
        involving teams of academics, people with learning disabilities and family carers, funded
        by ESRC (2019-20).
 •      The Sexuality Alliance (Earle S.), established in 2013, which is a multi-sectoral
        collaboration promoting sexual citizenship and rights for young people with life-limiting or
        life-threatening conditions (LLTCs).
 •      The Black Women’s Health & Wellbeing Research Network (Douglas) which promotes the
        health and wellbeing of black women through research and knowledge exchange in the
        UK, North, South, Middle America and Caribbean. Since 2011, annual Network seminars
        bring together participants from health, local authority and the voluntary sectors with
        researchers.
 •      The Carer Research and Knowledge Exchange Network (CAREN) (Larkin), a global
        initiative which brings together key stakeholders in knowledge exchange and research on
        care and caring.
 •      Strategic leverage of Higher Education Innovation Funding (HEIF) has further enabled
        engaged research within health and wellbeing. For example, Earle S. established the
        Sexuality Alliance, a multi-sectoral, multi-professional and inclusive network that has gone
        on to develop standards and guidance on sex and relationships for the young adult
        palliative care sector which has changed policy and practice. This led to follow-on work
        funded by the charity Together for Short Lives (2018-2020). Newton has received HEIF
        and subsequently Wellcome Trust funding to explore ‘Experiences of Abortion During
        Covid-19’ (2020).
 •      The provision of expert reviews, witness statements for national Courts, governmental
        departments and national reviews as well as specialist advisors on national level
        committees: for instance Scott, McCulloch and Phoenix have acted as expert witnesses
        to the High Court; Tombs has provided expert input to Manifesto for Labour Law for
        McDonnell/Labour Party Regulatory Reform and into the Committee inquiry into the
        Government's deregulation agenda; Vicary sits as specialist advisor on NICE’s Quality
        Advisory Committee; Tilley supported the co-production of the DEEP Ethics Gold
        Standards in dementia research; Phoenix provided expert evidence to Danish Parliament,
        Folketing, Copenhagen and expert report reviewing for the Independent Inquiry into Child
        Sexual Abuse, National Society for the Prevention of Cruelty, the Home Office; Erel and
        Gillespie have given evidence in the House of Commons and worked on arts-based
        methods with leading UK race equality charities such as Runnymede Trust.
 •      Collaborations with a diverse range of NGOs and charities in the areas of homeless and
        housing (Cooper), relationships support (Gabb, Deepak-Gopinath), relationships and sex
        education services (Earle, Gabb, Hoggart, Newton), and social justice movements
        (Downes), Local Authorities (Cooper), LGBTQ+ victim support and criminal justice



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         networks (Boukli, Rowe), Relate, the Tavistock Clinic and Brook (notably with Hoggart
         advising on Brook’s own formation of an ethics committee).
 •       At international/global level, Yeates is an invited expert for the WHO Advisory Group on
         WHO Code of Practice for the Ethical Recruitment of Health Personnel, is an invited regular
         collaborator for UN Research Institute for Social Development and ILO on different aspects
         of global social, health and labour (migration) policy.

 Our approach, through ring-fenced budget and Impact Co-ordinators has identified 17 potential
 future ICS including:

     •   Improving Contraceptive Knowledge and Understanding (Hoggart, Newton)
     •   Sex and Relationships for People with Life-limiting and/or Life-threatening Conditions
         (Earle, S.)
     •   Older people’s experience of care: informing professional practice and policy development
         (Deepak-Gopinath)
     •   Changing policy and practice through critical approaches to autism and neurodiversity.
         (O’Dell)
     •   Improving access to health and inclusive social development in the Southern African
         Development Community (Yeates)

 4.4 Responding to National and International Priorities
 The openness of the research infrastructure (described in Section 1 and 3) combined with
 university level investment and research support facilitated rapid turnaround research and
 engagement activities and has meant that the Unit is well-placed to respond to national and
 international priorities. The best evidence for this is our response to COVID-19. Through external
 funding and internal investment, we have examined the challenges of the pandemic and its wide
 reaching societal impacts across many different social policy and public domains, including health
 and well-being, criminal and social justice, migration, on-line and distance learning, vulnerable
 communities and public understanding. Below is a selection of notable responses, including
 primary research, supporting collaborative explorations, public engagement activities and rapid
 reviews of evidence:

     •   Cov19: Chronicles from the margin – a participatory project lead by Gillespie co-created
         with researchers based in Swansea, with direct experience of forced migration currently
         chronicling the experiences of COVID-19 (https://cov19chronicles.com/).
     •   A collaboration with experts by experience, Together for Short Lives, Hospice UK and the
         International Children’s Palliative Care Network to understand the unintended
         consequences of the pandemic on young adults with life-limiting or life-threatening
         conditions (Earle S, Marston, O’Dell).
     •   Health and Social Care in the context of COVID-19: Mobility and enclosed environments
         (targeting public health and social care workforce and policy makers in understanding the
         impact of COVID-19 on the delivery of health and social care services in community and
         closed settings (Gray)).
     •   The impact of COVID-9 on the grief of care home staff (review of care home staff emotions,
         stressors and coping during the MERS-CoV in the Middle East and SARS in China in order
         to establish policy recommendations for care home staff during COVID-19 (Jones, K.)).
     •   MyBodyMyLife Covid-19 response (exploring experiences of unintended pregnancy and
         abortion during COVID-19 crisis (Newton)).



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Impact of COVID 19 on death anxiety in children and young people (exploring the impact
        of C19 on children aged 9-11 and young people aged 12-16 in relation to their support
        needs (Jones, K.)).
    •   Surviving through Story (capturing and sharing lockdown narratives amongst people with
        learning disabilities in order to address concerns about social isolation and lack of voice
        (Tilley)).
    •   A collaboration between the Open University and Universities SNSPA Romania, University
        of Malta, Singapore University of Social Science, Universitat Oberta Catalunya Spain,
        University of Vienna, University of Graz Austria, Medical University Graz Austria, University
        of Munster Germany, Central University of Punjab India, Canakkale Onsekiz Mart
        University Turkey, University of Coimbra Portugal on an international survey on social
        isolation, inclusion and wellbeing during the pandemic (Marston, Earle, S.).
    •   ‘Socially distanced criminal justice’ – a collaboration between The Open University
        (Phoenix) and long term collaborative partner, The Centre for Crime and Justice Studies
        (CCJS) to host three webinars that drew together nearly 20 with over 200 participants
        across three seminars from seven different countries – including China, Brazil, Australia,
        New Zealand, Canada, USA and UK (https://www.crimeandjustice.org.uk/tags/socially-
        distanced-justice).
    •   The innovative blogs series devoted to ‘Social Scientific Research in the Time of COVID-
        19’, with contributions from, inter alia, Boukli, Carter, Cooper, Dimou, Downes, Erel,
        Gabb, Gillespie, Kent, Phoenix, Scott, Tombs and Watson.

 Many of these COVID-19 responses form part of the necessary background and pilot work for
 future externally funded grants and for future publications and outputs.

 4.5 Contribution to the Research Base

 Selected journal editing, editorial board membership and publication reviewing. Journal
 editorial roles include: Borgstrom Mortality (2020); Boukli, Journal of Trafficking, Organised
 Crime and Security (2014-); Deepak-Gopinath Families, Relationships & Societies (2020) Earle
 Human Fertility (2014-); Erel Sociology, Gabb Families, Relationships & Societies (2010-19);
 Hoggart BMJ Sexual & Reproductive Health (2020-); Larkin – International Journal of Care &
 Caring (2016-); Phoenix The British Journal of Criminology (2010 – 2016), O’Dell Children &
 Society (2011-17); Scott Justice, Power and Resistance (2015-17); Howard Journal of Crime and
 Justice (2015-16); Howard Journal of Criminal Justice (2013-15); Tilley British Journal of Learning
 Disabilities (2020-); Tombs White-Collar and Corporate Crime: An International and
 Multidisciplinary Journal (2018-); Justice, Power and Resistance (2018-20). Watson, Sociology
 (2014-2019); Yeates Social Policy and Society (2013-2018). Our researchers have also guest
 edited 13 special editions and have been members of +60 editorial boards. They review for over
 200 journals and numerous publishers.

 Selected participation on national and international grant committees and reviewing.
 Borgstom (Dutch Cancer Society; ESRC member of peer review college, National Science
 Foundation Switzerland; Wellcome); Carter (Wellcome); de Henau (ESRC); Douglas (Health
 Foundation panel member); Earle S. (Diabetes UK, NIHR); Erel (Czech Science Foundation; FWF
 Der Wissenschaftsfonds; National Science Centre Poland; Research Foundation Flanders); Gabb
 (Academy of Medical Sciences, ESRC panel member/member of peer review college, Nordic
 Research Council in the Humanities & Social Sciences); Hoggart (British Academy, ESRC);
 Jones K. (Arthritis UK, Bliss, MRC); Jones R. (Marie Curie International); Larkin (Dunhill Medical


                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Trust, ESRC member peer review college, Irish Research Council, NIHR, SSCR); Marston
 (ESRC, UKRI ISCF panel member); Murphy (NIHR); Newton (NIHR); Phoenix (ESRC,
 Leverhulme, UKRI MRC, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council, Canada) Robb
 (ESRC, member peer review college); Taylor (ESRC, Swiss National Fund); Tombs (Netherlands
 Organisation for Scientific Research, The British Academy, The Leverhulme Trust, The Nuffield
 Foundation, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Canada); Watson (ESRC);
 Vicary (NIHR); Vsetekova (ESRC, MRC); Yeates (Austrian Council for Research & Technology
 Development; ESRC member peer review college, European Research Council, Irish Research
 Council, Swedish Research Council, UN).

 Selected invited keynotes and conference chair roles.
 Keynotes: Cooper Social Work Action Network, Liverpool (2019); Cole Nonhuman Animals in
 Society: Exploring new Pathways for Resistance, Change and Accommodation, Lund University,
 Sweden (2017); Inaugural Conference of International Association of Vegan Sociologists, (2020);
 Copson Second Expert Meeting on the Role of Utopia in Contemporary Society, The Research
 Institute for Culture, Cognition, History and Heritage, Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (2019); De-
 Henau Policy-Makers' conference of the PSA (Political Association Studies) Care Commission,
 London (2016), EPSU annual conference (European Public Service Unions), Prague (2018);
 Downes International Conference on Lesbian Lives, Brighton (2018); Erel Migrant Women’s
 Participatory Theatre, Utrecht, The Netherlands (2017), NordHome Conference, University of
 Turku, Finland (2016), Contested Terrains, Women’s and Gender Studies section, German
 Sociological Association (2015), Migration and Democracy Conference IRM (2015); Hoggart
 British Society of Abortion providers Annual Conference, London (2020); Scott British Society of
 Criminology Annual Conference (2019), Human Rights, Justice and Criminology Conference,
 University of Auckland, New Zealand (2017), Contemporary Slavery, Degradation and Denial
 Conference, Leuven, Leuven University, Belgium (2016); Larkin Carers New South Wales
 Biennial Conference, Sydney, Australia (2018), Family Carers Ireland ‘Life after caring’
 Conference, Dublin (2018); Marston Digital Inclusion and Use of ICT by and for Older People
 (2018), International Child and Information Safety Congress Digital Games, Turkey (2018);
 Mooney University of Wisconsin River Falls Summit on International Education, River Falls,
 Wisconsin, USA (2019), Social Work Action Network Conference, University of the West of
 Scotland (2015), Scottish State, UK State or Welfare State? Welfare Futures in Post-
 Independence Referendum Scotland’, Social Policy Association (2015); Murphy International
 Stillbirth Alliance Annual Conference, Madrid (2019); O’Dell British Psychological Society’s
 Psychology of Women annual conference (2016). Phoenix Queer(y)ing Justice Annual
 Conference, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia (2018); Penal Boundaries Workshop,
 University of Toronto, Canada (2017); Taylor Creativeconf, Anglia Ruskin (2015); Tombs 58th
 Annual Meeting of the Scandinavian Research Council for Criminology (NSfK) Bifröst, Iceland
 (2016); The 29th National Hazards Conference, Keele University (2018); Yeates Inaugural
 International Conference on Global Dynamics of Social Policy, University of Bremen, Germany,
 (2018), Doing comparative social policy in a global context Lingnan University, Hong Kong (2017),
 Launch Conference of the Global Alliance for Educational Change and Social Development, Hong
 Kong Institute of Education, Hong Kong (2015).

 Conference chair roles: Borgstrom Death, Dying and Disposal Conference, University of Bath,
 UK (2019); BSA Social Aspects of Death, Dying & Bereavement Study Group Conferences (2012-
 2017); Taylor ‘Reconceptualizing Work’ stream, WORK 2017 Work and Labour in the Digital
 Future Conference, University of Turku. Part-funded by WORK2017 (2017); ‘Creative Labour in
 Transition’ seminar, King’s College London. Funded by CMCI at KCL and the Centre for German
 European Studies SPBU-Bielefeld University (2017); Vicary Effective discharge and pathways in

                                                                                          Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mental health, London (date); Effective discharge and pathways in mental health, London (date);
 Yeates Southern regionalisms, Global agendas: Innovating inclusive access to health and
 medicines in a context of social inequity, Global Research and Policy Conference, ESRC, The
 Open University, Milton Keynes (2015).




                                                                                        Page 22
