Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Queen’s University Belfast

 Unit of Assessment: 27

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1. Context

 The English UoA at Queen’s University Belfast includes Literature, Language and Linguistics,
 and Creative Writing. The unit has strengths across the breadth of the discipline – from Anglo-
 Saxon through to the present day – and is particularly known for the Seamus Heaney Centre at
 Queen’s (formerly the Seamus Heaney Centre for Poetry). The SHC is a focal point for Creative
 Writing (poetry, scriptwriting, fiction and non-fiction) nationally and internationally and is integral
 to the distinctive way in which English at QUB fosters collaborations between creative and
 critical practices. The subject area benefits from its position inside a thriving interdisciplinary
 School and this embedding of interdisciplinarity in a wider research strategy has resulted in new
 outputs, research grants and impact activities. English is proud of long-standing traditions of
 public engagement and outreach which are evidenced in numerous joint initiatives, events,
 conferences and research partnerships. Our research income has risen from £2.8 million in
 REF2014 to £4.1 million in REF2021, despite a smaller staff base. Staff have achieved
 significant successes in leading and collaborating on major funded research projects (13 in the
 census period as Principal Investigator) and have attracted 7 Post-Doctoral Researchers to the
 area. Expanding numbers of PGR students, including 75 successful PhD completions, and
 notable success with the Northern Bridge Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) are further
 indicators of excellence.

 2. Structure

 In 2016, the former School of English became part of the new and larger School of Arts, English
 and Languages (AEL) which is part of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences
 (AHSS). The restructuring has affirmed the status of English as a core disciplinary research
 group (CDRG) – a group focused on the development of research in English in its disciplinary
 context – while also opening up new possibilities for collaborative and interdisciplinary research.

 The CDRG’s research is structured according to the unit’s three main sub-areas: literature,
 language and creative writing, with each meeting regularly, and as part of the wider English
 subject area, to coordinate research activities. Within these larger areas, more informal
 national/genre-based/period-specific groupings provide critical density to support conferences,
 grant applications and peer review of outputs prior to publication. The membership of these
 informal groupings – Old English/Medieval, Shakespeare/Renaissance, the long Eighteenth
 Century, Nineteenth-century literature, American literature, Irish literature, Poetry – is flexible
 and overlapping. There are dynamic links between Irish literature, Poetry and Creative Writing,
 for example. These links have facilitated Flynn and McConnell to produce both critical
 monographs about Irish poetry and award-winning poetry. At a wider institutional level, they
 have resulted in a collaboration between University College Dublin, Trinity College Dublin and
 QUB to fund and co-ordinate the Ireland Chair of Poetry (of which Brearton is Trustee). This is a
 rotating 3 year appointment where the recipient moves between institutions to give public
 lectures and student masterclasses. Research initiatives also cut across the literature/language
 and creative writing interface (e.g. joint supervision of creative writing PhDs by Creative Writing
 and Literature/Language staff).

 The CDRG lead (Wray), working with the English REF Champion (Pepper), oversees the
 research strategy by meeting with staff individually at key intervals in the REF cycle. This
 strategy aims to promote research excellence in outputs; to encourage interdisciplinary and
 collaborative research especially through securing UKRI research grants; and to maximise ways
 to make our research impactful for academic and non-academic audiences. A key element of
 this strategy is the creation of an open, inclusive and supportive research culture that brings
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 together literature, language and creative writing interests and into which PGT and PGR
 students are fully incorporated. Key is the English Research Seminar programme which runs
 throughout the academic year, and the annual Research Showcase (which first ran in May
 2019), with speakers drawn from staff, PhDs and PDRs within the CDRG as well as national and
 international visitors. An integral part of the English subject area, the SHC is a key element in
 these activities but also has monthly meetings to plan new outputs and independent outreach
 initiatives and an annual meeting that involves the wider Advisory Board.

 The CDRG lead supports staff initiatives around research including the bidding for and hosting of
 national and international conferences, aiding the unit’s internationalising agenda and helping to
 embed PG students in this culture. In this cycle, major conferences hosted at QUB include
 Seamus Heaney: A Conference and Commemoration [200 delegates] (Brearton, McConnell,
 2014), Ireland and the Colonies, 1775-1947 (Roberts, 2014); Irish Song Symposium (Haslett,
 2014); the joint Irish and British Association of American Studies Annual Conference [300+
 delegates] (McGowan, Murray, Pepper, 2016); the British Shakespeare Association Annual
 Conference [400+ delegates] (Burnett, Dutton, Lamb, Wray, 2018); and the Eighteenth-Century
 Ireland Society Annual Conference (Haslett, Roberts, 2019).

 In order to operationalise research activity inside the School of AEL, the CDRG lead sits on
 Research Committee under the Research Director (Baschiera) and alongside CDRG leads from
 Creative Arts and Modern Languages as well as the English REF Champion, a School Ethics
 Officer, Engaged Research Champion and SWAN Co-Champion. Research Committee
 encourages and supports interdisciplinary activity across the School and this activity is primarily
 pursued in AEL-wide interdisciplinary centres and groups. These include the Centre for the
 Americas; the Centre for Eighteenth-Century Studies; the newly created Centre for Research in
 Linguistics and the Nineteenth-Century Research Group. The outcomes and deliverables of
 these School-based centres and groups are described in the section entitled ‘Interdisciplinarity’
 (S1, 6.2).

 The English subject area is also embedded in two Faculty research Institutes. Individual staff
 members make meaningful contributions to each and to the wider university ‘global challenges’
 agenda. For The Senator George J. Mitchell Institute for Global Peace, Security and Justice,
 Pepper has run an international symposium in conjunction with the Centre for the Americas and
 Lehner has been Co-I on two collaborative AHRC grants organised through the Institute. 11 staff
 in English are Associate Fellows of The Institute for Irish Studies and contribute to their research
 seminar programme, which runs throughout the year, and their annual Summer School. The
 specific outcomes of these activities are described more fully in S1, 5.1, 6.2.

 3. Strategy and review

        In REF 2014, the unit set out seven research aims:
        (i)     to increase external funding and widen the scope of funding applications:
        (ii)   to foster internationalisation/collaborative initiatives with overseas and/or non-HE
               partners:
        (iii)  to enhance the publication profiles of individual staff:
        (iv)   to realise fully the impact potential of high-quality research produced in the unit:
        (v)    to consolidate and enhance the profile of the SHC, in which Creative Writing is a
               recognised area of distinctiveness, and of other distinctive research areas and
               interdisciplinary fora:
        (vi)   to sustain and encourage a strong and vital postgraduate culture, postgraduate
               programmes and opportunities:
        (vii)  to diversify the PGT/PGR demographic and to facilitate interdisciplinary research.

 These have proved useful objectives and we have made strong progress in all the above aims.

 3.1 An increase in the quantity, quality and diversity of funding applications has been achieved
 via research planning, support and encouragement for individual and collaborative applications.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The result has been an increase in research funding vis-à-vis the previous REF period of £1.3
 million despite a smaller staff base. (See S3, 1.1-1.4).

 3.2 With added impetus from a new School and University-wide focus on internationalisation
 initiatives, collaborations with international partners, particularly in the US, have increased. In the
 US, we currently have strategic partnerships with NYU and Villanova University delivering
 internationalising opportunities via creative writing staff and student exchanges (see S2, 4.3).
 The University continues to be a member of the Folger library consortium and four Renaissance
 PGRs have received funding from the Folger to conduct research in this census period. Staff in
 English have also developed productive links with international filmmakers and writers leading to
 exclusive screenings of films at the Queen’s Film Theatre (QFT) – for example, Burnett has
 organised seven UK premieres of global Shakespeare films, enhancing research impact in the
 field. A key tenet of our internationalising push has been the number of staff who have been
 invited to give keynote lectures beyond the UK and Ireland (see S4, 3.7), growing our esteem
 and influence in the discipline.

 3.3 Staff have been encouraged, through new career development processes and meetings
 with, and targeted support from, the REF Champion and CDRG lead, to enhance their individual
 publication profiles by focusing on world-leading publishers and internationally peer-reviewed
 journals. As part of our REF 2 submission, we have submitted 20 journal articles, 14
 monographs, 3 critical editions, 4 novels, 3 poetry collections, 1 travelogue, 1 memoir and 5
 plays/TV series//films. The quality of Creative Writing in this cycle, particularly poetry, has been
 internationally recognised: Flynn won the Irish Times Poetry Now prize (2018) and Sexton won
 the Forward Prize for the best first collection (2019) and the Rooney Prize for Irish literature
 (2020).

 3.4 A much fuller awareness of the importance of exploiting the potential of all of our research
 has been achieved via careful strategic planning and the encouragement of staff to see the
 wider impact of their research (see S1, 5.1). These measures have embedded impact thinking in
 all research planning, and the results are evidenced in the wide range of impact-related activities
 conducted across the subject area as a whole – e.g. community arts projects in NI, interrogating
 Brexit-related challenges, and using literature to better understand health problems. (See S1,
 5.1-5.4).

 3.5 The SHC has consolidated and enhanced its profile via a programme of expansion. Director
 Patterson has been joined by new appointments both at professorial level (Laird, Sansom) and
 lectureship level (Clarke, Sexton, Thompson, West). This has facilitated the continuing delivery
 of world-class research and the establishment of an events programme that encourages local,
 national and international engagement with the work of the SHC. Significant student-led
 conferences in the period include ‘Poetry and the Environment’ (2018) and ‘Irish Poetry Since
 1998’ (2019). In autumn 2018, the SHC welcomed its first International Poetry Fellow (Mark
 Doty), an initiative arising out of a longstanding collaboration with Atlantic Philanthropies in
 conjunction with the Arts Council of NI to establish the Seamus Heaney Legacy Project, which
 has also resulted in Northern Ireland’s first Children’s Writing Fellow (Kelly McCaughrain, 2019-
 21). Subsequent International Poetry Fellows have included Kathleen Jaime (2019). Enhancing
 the poetry profile further is the Ireland Chair of Poetry position – the current incumbent, Frank
 Ormsby, has delivered QUB student workshops and public lectures. The outreach and industry-
 facing work of the SHC has been further developed through the annual SHC Summer School
 (16 delegates in 2020 up from 10 in 2018) and the creation of annual Fellows (high-profile
 figures drawn from the Arts world including Anna Burns and Jed Mercurio) to engage students
 and further promote the work of the Centre. The integration of the SHC within the English
 subject area is evidenced by the successful creative writing PhD programme, with staff
 supervising across the creative-critical interface, which has grown significantly in the census
 period (there were 25 CW PhDs in June 2020, an increase of more than 30% on the 2015
 figure). The work carried out since 2014 in building up other distinctive research areas and
 interdisciplinary fora is out in the 1.6.2 (‘Interdisciplinarity’).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.6 The postgraduate community – PGT/PGR – continues to be vital to the success of the
 English UoA. With 75 successful PhD completions in the census period, English has one of the
 most vibrant and dynamic PGR cultures in the Faculty (see S2, 4.1). There has also been a
 significant increase in PGT students across the various MA programmes (English Literary
 Studies; Creative Writing; Poetry). Between 2014 and 2017 we welcomed 133 PGT students
 onto these three programmes; from 2017 to 2020 this figure rose to 192, an increase of 40%.

 3.7 As a result of sustained recruitment initiatives there has been an increase in international
 PGR students during the REF census period (an increase from 4 students who started their
 PHDs between 2013 and 2017 to 10 who started between 2017 and 2020). Interdisciplinary
 research has been facilitated by the move of English as a subject area into the larger school of
 AEL in which there are increased supervision opportunities involving colleagues in cognate
 disciplines, e.g. a project on Flann O’Brien and Scientific Positivism shared with Philosophy and
 another on the histories/geographies of evolution shared with Built Environment.

 4. Looking ahead to the next five years, our research strategy aims expand on the
 objectives set out in REF 2014 in a number of ways:

        (i)     to support the development of high-quality publication profiles of individual staff
                via a new peer-review and informal research mentoring scheme:
        (ii)    to initiate a new research planning culture where the potential impact of all
                research is actively considered by a dedicated team at the start of new research
                projects:
        (iii)   to expand the interdisciplinary dimensions of our research, with colleagues at
                QUB and internationally, via dedicated centres and groups in the School and
                Faculty:
        (iv)    'to develop new funded research projects, utilising ambitious national and
                international collaborations, to expand disciplinary knowledge and engage with
                pressing societal/global issues:
        (v)     to use the planned relocation of the SHC (in 2023) to a redeveloped building as a
                catalyst for enhancing the national and international reach of the SHC through
                targeted investment in staffing and student recruitment and developing its public-
                facing profile:
        (vi)    to pursue the goal of making English at QUB one of the most exciting, dynamic
                communities for PGT and PGR students in Ireland and the UK and to seek to
                provide postdoctoral opportunities for early career scholars.

 5.Impact strategy

 5.1 As outlined in the institutional environment statement, our research culture roots its work in
 the values of a civic university with the mobilisation of our research as an essential part of our
 identity. New initiatives or ‘calls’ are identified at a university level via assistance from the
 Research and Enterprise Directorate, at a faculty level via the Faculty Impact Officer (Fawcett)
 and key personnel in the Mitchell Institute and at a School level via the Engaged Research
 Champion (Litvack). These opportunities are developed at the subject level either individually or
 with colleagues in other areas. For example, Lehner’s (Co-I) work on an AHRC project ‘LGBTQ
 Visions of Peace in a Society Emerging from Conflict’ (2015-16) which involved running writing
 and photography workshops for community participants in Belfast, resulted from a series of
 preliminary meetings organised by the Mitchell Institute. As a follow-up, Lehner’s AHRC/PaCCs
 project (Co-I, £97,882), ‘Sounding Conflict’, another collaboration with the Mitchell Institute and
 colleagues from Sonic Arts, examines the capacity of storytelling in Northern Ireland theatres to
 foster reconciliation among audiences.

 5.2 Impact opportunities also emerge organically from the work carried out by staff in English
 who then use these experiences to develop the unit’s impact-related ambitions. For example, in
 2017, former Director of Research (Burnett) organised a cross-School away day on sharing best
 practice around impact – an initiative that emerged out of his experiences working with
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disadvantaged communities across NI in partnership with 26 organisations including the British
 Council, the Ulster Museum and the Royal Irish Academy as the principal organiser of
 ‘Shakespeare Lives Across the Island’ (2016). Meanwhile, Brearton’s AHRC-funded work as
 adviser to BBC NI on its 2014-15 ‘World War One at Home’ project emerged out of her research
 on Irish poetry, WWI and commemoration.

 5.3 The identification of research opportunities and outputs that will have a demonstrable impact
 on audiences is key to the SHC’s mission – and is pursued through regular meetings and peer
 encouragement. Patterson’s play of his co-scripted film Good Vibrations enjoyed a sell-out run at
 the Lyric Theatre (2018) and McConnell’s long poem ‘Type Face’ was given a public reading on
 the Good Friday Agreement 20th anniversary (2018). Beyond Belfast, McAleavey (2015) and
 West (2014) have enjoyed world premieres for their plays at the Abbey Theatre in Dublin and
 Loane’s work as lead scriptwriter on season 3 of the TV series Versailles (Canal+, BBC, 2018)
 has reached more than 140 countries.

 5.4 A long-list of impact case studies were identified and developed by the Faculty Impact
 Officer and REF Champion in conjunction with individual researchers and projects. The case
 studies most illustrative of our impact work were then chosen for REF. Carr’s project explores
 the Irish-UK border through maps, an exhibition and a book, The Rule of the Land (2017), which
 was adapted for BBC Radio 4’s ‘Book of the Week’. This research has transformed public
 perception of the border and has shed light on complexities that have enabled a deeper
 understanding of political issues central to the Brexit process. A second Impact case-study has
 been generated by working with the Charles Dickens Museum in London to develop new
 methods for engaging public audiences and to better understand Dickens’s status as celebrity.
 An exhibition, 'Technicolour Dickens', at the Dickens Museum, curated by Litvack (2020), drew
 in part on Litvack’s research on the Dickens engravings, paintings and photographic portraits. In
 order to illustrate the UoA’s interdisciplinary links with cognate areas in AEL, a third case study,
 by McCleave (Music) in collaboration with staff from English (Caraher, now retired, Roberts),
 promotes the significance of Irish writer Thomas Moore to European cultural exchange in the
 19th century. It raises awareness of, and enhances knowledge about, Moore’s work, following a
 radio documentary and exhibition at the Royal Irish Academy (2019-20). For a fourth impact
 case study, Pierse worked on a larger UK-wide project called 'Creative Connections and Civil
 Rights' (2015-18), funded by a successful AHRC grant (Pierse, Co-I, £197,277). This was a
 collaborative exploration of ways in which social exclusion and the struggle for rights can be
 addressed through community theatre. The project used dramatic performance to engage
 audiences on equality issues, while enacting the type of change being advocated through
 including stakeholders from marginalised communities in the co-creation of an original play
 about civil rights in Northern Ireland.

 6. Interdisciplinary research

 6.1 The processes for identifying and pursuing interdisciplinary research are linked to the unit’s
 impact strategy and involve coordination between University and Faculty bodies (e.g. Research
 and Enterprise) and School-level personnel (e.g. Research Director and CDRG lead). Grant
 calls are circulated, with possible collaborators across the Faculty and University identified, and
 feedback is offered on drafts of applications to funding bodies. Beneficiaries include Lugea
 whose successful AHRC/ECR grant (PI, £180,000), involving co-investigators in Social Policy
 and Social Work, explored the workings of dementia (in) fiction with the hope of better
 understanding the disease and its impact on those affected. McConnell’s collaborated with
 Rebelo (SARC) in the design of her AHRC-funded ‘Listening to Voices’ Project (PI, £41,000)
 which used innovative sound installations to raise awareness of the nature of voice-hearing
 experiences among support providers, families and the public. And Cesario’s APEX-funded
 project ‘Before and After Halley’ (PI, £100,000), an inter-Faculty collaboration between Old
 English and Astrology, used evidence gleaned from Old English manuscripts to document and
 examine astrological phenomena including the possible existence of a new planet. In this
 example, the work led to public lectures at the British Academy in London and the Ulster
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Museum and exhibitions at the Ulster Museum (2018) as well as a British Academy Rising Star
 Engagement award (2018).

 6.2 English has pioneered interdisciplinary centres and programmes in the wider University. In
 2017, the Centre for the Americas (co-directors: McGowan and Pepper) was established in AEL
 to provide a cross-disciplinary focus point for research on or about the Americas in literature,
 film, history, and politics. The Centre runs a successful seminar series, with its first international
 conference, jointly sponsored by the Mitchell Institute, held in May 2018 (‘Cultures of the Drug
 Wars’) and a second event, held at QUB and jointly organised with Maynooth University, on
 contemporary literature, politics and aesthetics in December 2019. The Centre for Eighteenth-
 Century Studies (Haslett, McCleave, Regan, Roberts) is shared between English, Music,
 Languages, and History and continues as a focus for interdisciplinary research in these
 disciplinary areas: it runs a long-standing seminar series during teaching times and hosted the
 annual Eighteenth-Century Ireland conference at QUB in June 2019. Collaborative work
 produced by the Centre includes Ireland and Europe in the Global Eighteenth Century, a book
 co-edited by three members across English and Modern Languages. The Nineteenth Century
 Research Group (English lead: Sumpter), a cross faculty initiative with membership across
 languages, history and geography, operates two reading groups and ran a symposium on
 aesthetics and modernity (2018).

 6.3 Our emphasis on interdisciplinary collaboration is also evident in national and international
 partnerships, which take the form of scholarly publications including 12 edited or co-edited
 academic books in the census period (see S4, 3.1) and also in the range of our interdisciplinary
 PhD supervisions (see S2, 4.1).

 7. Open Research Environment

 The UoA is fully compliant with the University’s institutional open access (OA) policy – 95.5% of
 eligible outputs are compliant – and benefits from a dedicated team who deliver advice and
 training and monitor ongoing compliance. Reflecting the strong commitment towards OA over
 the REF period, a large proportion (73%) of all journal articles and conference papers published
 by researchers 2014-2020 were made available for open access display, including 70% of all
 relevant outputs published before the HEFCE policy was introduced in April 2016. All new staff
 and PGRs receive training in OA requirements and a Library-based OA team act as the main
 point of contact for queries about OA and related issues.

 8. Research Integrity and Ethics

 All staff and students are aware of the importance of research ethics and integrity, with regular
 training available to all levels on all these issues offered both by the institution and by the
 School’s Ethics Committee (which reports to the Research Committee). The Ethics Committee
 offers workshops and Q&A sessions to all research students and staff. This Committee takes a
 ‘quality promotion’ approach, and is proactive in constructing guidelines for ethical conduct in
 general, and specifically in relation to data protection (for which the School has an additional
 policy to that of the institution), Covid19 considerations, and online and digital research. The
 University’s overall ethics policy is overseen centrally by a research governance office who
 conduct audits of the ethics application process.

 2. People

 1. Staffing profile and recruitment:

 1.1 The English UoA currently comprises 33 staff members, including fractional posts. There are
 ten professors, four readers, ten senior lecturers, and nine lecturers.

 1.2 A challenge for the English UoA has been to manage the transition resulting from a reduction
 in overall staffing numbers since REF2014 (43 staff members were submitted to REF2014) and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to continue to deliver a sustainable research environment. 15 members staff have left since
 REF2014, including 7 retirements. 10 new appointments have been made [6 in Creative Writing
 (full time: Sansom, Sexton; fractional: Clarke, Laird, Thompson, West)] and new full time posts in
 Nineteenth Century (Livingstone, Murray) and Irish literature (Garden, Pierse). There has been a
 successful drive recruiting 7 Post-Doctoral Researchers (PDRs) (see S2, 3.1). A major challenge
 in workforce planning has resulted from the departure of 8 professorial colleagues. Whilst 6 new
 professors (2 recruited and 4 promoted) are part of our current team, this shift has required staff
 at all levels to assume additional leadership responsibilities. With this challenge in mind the
 subject area has greatly benefited from the appointment of Dutton as World Leading Researcher
 (2017-20) because of his willingness to meet with and mentor staff, PDRs and PGR students in
 the Renaissance area and across the wider School. The subject area also hosts two Fulbright
 scholars from the US every year (in semester 2), typically one in Irish literature and one creative
 writer, whose teaching and research activities both engage our UG and PG students and whose
 engagement with English at Queen’s assists our wider internationalisation agenda. The
 sustainability of the new research environment has been secured by the permanent nature of the
 contracts for all bar one of the aforementioned 33 staff members and by the younger (compared
 to 2014) age demographic of these staff.

 2. Staff development and career progression:

 2.1 Robust mechanisms for supporting staff development and career planning are evidenced by
 the unit’s successes in recent promotion/progression exercises. There have been 13 successful
 promotion applications in the last three promotion rounds (four to P, one to R and eight to SL).
 All full-time and part-time academic staff on teaching and research contracts are eligible to apply
 for one semester of sabbatical leave after every six semesters of qualifying service (time on
 probation and maternity leave in an academic post in included). Those applying for leave are
 required to develop, in discussion with the School’s Research Director, a detailed plan for the
 period requested which includes outputs, grant applications, and impact and public engagement
 activities. Continuing to privilege research excellence through a Faculty-administered sabbatical
 leave scheme is vital in assisting staff to produce high-quality publications.

 2.2 As outlined in the Institutional Environment Statement, the University launched a new
 strategy for staff development in 2018, supported by the People and Culture Directorate. A new
 approach to academic career development, designed in consultation with staff, takes a holistic
 view of everyone’s contribution beyond a narrow set of metrics. The Personal Development
 Review (PDR) process, in which all staff are assigned a mentor from amongst the experienced
 academic staff, is managed at the School level.

 2.3 English has made significant strides, through better support and mentoring processes, to
 improve its gender balance among promoted staff, though there is more to be done at
 professorial level. Currently more than half of staff at Reader and SL levels are female.

 2.4 The English UoA supports flexible working for all staff, and this has proved particularly
 pertinent to creative writers – four full-time members of staff are permanently employed on
 fractional contracts (Clarke, Laird, Loane, Patterson), allowing them time to pursue creative
 projects outside QUB. Like all staff, those on fractional contracts have full access to research
 support funds and sabbatical leave. The unit employs one member of staff on a non-permanent,
 fixed-term contract (Statham) who, like staff on fixed-term contracts to replace staff on leave,
 has the same access to School research support funds. (See S3, 2).

 3. Early career researchers and post-doctoral researchers:

 3.1 The English UoA has been successful in attracting seven new post-doctoral researchers
 in the REF census period, via the Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship scheme (Arthur/Cesario,
 Buckley/Burnett), the Newton/British Academy International Fellowship scheme
 (Baccianti/Cesario), the Horizon 2020 Marie Curie Individual Fellowship scheme
 (Garden/Brearton; Periago/Burnett; Ramazzina/Cesario) and the Modern Humanities Research
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association Research Associateships scheme (Simpson/Livingstone). An eighth PDR joined the
 subject area in September 2020 under the Horizon 2020 Marie Curie Individual Fellowship
 programme (Walsh/Wray), demonstrating a pipeline of success in this area.

 3.2 This new area of development for English reflects well on the mentorship and early career
 training we have in place. All PDRs are closely mentored by the staff member (PI) and team
 attached to the project and have been fully integrated into the research culture of the English
 CDRG via activities such as the weekly English research seminars (see S1, 6.2). As set out in
 the Institutional Environment Statement, PDRs are guaranteed 10 research development days
 and at the School level they have access to the same level of research support as other staff
 (see S3, 2); as part of this, they can take advantage of generous CDRG and School support for
 running conferences. PDR-run conferences in this period include ‘Science and Medicine in the
 Insular Middle Ages’ (Baccianti, 2018) and ‘Women and Indian Shakespeares: Exploring
 Cinema, Translation, Performance’ (Buckley and Periago, 2019). PDRs are returning outputs in
 the UoA REF2 submission, and all have substantially developed their research profiles during
 their periods at QUB. For example, Periago has taken up a Senior Lectureship at the University
 of Murcia. To further underline these issues of support and sustainability, Garden, formerly a
 Marie Curie Individual Fellow, has won a prestigious UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship which she
 has chosen to take up at QUB (PI, £736,976, 2020-24).

 4. PGR Students:

 4.1 Since 2014, 75 PGR students have successfully completed their PhDs under the
 supervision of 28 members of staff (compared with 61 PhD completions in the previous REF
 cycle [2008-2013], an increase of almost 25%). This figure does not include the PhD projects
 English staff have co-supervised with colleagues in other disciplines. As of June 2020, English
 staff were involved in 14 interdisciplinary PhD supervisions with colleagues from Translation,
 History, Geography, Sociology, Film, Drama, Sonic Arts and French. Since the development of
 the Northern Bridge DTP, English has been the most successful area in QUB’s AHSS faculty.
 Between 2014 and 2019, 30 of 73 Northern Bridge scholarships (41%) awarded to QUB
 have come to the English UoA. This is also a significantly higher figure than that achieved by
 our comparators at Northern Bridge partner institutions. (In the same period, for example,
 English at Durham and Newcastle were awarded a combined total of 31 scholarships). The
 English UoA has also been successful in bidding for PGR awards from Northern Ireland’s
 Department for the Economy (DfE) [e.g. 2 new DfE funded PHD students started in October
 2019 and 7 in January 2020].

 4.2. All students have benefitted from supervisory arrangements and the training environment
 developed for the Northern Bridge DTP. Every student has dedicated supervisory team (first,
 second and where relevant an advisor from another institution or from non-HE organisation) and
 a bespoke training plan, tailored to their individual needs and requirements. All PGR students
 are mentored by the PGR lead for English (Lamb) who creates a nurturing, supportive research
 environment and who is the first port of call outside the supervisorial team. Lamb oversees a
 robust differentiation process in the PGR students’ first year and annual progress reviews at the
 end of the second and third years. PGR and PGT students are integrated into wider research
 culture via their participation in CDRG activities. (See S1, 2). They become part of a wider
 research environment via well-established student initiatives – for example, the annual
 PGT/PGR conference ‘Common Ground’. There are also the many student and post-doctoral
 symposia organised in the REF period – for example, the British Society of Eighteenth-Century
 Studies Postgraduate conference (2015); Irish Political and Cultural Identity 1650-1850 (2018)
 and God After God: A Symposium on Contemporary American Writing (2019).

 4.3 The SHC offers a rich array of research events and writing activities, many of them student-
 led; for example, recently graduated PhD students run – and publish pamphlets relating to – the
 Lifeboat readings and edit The Tangerine literary magazine. There are opportunities to
 contribute to the SHC Podcast, The Open Ear, and The Yellow Nib magazine. As of 2020, and
 to support recently graduated PhDs, the SHC funds two Ciaran Carson Fellows (Regan and
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kennedy in the first instance) and a Publishing Fellow (Moser) to help coordinate these various
 outreach activities. The SHC also pioneered a Spring Break Creative Writing Week (‘Writing
 Through Conflict’, 2019) with students from Villanova University. The collaboration with Villanova
 has been chosen as one of eleven key partnerships in the emerging QUB USA Strategy and
 involved a reciprocal visit by QUB staff and PGR students to South Carolina in 2019.

 4.4 The establishment of the university-wide Graduate School in the restored Lynn Building
 (2015) has afforded further opportunities for PG students to engage in non-subject specific
 learning and networking opportunities and interdisciplinary initiatives, as well as a space to study
 and socialise. The Graduate School also runs dedicated training courses to equip students with
 core study skills. Professional training is also provided by the Professionalising the PhD
 programme (pioneered by English and now rolled out across AEL) which pays attention to the
 attainment of key skills (including CV preparation) and career progression within and outside the
 academy. Since 2014, at last eight of our PhD graduates have gone on to gain full-time
 academic positions at universities including Utrecht, TCD and as part of our own team. Two of
 our recent PhD graduates hold post docs: an IRCHSS post-doctoral fellowship at UCC (2019-
 20) and a 3-year post-doctoral fellowship at Edinburgh. Creative Writing PhD students who have
 secured publishing contracts with major publishers include Brennan (Disorder, No Alibis Press),
 Collins (After Zero, Sourcebook), Hughes (Orchid and the Wasp, Oneworld) and Llewellyn
 (Walking Wounded, Sceptre).

 5. Equality and Diversity:

 5.1 Equality and diversity issues have been an institutional priority for many years. University
 policy on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is outlined in the Institutional Environment
 Statement, as is the establishment of a network of initiatives and support groups, which include
 the active involvement of English academic staff. The Queen’s Gender Initiative is a long-
 standing commitment to provide networking opportunities for women academics and support for
 promotion opportunities. AEL was awarded a Bronze Swan award in 2020. Cesario is our
 representative on the Swan Action Team. Staff returning from a period of maternity leave are
 offered a ‘teaching-free’ semester (3 staff in English have benefitted in this census period). This
 same right is accorded to all staff returning from a lengthy period of illness. We operate a
 reasonable working hours’ policy, whereby meetings are only held between 10am and 4pm to
 help staff with parental/caring responsibility, and the designation of ‘research only’ days for all
 staff provides protected time.

 5.2 The University’s Disability Action Plan promotes positive attitudes towards, and encourages
 participation from, disabled staff and students. In 2016 Queen’s launched its Trans Equality
 Policy and won a 2019 Universities HR Award for its work to provide equality for those who
 identify as transgender or transsexual. In 2018 Queen’s established PRISM as our LGBT+
 network for staff to provide a safe, inclusive and welcoming space for staff, promote LGBT+
 equality across the campus, and inform University policy. In 2019 iRise was established as a
 network for BAME and International Staff. In addition to providing networking opportunities, and
 advice and support, iRise helps to influence University policy on inclusion.

 5.3 One example of the successful application of SWAN principles, and of the university’s REF
 Code of Practice, in the English UoA has been the gender balance achieved in terms of the ratio
 of selected outputs submitted for REF2. There were 26 male staff members (60%) and 17
 female staff members (40%) who submitted outputs for REF2 – a figure that suggests further
 progress around gender equality and balance is necessary. But of total number of outputs
 selected (86), 51 were attributed to men (59%) and 35 to women (41%), figures that map exactly
 onto the raw male/female staffing numbers, indicating parity when understood as a ratio of
 selected outputs to staff numbers.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 1. Overview of research grants/income and strategies for funding
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.1 In order to increase external research funding and to widen the scope of funding
 applications, the UoA has, since 2014, focused on raising the quality of individual applications
 through mentoring and ensuring that our research grant applications are directed towards a
 greater diversity of funding bodies. Grant calls circulated by the Research and Enterprise
 Directorate (and also the Mitchell Institute and the Faculty research support team) are prioritised
 by the School’s Research Director and the CDRG lead who, in conjunction with a new Faculty
 peer review process, provide feedback at the proposal writing stage, which has resulted in a
 higher success rate with submissions. In order to appraise staff of funding opportunities and
 make models of best practice available, three dedicated ‘grant capture’ workshops involving
 successful applicants to major UKRI schemes were arranged (by former Research Director
 Burnett) for all staff in AEL (2017).

 1.2 The result has been success both in terms of the total amount of external research income
 generated (a total of £4,118,001 since 2014) and the diversity of our main grant funders which
 include AHRC, British Academy, APEX/Royal Society/British Academy/Leverhulme Trust,
 Horizon 2020/Marie Curie, and Leverhulme Trust. With a smaller staff base, our research
 income has risen from £2.8 million in the last REF census period to £4.1 million in the
 current period. Following the initiatives described above, there has also been a significant
 increase in research income achieved within the current cycle - £1.63 million in 2013-15 as
 opposed to £2.1 million in 2017-19, a rise of over 25%. A third metric of success is that the unit
 more than doubled its income from UK research councils (from £675 in REF2014 to £1.36
 million in REF2021) and grew its income from EU sources by almost sevenfold (from 75K in the
 previous REF cycle to over £500K in the current cycle).

 1.3 Prestigious grant awards secured in the census period demonstrate our strengths across the
 field. Several have centred on Cesario’s ground-breaking work bringing Old English texts and
 astronomical understandings together (Cesario’s APEX/Royal Society/British
 Academy/Leverhulme Trust award, ‘Before and After Halley’ [PI, £98,149.00] and her follow-up
 British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award, ‘Medieval Visions of Modern Science’ [PI,
 £15,000]). Cesario’s work has attracted ECRs working in complementary fields (Baccianti on a
 Newton/British Academy Fellowship, ‘Scientific Knowledge in Medieval Scandinavia’ [PI,
 £99,000]; Ramazzina on an EU Horizon 2020: Marie Curie Individual Fellowship, ‘Water and
 Baptism in Old English Poetry’ [PI, €183,454]). The interdisciplinary bent of Cesario’s work
 connects intellectually with Lugea’s AHRC Early Career Research Grant, ‘Dementia in the minds
 of characters and readers’ (PI, £189,000), which uses fiction to investigate dementia, and
 McConnell’s AHRC award ‘Listening to Voices’ (PI, £41,000), concerned with the voice-hearing
 experience. The impactful nature of this work (see S1, 5.1 and 5.3) connects with Pepper’s
 AHRC Follow-On Funding for Impact and Engagement project, ‘Ian Rankin StoryTrek – New
 Digital Storytelling and Mapping Technologies for Crime Fiction Readers on Location’ (PI,
 £85,000).

 The UoA has been particularly successful in bringing funded PDRs to be mentored by staff while
 working on their own projects. These include Arthur on a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship,
 ‘Obscurity and Textual Concealment in Early Medieval England’ (Cesario PI, £83,209.00);
 Simpson on a Modern Humanities Research Association-funded project, ‘David Livingstone’s
 “Missionary Travels": A Digital Edition’ (Livingstone PI, £23,000); Buckley on a Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellowship, ‘South Indian Shakespeares’ (Burnett PI, £82,000). In Buckley’s case, her
 research connects directly with Burnett’s ‘Indian Shakespeares’ project which has been
 supported by other kinds of funding, including Periago on an EU Horizon 2020: Marie Curie
 Individual Fellowship, ‘Shakespeare and Indian Cinematic Traditions’ (Burnett PI, €195,454).
 Also in the Renaissance area, Wray was awarded a Leverhulme Research Fellowship for her
 project, ‘A Literary Biography of Elizabeth Cary, Lady Tanfield’ (PI, £49,792).

 Other awards have been in Irish literature and culture, especially in relation to peace-building
 and social inclusion in the post-conflict period. Lehner was Co-I on an AHRC funded (PACS)
 project entitled 'LGBTQ Visions of Peace in a Society Emerging from Conflict’ (Co-I, £20,000),
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and as Co-I on another AHRC-funded project called ‘Sounding Conflict’ (£97,882). Pierse was
 Co-I on an AHRC Follow-On Funding for Impact and Engagement project, ‘The Féile Journey at
 30: Translating Culture through Community Festivals’ (Co-I, £100,000) and a Co-I on another
 AHRC project entitled ‘Creative Interruptions’ (Co-I, £197,277), which formed the basis of his
 impact case study. Haslett was PI on an AHRC-funded project, ‘An Historical Typology of Irish
 Song: from its earliest beginnings to 1800’ (PI, £659,294.62) which ran from 2012 to 2015. Also
 in Irish literature, Garden received an EU Horizon 2020: Marie Curie Individual Fellowship, ‘Love
 Across the Divide in Northern Irish Literature and Culture: 1968-present’ (Brearton PI,
 €183,454).

 1.4 The aim of increasing levels of grant income by targeting major funding sources has been
 augmented by a parallel strategy of seeking smaller but no less prestigious grants. Creative
 writing staff in particular have enjoyed consistent success in achieving arts funding to support
 their work. Clarke received the 2019 Academy Gold Fellowship for Women sponsored by
 Swarovski (£20,000) for her screenwriting and film directing work and West was awarded
 €49,000 from Arts Council of Ireland (2018) for a stage adaptation of Solar Bones by Mike
 McCormack. McConnell won an Arts Council Northern Ireland SIAP award in 2017 (£2,000) and
 an Arts Council Northern Ireland ACES award in 2018 (£5,000) and her poetry submission won
 the Ink Sweat and Tears Pamphlet Competition in 2018 (£2,000). English has a relationship with
 NYU through the Glucksman Ireland House, which contributes financially to the First Collection
 Poetry Prize and also hosts a reading by the winning poet.

 1.5 The pipeline for new research grants is also strong given Garden’s UKRI Future Leaders
 Fellowship (2020-24) and Kelly’s collaborative venture (Co-I), with Perry (Kent), funded by the
 Leverhulme Trust (£171,836 for QUB), entitled ‘Whittington’s Gift’ (2020-23).

 2. Organisational infrastructure and support for research and impact

 The Research and Enterprise Directorate was established in 2011 and received investment
 during the REF2021 period to expand its activities. Academic staff have access to specialist
 advice and support and the pre- and post-award stages, with support for proposal development
 and costing, and post-award support for managing grants. Research and Enterprise also has an
 Impact team, with a central manager and dedicated Impact Officers for each Faculty.

 Individual staff members are generously supported by a School research and conference fund
 where individuals can apply for up to £1,200 a year to support research and conference trips in
 the UK, Ireland, and worldwide. This includes staff employed on fixed-term and fractional
 contracts and PDRs. Funded PGR students (Northern Bridge and DfE) have access to up to
 £1,000 a year for their conference and research plans and ECRs enjoy a start-up package (up to
 £5,000 for their 3-year probationary period) to spend on research-related activities. In addition,
 support, both logistical and financial, is available at School level (and for all staff, including
 PDRs) for research activities including publication, preparation for grant applications, engaged
 research, impact and specifics related to the publication process. A smaller budget (circa
 £6,000), overseen by the Research Director, is devolved to the English CDRG lead who
 decides, in collaboration with the subject area, how the funds will be dispersed in order to best
 serve the research environment. A series of institutional funds are available to provide seed
 funding for research activity, most notably support for engaged research. Lugea’s successful bid
 to the Faculty Research Investment Fund enabled her and Tristram (French) to develop their
 New Methods for New Media network and host an international summer scheme attracting 70
 international delegates to QUB (2019).

 3. Operational infrastructure, facilities and specialist equipment

 3.1 The English subject area, located in Houses 1-5 University Square, is connected through
 House No.1 to the SHC on University Road. All staff have individual offices, connected to the
 QUB Wi-fi network, and there are work spaces and IT facilities in Houses 1, 4 and 5 for
 postgraduate students. The postgraduate experience has been enhanced by the development of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a university-wide Graduate School, housed in the restored Victorian Lynn library and opened in
 2015. The SHC seminar and reading rooms provide a venue for literary events and workshops,
 but the planned move to new premises on University Road in 2022 (see S1, 1.5) will further
 develop the Centre’s ambitions.

 3.2 Library collections are housed in the award-winning McClay Library and these include
 outstanding holdings in English and Irish literature, including special collections which date back
 to the University’s establishment in the mid-nineteenth century. These collections comprise
 manuscripts as well as books and include the Gibson-Massie Moore collection, which was
 developed by and central to the success of McCleave’s impact case study (see S1, 5.4).
 McCleave curated an open access online collection, published through Special Collections at
 Queen’s. The McClay also holds the Sir Kenneth Branagh Archive and the Reid & Gilbert
 collections, acquired by staff or former staff in the subject area. The SHC oversees its own
 collections, including a selection of Heaney’s manuscripts (for example, the Beowulf papers,
 housed in the McClay). In the McClay, a dedicated English subject area Librarian, Diarmuid
 Kennedy, is an invaluable contact point for staff and students.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 1. Summary of collaboration and wider contribution

 In English, as part of our research strategy, we pursue collaborative research projects with
 academics and communities in the UK, Ireland and globally. We initiate and respond to
 international conversations and engage non-academic partners and audiences locally in
 Northern Ireland, and across Ireland and the UK, to produce new research findings and impacts.
 Collaborations embrace editorial work, networks, outputs, work on advisory panels and review
 boards, international journals, subject associations and learned societies, connecting our work at
 Queen’s to that of the wider academic world.

 2. Academic collaborations

 Collaborations span editorial work, networks and outputs. For example, Dutton is editing
 The Malcontent for The Oxford Marston, an AHRC-funded research project involving 13 scholars
 from the USA, Canada, Europe and Australia. Other important collaborations take the form of
 edited or co-edited books. There have been twelve edited or co-edited collections in the census
 period (Haslett, Murray x2, Pierse x2, Pepper x2, Regan, Richards, Roberts x2 and Sturgeon)
 each of which, while not all part of the REF2 submission, testify to this collaboration and
 internationalisation. To develop new ways of thinking about specific issues, staff have
 established interdisciplinary and international research networks. Cesario’s ‘Medieval Visions of
 Modern Science’ was sponsored by the British Academy and the Royal Society, while Wray’s
 (Co-I) ‘Memory and Community in Early Modern Britain’ AHRC network resulted in a 2018
 special issue of Memory Studies. Closer to home, we have played key roles in creating
 sustainable all-Ireland networks. Haslett co-convenes the Eighteenth-Century Literature
 Research Network in Ireland, and Wray is on the steering group of the Irish Renaissance
 Seminar.

 3. Contribution to wider academic community.

 3.1 Research council membership/University research advisory panels/national or
 international research strategy or review boards

 Professorial and promoted staff in English have made significant contributions to the discipline-
 shaping work of research councils, review boards and university advisory panels. Exemplary
 here are Brearton, Member of the Inner International Assessment Board for the IRC
 postgraduate scholarships (2018 onwards) and Member of the Inner International Assessment
 Board for the IRC postdoctoral awards (2021 onwards) and Haslett, Outer Board Member for
 IRC Post-doctoral Fellowships (2017, 2018). Also in an Irish context, McGowan serves as an
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Irish Research Council International Research Assessment Panel Member (01/01/19-) and an
 Irish Research Council New Foundations Research Assessment Panel Member (01/01/19-).
 Beyond Ireland, Haslett has been an external assessor for the British Academy (2019), while
 McGowan is part of the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowships Peer Review College (01/08/18-). In
 similar roles, Pierse is a member of the AHRC Peer Review College (as was Roberts until
 December 2015), while Wray was a member of the Appointment Committee for the Chair of the
 British Shakespeare Association (2016). More recently, Litvack was appointed by the Secretary
 of State at the Department for Digital, Culture, Media and Sport to the Advisory Council on
 National Records and Archives (2019-2023).
 3.2 Leading positions in subject associations/learned societies

 English staff at all levels occupy leading positions in subject associations and learned societies,
 in Ireland, the UK and internationally. For instance, Patterson is a fellow of the Royal Ulster
 Academy; Brearton, Burnett, and Haslett are members of the Royal Irish Academy. For the RIA,
 Burnett and McGowan served as Members of the Committee for the Study of Languages,
 Literature, Culture and Communication (2014-18, 2018-22) and Burnett and Brearton were
 members of the RIA Advisory Committee for the Selection of New Members in 2015-16 and
 2018-2020. Also in Ireland, Brearton is a Trustee (QUB) for the cross-border Ireland Chair of
 Poetry; Patterson is a champion of the Strand Arts Centre; and McAleavey is on the Advisory
 Board of the Stewart Parker Trust. In cognate association/society work, Burnett is a Fellow of the
 English Association and a Trustee and Director of the British Shakespeare Association (2019-)
 and Wray serves on the British Shakespeare Association Honorary Fellowships Committee
 (2017-), having served previously as BSA Trustee and Director (2009-17). Related appointments
 include Cesario, Secretary and Treasurer of TOEBI (Teachers of Old English in Britain and
 Ireland) from 2013-19, and McGowan who is part of the F. Scott Fitzgerald Society Executive
 Board (2005-) and two-term President of the European Association for American Studies (2016-
 20; 2020-).

 3.3 Editorial positions and board membership

 These embrace series editorships as well as membership of the boards of leading journals in the
 field. Lead editorial roles include Burnett, editor of the ‘Shakespeare and Adaptation’
 (Bloomsbury) series, Dutton, a general editor of the Revels Plays (Manchester University Press),
 and Haslett, a general editor of the ‘Early Irish Fiction, c.1680-1820' (Four Courts) series. In
 terms of memberships of ongoing editorial projects, Brearton is on the editorial board for a new
 CUP series, Cambridge Elements in Poetry and Poetics, Haslett is on the editorial board for the
 CUP edition of Complete Works of Oliver Goldsmith (2019-), Litvack is Principal Editor of the
 Charles Dickens Letters Project (Dickenslettters.com, 2015-) and a Member of the Editorial
 Board of the Oxford (formerly Clarendon) Dickens series of critical editions, and McGowan is the
 series editor for the centenary editions of Fitzgerald's novels and short stories, beginning with
 This Side of Paradise [OUP, 2020]). The international reputation of staff in the unit has also been
 recognised by appointments to the boards of prestigious international journals in their specialist
 fields.

 3.4 Fellowships or scholarly awards

 Staff in English have benefited from being able to conduct their research via international
 fellowships and from having their research recognised in the form of prizes. The achievements
 of newer members of staff are noteworthy and attest to the successful of informal mentoring
 networks within the area.

 Creative Writing/SHC staff have been particularly successful. Flynn’s The Radio (winner, Irish
 Times Poetry Now Award, €2,000 [2018]) was shortlisted for the T. S. Eliot Prize (2017).
 Morrissey (now at Newcastle University) won the T. S. Eliot Prize for Parallax (part of the UoA’s
 REF 2014 submission), while her collection, On Balance (2016), which she wrote while at QUB,
 won the Forward Prize for Poetry in 2017. Carr’s The Rule of the Land was shortlisted for the
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Stanford Dolman Travel Book of the Year Award (2017). Laird’s Feel Free was shortlisted for the
 T. S. Eliot Prize (2018), while Sexton secured an Eric Gregory Award (2018). His If All the World
 and Love Were Young won the Forward Prize for the best first collection (2019), an E. M. Forster
 Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters ($20,000, 2020) and the Rooney Prize
 for Irish literature (€10,000, 2020).

 In literature and language, Verhoeven was a Bendikson Fellow at the Huntington Library (2016,
 2017), a Peter Nicolaisen International Fellow, the Robert H. Smith International Center for
 Jefferson Studies (2015, 2016) and an Earhart Foundation Fellow in American History, William
 L. Clements Library, University of Michigan (2015). Also in the US, Burnett held a Folger
 Shakespeare Library short-term fellowship (2015); Murray was a Lillian Gary Taylor Visiting
 Fellow in American Literature at the Harrison Centre, University of Virginia (2016); and Patterson
 was the 2016 Heimbold Visiting Chair of Irish Studies at Villanova University. Cesario was
 elected to a Visiting Research Fellowship at Brasenose College, Oxford (2014-2015), and a
 Visiting Research Fellowship at the Department of Anglo-Saxon, Norse and Celtic, Cambridge
 (2018-2019). Livingstone’s digital edition ‘Livingstone’s Missionary Travels Manuscript’ gained
 the seal of the MLA Committee on Scholarly Editions (2020).

 3.5 PhD examination

 Twelve staff in English have been honoured to act as external examiners for 43 PhD theses
 during the census period: Brearton (University of Durham, Universite Rennes 2); Burnett (Royal
 Holloway; Shakespeare Institute, Birmingham x2); Cesario (Naples, Vigo, Nottingham, Royal
 Holloway, Sorbonne); Dutton (Hong Kong); Haslett (Northumbria, Oxford x2); Litvack (New
 Brunswick, Madras); Lehner (Edinburgh x2, Stirling, Tel Aviv); Lugea (University of Peshawar,
 Pakistan); McGowan (Bath Spa, Dublin, Exeter, Ulster, UCL x2); Pepper (Exeter, Royal
 Holloway, Monash, Melbourne, Gloucestershire); Pierse (Southampton Solent, Liverpool, UCD),
 Rahilly (UCC, DCU, Dublin); Roberts (Madras); Wray (UC Galway, Royal Holloway, UCD, UCC,
 Lancaster).

 3.6 Academic refereeing (publications)

 A majority of our staff participate in peer review and have reviewed book proposals for the major
 UK publishers including OUP (Brearton, Dutton, Haslett, Litvack), CUP (Brearton, Burnett,
 Dutton, Wray), Routledge (Brearton, Lehner, Livingstone, Lugea, Pepper, Wray) Palgrave
 Macmillan (Brearton, Litvack, Pepper), Bloomsbury (Brearton, Burnett, Dutton, Pepper, Wray),
 Manchester UP (Dutton) and Edinburgh UP (Sumpter). Staff at all levels regularly review articles
 for the international journals in their areas.

 3.7 Keynote/plenary lectures

 In addition to giving numerous invited talks, staff in English have delivered 19 keynotes lectures
 in the UK and Ireland and 20 internationally as listed below. Each of these represents a
 significant contribution to scholarships in its own right and a practical example of our
 internationalisation work.

 The international keynotes include: Brearton (Majorca, 2018; Paris, 2016); Burnett (Tehran,
 2014; Salvador, Brazil, 2015; Princeton, 2016; Alexandria, 2016, Belgrade, 2019, Seoul, 2020,
 Dayapuram College, India, 2020); Cesario (Vigo 2014); Lehner (Ljubljana 2019); Lugea (PUC
 Santiago, 2018); McGowan (Salzburg, 2017, Palacky University, Czech Republic, 2019); Pepper
 (Tampere, 2018); Pierse (Hacettepe U Turkey 2019); Verhoeven (Freie Universität Berlin and
 Oldenburg, both 2015, Central Michigan U, 2014); Wray (Pontevedra, 2017).

 3.8 Media and public engagement

 Staff in English have a high profile in media and public engagement. Laird writes for the New
 York Times Review of Books. McConnell’s pamphlet, Fothermather, a poetic exploration of
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 parenthood beyond the categories of mother and father, resulted in a BBC Radio 4 programme
 (2.8.20) and Brearton has appeared on BBC Radio 4’s ‘In Our Time’ to discuss modern poetry
 (22.12.16). Given Northern Ireland’s prominence in Brexit negotiations, SHC staff have been
 regularly approached to offer historical and contextual insights and the contributions of Carr and
 Patterson are noteworthy; for example, Carr’s articles in The New York Times (2.6.17) and The
 Economist (3.7.18) and appearance on BBC Radio 4’s ‘Start the Week’ (27.2.17) and
 Patterson’s Backstop Land (2019) and his articles in the Guardian (e.g. 15.4.17). Patterson also
 delivered the BBC’s MacNeice Lecture in 2015. Garden created an online project called ‘Love
 Across the Divide’ which produced a number of short films about Northern Irish novels housed
 on the BBC’s website.

 4.Engagement with non-academic communities

 Engaged research, overseen by a dedicated champion (Litvack), is embedded across the
 subject area and the following list demonstrates that engagement with non-academic
 communities extends beyond those involved in impact case studies.

 4.1. Museums/curation. Litvack curated an exhibition, ‘Technicolour Dickens’, at the Charles
 Dickens Museum (2020), of which he is a Board Member (2003-). He has served on the Boards
 of the Arts Council of Northern Ireland (2014-19), and National Museums Northern Ireland
 (2014–), both of which have research collaborations with QUB. The collaboration between
 English and the Ulster Museum has been particularly fruitful in the census period. For example,
 Carr curated an exhibition, ‘Mapping Alternative Ulster’ (2014) and Cesario organised a photo
 exhibition, ‘Marvelling at the Stars: Comets through the Eyes of the Anglo-Saxons’ (2018), for
 which she collaborated with the Irish Astronomical Association and amateur astronomical
 associations across the UK; and Burnett curated an exhibition on Sir Kenneth Branagh at the
 Ulster Museum (2018). In partnership with the British Council, this exhibition later toured to 14
 libraries and universities in NI/Ireland as well as to venues in Hong Kong. As part of the Indian
 Shakespeares project at QUB (2018-21) and the Being Human festival, PDRs Buckley and
 Periago, in conjunction with the Royal Shakespeare Company and St Stephen’s College, Delhi,
 curated an exhibition at the Linen Hall Library on ‘Shakespeare’s Indian Connections’ (2019).

 4.2. Community arts. Staff in the English area also work with community groups promoting
 literary and artistic practice as a social good. Lehner has run events, under the aegis of her
 AHRC projects (see S1, 5.2, 6.1) with Belfast Exposed, TheatreofplucK, The Rainbow Project,
 Outburst Queer Arts Festival, Tinderbox Theatre, and Kabosh Theatre; and Pierse’s funded
 projects (see S1, 5.4) have seen him working with a range of community partners and creative
 professionals, including Green Shoot Productions, The Northern Ireland Council for Refugees
 and Asylum Seekers, the Markets Development Agency, the Women’s Resource and
 Development Agency, Féile an Phobail, Dearcán Media and the Brassneck theatre group. In
 addition, Patterson is co-founder of Fighting Words Belfast, an all-island children’s writing
 initiative started by Roddy Doyle in Dublin in which more than 4,000 children have already
 attended workshops; some of which have involved McAleavey and Carr as workshop leaders.

 4.3. Government and third sector consultancy. Staff have worked hard to develop close relations
 with government, health charities and other third sector organisations. Livingstone is Academic
 Advisor to the David Livingstone Birthplace Project (a £6 million redevelopment funded by the
 Heritage Lottery Fund, the Scottish Government and Historic Environment Scotland); Lugea has
 collaborated with the Alzheimer’s Society and Dementia NI and continues to work with the
 former on her AHRC-funded project on the intersections between dementia and writing; and
 Sumpter joined Labour MPs, MSPs and peers on a project and book entitled Keir Hardie and
 The Twenty-First Century Socialist Revival (2019).

 5. Engagement with key institutional beneficiaries

 The SHC is centrally involved in liaising with the area’s key institutional beneficiaries. It has
 a close working relationship with the Heaney HomePlace in Bellaghy, with whom a
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Memorandum of Understanding has been signed, and the Estate of Seamus Heaney:
 representatives from both are on the SHC’s Advisory Board. Further cementing the unit’s
 creative-critical links, creative writers join poetry critics to run an education programme for A
 level students through HomePlace (a venture which also include Ulster U) – 4-5 session per
 year including lectures delivered by staff (e.g. Brearton) and tutorials by creative writing and
 poetry PGR students. The SHC also regularly coordinates, and on occasion, shares events with
 HomePlace, including showcases featuring the SHC Fellows. These annual SHC Fellows in their
 creative specialisms, and through high-profile public events and student-focused masterclasses,
 have strengthened links with NI Screen, Screen Ireland, BBC, BAFTA, the Lyric Theatre and the
 Irish Writers’ Centre.
