Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of York

 Unit of Assessment: 21 - Sociology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Context
Our vision: Our ambition is to produce research that is intellectually exciting, empirically rigorous,
theoretically innovative, critical and practice/policy relevant. As a Department we are positioned as
an international driving force within the subfields of: science, health and technology; culture, values
and practices; gender, sexuality and inequalities; and language and social interaction. We will shape
and lead intellectual agendas in these areas.
Our influence: York sociologists have distinguished themselves in the fields of gender, sexuality
and justice, the sociology of health and illness (SHI), science and technology studies (STS), culture
and heritage, popular culture, criminology and urban studies, inequality and intersectionality,
language and communication. Conceptually and methodologically, York sociologists have
consistently generated outstanding and highly influential world-leading research. We are well known
for continuing to shape approaches in conversation analysis, ethnographic observation, visual and
photographic research methods, participatory research, narrative analysis and socio-legal analysis.
Research cluster themes: Our vibrant research environment is supported by four interlinking
research cluster themes serving as a focal point for areas of sociology in which we have a long-
standing reputation. All our staff are active participants in one or more of the clusters. They are
designed to ensure a sustainable critical mass of expertise whilst also flexibly facilitating the cross-
fertilisation of research initiatives. Our cluster themes have successfully intensified our conceptual
and methodological strengths over and above the role of centres (see below).


                                        Sociology at York
                 Research Cluster Themes                   Research Centres

                  Gender, Sexuality and           Centre for Women’s Studies (CWS)
                      Inequalities

              Culture, Values and Practices       Centre for Urban Research (CURB)

                  Language and Social               Centre for Advanced Studies in
                      Interaction                   Language and Communication
                                                               (CASLC)

                   Science, Health and           Science and Technology Studies Unit
                       Technology                             (SATSU)


Our research centres: The Department houses four more highly structured research centres. These
research centres serve a different purpose to cluster themes by having a wider interdisciplinary and
cross-institutional formal membership. In several cases these are co-hosted with other academic
departments at York including English (CWS), Politics (CURB) and Linguistics (CASLC) illustrating
the power of the centres in promoting the Department’s interdisciplinarity. Each has an international
standing dating back several decades in their respective fields. Both SATSU and CWS were founded
over thirty years ago and have demonstrated the unbroken commitment of the Department to the
activities of its research centres/units. Cluster leads and centre/unit directors are standing members

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
of the Departmental Research Committee (DRC). The CWS Director is also a member of the
Departmental Management Team (DMT).

 Spotlight       The Centre for Women’s Studies (CWS), founded in 1984, with a highly
                 international PGR community, has a globally recognised reputation for feminist
                 and gender-oriented research. Physically located in Sociology, CWS is co-hosted
                 with the Department of English and Related Literature, evidencing our
                 commitment to research collaboration and PGR supervision across the institution.
                 CWS research reflects a focus on the experiences of women in societies beyond
                 ‘the west’, engaging in high profile debates about cultural reproduction, sexual
                 diversities, power relations and intersectionality.


Evaluation of the achievement of REF 2014 strategic aims for research
Our REF 2014 submission identified four strategic aims to be developed over the course of five years
and in the lead-up to REF 2021. Each of these aims was to be underpinned by research scholarship
that is ‘attractive to funding bodies’ and is ‘empirically rigorous, theoretically innovative and policy
relevant.’ We have aimed to position ourselves at the forefront of world-leading sociological research
and, to achieve this, we set out to:

(i) Further internationalise the Department through cross-national networking and collaboration, with
the aim of developing innovative conceptual and methodological tools for comparative research.

   •   The Department was successful in strengthening its European comparative research through
       a number of projects. For example, Prof. Webster led the EU COST Action Network Bio-
       objects and their boundaries; Dr Reed was a partner on the £4.4m European Commission
       funded Cutting Edge Approaches for Pollution Assessment in Cities; Prof Wooffitt led on the
       cross-national and bilingual Poetic Confluence in Everyday Social Interaction project (funded
       by Fundação BIAL); Dr Huijts collaborated on the Department’s NORFACE Health
       Inequalities in European Welfare States project; Prof. Annandale collaborated on several
       Swedish Research Council funded projects including How is Gender, Health and Sex
       Interwoven?; Dr Hanquinet led on our EC funded EUCROSS project The Europeanisation of
       Everyday Life.

   •   Beyond Europe, we have expanded our international research through a number of GCRF
       funded projects (ESRC - India; the British Academy – Nigeria, the DRC, South Africa and the
       US; MRC - Sri Lanka; BBSRC - China). Examples of our wider global internationalisation
       include Prof. Atkin’s and Dr Chattoo’s ESRC funded multi-sited ethnography of blood disorder
       treatment in India; Dr Millington’s BA-GCRF funded project Religious urbanisation and
       infrastructure lives in African mega cities; Millington is also Co-I on the BA-funded ‘Pneuma-
       city’ project focussing on sustainability in West African megacities; Dr Lin is a Co-I on GCRF
       BBSRC-funded research collaborating with the China Centre for Disease Control in the
       context of malnutrition and childhood food inequality (2020-23). The Department also funded
       scoping work in a number of country contexts including, for example, South Africa (Dr
       Gardner) and Brazil (Prof. Latimer).

   •   The Department continues to internationalise its work particularly through the Centre for
       Women’s Studies. CWS is a globally recognised centre of excellence drawing research
       students from around the world. We have invested heavily in the CWS research including the
       appointment of 2 new posts to increase research capacity for the CWS Director. Additional
       capacity has been generated through CWS leading the Erasmus Mundus in Women’s and
       Gender Studies (GEMMA). Investment is specifically targeted at enabling CWS academics
       to bid successfully for a number of significant research initiatives (Grace Project/Horizon
       2020 bid [€3.719m], Global Growth Project [£3.728m], Consortium bids to the Humanities in
       European Research Area Public Spaces call for €1m; the Joint Programme Initiative in
       Cultural Heritage in addition to the CWS Director’s work (initially funded by the ESRC) in

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       health and wellbeing, working with established contacts in the NHS. CWS also holds grant-
       funding from the German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD).

 Spotlight       Dr Millington’s 2020 achievement in securing the £1.8m Leverhulme Trust
                 Research Leadership Award, Archiving the inner city: Race and the politics of
                 urban memory, evidences the global internationalisation of our research. This five-
                 year study focuses on the inner-city locations of Brixton (London), Château Rouge
                 / La Goutte d’Or (Paris) and the ‘Seventh Ward’ (Philadelphia). The project
                 explores aspects of archival memory in locations well-documented for their history
                 of migration (post-colonial or rural-urban), black political activism, cultural
                 creativity and latterly, gentrification. The project includes five Research Associates
                 and two PhDs.



(ii) Maximise research resources, in a competitive climate.

   •   In an adverse funding environment, the Department has increased its external research
       income steadily during this cycle rising from an annual average of £461k in REF 2014 to an
       average of £670k for all 7 years of this period (+45%), with a £704k annual average over the
       last 5 years (+52%).

   •   A key aspect of our strategy and processes has been directed at the continued diversification
       of our funders beyond ESRC. We have increased the number of awards secured from the
       AHRC to underpin our work in more cultural areas of sociology, and NIHR in underpinning
       our work in health and in methodologically innovative audio/visual CA research. We have
       been successful in participating in and securing an increasing number of awards from a
       broader range of RCs and funders including the British Academy, EPSRC, ERC, MRC, NIHR,
       BBSRC, the Wellcome Trust, the Leverhulme Trust, and The Swedish Research Council.
       This is in addition to non-traditional funders including the John Templeton Foundation,
       NORFACE, the Spencer Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Crohn’s and Colitis UK,
       Fundação BIAL (Portugal), the Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness, and the
       Swedish Pufendorf Institute for Advanced Studies.

   •   In the last two years we have more than tripled our research support with the appointment of
       a full-time Research Facilitator, and a research Finance Officer dedicated to post-award
       research management. Further resource investment includes a dedicated departmental
       Impact Champion, research-based internships to support grant preparation and increased
       pump-priming for both impact and proof-of-principle. This increase in resource has led to
       measurable successes, especially in GCRF and UKRI funding awards and applications.

   •   We have invested heavily in the reinvigoration of our key areas of strength particularly in the
       context of the Science, Health and Technology cluster. This includes two significant senior
       posts (Prof. Latimer and Prof. Atkin). Our strengths in this area were noted as particularly
       significant in feedback from REF 2014. With newfound relevance in the context of Covid-19,
       we now constitute one of the single largest groupings of scholars working in SHI and STS.
       This has enabled us to attract and retain early career and senior researchers as evidenced
       in our extensive research in health, gender and reproduction (Prof. Annandale; Dr Beynon-
       Jones) the sociology of the biosciences (Prof. Brown; Prof Latimer; Dr Tutton), global health
       (Prof. Atkin; Dr Chattoo; Prof. Annandale); health deprivation (Dr Thirlway); health
       professional-patient interaction (Dr Jackson; Dr Toerien) and embodiment (Prof. Nettleton;
       Dr Buse; Dr Martin; Dr Lawler).




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Spotlight        PARC (Pathways, practices and architectures: containing antimicrobial resistance
                  in the cystic fibrosis clinic) illustrates our AHRC-funded research and the
                  diversification of our research funding since the last REF. PARC (2018-20)
                  combined innovative graphic, visual and participatory methods to shed light on the
                  relationship between healthcare building architectures and the spread of
                  infections in clinical settings. The project has since become one of the first studies
                  to make sociological sense of the many socio-material and cultural features of
                  social life in the context of Covid-19.

(iii) Invest in our existing research clusters and centres to enable internal and external collaborations.

   •   The Department has invested heavily in the vibrancy of its research clusters in addition to
       further resource for staffing and the support of research centre activities and initiatives.

   •   We have further developed our internationally recognised research strengths in conversation
       analysis. The Department boasts the biggest Sociology cohort of CA specialists in the UK
       and co-hosts the only language and communication centre in the country (CASLC) combining
       Linguistics and Sociology.

   •   Extended periods of research leave have been allocated both to CASLC (Drs Toerien and
       Jackson) and SATSU (Prof. Latimer) for the development of the centres. As noted, we have
       invested significantly in CWS with the appointment of its new Director (Prof. Robinson).
       Department research development funds have been invested in SATSU’s ECR and PGR
       lab@satsu and the funding of Sociology’s prestigious bi-annual public lectures, each aimed
       at attracting globally recognised scholars in the respective field of each cluster. To date, the
       clusters have delivered public lectures from Prof. Imogen Tyler, Prof. John Heritage and BBC
       journalist Carrie Gracie.

   •   We have expanded and extended our research collaborations with colleagues in other
       disciplines particularly in the Departments of Environment, Law, Computer Science, York
       Management School, Politics, and Biology. Our interdisciplinary research in the areas of
       science, the environment, animal-human relations, and inequality and social justice is
       illustrated by our involvement in the University’s Leverhulme Centre for Anthropocene
       Biodiversity (Institutional Environment Statement (IES): 21). Prof. Pickett, one of our impact
       case study authors, is the Centre’s Associate Director, and Sociology’s Dr Reed and Dr Rees
       are Associates.

 Spotlight        Centre for Advanced Studies in Language & Communication (CASLC):
                  Sociology’s Dr Merran Toerien has been appointed Director of CASLC spanning
                  the Departments of Sociology, Language & Linguistics, Education, Psychology
                  and Health Sciences. CASLC is known, internationally for being one of only a few
                  centres in the world to offer a programme of research training in CA to graduate
                  students, post-docs, established researchers and non-academic professionals.
                  CASLC’s programme of research seminars each draws hundreds of attendees
                  from around the world (including China, Japan, Brazil, the USA, Australia, South
                  Africa and Europe).


(iv) Expand the audiences of our work, through the use of all available technologies to communicate
our research, in order to raise our national and international profile.

   •   The Department has seen a very significant step change in how it creatively pursues external
       engagement and impact, including AHRC funded research resulting in web-based tools,
       games and narrative methods (Dr Amanda Rees, Unsettling Scientific Stories). The success
       of this digital resource has led to partnerships with the Royal Society, local educational
       establishments, and the Science Museum in using this resource for their own engagement
       purposes. Prof. Brown was awarded £70k to work with the Royal College of Art in the design

                                                                                                  Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       of an interactive mobile exhibition on the ‘Post-Antibiotic Future’. Drs Toerien and Jackson
       developed, piloted and launched an interactive online CPD package on ‘patient choice’ for
       training medical students and practising clinicians, a package that has now been included in
       policy and medical education internationally, and is the basis of one of our three impact case
       studies.

   •   The Department has led pioneering methodological innovations that actively synthesise
       research, dissemination and impact, including, for example: novel visual methodologies and
       interview-based graphic elicitation, exhibitions and co-design work. For example, Prof.
       Brown’s AHRC-funded PARC was selected to be showcased in the Aspect.ac.uk funded
       ‘Methods for Change’ initiative, and has led to a follow-on ESRC IAA award. Our NIHR-
       funded study, Voices in Partnership, Video-Informed Practice, in collaboration with midwives,
       is the very first sociological study to video-record childbirth.

   •   Prof. Beer has been delivering MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) based on his
       research into cyber security, data algorithms and social media. This is based on a series of
       research monographs including Metric Power and Popular Culture and New Media. These
       resources are free research and educational tools available globally raising the research
       profile of the Department and SATSU beyond academia.

Significant changes since REF2014
The Department has continued to significantly invest in its research culture and supporting
infrastructure. In order to achieve our research vision and goals we made a series of strategic
interventions around research leadership, research staffing support, impact leadership and faculty-
level support for research and impact. This is evidenced in:

   •   Continued investment in research leadership including senior strategic appointments (Prof.
       Latimer and Prof. Atkin).

   •   Very significantly increased the size of our PGR community with successful PhD awards
       having increased considerably from 39 in 2014 to 75.5 at the 2020 census point.

   •   The appointment of a dedicated full-time Research Facilitator post in the Department, in
       addition to a 0.5 Research Finance Officer to provide post-award support. The Research
       Facilitator post was previously shared with a larger department (Politics). We have therefore
       tripled investment in administrative support for research.

   •   We have instituted a policy to protect 40% of allocated workload for research per FTE
       member of staff. Fractional buyout from grants is added to this allocated research time.

   •   A reform in research leave policy meaning that staff can now apply for significantly longer
       periods of sustained leave (now up to a year as opposed to a maximum of one term
       previously).

   •   The Department continues to increase the influence of its research scholarship. We have
       published 572 research outputs in this REF cycle (monographs, edited or co-edited books,
       special issues, chapters etc.) including 330 peer-reviewed journal articles. This compares to
       368 outputs in the last REF cycle of which 246 were peer-reviewed journal articles. York
       Sociologists have published an average of 13 peer-reviewed journal articles each during this
       REF cycle (by FTE).

   •   Very significantly, the amount of funding available to research support has grown from £25k
       in 2015 to £60k per year currently, allowing us to dedicate extra resource to invest in pump-
       priming and scoping research exercises, impact-based activities and nurturing external
       partnerships. This has included matched funding from the Department against external
       research income, and support for PGRs and ECRs (see below).

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Objectives and activities for the next 5 years
During the next five years we aim to internationalise our research still further, increase
interdisciplinary research, extend impact activity and ensure we increase our research income and
staffing to underpin these aims.

   •   Internationalisation: We will further internationalise our research with the aim of developing
       innovative conceptual and methodological tools for comparative research. We will further
       extend our established links, particularly in Asia, Africa and Europe.

   •   Interdisciplinary innovation: Interdisciplinary research will be extended by forging new
       collaborations within and beyond the University of York to promote innovative thinking
       through intellectual cross-fertilisation. York sociologists have active collaborations with
       colleagues in a range of disciplines including biology, archaeology, english, health sciences,
       history, law and management.

   •   Influence and impact: We will continue to extend the reach of our impact and expand the
       beneficiaries of our research by enhancing the outward facing aspects of our work, increasing
       engagement with wider local, national and global communities. We seek to maximise the
       potential of our research to set and shape academic, social, cultural, political and policy
       agendas by including beneficiaries especially at all stages of our research, especially design
       and conception.

   •   Research resource: We will seek to increase our research income by supporting staff to
       maximise our potential to attract funding from the UK and international research funders,
       charities and government departments. We will also empower our research centres in
       securing external funding to underpin their work and use our departmental funds to support
       this. We will pursue inter and intra disciplinary collaborations to ensure our involvement in
       larger scale projects and facilitate external partnerships that respond to and shape
       government and funder strategic priorities.

Impact and strategy
The implementation of our impact objectives has led to the development of a vibrant externally facing
impact culture, building on the previous success of our impact submission to REF 2014, in which all
our ICSs were awarded 4*. Since then, we have set out to extend, deepen and widen our impact
strategy, nurturing new and developing areas of research influence.

Our Department Impact Strategy formally outlines our aims and mode of implementation. Impact is
core to our research, and we factor in impact at the outset of research planning and development
working closely with those who benefit from our work. Impact is overseen by the DRC and in
particular our Impact Sub-committee and Impact Champion (carrying significant workload allocation).
These support impact activity by identifying training needs, encouraging staff and allocating funds to
underpin impact activity proactively targeting beneficiaries for our research, fostering collaboration,
embedding and documenting impact.

The range of our impact is reflected in the diversity of our ICSs and wider impact work. Our influence
in science, technology and health is evidenced in Prof. Webster’s work which has impacted the
domestic and international worlds of regenerative medicine, including regulation and clinical practice.
Sociology’s Dr Huijts, together with international colleagues, designed the survey element of ‘Social
inequalities in health and their determinants’ for the 7th wave of the European Social Survey. Our
impact on social media policy is illustrated by Prof. Beer’s research leading to specially
commissioned Recommendations for the Cabinet Office for Online Targeting Policy, collaborating
with the Government’s Centre for Data Ethics and Innovation. Evidence of the impact of the report
can be found in its findings being included in the CDEI’s 2019 Report.



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our impact case studies represent a mix of sustained research influence in addition to newer areas
of impact. Our expertise in the context of sexuality and gender is reflected in Prof. Johnson’s impact
on legal legislative change in sexual equality, working closely with collaborators in the UK
Parliament, the Judiciary and campaign NGOs. Our impact in the worlds of health and illness is
reflected in Drs Toerien and Jackson’s translation of their conversation analysis research findings
into training and national guidelines for medical students and practitioners resulting in a
transformative programme of impact activities spanning Brazil, The Netherlands, Norway and the
UK (including the UK’s NICE shared decision-making guidelines). Prof. Pickett’s ICS has had impact
within the United Nations, the EU, OECD, UK government MPs, and more widely (see Pickett’s
appointment to the Vatican’s ‘commission on the science and ethics of happiness and wellbeing’).
This is in addition to impact on wider publics (see for example, ‘The Divide’ film by award-winning
director Christopher Hird, inspired by Prof. Pickett’s research monograph The Spirit Level (with
Wilkinson). Our submitted case studies are illustrative of the far wider impact work engaged in across
the Department. We have also contributed to campaigns for social change, such as Prof Pickett’s
activity as Chair of the Greater Manchester Independent Inequalities Commission.

Our impact support structures have directly and materially led to impact. Two of our ICSs (Prof.
Johnson, Drs Toerien/Jackson) have been in receipt of departmental funding in addition to funding
from the University’s highly competitive ESRC Impact Accelerator Awards (IAA) (IES: 50). The
Department was successful in securing 11 IAAs during this cycle totalling £109,658, including
separate projects by Dr Chattoo (blood disorders), Dr Rees (social futures) and Prof. Nettleton
(architectures). We have also, in addition to the case studies submitted here, been successful in
securing other sources of impact funding including substantial awards from the UoY’s Wellcome
Trust funded Centre for Future Health ‘Knowledge Exchange, Impact and Translation Fund’. This
included £70k to support an impact exhibition arising from Prof. Brown’s AHRC-funded research on
infections and healthcare buildings. Dr Lin was also successful in securing an ESRC IAA to fund an
exhibition entitled ‘My life of food’ in collaboration with the retailer Marks & Spencer. Prof. Kitzinger
had been successful in securing a number of departmental and institutional (Centre for Chronic
Diseases and Disorders, and Centre for Future Health) priming funds leading to the 2015 ESRC
impact prize.

Spotlight      Prof. Webster’s Regenerative Medicine and Its Development and Implementation
               (ESRC £1,237,896, Webster PI) developed a practical tool for use by NHS clinics to
               identify the resources and capacities required to be ‘institutionally ready’ to deliver
               novel advanced cell and gene therapies (regenerative medicine) to patients. The tool
               was initially adopted by the Northern Alliance Advanced Therapies National
               Treatment Centre (funded by Innovate-UK) and subsequently by the pan-Advanced
               Therapy Treatment Centres (Manchester, Midlands and Wales). It is being rolled out
               to all NHS sites where regenerative medicine is being introduced. Findings from the
               research were included in the House of Commons Science and Technology Select
               Committee Inquiry on regenerative medicine.


York Sociology Open Science, Open Access and Research Integrity
The Department embraces the values of research integrity, transparency in research and is
committed to Open Science and Open Access. Our research explores what are often ethically,
morally, politically and personally sensitive issues. Our principles and practices are reflected in our
own Departmental policy and guidance statement, dealing with discipline-specific sociological
aspects of OS and OA.

Integrity in data management procedures:
Our approach to research data management (RDM) takes account of the active curation of data
throughout the research life-cycle, attending to the way data are organised, stored, secured and
shared. The Department adheres to the University guidance on data management practices when
developing, carrying out, storing and disseminating research (IES: 17). Beyond Open Access and


                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
RDM we make full use of open science methodologies such as preregistration, preprint sharing (e.g.
SocArXiv).

The preservation and data sharing post-project completion:
All our research funded by UKRI and NIHR is, where appropriate, offered to the UK Data Archive, in
addition to following Wellcome repository guidance. We work to ensure that, where appropriate,
empirical data or information about data sets is recorded on the York Research Database (PURE).

 Spotlight      Data on ‘Being a Doctor in the UK’: Prof. Nettleton’s ESRC funded research project
                undertaken in 2005 to 2006, brought a sociological perspective to an exploration of
                the views and experiences of medical clinicians in the NHS. The data have
                subsequently been used by researchers for secondary analysis and for teaching
                and training medical students. The UK Data Service use this as a case study to
                illustrate good practice (See: ‘From research to use; the data life-cycle of an
                archived qualitative study used for teaching’).


Integrity in Open Science and Open Access:
Researchers in Sociology make use of the University of York’s Open Access fund to support open
publication of all UKRI, NIHR, Cancer Research UK and Wellcome Trust funded research (IES: 16).
The DRC has oversight of RDM, open science and open access, promoting awareness of the
requirements of transparency and sharing research. All staff and research students have a
responsibility to ensure that they understand and comply with regulations, codes and policies on
data management, research integrity, open science and open access. We regularly update a suite
of resources most suited to researchers in sociology at York including UKRI Concordat on Open
Research Data; UKRI Open Access Principles and High-Level Policy; UK Data service; ESRC Open
Access Policy and Guidance; Wellcome Trust Policy on Research Data Sharing.

Research ethics:
The research of York Sociologists is overseen by the ELMPS Social Science Research Ethics
Committee, covering the Departments of Economics, Law, Management, Politics and Sociology. In
addition, we have extensive experience in applications to NHS Research Ethics Committees.

 2. People


We are a collegiate department with a vibrant, research-intensive group of staff. The Department
has undergone a significant period of development and has been able to make key strategic
appointments. At the census date, we comprise 9 Professors, 2 Readers, 10 Senior Lecturers, 6
Lecturers, 7 Research Fellows, 4 full-time Associate Lecturers, and 11 Professional Services staff
as well as emeritus colleagues and visiting scholars. Recent appointments have seen us expand our
expertise in areas such as culture, urban sociology, criminology, race and ethnicity, migration,
gender, sexuality, human rights, health, science and technology, and religion.

Staffing Strategy
The Department has continued to recruit in accordance with our research and curriculum
development strategy. There are three intersecting objectives: (i) investing in senior scholars to
provide leadership in the Department’s four research clusters and associated centres; (ii) recruitment
of junior colleagues with outstanding potential to augment our areas of research excellence and
ensure future sustainability; and (iii) consolidating a staff base with a range of substantive and
methodological skills to facilitate innovative collaborative research and ensure dynamic research-led
teaching programmes. During the REF cycle we have achieved a good balance of research leaders,
established mid-career scholars, and junior colleagues.

A mark of our sustainability is that, although several senior colleagues have moved or retired, we
have seen strong investment in the sustainability of research leadership. Advertised posts have

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
attracted exceptionally strong fields and enabled us to appoint high calibre scholars during this REF
cycle. This has included Profs Atkin and Latimer, Drs Buse (L) and Tutton (SL) in the Science Health
and Technology cluster; Drs Lawler (Reader), Sian (L), O’Brien (L) and Strhan (SL) in the Cultural
Practices cluster; Prof. Robinson (Director of CWS), Dr Huijts (SL) and Prof. O’Neill and Dr Connelly
(L) within the Gender, Sexuality and Inequality cluster.

Evidence of support for equality and diversity
Equality and diversity are fundamentally central to the research community that we are, and to the
nature of the research that we undertake. This is reflected in the focus of our research on questions
of inequality and social justice and, for example, our direct involvement in the legal and political
evolution of legislation around protected characteristics. This can be evidenced through our research
and impact in the contexts of social justice, sexual orientation, gender and equality (Profs. Johnson
and Robinson, Dr Lin), class (Dr Lawler), race (Prof. Atkin and Dr Sian), disability (Prof. Latimer),
aging (Dr Buse), global health (Dr Chattoo, Profs. Annandale and Atkin) and medical ethics (Dr
Ashall). Our academics have formally been involved in the UoY’s anti-racist agenda (Prof. Johnson
and Dr Sian).

UoY’s HR provisions supporting family friendly policies, are routinely drawn upon to support
colleagues achieve work/life balance through a range of mechanisms: flexibly temporary and
permanent part-time working, career breaks, flexible working hours, core hours to facilitate childcare,
accommodating reasonable adjustments for individual circumstances including for disability, illness,
bereavement and distance working (IES: 24). All of these mechanisms have been utilised during this
REF cycle. The DMT, as a standing item, reviews the impact of all staffing and workload decisions
on colleagues working on reduced hours contracts.

Our Athena Swan agenda and application process has deepened our critical reflection and
engagement with these issues. We have instituted an Equalities Committee which both monitors and
promotes the Department’s approach to inclusion including generating all necessary data and
background material for our Athena Swan accreditation. Athena Swan is a standing item at our Board
of Studies. The Athena Swan Lead and Equality and Diversity Champion in the Department is a
substantially workloaded role.

The Department has significantly improved the gender mix of staff in research and teaching
contracts, as a result of its commitment to address any gender imbalance in staff members. Women
accounted for 45% of ART staff in 2011 rising steadily to 57% in the current submission. Data on
academic staff by grades show that women are well represented in higher grades, as a result of the
department’s policy to proactively encourage women to apply for promotion. At SL and at readership
level the gender mix is balanced.

E&D considerations directly informed our submission. We provide research leave to all staff returning
from maternity leave, contributing to our submitted outputs. The gender distribution of our outputs is
48/52% male/female. 57% of our staff are women. Of the four colleagues with 4 or more outputs,
two are women, one an early career lecturer, one SL and two Professors. Our process therefore
aims to celebrate excellence irrespective of seniority. There is an exactly equal distribution of double-
weighted outputs between women and men. Our selection also reflects the E&D values of our
research focussed on protected characteristics, cultural diversity and inequality. RMT, responsible
for selecting outputs, underwent UoY online modules monitoring unconscious bias prior to face-to-
face training. Our processes directly align with UoY's E&D Vision celebrating ‘diverse cultures,
knowledge and identities’.

Support for the research development of staff
For those on teaching and research contracts, staff development is facilitated by five integrated
mechanisms: (1) adjusted workload allocation; (2) research sabbaticals/leave for research grant
preparation, outputs and impact; (3) mentoring; (4) annual performance review; and (5) research
and impact training.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Workload allocation:
For their first two years, ECRs are allocated reduced teaching and administration loads to allow them
to become firmly embedded within the Department, the research clusters and to establish their own
research initiatives, particularly in the context of research grant preparation. Senior appointments
are also allocated reduced teaching and administration duties for their first two terms. The
Department has a policy of protecting 40% of workload for research, irrespective of any buy-out.

Research Sabbaticals:
ART staff are encouraged to apply for periods of research leave of up to one year. Applications are
reviewed annually by the Research Management Team, a sub-committee of the DMT including HoD,
Deputy HoD, Director of Research, Research Facilitator, Impact Champion, the REF Director and
ECR participation. The objectives of the scheme are to support the strategic research priorities of
the department including high quality research grant applications, outputs and impact. Between the
beginning of 2014 and the end of 2018, the Department allocated 50 full terms of research leave and
other alleviation, and all ART staff were given at least one period of research leave. Research leave
activity is highly transparent and is fully accounted for with an open report to the DRC.

Mentoring:
Junior staff are mentored by a senior colleague and are matched by research interests. The
University provides additional support through its Postgraduate Certificate of Academic Practice
(PGCAP) scheme, mandatory for all new lecturers (IES: 29). The PGCAP includes a specific focus
on research activities, with workshops on writing for publication, doctoral supervision, research
career development, research planning and management, and research integrity and ethics.

Annual performance review:
Consisting of an in-depth one-to-one discussion based on prior completion of a report of activities in
the past year; future research plans and forthcoming research sabbaticals. Wherever possible,
reviewers remain consistent to ensure effective and productive discussion of annual progress and
to ensure best possible identification of training and development needs.

Training:
The DRC organises a series of events and away days on writing and publishing, research integrity,
open access, ethics and impact. All academic colleagues, including postdoctoral researchers and
associate lecturers, are allocated a training, development, and conferences budget which they are
free to use to undertake training and development opportunities.

The department also hosts Research Forums two to three times a year. These forums focus on
various topics related to research e.g. impact, data management etc, and aim to provide interactive
training or workshops to discuss issues in more detail and to interact with peers and experts in each
area.

Concordat:
For those on research only contracts, we have embedded the principles of the UK ‘Concordat to
Support the Career Development of Researchers’ to facilitate a strong, nurturing research
environment for staff (IES: 27-28). We identified a series of actions which include ECR
representation on the DRC and regular discussions on continuity of employment at an early stage.
The career development of ECRs is further underpinned by an ECR’s Forum, funded by the DRC.
We have also hosted two ECR dedicated forums with the Vice Chancellor to discuss issues directly
related to ECR/PGR development with the University’s senior management. Examples of direct
internal career progression include: Dr Buse formerly Research Associate now promoted to
Lectureship and Dr Robinson, a PhD student now appointed as Associate Lecturer. The Department
directly funded a postdoctoral fellowship to which Dr O’Neill was appointed in 2016, subsequently
resulting in a successful Wellcome Trust fellowship. Dr Shillitoe came to the department as a
research associate and was subsequently employed as an Associate Lecturer, with specific
responsibility for Athena Swan.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Spotlight      York Sociology is a positive environment for the research development and career
                progression of our staff. Dr Buse was appointed in 2015 as RA to our ESRC-funded
                project, Buildings in the Making (ES/M008398/1), going on to collaborate with
                colleagues in the Department on a number of research grant applications becoming
                CoI on the AHRC-funded Pathways, Practices and Architectures (AH/R002037/1).
                With colleagues in the Department, she has contributed to 22 journal articles since
                her appointment. In order to underpin her longer-term career progression at York,
                she was appointed Lecturer in 2018, during her transition between externally
                funded projects.


Research Students
The Department has nearly doubled the number of successful PhD awards in this REF cycle, from
39 in the 2014 submission to 75.5 awards to the year 2019/20. Despite an increase in numbers, our
on-time submissions are comparatively favourable (85%).
In terms of formal structures:
    ● PGR Committee convenes twice per term with open PGR representation, with the formal
        involvement of PGR reps. The PGR committee is informed by the strategic initiatives of the
        York Graduate Research School (YGRS) (IES: 30-4).
    ● PGRs are assigned two supervisors with supervisions occurring at least every 6-7 weeks.
        Two further members of staff serve on the Thesis Advisory Panel that meets at least twice
        annually to review progress and training. Progression is formally monitored and managed
        through our SkillsForge system.
    ● PGRs move through a clearly defined training pathway including, for example, mandatory
        training in Research Integrity, and a formal application for faculty research ethics approval
        (required in most cases).
Our PGR community is a vibrant and engaged, supported by a broad range of activities beyond more
formal pedagogic structures including:
    ● PGR conferences – Every year, the Department hosts a PGR Conference organised by the
       students to showcase their work and network with their peers beyond the UoY. This is funded
       by the Department but run entirely by PGRs including selection of the theme, presenting the
       case for support, inviting keynotes and organising dissemination (including platforming our
       PG research on BBC Radio 4’s Thinking Allowed). A second annual conference is organised
       by academic staff and is dedicated to showcasing papers from our own PGR students.
    ● PhD Away Days – These are additional annual events, fully funded by the Department,
       focussing on ECR-specific needs including career development and progression, publishing,
       equity and inclusivity, etc.
    ● A Department of Sociology-specific PGR staff-led training programme that involves three
       masterclass workshops per term each in one of the following categories: methods (with an
       emphasis on ethics applications); post-PhD preparation; concepts, author meets critic.
    ● In addition, through our Thesis Advisory Panel (TAP) mechanism, our PGRs are directed
       towards regular participation in the Faculty level Social Science research training
       programme, participation that is routinely reviewed. This in addition to being directed towards
       skills and training provided through the University’s Research Excellence Training Team
       (RETT) (IES: 32).
    ● University Spotlight awards – PGRs from the Department are actively encouraged to enter
       the UoY Spotlight competitions and contribute to academic events including the York Festival
       of Ideas and Pint of Science, resulting in awards for presentations to non-academic
       audiences (York Talks).
    ● Each of the research clusters’ themes and associated research centres have a rolling cycle
       of events that seek to integrate PGRs with faculty staff: for example, lab@Satsu aimed at
       fostering collaborative opportunities across the campus for PGRs and ECRs working in the
       area.
Our reputation for world leading sociological research has proved to be attractive to home and
international applicants. Our PGRs are highly qualified and funded from a range of sources including

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the ESRC; AHRC; the University of York’s Overseas Research Scholarships fund; the
Commonwealth Scholarships Commission; Fundação BIAL (Portugal); and various overseas
universities and governments.

York sociologists played a leading role in securing the White Rose ESRC DTP, which together with
its partners offers high calibre training programmes. In this period, York sociology was the lead for
the White Rose DTP Qualitative Methods Network. All PGRs in Sociology are allocated funds for
conference participation (£750) and other activities but are encouraged to apply to the DRC for
further funding as appropriate.

Our PGRs enjoy a bespoke suite of designated office accommodation and social facilities. Those
who wish to are also encouraged to spend at least a portion of their research degree in the offices
of the multi-disciplinary Research Centre for Social Sciences (RCSS) which provides social science
research training programs and study facilities. Our PGRs are also supported through the
establishment of ‘peer pods’ providing informal mutual support.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


A number of key infrastructural strategies underpin our research performance:
  i.  Our Departmental research expectations policy requires that ‘all staff either hold a funded
      award or are preparing one’ and all staff receive underpinning support in achieving this
      expectation. This expectation was met during the REF cycle, with all of our ART staff applying
      for research grants during the assessment period. 78% of our ART staff were awarded or
      held grants whilst at York during this period. This compares to 75% in 2014, and fewer than
      40% of staff holding grants in 2008.

  ii.   Significant investment in research support has enabled us to achieve a total external
        research income of £4,687,013 in this period. This represents an increase in our average
        annual research income of 45% from £461,585 in the previous cycle to £669,573 annually
        over the last 7 years of the cycle period. We have attracted an average of £703,892 annually
        over the final five years of this cycle. This represents an increase of 52% for comparison
        between REF 2014 and 2021. Our average annual research income by FTE over the last five
        years has grown to £26,330 from £18,389 in 2014.

 iii.   As noted above, we have now made significant investments in our in-house administrative
        and strategic research support. This includes significant personnel changes and new
        appointments which has translated into stronger research funding performance. First, in 2018
        we increased our Research Facilitator post (previously shared 50/50 with the larger Politics
        department) from 0.5 to full time. This post is now entirely dedicated to supporting Sociology’s
        researchers in identifying appropriate funding sources, contributing to the preparation of
        grant applications and supporting grant holders with project management. The post-holder
        also has input into departmental research strategy and REF administration and recognises
        areas for investment or funding suitability. The post is thus by far the single most significant
        factor in increasing our research funding success over recent years. This is evidenced by the
        percentage increase in our research income performance and the diversification of our
        research funding portfolio. Second, and more recently, we have additionally invested in the
        appointment of 0.5 post-award Research Finance Officer responsible for the rolling financial
        management of research grant budgets. This has the added benefit of being able to divert
        some tasks from the Research Facilitator role, enabling the post-holder to focus on more
        strategic research initiatives.

 iv.    We have enhanced our internal peer review process to provide stronger input on the quality
        of our award applications. This includes a series of phased discussions at various stages of
        grant preparation involving grant authors and reviewers. All applications are submitted to an
        internal Department of Sociology Peer Review College that draws on the expertise of staff
        with considerable experience of acting on research-commissioning panels. Colleagues have

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       found this process invaluable in the further development of their research grant proposals
       and is evidenced through our success. This was particularly useful in applications for
       Fellowships evidenced in the successful bids of Dr Rees to the British Academy, Prof.
       Johnson’s and Nettleton’s separate applications to the Leverhulme Fellowship scheme, and
       Dr Kapoor’s bid for a prestigious ESRC Future Research Leaders Fellowship. Mock interview
       panels have also been facilitated through this initiative and have ensured successful bids for
       highly competitive fellowships including Dr Ashall and Dr O’Neill’s Wellcome Trust
       Fellowships.

 v.    The Department has very substantially increased its own internal pump-priming research
       budget from £25k annually in the previous REF cycle, to £60k at the present. There is a highly
       structured process in place for colleagues to make formal applications to the DRC (whose
       membership is open across the Department) for internal funds, explicitly identifying
       achievable research outcomes. The application criteria are broad but include funds for proof
       of principle in the preparation for larger grant applications and impact. One example of this
       is our £622,904k NIHR study (Interactional practices of decision-making during childbirth in
       maternity units) which was initially conceived and developed on the basis of internal funding
       to CA-transcribe the popular broadcast documentary, One Born Every Minute (Channel 4).
       This proof of principle provided sufficient justification to undertake the follow-on NIHR-funded
       gathering primary audio-video data on birthing experiences and decisions.

 vi.   In addition to securing 11 ESRC IAA awards during this cycle, we have been successful in
       securing University research pump priming funds (often matched by our own DRC
       investment) to develop new research projects (IES: 10). These awards have provided the
       basis for generating significant external grant income and prestigious collaborations. This
       included University funded meetings and workshops to support the NIHR decision-making
       during childbirth study mentioned above. Dr Millington’s £1.8m Leverhulme award emerged
       directly from a Department-funded collaboration between Sociology, History and the York
       Centre for Modern Studies called Archiving the City enabling field trips, a symposium and
       planning meeting at Humboldt University in Berlin. Prof. Brown’s AHRC-funded PARC project
       was developed using Department pump priming to fund field trips and meetings with UK-
       based cystic fibrosis clinics. Prof Webster was granted funding which enabled the launch of
       the new national association for Science and Technology Studies, AsSIST-UK, attended by
       100 Delegates from over 30 academic organisations including senior staff from Nature,
       ESRC, the Wellcome Trust, Palgrave Macmillan and the British Society for the History of
       Science (BSHS). The Association has now 220 members and is continuing to grow.

vii.   The Department has been infrastructurally supported through successful applications to the
       University of York Impact Accelerator Account (ESRC), the jointly-funded UoY/Wellcome
       Trust C2D2 (Centre for Chronic Diseases and Disorders) and its successor CFH (Centre for
       Future Health) and the University of York Pump-priming fund.


Spotlight        Infrastructure - New premises: 2020/21 sees the Department of Sociology move
                 from the premises in which it has been housed for the last 50 years (Wentworth
                 College), to new architecturally prestigious premises on the Heslington East
                 Campus. The new physical accommodation comprises more bespoke research
                 labs, open plan meeting facilities, post-graduate research suites and workshop
                 spaces. The building itself will accommodate the Departments of Sociology and
                 Law, thus consolidating our research strengths in socio-legal studies, justice and
                 criminology.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Research Collaborations:
Attesting to the success of our research strategy, York sociologists have extensive research
collaborations evidenced through the sheer number and diversity of our awards: our researchers
have led and/or collaborated on significant research grants including 24 UKRI projects, 7 NIHR, 3
Leverhulme Trust, 4 Wellcome Trust and 9 British Academy research grants. All our projects have
generated high quality research outputs that underpin our impact agenda.

We have collaborated on funded projects with a wide range of national and international research
partners including colleagues at the universities of Greenwich, Lancaster, Newcastle,
Loughborough, Manchester, Sheffield, Imperial, Bristol, Durham, UCL, Belfast, Kent, Birmingham,
Sussex, Edinburgh, Exeter and Aberystwyth. This is in addition to formal collaborative research
partnerships with Aalto University, Harvard, Rotterdam, Oslo, Umeå, Uppsala, Siegan and the
Humboldt in Berlin. As noted above, we have also sought to diversify our funding securing awards
from a number of alternative funders including the John Templeton Foundation, Cancer Research
UK and The Swedish Research Council. Colleagues in the Department (Drs Buse and Martin) have
led on the Materialities of Care network, with funded support from The BSA Foundation for the
Sociology of Health and Illness.

Engagement with key users:
We have long-established and new partnerships with a broad range of non-academic collaborators
especially in the context of social services and healthcare (clinicians, hospital trusts and bioscience
industries), charitable organizations, government departments, and cultural industries and retail.
One of our AHRC standard grants has provided the basis for the development of research-based
digital pedagogic tools through collaborations with The Royal Society and the Science Museum (Dr
Rees). Prof. Beer has also been working with think tank IPPR to develop advisory changes to Labour
Party Policy regarding Data Protection and Data Management. This is in addition to consultative
work he has been undertaking for the Cabinet Office, drafting recommendations for policy
development on the regulation of social media.

Prof. Pickett, author of one of our impact case studies, is a co-founder of The Equality Trust, a charity
which works to build a social movement for a more equal society. Her research (in collaboration with
Prof. Wilkinson) framing inequality as a root cause of population wellbeing has been integral to
developing frameworks for sustainable development and has included, inter alia, a report
commissioned by the UN Department of Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA), Priorities for a
socially just transition towards sustainable development.

In evidencing the diversity and reach of our collaborations, the Department has formal agreements
(memoranda of agreement and binding contractual arrangements) with a wide range of partners
including The Royal College of Art Helen Hamlyn Centre for Design, Merseyside Police,
Counterpoints Arts, the TATE, the Royal Society, The Science Museum, the Royal Society, Marks
and Spencer PLC, IPPR and Policy Network, the Cystic Fibrosis Trust and the Cabinet Office. Our
sociological research projects on respiratory infectious disease, cystic fibrosis and reproductive
medicine/childbirth are fundamentally rooted in formal partnerships with UK NHS Trusts (including
Liverpool, Leeds, York, Esk and Wear Valley, Sheffield and Calderdale and Huddersfield).

Prof. MacDonald’s AHRC prestigious large-grant project ‘Assembling Heritage: Curating the Past,
Caring for the Future’ included partners from the Arts Council England, the Association of
Independent Museums in China, the National Academy of Arts, the Regional Office for Europe, the
New Horizons Message Initiative, the New School House Gallery, the Heritage Alliance, The National
Trust, the Wheal Martyn Trust and York Museums Trust.




                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Regular meetings for the purposes of developing collaborations and research bids are facilitated
between relevant department staff, University interdisciplinary bodies such as centres and units and
external non-academic partners (see sections 3.v and 3.vi above). Our research collaborations and
partnerships have an agenda-setting track record. By way of example, Dr Strhan’s research on
religion and education was cited in relation to revising RE GCSE and A Level subject content in
Department for Education policy (see Ref: DFE-00043-2015). Dr Lin’s work with the retailer Marks
& Spencer has resulted in high profile community engagement and exhibition events exploring the
Role of Food in Older Adults’ Everyday Lives. Dr Beynon-Jones’ Wellcome-Trust funded work on
pregnancy termination has progressed in close collaboration with BPAS (British pregnancy advisory
service), who supported the development of her AHRC-funded Regulating Time research network
and hosted one of its events.

Indicators of esteem and influence:
Colleagues in the Department are frequently recognised for their research through nominations for
prizes and awards. For example, Dr Strhan was shortlisted for BBC/BSA Thinking Allowed
Ethnography Award in 2016 and Dr Martin won the Mildred Blaxter Foundation for the Sociology of
Health & Illness New Writer Award in 2015. Prof Annandale’s The Sociology of Health and Medicine
was ‘Highly Commended’ in the BMA Medical Book Awards 2015. Prof. Latimer received the BSA
Foundation for the Sociology of Health and Illness Annual Book Prize in 2014. Dr Tutton was
nominated for the BSA Medical Sociology Book Prize in 2015 and Dr Gardner was nominated for
the BSA Philip Abrams Memorial Prize in 2020. Dr Lin was also a finalist for the Philip Abrams prize
in 2014. Dr Sian was awarded the 2014 Reward the real heroes in the struggle against Islamophobia
by the Islamic Human Rights Commission. Prof. Webster received the Annual Award of the Society
for the Social Study of Science in 2017. Prof. Johnson was shortlisted for the Sociological Review
Prize for Outstanding Scholarship and nominated for the Gerda Henkel Prize 2020.

The international scope of our work has been recognised in a number of funded visiting fellowships
to many prestigious centres for sociological research including, for example, Umeå University,
Uppsala University, Bowdoin College, Drexel University (Prof. Annandale); University of Lund (Prof.
Brown); Rhodes University (Dr Toerien); Trent University and Nanyang Technological University
(Prof Jackson); ITU Copenhagen (Dr Tutton); Foicruz University (Prof. Latimer).

Our editorial work includes editorships with the journals Theory, Culture and Society; The
Sociological Review; Big Data and Society; Information Communication and Society; New Genetics
and Society; British Journal for the History of Science; Contention: The Multidisciplinary Journal of
Social Protest; Life Science, Society and Public Policy; Health Technology and Society;
Anthropology in Action; Science as Culture; History of the Human Sciences; Journal of Urban
Cultural Studies.

This is in addition to broader editorial board representation on journals listed above but also including
Sociology; Social Science & Medicine; The Sociological Review; Science Studies; The Sociology of
Health and Illness; Social Sciences; Journal of Beliefs and Values; European Societies; Journal of
Cultural Analysis, and the journal Social Change; Equal Opportunities International; International
Journal of Men’s Health; International Journal of Heritage Studies; Memory Studies; Museum and
society; Journal of Tourism and Cultural Change; Anthropological Journal of European Cultures;
Ethnicity and Health; Diversity and Equality in Health and Care.

We are highly represented on funding panels including membership of the Phillip Leverhulme Prize
Committee, membership of Peer Review Colleges and panels for the ESRC, AHRC, NIHR and
Wellcome Trust. This includes international panels, for example, Prof. Annandale’s membership of
Research Council of Norway’s Research Programme on Health, and membership of the Panel of
Experts for Evaluation of R&D Units (Portuguese Funding Agency for Science and Research).

York sociologists are highly represented at in professional bodies including membership of the Board
of Trustees of the British Sociological Association and Directorship of publications for the BSA (Prof.
Jackson), and coordination within the European Sociological Association. Prof. Annandale has

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
served as coordinator of the ESA Sociology of Health and Illness Research Network and Chair of
ESA’s postgraduate committee. We are highly active in BSA study groups including those on health,
religion, race, and visual sociology. York sociologists have catalysed entirely new organisations for
the advancement of the discipline (UK Association for Studies in Innovation, Science and
Technology) and been elected to the council of a number of bodies including the European
Association for the Study of Science and Technology (EASST).

We are frequent contributors to mass and popular audio and print media outlets including the Big
Issue, The Guardian, the New Statesman, etc. Dr Toerien’s work on gender and body hair was
covered in a Marie Claire feature (Why is Women’s body hair still offensive?) and a follow-up BBC
Radio 4 interview for a documentary about female facial hair, presented by Mona Chalabi. In 2020,
Naomi Wolff held a 1hr webcast focussing exclusively on Prof. Johnson’s contribution to research
on LGBTQ law.

 Spotlight     Collaboration with non-academic partners: Prof. Johnson has worked extensively
               with legislative partners, including the UK House of Lords in a series of legal
               amendments resulting in the repeal of sexually discriminatory legislation relating to
               homosexuality in the armed forces and pardons for historic sexual offences. These
               collaborations were undertaken in partnership with other external agencies
               including the Ministry of Defence, and the campaign organisation Stonewall.




                                                                                            Page 16
