                                                                                             1




Unit-level environment template (REF5b) [8,000 words maximum]
Institution: Liverpool Hope University

Unit of assessment: English Language and Literature (D.27)

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview:

English Language and Literature at Liverpool Hope aims to produce research of the highest
quality within a supportive environment that links individual research specialisms with a range
of international, national, and regional interests. Staff develop their specialist research in
collaboration with international organisations such as author societies and subject
associations, national bodies such as Arts Council England, and regional institutions such as
Tate Modern Liverpool, FACT, and the Bluecoat Arts Centre. Our specialisms include the
application of close-reading analysis in literature within historical contexts, examining language
within sociological frameworks, and aspects of linguistic and literary production.

In the 2014 Research Excellence Framework, the English Language and Literature Unit of
Assessment at Liverpool Hope University left room for improvement in its articulation of
research environment, in marked contrast to the ratings for publication outputs. Those overall
publication outputs ratings ranked us above the UoA outputs of several research-intensive
universities, including Oxford, Bristol, Edinburgh, and Glasgow. These results were achieved
within Liverpool Hope’s mission as a “teaching-led and research-informed” university, and that
mission statement should be interpreted to demonstrate the ways in which research excellence
is valued here both for its own sake and as the foundation for our classroom teaching. Thus,
with consideration for that Liverpool Hope University ethos, and in accord with maintaining the
high quality of research publications produced by English staff, a focused strategy for a more
robust and more fully evolved research environment has been a central aim of the English unit
since 2014.

We have developed structures and activities to support staff and postgraduate-student
researchers, and Liverpool Hope is committed to that research support through postgraduate
scholarship opportunities, staff research leave, and financial aid for publication costs and for
conference participation and organisation. We are a small English research department that
contests above its weight, motivated by competition and collaboration with our larger university
neighbours within Liverpool and the North West, by a collegial spirit that extends to colleagues
within the School of Humanities and elsewhere within the University, by clear paths to
promotion, selective grant applications, and established channels for publication and impact.
The staff who contributed to REF 2014, including early career researchers, have almost all
been retained; and further recruitment, particularly for Creative Writing but also for Language
and Literature specialisms, has enhanced the research profile of the team, in a concerted effort
to build upon the success of REF 2014.
                                                                                             2


From 2014-18 English Language and Literature operated as the Department of English within
the Faculty of Arts and Humanities. In 2019, following Liverpool Hope’s restructuring from
Faculties into Schools, English—composed of English Language and English Literature with
the additions of Creative Writing and Media Studies staff—was reconfigured as one of five
subject areas within the School of Humanities. The restructuring is designed to streamline
management of resources including research funds and to enable more cross-subject
interdisciplinary collaboration and synergies in staff development.

The staff contributing to this UoA submission with specialisms in English Literature are
Associate Professor Guy Cuthbertson (Head of the School of Humanities and Head of
English), Associate Professor William Blazek (REF UoA Coordinator, PGR Coordinator and
PGR Partnership Moderator), Associate Professor Trish Ferguson, Senior Lecturer Alice
Bennett, Senior Lecturer Ria Cheyne (based in the School of Education but whose research
entails literature and disabilities studies), Senior Lecturer Zoe Kinsley, Senior Lecturer Lisa
Walters, Lecturer Rosalind Powell (Leaver), Lecturer Louise Wilson (Assistant Head of
English) and Professor Emerita Cynthia S. Hamilton. Those staff with specialisms in English
Language are Principal Lecturer Linda McLoughlin, Senior Lecturer Salman Al-Azami, Senior
Lecturer Manel Herat, Lecturer Daria Izdebska, Lecturer Lisa Nahajec, and Lecturer Ruth
Kircher (Leaver). Creative Writing staff are Lecturer Paul Johnston and Lecturer Eleanor
Rees.

Disciplinary Reach, Interdisciplinary Strengths:

While English at Liverpool Hope maintains a research base with a broad reach—from early
modern through contemporary literature, sociolinguistics and bilingualism to stylistics in
language, and both poetry and prose fiction in creative writing—that disciplinary base extends
to a variety of interdisciplinary strengths. These strengths cross over national boundaries in
language and feature fully interdisciplinary conjunctures of literature with history, philosophy,
sociology, science, law, travel, and biography.

English Language research at Liverpool Hope covers a compact range of traditional and non-
traditional fields, with strengths in four specialisms: sociolinguistics, bilingualism, historical
linguistic analysis, and stylistics. McLoughlin publishes especially on gender and advertising,
with a concentration on analysis of women in Indian English language magazines. Al-Azami
addresses representations of religion in the media, particularly the language used to describe
Muslims in journalism; his work has generated initial impact with the Muslim Council of Great
Britain for this topic of special current relevance. He also has published on bilingualism, as has
Herat, who also researches contemporary lexical expression. Kircher’s publications are also
in bilingualism, but on the ways that English and French are integrated in learning
environments in Quebec. Izdebska focuses on vocabulary and emotion in detailed textual
examinations of early medieval literature. Balancing that approach and historical periodisation,
Nahajec’s research deals with stylistic analysis of contemporary texts, including musical lyrics.

Cuthbertson and Blazek have a research focus on First World War literature, from British and
American perspectives, respectively, with an interdisciplinary basis that encompasses cultural,
social, and intellectual history. Cuthbertson’s biographical and textual analyses of the writings
                                                                                               3


of Wilfred Owen and Edward Thomas are supplemented by work on the cultural moment of the
1918 Armistice. Blazek has written on American First World War literature in historical context,
the early fiction of Edith Wharton with respect to art history and aesthetics, and The Great
Gatsby in relation to the philosophy of time. Ferguson has produced a biographical study of
Maud Gonne while also working on Thomas Hardy’s poetry and the science and history of
time. Both Walters and Powell have published monographs on literature and science, drawing
on seventeenth and eighteenth-century English writers, respectively, and the integration of
scientific thought with textual analysis. Kinsley’s archival-based research on eighteenth-
century travel writing frequently applies social history and contemporaneous scientific theory
with insights into textual production. Bennett’s work on contemporary British and American
fiction makes use of technological, medical, and media sources to examine the changing
landscapes of contemporary literature. Targeting interdisciplinarity from the perspective of
disability studies, Cheyne has explored modern literary texts and their reflection of social
norms and issues. Hamilton takes recent history and trauma theory to bear on cross-genre
innovations in detective fiction by Sara Paretsky. At the other end of the historical range of
research in literature, Wilson’s publications centre on early modern literature, particularly
publication and reading practices, translation and transnational approaches to literature, and
material culture.

Creative Writing was incorporated within the English subject area at Liverpool Hope in 2019
(along with Media Studies), enhancing the cross-fertilisation of research interests among staff.
English Literature has benefitted from collaborative efforts with Creative Writing through such
public-engagement events as the annual Matt Simpson Memorial Poetry Reading with an
invited distinguished poet. The tactical inclusion of Media Studies within English was initially for
teaching integration, but strategically the intention is to enable research collaboration within the
English Language team’s strengths in media representation as well as media and politics The
Creative Writing staff have built strong reputations for their work, including Rees’s award-
winning poetry, covering three published collections within the REF 2021 census period; and
Johnston’s popular fiction employs socio-historic research and genre theory for detective-
fiction novels.

Research and Impact Strategy:

The key to building a strong research foundation in English at Liverpool Hope has been to hire
and retain excellent researchers—staff who have almost always been hired in the early stages
of their career and who can not only immediately contribute to the research profile and
environment of the subject but also produce a sustainable level of excellent publication and
research activity with relevant impact. The demands of the academic curriculum must factor
into the areas of research that a relatively small number of staff can encompass. This
academic consideration is necessarily reflected among the individual English Literature staff
who cover the period from medieval to contemporary specialisms, the concentration in four
central specialisms within language, and both poetry and prose expertise between the two
creative writing specialists. Nevertheless, the “teaching-led, research-informed” ethos at
Liverpool Hope should not be read as a dilution of research but rather a driving force in
research excellence. At the heart of a collegium of researchers and learners is an active and
productive research environment. That environment has been built here through the
                                                                                              4


importance of research outputs and external research funding among the criteria for promotion
and for all staff in annual performance reviews. On a practical level of support, staff are
encouraged to apply for internal research funding for consolidated research leave, conference
participation, costs for the completion of publications, and further development opportunities.

These structural and practical features of our research in English Language and Literature
have been imbedded within an overall strategy designed to (1) produce high quality outputs by
individual researchers or in jointly authored or co-edited publications; (2) raise the level of our
research impact since REF 2014 by building on collaborations with regional institutions,
engaging with relevant national and international organizations, and taking leadership positions
in national and international societies; and (3) further develop the research environment of
English at Liverpool Hope through cross-subject collaborations, regularly scheduled research
seminars and annual research events such as the Hopkins Lecture (described in Section 4
below), support for conference participation and organization, a rational measure of
postgraduate research supervision, and administrative leadership roles at Liverpool Hope for
research and postgraduate study.

As evidenced by the descriptions below of individual and joint-staff collaborative projects with
general and specific impacts, increases in funding grants and postgraduate researcher
numbers, and initiatives such as the annual Hopkins Lecture and Matt Simpson Memorial
Poetry Reading, the English unit has achieved its strategic research aims during the current
REF cycle. Our future research strategy is partly to consolidate the gains from the past seven
years by retaining key research staff and further developing collaborative opportunities. With a
more mature staff profile, and as the early career researchers appointed since 2014 develop
new lines of research, we will also seek to apply for more external grants that build upon the
impressive international research reputation earned in recent years and to expand
postgraduate research numbers in the light of a current development. For 2020/21 Liverpool
Hope are collaborating with the North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership
(NWCDTP), so that Liverpool Hope PGR students in English and other Humanities subjects
can access and benefit from the work of that Centre by, for example, attending PGR training
events and collaborating with other PGR students across the Consortium institutions.

Section 2. People

Staffing strategy and staff development:

Our chief staffing strategy has been to appoint promising early career researchers who have
an initial track record and a significant foundation for publications that have world-leading
potential. In addition to four early career researcher lecturers appointed in 2011-12, in the
current REF cycle four additional ECR lectureship appointments have been made, along with
four two-year postdoctoral teaching fellowships, two of whom were subsequently appointed to
lectureships. The ECR lecturers have contributed book publications to the outputs in our REF
2021 submission. While ECR staff, by the research criteria of their appointments, are naturally
self-motivated and largely self-directed in their research projects, nevertheless, further
direction, opportunities, and support are provided both within English and through the
University’s structures and facilities.
                                                                                            5




Senior researchers in English act as mentors to ECR staff, advising on mid- and long-term
publication plans and giving feedback on draft writing. These collaborations are formed with an
eye to REF assessment criteria but chiefly to enable staff to grow both as individual experts of
high standing in their areas of research and as colleagues who learn from each other and can
thereby best contribute to the research environment within English and within and beyond
Liverpool Hope. Thus, ECR staff have designed internal research seminars and external
lecture series and one-off events such as the Tolkien Day described in Section 4 below. They
have also successfully applied for research grants, both internal and external, the latter often
initially for focused and manageable projects such as the Not Sleeping symposium funded by
the Wellcome Trust (Bennett). All staff in English have benefitted from the professional advice,
experience, and demonstration of research expertise of Professor Neil Rhodes from the
University of St Andrews, who was appointed Visiting Adjunct Professor of English at Liverpool
Hope in 2017-18. In addition to subject-specific support for ECR and other English staff, the
University offers research-writing workshops, runs career enhancement programmes, and
invites publishers to campus for information and advice sessions.

University research support is particularly generous in funding conference-participation through
both a central University research fund and through what was previously the Faculty, now
School Research Committee (SRC). The SRC has been chaired by Kinsley for the past three
years, with Blazek among the current membership of five senior research staff. Applications
for conference-participation funding is competitive and contingent on the annual research-
funding allocation; yet English staff have had an overwhelmingly successful record of internal
grant approval. In the academic year 2018-19, for example, 13 of 14 funding applications by
English staff to the Arts and Humanities Faculty Research Fund were successful. English staff
have used the monies granted to participate in international conferences in Europe, North
America and Asia; for publication expenses—for monographs and for The F. Scott Fitzgerald
Review; and to support English research seminars with guest speakers and hosted events,
including the Hopkins Lecture and the Matt Simpson Memorial Poetry Reading.

Liverpool Hope has not had a staff-sabbatical policy, as traditionally determined by service
time or otherwise granted at regular intervals to pursue approved projects. A sabbatical policy
was centrally costed before 2014, but the University derives less than 5 percent of its income
outside of student tuition fees, and therefore full sabbatical leave would be incompatible with
that financial model. Nevertheless, the English unit has flourished, mainly from using the
advantages of other methods of research support offered by the University. University funding
has always been earmarked for staff and postgraduate research, and the funding stream from
REF 2014 allowed further money to be channelled towards research development. English
research has benefitted from two University initiatives. Firstly, Consolidated Research Time
(CRT) provides staff the chance to apply for from one to six weeks of teaching relief in order to
pursue or complete specific research projects—often contracted publications but also for
crucial stages of developmental research. Consolidated Research Time has been granted to
seven English staff since implementation in 2015-16, usually for a minimum of two weeks but
also reaching six weeks’ leave for completion of a monograph. For example, Cuthbertson was
enabled through CRT to complete the manuscript for his monograph Peace at Last, Ferguson
used CRT for research trips to Dublin for her biography of Maud Gonne, and Wilson for her
                                                                                             6


research on Anthony Munday’s translation of Amadis de Gaula (1619). Secondly, the Vice-
Chancellor’s Postgraduate Research Scholarships in 2016 funded full-time PhD candidates in
targeted centres of research excellence. English Literature was awarded three of these
Scholarships: for one student under the supervision of Blazek and Cuthbertson for a thesis
on war poetry (completed in early 2020), another under the main direction of Kinsley on
eighteenth-century travel writing (completion expected in 2021), and the third supervised by
Ferguson jointly with History on Irish literature and history (completed in 2019). Two other
postgraduate students were enabled financially through tuition waivers.

Composition of the Department by Category and Gender:

English (excluding Media Studies for REF purposes) at Liverpool Hope is currently comprised
of 3 Associate Professors, 1 Principal Lecturer, 6 Senior Lecturers, and 5 Lecturers, all in full-
time posts. In addition, 1 Professor Emerita contributes to PhD supervision. Of these 16 staff, 4
are male and 12 are female.

Professional Development and Promotion:

Liverpool Hope operates an Annual Academic Review policy for all academic staff, who
complete a self-appraisal performance review document near the end of each academic year.
This document contains relevant sections covering research attainments and targets, PGR
supervision, and external research-funding applications, along with a section for staff-
development needs and goals. It is then discussed in individual interviews with each staff
member by the Head of School, who completes a summary report that is reviewed by the staff
member, with targets established for the next year, and then further appraised by senior
management for institutional oversight.

During the current REF audit cycle, 4 staff in this UoA (Blazek, Cuthbertson, Ferguson, and
McLoughlin) have been promoted from Grade 8 to Grade 9 (Associate Professor/Principal
Lecturer) and 6 staff ] (Al-Azami, Bennett, Cuthbertson, Ferguson, Herat, Walters) from
Grade 7 to Grade 8 (Senior Lecturer). Research excellence is a key criterion in promotion
applications. Two staff who have contributed outputs (Kircher and Powell) left for promoted
posts.

The English subject area follows University policy in its commitment to advancing equality and
diversity in academia. Staff members have been actively engaged with Aurora, a programme
that supports and develops women’s leadership skills and that is committed to advancing
gender equality in academia. Kircher served on the Self-Assessment Team for Athena SWAN
at Liverpool Hope, and McLoughlin was a national assessor for Athena SWAN. Herat,
Ferguson, and Walters were given funding and support from the University to participate in
Aurora development days, which are conference-style events with over 200 women from
across the United Kingdom. The University further provided an individual mentor to each
participating staff member. All three female staff members were promoted to Senior
Lectureship roles and one further promoted to Associate Professor after participating in Aurora.
                                                                                            7


English staff have expanded the University’s Women’s Network, which developed a series of
talks by key women in leadership roles. Walters joined with Dr Ruth Canning from History and
Politics to create an Annex to this network called the International Women’s Network, which
recognises the unique challenges faced by women who are foreign nationals in academia. This
network provides support for such women by organising induction events and social gatherings
to cultivate a strong sense of community and diversity.

The English subject area’s commitment to diversity is also reflected in our hiring practices. The
staff included in the UoA originate from a diversity of countries, including Poland, Germany,
Ireland, America, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka. In addition, British staff come from different
countries and regions of the United Kingdom, including Scotland and North, Central, East, and
West England. In the current REF cycle, the University has hired more women than men to the
English Language and Literature team, and racial minorities and/or foreign nationals have
been promoted to the rank of Senior Lecturer and Associate Professor.

Research Students:

English PGR provision has been in place since before Liverpool Hope was awarded research-
degree awarding powers (RDAP) in 2009, but with only two PhD students previously under
English Literature co-supervision though research-degree validation in partnership with the
University of Liverpool. Since the conferment of RDAP, English PGR enrolment has been
purposely restricted to match our capacity for research supervision. During the REF 2021 cycle
we have supervised (or co-supervised with other subjects) in any one year at the most eight
PGR candidates. That figure reflects, on the one hand, reasoned consideration of our PGR
programme capacity and, on the other hand, the desire of staff to develop PGR opportunities
for our BA and MA students and for external applicants who will benefit from the high standard
of research expertise among English staff. Our modest numbers of PGR students mean that
we can offer expert guidance and give the kind of close attention to student progress and
training that might not always be obtainable in a large department.

Despite Liverpool Hope’s unsuccessful application for inclusion in regional AHRC funding and
training consortia, the University has moved forward by awarding scholarships and fee-waivers
for PGR students in English. Within a robust PGR management scheme from central
University to School and Subject levels, Liverpool Hope has developed a full PGR training
programme following the Vitae model. In addition, the University has embedded PGR
application and annual monitoring systems, policies and procedures for supervisor applications
and training, and PGR regulations and a code of practice that apply not only at Liverpool Hope
but also now to three partner institutions—St Mary’s Twickenham, Newman University, and
Maryvale Institute—whose PGR degrees (PhD, MPhil, and EdD) are validated by Liverpool
Hope. English is directly represented in University PGR management by Blazek, serving as
PGR Moderator for Newman University and on both University Research Degrees
Subcommittee and PGR Progression and Award Board.

English PGR supervision has often involved interdisciplinary research, recently through co-
supervision with History and Politics, Music, and Drama. Maximizing expertise and
opportunities in this way leads to some fractionalisation in our REF 2021 PhD completions: the
                                                                                              8


4.0 total completions consists of full and proportional supervision of 7 students. In 2020-21 we
are supervising 6 PGR students, 3 of those fully within English and 3 with either Drama,
History/Law, or Film (the latter through partnership with the Catholic University of Lille). Beyond
the service to students in providing specialist supervision across disciplines, the benefits to the
Unit’s research are in developing an environment that encourages collaborative efforts in
research seminars, exchange of knowledge and methodological approaches, as well as
potential projects and interdisciplinary funding bids (as with the Not Sleeping symposium).

In terms of student funding to promote PGR provision within English, details of the three Vice-
Chancellor’s Postgraduate Research Scholarships are given above. PGR students are eligible
to apply for University and School research funding for conference participation, visits to
archives, and some publication costs. They have a good record of participation at national and
international conferences and colloquia, including subject- and author-specific events at,
among other universities, Oxford, Cambridge, Liverpool, and Birkbeck, University of London.
English PGR students have been instrumental in leadership of the University PGR Society and
in organising regular PGR conferences at Liverpool Hope, with additional student-
representation roles in organisations such as the British Association for Modernist Studies. Our
students have successfully bid for external funding for conference attendance as well as for
archive visits, including in Britain, Ireland, and the United States. They are encouraged to sign
up for Liverpool Hope’s PGR teaching training programme and to apply for Associate
Fellowships with the Higher Education Academy after taking up mentored undergraduate
teaching opportunities. They are also encouraged and supported in their publication efforts,
both while in degree study and post-degree. They have published articles in The Edith
Wharton Review, War, Literature and the Arts, and The Modernist Review, essays in
collections by Manchester UP and Liverpool UP, as well as monographs with Peter Lang and
Cambridge Scholars.



Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income and Income Support:

The English Language and Literature unit have concentrated on obtaining research income
that supports relatively short-term projects and enhances the subject’s research base and
reach. Much has been focused on individual publication outputs, in keeping with a central tenet
of our research strategy, to build an international profile for research excellence across a range
of staff interests and expertise. Networking is also an important means for achieving that goal,
while collaborative events with wider social impact also drive that strategy.

The “Articulating Women” project gained our most significant external income. Led by
Hamilton and drawing upon relevant expertise from colleagues in Education, “Articulating
Women: Interrogating Intersectionality and Empowering Women Through Critical
Engagements” was funded by an AHRC international networking project grant of over £60,000.
It ran initially for two years from January 2018 and is described in Section 4 below.
                                                                                           9


External funding for networking was also obtained from the Wellcome Trust Small Grant
scheme by Bennett in 2016 to run the innovative “Not Sleeping” one-night symposium. The
grant was for £1,250. The night-time event, held in September 2017, was attended by 30
people in total (a mix of academics and members of the public with interests in sleep research)
and involved papers from eight speakers, a keynote from Professor Jim Horne (former Director
of the Sleep Research Centre at the University of Loughborough), a screening of an audio-
visual installation, and the performance of a bedtime story. Bennett’s article accepted by MFS:
Modern Fiction Studies in 2020 is the most recent publication outcome from the event.

Rees’s involvement in community events for poetry writing led to a £5,000 Arts Council
England grant for the Pavilion Poets Tour in 2015. Rees coordinated a tour for poets Mona
Arshi, Sarah Corbett and herself to read at the Wordsworth Trust in Grasmere, Keats House in
London, Aberystwyth Arts Centre, University of Manchester Centre for New Writing, and
University of Liverpool; they also ran creative-writing workshops with local writers and a
women’s group in Tamworth and Keighley Libraries. Following the success of this collaborative
project, Rees was also awarded a Northern Writers Award of £1,000 from Arts Council
England in 2018 to enable her to conduct research to complete her fourth poetry collection,
The Well at Winter Solstice.

English Literature staff have also developed their research for publications with the aid of
grants and fellowships, some with cash awards for travel and accommodation expenses, and
others with in-kind benefits including access to special research facilities and archives, along
with seminars for research dissemination and feedback. Wilson was the recipient of a $2,500
Folger Short-Term Fellowship that she took up in March-April 2016 at the Folger Institute in
Washington, DC. This was to undertake extensive archival work examining a heavily annotated
edition of Anthony Munday’s translation of Amadis de Gaula (1619) that contains extensive
marginalia and other indicators of use and that provides a long view of readerly engagement
with the romance over the seventeenth, eighteenth, and nineteenth centuries. This research
forms the basis of an extensive inquiry, initially for publication in Review of English Studies.
She was also co-investigator and co-author of a grant proposal with a colleague at the
University of Seville of a three-year project funded by the Spanish Government and hosted by
the University of Seville in 2017-20: “The Spanish Romances of Chivalry in English
Translation: Anthony Munday and Early Modern Culture in Europe”. (Although by Spanish
regulation, the €59,290 grant remained exclusively for use by the University of Seville.)
Ferguson was awarded a £1,548 British Academy/Leverhulme Small Research Grant for
research at The Stuart A. Rose Manuscript Archives and Rare Book Library in 2016 to conduct
archival research for a monograph on Maud Gonne and a Fellowship with a bursary of $500 by
the Rose Library for this project. Maud Gonne, which highlighted Gonne’s role as a journalist,
dramatist and founder and editor of nationalist publications, was published by UCD Press in
2019. In 2019, the British Academy awarded Ferguson a Small Research Grant of £2,510 to
carry out archival research at the New York Library and Toronto Public Library for a new
Oxford World’s Classics edition of Arthur Conan Doyle’s His Last Bow. Cuthbertson was
awarded €1,750 as Moore Institute Visiting Research Fellow at NUI Galway in 2015-16 for
research on Edward Thomas and Ireland. Kinsley received a John Rylands Research Institute
Visiting Research Fellowship, June-July 2016, with a £1,500 expenses allocation for a project
on The Scrapbooks of Dorothy Richardson (1748-1812), the output of which was the journal
                                                                                               10


article "Cutting and Pasting the Popular Press: The Scrapbooks of Dorothy Richardson (1748-
1819)" in The Bulletin of the John Rylands Library.

Non-remunerative research grants and fellowships also feature in our strategic aims for
publication outputs and networking. Blazek was appointed Visiting Research Fellow at the
University of Oxford’s Rothermere American Institute in 2017 for his research on American
literature of the First World War, and he delivered a research seminar talk there later that year.
Cuthbertson was resident at Gladstone’s Library as Ernest Walder Memorial Scholar to work
on Edward Thomas’s Pilgrimages, the sixth volume of the scholarly edition of Edward
Thomas’s prose, published by Oxford UP.

Infrastructure

Funding infrastructure at Liverpool Hope includes University and School funding grants for staff
and PGR students, opportunities for teaching relief through approval of Consolidated Research
Time, and awards of Vice-Chancellor’s PhD Scholarships. The Pro-Vice Chancellor (Research)
has overall responsibility for the implementation and oversight of research funding in the
University. This responsibility also entails chairing the University Research Committee and its
main subcommittee the Research Degrees Subcommittee. Chairs of School Research
Committees sit on the University Research Committee and report to and consult with Heads of
School. School PGR Coordinators are members of Research Degrees Subcommittee, along
with PGR Partnership Moderators by invitation. The PVC (Research) is assisted by the
University Research Facilitator, who provides data, information, training and advice to staff for
research grant applications and networking opportunities.

Facilities:

The Liverpool Hope libraries contain a collection of over 320,000 items, and budget decisions
have been targeted at developing electronic resources, especially a full range of journal
databases and, increasingly, e-books. The Hope Institutional Research Archives (HIRA)
enables University researchers to upload their outputs and publication details for public
access. Designated funds are allocated for the library acquisition of staff publications, including
monographs and essay collections.

The Sheppard-Worlock Library’s Archives and Special Collections, located at the Hope Park
campus, is home to over 75,000 books, manuscripts, journals, newsletters, magazines, and
pamphlets. The Reading Room boasts an environmentally controlled vault to house the
manuscripts and rare books including incunabula, early printed books, private presses and
limited editions. Special Collections is open to all staff and students, as well as external visitors
and researchers. The Library has three main Special Collections: the Gradwell Collection, the
Radcliffe Collection and The Andrew F. Walls Centre for the Study of African and Asian
Christianity.

Wilson has assisted in the development of archival planning and has identified scope for
future research projects for PhDs and herself based on our particularly strong Special
Collections holdings in early modern herbals (natural histories of plants), richly annotated
                                                                                           11


Tudor and Stuart chronicles, and a uniquely important copy of an early atlas. Her current
research plans focus on the extensive collection of medieval manuscripts, and she is part of
the Manuscripts in the North West consortium; she is one of four grant writers of a large-
scale funding bid to the Heritage Lottery Fund and the Paul Mellon Foundation to stage a
series of exhibitions and outreach events across the North West of England in 2025 and to
produce a catalogue with commissioned original research essays focusing on the manuscript
holdings of a number of North West institutions. Besides Liverpool Hope, these include the
University of Liverpool, Walker Art Gallery, the University of Manchester and the John Rylands
Institute, the National Trust, Stonyhurst College, and Knowsley Hall.



Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The English Language and Literature staff at Liverpool Hope have a wide range of research
specialisms to meet curricular demands, and they have used that structural requirement to
their advantage in the Unit’s research base. A larger department would be expected to
develop significant common research interests within language arts or historical periods of
literature, but English at Liverpool Hope has developed a vibrant research culture through
networking, collaboration with external bodies, and interdisciplinary research.

The distinctive nature of our research environment and one of our key research environment
strategies is to enable individual specialist research. With respect to that aim, we have not
targeted large external grants involving a substantial number of staff. Instead, collaborations
both internally and externally have been designed into our research strategy, whereby we are
best able to group common interests and ideas; focus on viable, short-to-mid-term projects;
and produce outputs that are drawn from those collaborations without detracting from
individual researchers’ publication endeavours.

Collaboration and Public Outreach

We annually have run an English Research Workshop, with monthly meetings for discussion
and dissemination of research in both language and literature, with papers and presentations
by English and humanities staff as well as external invited speakers. The Hopkins Lecture is a
major public event in the English unit’s calendar, and it is named for Liverpool Hope’s
connection with Gerard Manley Hopkins, who served as a priest at the site of what is now the
University’s Creative Campus. Prestigious invited speakers who have delivered the lecture
include the American novelist Marilynne Robinson, UK linguist David Crystal, and Scottish
crime novelist Ian Rankin. Other public events have been a Crime Fiction symposium at the
Bluecoat Arts Centre in 2016, organized by Ferguson and Hamilton, featuring round-table
discussions with crime writers including John Connolly (then a guest lecturer on the Creative
Writing programme), Louise Phillips, Richard Godwin, and academics from Hope including
Hamilton and Jacqui Miller (Media). In 2016 we also hosted the Tolkien Day, organized chiefly
by Walters, that was inspired by the discovery in the Liverpool Hope Special Collections
holdings of J. R. R. Tolkien’s signed Latin dictionary from his schooldays. (Tolkien was part of
the translation and editing team for The Jerusalem Bible, a project conducted at what is now
Liverpool Hope.) The keynote speaker was Alan Lee, Academy Award-winning concept artist
                                                                                          12


for The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit films. Other invited speakers were John Garth,
author of Tolkien and the Great War, Edmund Weiner, co-editor of the Oxford English
Dictionary, Liverpool Hope University alumnus Lord David Alton, and Stuart Lee and Elizabeth
Solopova from the University of Oxford. The Matt Simpson Memorial Poetry Reading event,
organised by Rees, regularly draws a sizeable audience from the North West region.

Blazek, Cuthbertson, and Al-Azami are members of Liverpool Hope’s Desmond Tutu Centre
for War and Peace Studies, an interdisciplinary research centre which runs an annual
international conference and a seminar and hosts a distinguished speaker. Al-Azami is
currently its deputy director. English staff also help to organise and contribute papers to the
University’s interdisciplinary Irish Studies Research Group. A recent further development is the
Early Modern and Renaissance Research Group, established in 2018 by Walters and a
colleague from History, formed around a visiting speaker series. In 2019 Wilson won a
competitive place on the Being Human Festival (the National Festival of the Humanities)
programme and designed and delivered a sold-out public event—with local artists,
bookmakers, and printers—on women’s hidden histories in the Sheppard-Worlock Library
archives.

Collaboration and Research Networks

While English Language and Literature looks to build a research structure that serves internal
purposes and seeks to engage external participants for its local activities and events, staff
members are also strongly encouraged and enabled to widen their research networks to
national and international levels. Among the significant, targeted research developments aimed
at achieving that wider recognition and greater external impact, individual staff have made the
following contributions since 2014:

Al-Azami has collaborated with the Muslim Council of Britain on two projects: (1) the ongoing
‘Media Monitoring Project’, which publishes quarterly reports on media representations of Islam
and Muslims. He is one of four UK academics providing academic support to the project. (2)
He is the academic lead of the ongoing ‘Media style-guide’ project, which is contributing to an
edited book entitled, “Media Language on Islam and Muslims: Terminologies and their Effects”
to be published by Palgrave Macmillan in 2023. Al-Azami is the editor of the book, with a
foreword contributed by the Muslim Council of Britain. He is also a committee member of the
British Association of Applied Linguistics Special Interest Group (SIG) on Multilingualism.

Bennett organized a Being Human Festival event on Migration Stories in 2018 in collaboration
with the Museum of Liverpool, along with Liverpool Hope colleagues from art history and
music. She was Guest Editor for the Journal of David Foster Wallace Studies and an invited
speaker at Universitเ degli Studi "G. d'Annunzio" di Chieti-Pescara and at the University of
Surrey.

Blazek is a founding co-editor of The F. Scott Fitzgerald Review, now in its eighteenth annual
volume, published by Pennsylvania State Press. He has been a member of the executive
board of the Fitzgerald Society since 2007 and has served as site co-director and as
programme co-director for its biannual conferences. In 2020 he was elected Vice-President of
                                                                                           13


the author-society by its nearly 500 members worldwide. As an outreach activity, he presented
a series of five filmed mini-lectures in 2017 on The Great Gatsby for Massolit, a national and
international subscription service for A-Level students. He also was an invited guest in 2020 for
a programme about The Great Gatsby on the BBC Radio 4 series In Our Time. In 2014 he was
Visiting Professor at Centre d’Études sur les Littératures Étrangères et Comparées (CELEC),
Jean Monnet University, Saint-Étienne, France. He has been an invited speaker at the
University of Glasgow; the University of Oxford; Newman University; Başkent University,
Ankara, Turkey; and Linneaus University, Sweden.

Cuthbertson delivered the prestigious Chatterton Lecture at the British Academy in 2018,
disseminated through the British Academy’s journal and as audio on the British Academy
website and i-Tunes. His public-engagement activities include being an invited studio guest,
discussing the Armistice, on BBC One, Remembrance Sunday: The Cenotaph in Nov. 2019.
His Wilfred Owen biography and Peace at Last monograph were widely reviewed and led to
numerous national and international invited talks. Peace at Last was also published as an
audiobook, and his related articles on the Armistice were published in the New Statesman and
BBC History Magazine. He was featured in an interview on Wilfred Owen for the BBC
programme Songs of Praise in 2018 and wrote the lead article in The Tablet on Owen.

Ferguson has given radio interviews and delivered conference keynotes in relation to her
publications, especially on Thomas Hardy. She was interviewed on newstalk.com for “Thomas
Hardy: A Life” and about her recently edited collection of essays, Literature and Modern Time.
She was also interviewed on how changing conceptions of time are reflected in Victorian
literature for the scholarly podcast programme ‘Words to that Effect’ (ranked number 23 in arts
podcasts in Britain). She has also given three keynote lectures since 2014, two for the Thomas
Hardy Society (2016 and 2019—available on YouTube) and one for the Institute of Advanced
Studies, Durham (2016).

Hamilton is the co-editor of the FORECAAST series (Forum for European Contributions to
African American Studies) for Liverpool UP. She directed the 2015 international conference for
the Collegium for African American Research conference and served on the planning
committee for the “Charity, Philanthropy, and the Black Atlantic” symposium, part of the
Bluecoat 300 programme in 2017. She was invited onto the Advisory Board of SMIJAR--Stella
Maris Multidisciplinary International Journal of Academic Research, helping to inaugurate this
publication for its first issue in 2019.

Hamilton’s £60,000 AHRC-funded project “Empowering Women” website has had over
100,000 hits and contains accounts of the project along with the conferences, competitions,
training materials and films that have come from it. The work is ongoing, but the project’s
significant international and local reach and impact to date include workshops, teaching
materials, documentary competitions, an animated film, the appointment of an artist in
residence at the Bluecoat Arts Centre, a film screening at FACT of South Asian films by
women, a leadership conference for women in academia in Bangalore, and postgraduate
conferences in Liverpool and Bangalore. Both FACT and Bluecoat have affirmed that
involvement in the project has helped to shape the direction taken by those institutions and has
helped to initiate more international collaborative activity.
                                                                                            14




Herat collaborates with LOCnet, a group based at the University of Manchester that works on
the language of correspondence and is in the process of setting up a website to develop
further collaborations and funding bids. She has also collaborated with Dr Andy Davies
(University of Liverpool, Department of Geography and Writing on the Wall) on Lives and
Legacies, a project that explores the lives of Black ex-servicemen, factory workers and
seamen stranded and destitute in Liverpool after World War I.

Izdebska has worked with the local Wirral Archaeology group on educational activities related
to her research in medieval linguistics, and she has accepted invitations to deliver guest
lectures or run workshops at international venues including Jagiellonian University (Kraków),
the University of Western Australia, and the University of Glasgow (in collaboration with the
Academy of Historical Arts).

The long-standing Liverpool Travel Writing Seminar is a collaborative partnership between
Liverpool Hope, the University of Liverpool, and Liverpool John Moores University. Led by
Kinsley for Liverpool Hope, the Seminar attracts local, national, and international participants
for its annual meetings, held since 2007. Outcomes of that collaborative research network
include publications edited by its three founding coordinators and contributed to by members of
the network—such as Charles Forsdick, Zoe Kinsley, and Kathryn Walchester, eds, Keywords
for Travel Writing Studies: A Critical Glossary (Anthem, 2019). In addition, since 2012 Kinsley
has been a Steering Group member for Borders and Crossings/Seuils et Traverses: An
International and Multidisciplinary Conference on Travel Writing. She also gave keynote
addresses at the 2016 Curious Travellers: Movement, Landscape, Art conference at Glyndwr
University and the 2018 Traveling Bodies conference at Universität Koblenz-Landau,
Germany.

McLoughlin collaborated with colleagues at the University of Liverpool on a bid to host the
2020 International Gender and Language Association Conference.

Rees has been invited to run poetry workshops and to give numerous poetry readings at
literary and arts festivals and events since 2014, including locally at the Bluecoat Arts Centre,
Liverpool Central Library, St Brides Church, Holy Trinity Church, ArtsLab Liverpool, the
University of Liverpool, Williamson Arts Centre for the Heritage Lottery funded Black Chair
Eisteddfod Centenary Festival, the West Kirby Arts Centre, and the Wirral Poetry Festival.
Nationally this work has taken place at the University of Nottingham, the Wordsworth Trust in
Grasmere, the House of Commons for a poetry magazine launch, Keats House London,
Bradford Library, Manchester for Verbose Manchester and Waterstone’s, Ledbury Festival,
and Damson Poets Preston. It has led to international work for the EU-funded Versopolis
Project in Austria, the University of Essen (as Visiting Poet), the Bluecoat Arts Centre
Irish/Liverpool Exchange Scheme in Cork, Ars Poetica International Poetry Festival in
Bratislava, and Druskinkai Poetic Fall in Lithuania.

Walters has been on the executive board of the International Margaret Cavendish Society for
several years, served as president from 2013-15, and co-organised three of the Society’s
biannual conferences—in Cyprus 2015, Maine 2017, and Norway 2019. A member of the
                                                                                           15


general council for the Renaissance Society of America from 2014-2015, she has organised
panels for their annual conferences since 2014 and has accepted speaking engagements at
Sheffield Hallam University and for the annual Othello’s Island Conference in Cyprus. She was
appointed co-editor of the Restoration section of the Palgrave Encyclopedia for Early Modern
Women and has been on the editorial board of ANQ since 2015. In 2018 she was invited to
speak on a podcast called New Books Network where she was interviewed about her
monograph on Margaret Cavendish. The podcast is available to the public at this link.

Wilson has served as associate editor of the MHRA Tudor and Stuart Translations series
since 2011, with particular responsibility for advising on proposals from modern European
languages and for the series style-guidelines. Her invited speaker engagements have been at
the University of Newcastle in 2016 and the University of Seville in 2018. She was an invited
seminar participant at the 2017 Shakespeare Association of America annual conference in
Atlanta and was selected to organise and chair a seminar at the 2019 conference. She was
also invited to give a public talk on the rare books of The Athenaeum library in Liverpool,
opening a partnership opportunity in the process.

Peer-Reviewing and External Examining

These various collaborative and networking activities propel the English Language and
Literature unit’s research opportunities, publication achievements, and socio-cultural impacts.
Beyond this specific evidence of a vigorous internal and external research environment, the
staff also contribute through PhD external examining and service as peer-reviewers for book
publishers and academic journals.

Al-Azami has peer-reviewed for Routledge and Sage journals and also peer-reviewed two
books for Cambridge UP. He has been an external examiner for PhD theses for three
universities in India. Bennett has reviewed book proposals for Routledge and Bloomsbury, and
has been PhD external at Trinity College Dublin, University of Huddersfield, and University of
Edinburgh. Blazek has been a book manuscript reader for Cambridge UP, Oxford UP,
Manchester UP, and U South Carolina P, as well article reviewer for the Journal of American
Studies, Modern Literature Review, Orbis Litterarum, Tulsa Studies in Women’s Literature, &
others. He also is on the editorial board of the CELEC journal and has examined PhD theses
for the University of Aberdeen, University of Edinburgh, and Queen’s University Belfast.
Cuthbertson has peer-reviewed for Oxford UP, Harvard UP, and Yale UP, as well as for The
Proceedings of the British Academy, ANQ, and English: Journal of the English Association. He
has examined PhD candidates at Royal Holloway, Exeter, and Durham. Ferguson has peer-
reviewed books for Palgrave Macmillan and articles for English Studies, Oxford Bibliographies
in British and Irish Literature, Irish Studies Review, Irish Literature, and The Review of English
Studies. She is also on the editorial panels for the Thomas Hardy Journal, the Hardy Studies
Journal and Romance, Revolution and Reform. She has reviewed British Academy funding
applications and has also been a PhD external examiner for the Open University. Izdebska
peer-reviewed for Routledge and the journals Forum for Modern Language Studies and DSH
(Digital Scholarship in the Humanities, published by Oxford UP). Kinsley has been an article
reviewer for The Review of English Studies, Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies, English
Studies in Travel Writing, Women’s Writing, and ABO: Interactive Journal for Women in the
                                                                                           16


Arts, 1640-1830. McLoughlin has been a reader for Bloomsbury and PhD external examiner
at Staffordshire University. Rees was external examiner for an MPhil Writing at the University
of South Wales. Walters has been an article reviewer for Criticism, HOPOS: The Journal of
the International Society for the History of Philosophy of Science, History of Education
Quarterly, Journal for Early Modern Cultural Studies, and ANQ: American Notes and Queries,
as well as a reader for Liverpool UP. Wilson has peer-reviewed for Renaissance Studies,
Studies in Medievalism, Journal for Early Modern Cultural Studies, SEDERI (Journal of the
Spanish and Portuguese Society for English Renaissance Studies), and Explorations in
Renaissance Culture.

Research Collaboration, Networking, and Societal Impact

The English Language and Literature team at Liverpool Hope underpin individual and
collaborative research activity with a strong commitment to working with subject-area
associations, other universities, and various institutions and projects, developing partnerships
on local, national, and international levels. Beyond our successes in pursuing a research
strategy that enables individual research to be conducted to the highest standards, we have
established lasting foundations for enhancing grant opportunities, growing PGR numbers, and
especially increasing societal impact through the collaborations and networks that will prove
most instrumental and beneficial to these future strategic goals.
