Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: University of Nottingham

  Unit of Assessment: 18 (Law)

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

(a) Who we are: ethos, heritage, standing

UoN School of Law, within the Faculty of Social Sciences (FoSS), is a premier UK law school, with
an international reputation for inspirational teaching, discipline-defining textbooks, and world-leading
contributions to research and scholarship supporting litigation, law reform and public policymaking.
Our ethos combines preeminent scholarship with a friendly, inclusive collegiality incorporating all
students and staff into a single, cohesive intellectual community. The School excels in all major
fields of legal research and scholarship, encompassing doctrinal, theoretical, socio-legal, critical,
comparative, national, European, international and interdisciplinary methodologies. These
specialisms underpin thriving undergraduate, LLM and doctoral programmes and are consolidated
through the School’s six research centres and extensive global networks in academe, professional
practice, public administration and civil society. Combining scholarly excellence with real-world
impact, the School’s research seeks to promote peace, democracy, economic growth, social
welfare, technological innovation, human rights, social justice, human flourishing, protection of
wildlife and the natural environment, and compliance with the rule of law, in the UK and around the
globe. Having invested wisely in its people and research culture over many decades, and with the
strength-in-depth and agility to exploit new opportunities in rapidly changing research
environments, the School is primed to cement its status as a world-leading centre of research
excellence, ranked in the top 100 law schools worldwide (QS rank #50-100, 2017-2020; THE rank
#73= 2020)

(b) School structures enabling world-class research with global impact

School infrastructure, polices and management nurture researchers’ self-directed scholarship,
collaboration and networks, whilst aligning with UoN and UKRI priorities (e.g. promoting
interdisciplinarity and strategic focus). Whilst a “humanities model” of single authorship remains
prominent in legal scholarship, the School recognises the advantages of critical mass afforded by
structured collaboration through research clusters and programmatic funding. Leveraging research
concentration without becoming excessively prescriptive or blunting creativity calls for a balanced,
responsive, evolutionary style of research management sensitive to colleagues’ scholarly interests
and aspirations, developing talent and building careers at all levels of seniority and experience.

Specialist research centres, benefitting from significant School financial and administrative support,
are propelled by individual scholars’ initiatives and expertise, providing focal points for collaboration,
dialogue, partnerships, mentoring and capacity-building. Most School members are associated with
one (or multiple) centres, as amply reflected in REF2 outputs and REF3 Impact Case Studies
(though much excellent scholarship and influential research is not directly affiliated to centres). The
School’s six current research centres have continuously evolved throughout the REF period
(www.nottingham.ac.uk/law/research/centres.aspx):




                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      (i) Created in 2018, the Commercial Law Centre (UNCLC) is co-directed by Mevorach and
      Torremans. UNCLC’s 28 academic and student members include participants from UoN
      Schools of Business (NUBS) and Economics. UNCLC promotes world-class, impactful
      research, featuring business and human rights; consumer law; corporate restructuring and
      insolvency; European and international business; international trade and maritime law;
      international commercial litigation; intellectual property; and secured transactions and
      finance.
      Aligning with the School’s popular LLM in International Commercial Law, UNCLC organises
      multiple seminar series (work in progress: Derclaye and Saidova; student presentations:
      Saidova), student placements (including a prestigious World Bank Group internship scheme
      overseen by Ghazaryan and Mevorach). UNCLC provides a focal point for members’
      extensive advice, consulting, and international working group activity (partnering/consulting
      with e.g. the United Nations Commission on International Trade Law (UNCITRAL), the UK
      Insolvency Service, the HMG BEIS, World Bank, UNIDROIT (Beheshti led MoU on research
      collaboration, 2019), the International Insolvency Institute (III), UK IP Office, European
      Commission), and organises ancillary events (e.g. students’ participation in the 2019 Willem
      C.     Vis      International   Commercial        Arbitration   Moot      Court,     Vienna:
      www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/commercial-law-centre/study/international-
      commercial-arbitration-moot.aspx.) UNCLC’s Commerce, Law and Policy blog (edited by Wu)
      promotes awareness of commercial law news and recent developments.

      (ii) The Criminal Justice Research Centre (CJRC) was established in 2013, on the initiative
      of Saunders, incorporating the Criminal Justice Discussion Group (inaugurated and
      convened by Roberts since 1994). In October 2018 CJRC was reconstituted in
      interdisciplinary partnership with Sociology and Social Policy, co-directed by Kemp (Law)
      and Carr (Sociology). Bringing together 40+ UoN staff and students (inc. Philosophy,
      Psychology, Computer Science and Mental Health) plus 11 external Associates, CJRC hosts
      multiple research projects, academic exchanges, seminars, lectures and events throughout
      the year. For example, Professors Ferrer and Vasquez (Girona) spent July-December 2018
      in residence as Visiting Scholars (funded by the Spanish Government), contributing to
      classes and seminars, interacting with doctoral students, and cementing research
      collaborations. In December 2018, CJRC members hosted a two-day visit from a delegation
      of Chinese scholars representing the National Institute of Legal Aid, with research
      presentations by Annable (UK Legal Aid Agency), Flues, Kemp, Jackson, McConville (UoN
      Honorary Professor), and Roberts.
      CJRC research training and mentoring events consciously target PhD students and ECRs.
      In April 2019 Kemp hosted Nuffield Foundation visitors to advertise opportunities, encourage
      partnerships and develop effective research proposals: Nuffield grants totalling £500,000
      were subsequently secured. Strong links to local legal practice are cemented through UoN’s
      Pro Bono Society and membership of the Nottinghamshire Law Society. CJRC’s Advisory
      Board includes senior East Midlands criminal justice practitioners, chaired by HHJ Dickinson
      QC, Recorder of Nottingham. Inaugurated in 2015, the biennial Sir John Smith Lecture
      became an instant Centre highlight, with local professionals joining UoN students and staff,
      attracted by eminent speakers: Dennis (UCL, 2020); Ormerod (Law Commission, 2018);
      McConville (CUHK, 2016); Sweeney J (2015).




                                                                                           Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      (iii) The Human Rights Law Centre (HRLC), established in 1993, is internationally renowned
      for its expertise in scholarship and publications, policy research, knowledge transfer,
      consultancy, capacity-building and training. Co-directors Harris and Nolan, a dedicated
      administrator (Flues) and project officer team (Auter, Buckley, Wills) co-ordinate 20+
      academic members and an international network of fellows, partners and consultants. Core
      operational units include: Business, Trade and Human Rights; Economic and Social Rights;
      European Human Rights Law; Forced Migration; and International Criminal Justice. Specialist
      human rights teaching figures prominently in undergraduate and LLM programmes. Two
      serving judges of the ECtHR are HRLC alumni (Martins, Latvia (LLM graduate) and
      Harutyunyan, Armenia (Chevening Fellow) also Pushkar (LLM graduate), current Ukrainian
      nominee), alongside four UN Human Rights Special Rapporteurs/Working Group members:
      Babiker, Hussain and Obokata (all UoN PhDs); Steinerte (LLM).
      HRLC’s prolific contributions to commissioning, delivering and disseminating research are
      strongly represented in REF2 and REF3. In 2018, HRLC was retained (for the fourth time) as
      national contractor for the EU Fundamental Rights Agency, completing 38 reports 2014-19,
      ranging from short desk reviews to extensive fieldwork projects. Other major research
      partnerships and collaborations include: GCRF-funded Rising From the Depths Network, with
      Kabarak Law School (Davitti, Wills); cluster leader of FRAME: Fostering Human Rights in
      EU Internal and External Policies (EU FP7: Kenner, Nolan, Footer, Ghazaryan); developing
      the Cooperation and Judicial Assistance Database (CJAD), 2013-17 (EIDHR) (Bekou).
      HRLC produces the market-leading Human Rights Law Review (edited by Harris and a
      School team: see §4(b), below) plus influential series: International Human Rights Reports;
      Yearbook of the European Torture Convention; and Nottingham Studies on Human Rights
      (Brill Nijhoff) (six volumes since 2014, three arising from HRLC workshops). HRLC hosts
      year-round lectures, conferences and multiple workshops, including the ever-popular,
      student-organised Annual Student Human Rights Conference: the twenty-first iteration
      (2020) attracted 100+ UK and international delegates. HRLC’s keynote Annual Lecture
      attracts internationally renowned speakers and worldwide attention: Tedros Adhanom
      Ghebreyesus (Director General of WHO) (2020); Baroness Helena Kennedy (2019); Kate
      O’Regan (Director, Bonavero Institute Oxford, 2018); Martha Spurrier (Director of Liberty,
      2017); Mr Justice Singh (2016); Ahmed Shaheed (UN Special Rapporteur, 2015) and Stavros
      Lambrinidis (EU Special Representative, 2014).
      HRLC offers CPD training and capacity-building for external stakeholders, including: UK
      Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) 2012-2019; British Armed Forces Lawyers (annual
      intensive course); legal practitioners (e.g. social rights litigation for UK practitioners in 2020;
      disability and asylum law for Russian lawyers in 2018; training in IHRL for Iranian judges
      2014-15; and Bahrain’s National Commission for Human Rights 2014-16). Lawyers, human
      rights NGO workers and others participate in residential IHRL short courses and online
      distance learning, with long-stay visitors including Turkish Constitutional Court judges (Eren
      in 2018; Basturk in 2017) and scholars from Brazil (Blotta, São Paulo University) and China
      (Guo, Shanghai).

      (iv) The Nottingham International Law and Security Centre (NILSC), led by Kritsiotis,
      Shucksmith-Wesley and White, was established in January 2013, following a highly
      successful ILA conference and the appointment of Schmidt (now Lecturer, Exeter) to a
      School-funded postdoctoral research fellowship. Embracing human, political, military, socio-
      economic, resources and energy security, NILSC consolidates pre-existing School expertise
      in armed conflict and collective security (White edits OUP’s Journal of Conflict and Security

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      Law), and embeds interdisciplinarity. NILSC has 16 academic and 14 research student
      members drawn from the schools of Law, Politics and Sociology.
      NILSC’s active programme of events – regular work-in-progress seminars, workshops,
      conferences, the prestigious Annual IHL Lecture and British Red Cross-sponsored
      Roundtable (featuring expert feedback on LLM student presentations), a visiting Research
      Fellows programme, hosting Schmidt (Exeter), Senior (Leeds), Elliott (ANU), Wittmer
      (Humboldt Berlin), and O’Donnell (Strathclyde) – facilitates discussion, networking,
      collaboration and dissemination of new research and scholarship. Other visitors include
      prominent scholars, e.g. Roach (Toronto); Stubbins-Bates (SOAS), Goodwin-Gill (Oxford),
      Weill (Sciences Po) and Hampson (Essex); and influential practitioners, e.g. Prost (ICC
      Judge); Ramasatry (UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights); Pejic (Legal
      Advisor ICRC); Shaheed Fatima QC.
      NILSC activities create, develop and sustain global research networks, support successful
      funding bids (e.g. €100,000 from the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research
      (NWO) for Security of Transnational Flows of Natural Resources in Indonesia, 2016-18) and
      generate high quality outputs with global significance (see REF2).

      (v) The Public Procurement Research Group (PPRG), directed by Arrowsmith (from 2020,
      La Chimia), is a world-renowned research centre and pioneer in UK and international
      teaching, research and knowledge transfer on procurement regulation and policy, positioned
      at the cutting edge of public procurement scholarship for over two decades. With eight
      academic staff, four Honorary Professors (drawn from industry and international
      organisations), four international Fellows (academics and civil servants from Italy, Poland and
      South Africa), ten PhD students, and fluctuating ad hoc research assistants, PPRG specialises
      in all aspects of public procurement law (including defence, trade and commercial sectors,
      social and environmental dimensions, development, and anti-corruption policy) and conducts
      doctrinal and empirical research on domestic, EU and international (WTO, UNCITRAL and
      World Bank) procurement systems. In addition to showcasing its members’ landmark
      publications in the field (see REF2), PPRG is a focal point for funded – often interdisciplinary
      – research (see §3, below), policy briefings, consultancy advice, building partnerships across
      academia, legal practice and regulation, KE and impact. Its Executive LLM Programme in
      Public Procurement Law and Policy is another internationally significant interface between
      academic research, policymaking and legal practice.
      PPRG produces the flagship Public Procurement Law Review, co-edited by Arrowsmith
      (founding editor) and Butler and their Editorial Board team (see §4(b)). Encapsulating its KE
      mission, PPRG hosts the biennial Public Procurement: Global Revolution conference, bringing
      to Nottingham several hundred academics, regulators, NGOs, judges, lawyers, procurement
      professionals and network partners from around the world. The 2019 ninth meeting featured
      40+ workshops, partnering with the WTO Procurement Lawyers Association; UK Cabinet
      Office; Crown Agents; European Commission; OECD; UN; World Bank; African Procurement
      Law Unit, and the universities of Dongbei, Durham, George Washington, Łódź, Stellenbosch,
      Stockholm, Tartu, Twente, Utrecht and the Catholic University, Portugal. In addition, PPRG’s
      Annual Seminar Series showcases external and UoN (including student) speakers (e.g.
      summer 2020 free-to-attend Webinar series on Brazil’s potential GPA accession, in
      conjunction with the Brazilian Institute of Public Law and local lawyers); ad hoc workshops,
      often in collaboration with other institutions (e.g. Efficiency and Integrity in Sport Procurement
      for the Milan-Cortina 2026 Winter Olympics, Milan 2019; and Nottingham-based workshops
      on Defence Procurement, State Capture and Data (2019): and Procurement and Human

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Rights (2017). The 8th biennial two-day PhD workshop, with external and UoN academic
       discussants, convened in 2018. PPRG’s prestigious visiting scholar scheme hosted 23 visitors
       from 17 different countries during the current REF period.

       (vi) The Treaty Centre, founded in 1983 and directed by Bowman until his retirement in 2020,
       fosters research on the law of treaties, the practice of treaty-making and treaty-based areas
       of international law. A major project on the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties,
       assembling a global team of scholars and practitioners and employing an innovative
       collaborative methodology, exemplifies the Centre’s ground-breaking research. One
       prominent recent publication is Bowman and Kritsiotis (eds), Conceptual and Contextual
       Perspectives on the Modern Law of Treaties (CUP, 2018), addressed to academic and
       practitioner audiences, which was launched at an FCO-hosted workshop in London in 2019:
       www.nottingham.ac.uk/law/news/2019/launch-of-conceptual-and-contextual-perspectives-
       on-the-modern-law-of-treaties.aspx.

School research groupings are buttressed by UoN initiatives and Faculty structures, notably the
‘Rights, Justice and Global Challenges’ interdisciplinary research cluster (co-directed by La Chimia
2019- ) of UoN’s Global Research Themes and the Beacons of Excellence (Rights Lab: Kenner, La
Chimia, Peake (PhD); Future Food: Hyde) (Institutional ES, §2.1). These clusters build on previous
incarnations of institutional research support, including the Rights and Justice Priority Area (co-lead
La Chimia 2017-19; Nolan 2015-18).

Administratively, the School Research Committee (chaired by White) leads on developing,
implementing and monitoring research strategy, and is tasked with horizon-scanning and channelling
information on research opportunities (organising ad hoc seminars and workshops and cascading
emails daily). It meets termly or as required, reporting directly to the School’s Finance and Planning
Management Committee and informing wider policy discussion at quarterly School Meetings.
Research Committee liaises closely with School and Faculty research ethics committees (Saunders,
Bartlett), the School Outputs Reading Panel (Bailey, Bartlett, Bekou, Derclaye, Frisby,
Ghazaryan, Krtisiotis, McCorquodale, McGoldrick, Mulgrew, Roberts, Rotherham, Torremans,
Tosato, White) and REF Team (Roberts, White, Bekou, Kemp, Mulgrew, Appleton), and Faculty
RKE Board.

(c) Research and Impact Strategy

The School aims “to build on its recognition as a leading academic centre for legal research and
knowledge exchange, consistently ranked well within the top 10 legal research centres in the UK,
by developing its growing reputation on the world’s stage reflected in publications, theses,
collaboration projects, editorships, peer reviewing, impact, funded research and other indicators of
esteem” (School of Law Research and Knowledge-Exchange Strategy 2018-20). In the firm belief
that research quality and impact reflect the exceptional scholars who produce it, the School’s
enduring strategy remains: to recruit and retain proven academic leaders and talented ECRs and
empower them to produce intellectually rigorous, socially progressive, world-class scholarship.

This overarching principle informs policies and structures:

       (i) fostering an inclusive, enabling, dynamic and responsive research environment:
       Historically, innovation and excellence have been driven by individual scholars’ research

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      interests. In order to sustain this inclusive dynamism and the broad coverage of specialist
      expertise rightly expected of a global law school, it is vital that top-down initiatives (benefiting
      from critical mass, and alignment with institutional and national research priorities) are
      tempered with space and support for bottom-up, researcher-led scholarship. Legal
      scholarship’s most precious resource being time, teaching allocations, staff-student ratios
      and routine study leave (see §2(b), below) are essential components of a research strategy.
      School of Law policies produce balanced and realistic workloads enabling colleagues to
      integrate their research and teaching (e.g. undergraduate electives and bespoke LLM
      options), taking particular account of the needs of ECRs and fair expectations of academic
      leaders, who both mentor less experienced colleagues and lead by example. EDI policies
      and structures (§2(d), below) reinforce inclusivity, underscoring the unequivocal message
      that all researchers, as well as all kinds of research, are welcome here.

      (ii) blending global reach with local significance: A global law school must not neglect
      its local constituencies and stakeholders. Whilst much of the School’s research activity and
      impact are truly global and (literally) international (see REF2 and REF3), law and law reform
      are often jurisdiction-specific, and call for local expertise. The School builds on an enviable
      track-record in advancing English law reform, pioneered by Sir John Smith. Alongside
      colleagues’ international, comparative, European, and UK portfolios (see §§3-4),
      contributions to the administration of justice in Nottingham/shire include: CJRC’s
      collaboration with Nottingham Autism Police Partnership (facilitating projects with autistic co-
      researchers); HRLC’s work with the Nottingham Refugee Forum; collaborations with NTU
      scholars (including a major social impact study aiming to improve the lives of
      Nottinghamshire residents); and active links with the local profession. We aspire to perform
      on the international stage without becoming citizens of nowhere.

      (iii) enhancing research impact and public engagement: Legal scholarship and teaching
      train the next generations of legal practitioners (and law teachers and scholars), inform
      litigation and propel law reform. Cementing its own proud tradition, the School aspires to
      “ensure maximum legal and social impact through reaching out to disciplines beyond law
      and taking law beyond the academy (changing laws, changing lives)” (Research and
      Knowledge-Exchange Strategy 2018-20).
      “Impact” is seamlessly woven into structures and processes. Teaching and PGR supervision
      are enriched by cutting-edge scholarship, empirical research and policy engagement,
      inculcating practical research skills and ethical good judgement in graduates entering the
      legal professions or further studies. Effective School administrative structures, overseen by
      Research Committee (linking into Faculty and UoN frameworks, including UoN’s Institute for
      Policy and Engagement) supply institutional scaffolding and policy direction. Bekou,
      Georgopoulos, Hyde, Kemp, Mulgrew, and Munro have enrolled in ESRC’s Impact
      Leaders Programme.
      Open Access (OA) policies promote wider dissemination (also Institutional ES, §2.3;
      subscription to DORA), through School support for Gold and Green OA publication, deposit
      of ‘accepted versions’ in UoN’s RIS repository (superseding Nottingham ePrints from 2018)
      and engagement with ‘Plan S’.
      Research impact flows organically from researchers’ extensive international networks,
      consultancies and research partnerships (see §4, below). The School’s research centres
      are public engagement hubs, through conferences and networks (e.g. the PPRG’s
      Procurement Law Academic Network, funded by long-term partner Achilles, Siemens,

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      private law firms, and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply, has 600 associates
      from industry and the professions), periodic newsletters and websites (e.g. HRLC:
      www.nottingham.ac.uk/hrlc/index.aspx), blogposts (e.g. contributions to EJIL: Talk!, Opinio
      Juris        and        Arms        Control        by       members          of       NILSC:
      www.nottingham.ac.uk/research/groups/nottingham-international-law-and-security-
      centre/index.aspx) and active social media presence (e.g. Facebook, Instagram and Twitter
      accounts @UoN_Law, @CLC_uon, @UoNCJRC, @UoNHRLC, supplemented by prolific
      individuals, notably Kenner and Nolan).
      Honorary Professors actively contribute to the School’s intellectual life, though occasional
      visits, ad hoc seminars and lectures, and informal mentoring. They include senior judges
      (Singh LJ, Sweeney J), former ECtHR President Judge Bratza (2015-17), JAG Blackett
      and leading practitioners (David Foxton QC; Susie Smith).
      The School’s Research Development Panel oversees staff research plans, providing
      constructive advice on a continuous basis. Necessary REF preparations have been
      harnessed as learning opportunities for embedding strategic good practice (e.g. utilising the
      Outputs Reading Panel to offer intensive mentoring in the production of world-class
      publications, and supporting the development of potential Impact Case Studies to maximise
      impact and public engagement from their inception). More concrete initiatives include:
      appointment of Principal Research Fellow Kemp in 2014 to develop the School’s portfolio in
      empirical research methods, with tangible success in grant applications (see §3, below);
      appointment of dedicated Impact Coordinator (Bekou) to oversee the development and
      production of Impact Case Studies; recruitment of two Nottingham Research Fellows
      (Appleton in 2019; Kattan in 2020: well-represented in REF2); ongoing School support for
      post-doctoral research fellows; adjustments to individual workloads, accelerated study leave
      and supported applications to the ESRC Impact Accelerator Account, leading to awards for
      Appleton, Bekou, Holloway, Kemp, Mevorach, Mulgrew and van Zyl Smit.

      (iv) supporting methodological pluralism and interdisciplinarity: Methodological
      pluralism is a hallmark of modern legal scholarship, much of which could be characterised
      as “interdisciplinary”. The School of Law embraces innovative approaches alongside more
      traditional forms of legal scholarship. REF2 showcases doctrinal, theoretical, empirical,
      socio-legal, comparative, critical, historical and explicitly interdisciplinary studies of law, legal
      process and legal institutions, demonstrating the existence of a stimulating, dynamic and
      highly productive research community. Exemplars of ongoing interdisciplinary scholarship
      within the School include: (constitutional) law and politics (Bailey, Bassok, Mowbray); law
      and business (Arrowsmith, Beheshti, Bennett, Cartwright, Frisby, Georgopoulos,
      McCorquodale, Mevorach, Wang, Wu); law and intellectual property (CREATe global
      network: Derclaye, Torremans, Tosato); law and criminology/penology (Appleton, Fraser,
      Jackson, Kemp, Mulgrew, Roberts, Saunders, van Zyl Smit); law and economics
      (Rotherham); law and environment (Davitti, Goodwin, La Chimia); law and finance
      (Bennett, Merovach, Saidova); law and food (Hyde); law and history (Cercel, Foster,
      Fraser); law and international relations (Bekou; Kritsiotis; McCorquodale; McGoldrick;
      Masiko, Milanovic, Mistry, Shah, Shucksmith-Wesley, van der Ploeg, White); law and
      medicine/mental health (Bartlett; Munro; Sandland); law and philosophy (Cercel, Fraser,
      Roberts, Rotherham); law and psychology (Mevorach); law and social policy (Kenner;
      Nolan: Academic Lead of UoN Children and Childhood Network; Sandland); law and
      statistics (Roberts); law and technology (Derclaye, Hyde, Roberts, Torremans); maritime
      law and cultural heritage (Bennett, Goodwin).

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


       (v) safeguarding research ethics and data integrity: Outstanding scholars are self-
       motivated to devise, design and conduct ethical research. School and UoN structures buttress
       existing expertise, provide supplementary training, and undertake ethical review and ensure
       robust data management for particular projects, in compliance with best practice mandated
       by RCUK and learned societies (e.g. SLSA, BSC) and in accordance with broader institutional
       commitments (Institutional ES, §2.4). Research ethics are addressed in the bespoke
       Research Methods in Law module compulsory for all new PhD students. Research projects
       with human participants must obtain ethical approval from the School’s Research Ethics
       Committee (REC) (chaired by Saunders, also School representative on University REC).
       All staff and student research activity is run through the School’s REC machinery, and
       research planning and development are fully integrated into annual staff appraisals. Albeit
       essentially pro forma for virtually all student (i.e. library-based) research below PGR level,
       mandatory ethics review inculcates good research habits for those progressing to higher
       degrees and underscores for all students the centrality of ethical (and methodological)
       rectitude in research. Incidental to its regulatory functions, REC provides advice to scholars
       and students on research design, methodology and ethics. These formalised structures
       supplement the spontaneous collegiality, shared experiences and routine mentoring integral
       to a flourishing academic community.

(d) Strategic vision: leveraging tradition

REF2014 prescribed seven “key developmental objectives for the next five years”:

     (i) maximise the production of original, ground-breaking world-leading or internationally
     excellent research;
     (ii) maximise research student numbers (target: 10 new enrolments per annum) whilst
     enhancing the environment for doctoral research;
     (iii) strategically develop our postdoctoral community;
     (iv) further enhance collaborative research networks, institutionally, nationally and
     internationally;
     (v) increase the number, quality and value of external research funding applications (target:
     10% increased income);
     (vi) enhance mechanisms for publicising research activities and disseminating findings (inc.
     exploiting new media), with a view to maximising positive external influence and impact;
     (vii) be flexible, adaptable and forward-looking in identifying new research-related
     opportunities.

All seven objectives have been achieved, or exceeded, within the current REF round. Moving forward
into the next review period, they remain a tried-and-tested blueprint to “consolidate [the School’s]
status as an internationally recognised centre of research excellence” (REF5, UoA20 REF2014).

The 128 outputs returned to REF2 represent c.20% of published work in this REF period.
Postdoctoral research (§2(a)) and grant capture (§3) are described below. In summary, the School
substantially increased its direct research grant income by 19% (£2.36 million, from £1.98 million
reported to REF2014), almost doubling the projected target. Combined external research income
from all sources (inc research fellowships, etc) was over £3 million. Approximately 50% of research-
active staff were involved in externally funded research within the period. Research networks are
integrated into the activities of the research centres (above, §1(b)), and further illustrated in §4.
                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
External influence, impact and public engagement pervade our strategic vision (§1(c)(iii)), and are
demonstrated in REF3 Impact Case Studies, the work of the School’s centres (§1(b)), and in a galaxy
of social and disciplinary contributions, radiating from the local to the global (§4). Bekou was
awarded UoN’s Knowledge Exchange and Innovation Award for Societal Impact (2014); Holloway
won ESRC’s Future Promise Award (also Outstanding Early Career Impact Award runner-up) 2019.

School research activity after March 2020 was inevitably disrupted by the global pandemic.
Resources were diverted to prioritise teaching and student welfare. UoN has already implemented
a “Covid recovery strategy”, with the expectation that temporary measures (e.g. suspension of study
leave) and consequential impacts (e.g. 50% drop in PGR recruitment in 2020) will shortly be
reversed. It is testament to the range, depth, flexibility and resilience of scholarship across the
School, that within months of national “lockdown” a dozen ongoing research projects (including
externally funded and empirical research) were able to pivot to accommodate Covid-19 dimensions
(Beheshti, Cercel, Frisby and Mevorach, Jackson and Saunders, Kemp, Kenner,
McCorquodale, Nolan, Pappa, Shucksmith-Wesley, Toth, White, Wu, and PPRG:
https://www.nottingham.ac.uk/law/research/covid-19.aspx: Butler being awarded a c.£26k AHRC
Covid Response Grant, in partnership with DHSC, addressing PPE procurement; Butler,
Georgopoulos and La Chimia securing a further £16k in UoN QR funding to accelerate COVID-19
research impact). Covid-responsiveness also had immediate policy applications, e.g. in contributing
to DIT/Go-Science, Rebuilding a Resilient Britain: Trade and Aid (ARI WG9, 2020) (Mevorach).
Research strategy propelled by scholar initiative and founded on the principle that the best research
is devised and delivered by world-class researchers is, demonstrably, a plan for all seasons.


  2. People

(a) Staff Profile

At REF census, the School comprised 26 full professors, 8 associate professors, 17 assistant
professors, 4 research fellows (55 in REF2, with 51 FTE), 5 teaching associates, 2 skills advisors,
an Operations Manager and 9 administrators.

The School’s strength-in-depth extends from exceptionally talented junior faculty to global leaders
in disciplinary specialisms such as Criminal Justice, Human Rights, Public International Law,
International Criminal Law, Public Procurement and Legal Theory. Scholars are provided with the
support and space they need to deliver high-quality research in their respective fields of expertise.
Researchers (staff and students) work individually and collaboratively in a dynamic, inclusive,
enabling and supportive research environment, well-serviced by excellent infrastructure and
facilities.

(b) Staffing Strategy and Career Development

The School takes pride in its supportive, researcher-centred structures and processes for staff
recruitment, selection and retention, consistent with sector policies and principles (Institutional ES,
§3). As stated, the School’s staffing policies are pivotal to its entire research strategy. Sustaining an
empowering, stimulating and collegial working environment for researchers at all stages of their
academic careers, where individual successes become shared inspiration for all, creates a positive
culture of achievement enabling the School to attract and retain colleagues who either already are,
or have exceptional potential to become, world-leading scholars. Career development and

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
succession planning are both integral to this strategy. In significant measure, we have ‘grown our
own talent’ and rewarded rapid progression. Nine (of 19) Assistant Professors, and 7 (of 9) Associate
Professors appointed since 2014 are School graduates.

Profile, promotions, retention and recruitment: The School’s academic staff profile reflects a
conscious drive, over several decades, towards seniority and academic leadership, secured through
excellent long-term staff retention and an exceptional record of internal promotions (entirely on
merit, with no quotas). Momentum generated by pre-REF 2014 appointments has achieved
approximately steady-state in total research-active staff (51 FTE returned to REF2021, 47 returned
to REF2014). Within the REF period, Hyde, La Chimia, Mevorach and Milanovic joined 12 other
current colleagues in progressing internally through successive promotions from junior
lecturer/assistant professor to full chair. Cercel, Ghazaryan, Goodwin, Mulgrew, Tosato and
Shah were promoted internally to associate professor, complementing one strategic new
appointment at this level (Butler). Formalised career development and mentoring are structured
through UoN “Appraisal and Development Conversations”, supplemented by the School Research
Development Panel (RDP)’s continuous review of individuals’ research plans, ad hoc seminars and
training events, and – above all – through continuous interaction and collaborations with colleagues
at all levels of seniority, including international leaders across disciplinary (sub)specialisms.

Flexible working arrangements promote staff retention and EDI policies (§2(d), below) central to
UoN’s mission (Institutional ES, §2.5, §3.5). Fourteen periods of parental leave were taken by
School researchers 2014-2020. The School benefits from flexible joint appointments (Bartlett: 30%
share with Nottinghamshire NHS Trust; Todd, University of Canterbury, NZ, variable 0.33/0.2
fractional appointment to spend Autumn Term in Nottingham), and unpaid leave facilitating
prestigious appointments (e.g. McCorquodale, Director of BIICL 2008-2018; Mevorach full-time
Senior Counsel to the World Bank, 2013-2015) and research collaborations (Roberts, Adjunct
Professor, CUPL, Beijing, 2017-19). Balanced teaching and administrative loads ensure that all
colleagues can participate in global research networks, including visiting fellowships and shorter
academic visits in the UK and overseas. During this REF period, for example, Beheshti secured a
postdoctoral grant from the Max Planck Institute for Comparative and International Private Law for a
two month residency in Hamburg (2017); Georgopoulos held funded visiting fellowships at the EUI
Robert Schuman Research Centre in Florence and the Universities of Castilla la Mancha and
Neuchâtel; La Chimia took up funded visiting professorships at La Sapienza of Rome and Milan La
Statale universities (plus unpaid visiting positions at the Danish Institute of Human Rights and the
universities of Copenhagen and Stellenbosch). Nolan was Visiting Professor at the Université
Catholique de Louvain (2015) and in 2017 was Visiting Professorial Fellow at UNSW Law School,
Sydney, and a Hauser Senior Global Research Fellow at NYU School of Law. Van Zyl Smit was a
Global Professor of Law at NYU (Jan-May 2017). Appleton and van Zyl Smit were (separately)
awarded visiting fellowships at the Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Criminal Law
in Freiburg, Germany, to work on their prizewinning book (REF2). White held a funded Visiting
Professorship at Kobe University, Japan (2019).

As a generation of long-serving colleagues approaches retirement (new Professors Emeriti
Arrowsmith, Footer, Mowbray and van Zyl Smit remain research-active and engaged with School
activities), planned recruitment has secured the appointment of 14 new assistant professors since
REF2014 (Bassok, Beheshti, Cercel, Davitti, Foster, Jutte, Mistry, Pappa, Sargeant,
Shucksmith-Wesley, Skillen, Thomason, Toth, Van der Ploeg, plus Wu transferred from
Contemporary Chinese Studies).

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Supporting and developing research careers: A well-managed School, provisioned with efficient
support staff, enables academics to focus on their research and other core responsibilities. Teaching,
administrative and management duties are allocated transparently and equitably (relative to
experience, with full participation at all grades). Whilst the professoriate generally shoulders senior
management and leadership roles, assistant and associate professors are encouraged to develop
appropriate managerial portfolios to facilitate career progression. Professors contribute to core
undergraduate teaching, including small group tutorials. All staff are encouraged to introduce, or co-
teach, advanced undergraduate and postgraduate modules to develop research specialisms.
Programmes and modules are continuously reviewed and refreshed to ensure currency and strategic
alignment with researchers’ (developing) expertise.

R&T staff are proactively encouraged to take research leave (normally one full semester in every
eight), with flexibility to suit opportunities and career plans. Accelerated research leave was
introduced in 2012 to facilitate timely completion of substantial projects. Relief from routine School
duties to complete major funding applications and projects in this REF period was granted to: Bekou
60% (2014-15), 80% (2015-16); Footer 10% (2014-16); Ghazaryan 5% (2015-16); Hyde 8% (20-
21); Jackson 50% (2020-21); Kenner 20% (2014-16); La Chimia 10% (2017-22); Milanovic 100%
(20-21); Nolan 5% (2014-15) & 40% (2020-21); Roberts 10% (2014-15); Saunders 60% (2020-21);
Tosato 100% (2019-21). Applications for external funding are supported by the University’s Centre
for Advanced Studies, a dedicated full-time Research Development Manager for Social Sciences,
and UoN’s internal peer-reviewing mechanisms.

Early Career Researchers (ECRs): Structured support for ECRs is a strategic priority, alongside
“develop[ing] our postdoctoral community” (§1(d), above) and expanded recruitment of Assistant
Professors. Every ECR is assigned an experienced mentor with corresponding research interests,
and fully integrated into School and Faculty research centres relevant to individuals’ disciplinary
specialism(s). The School’s RDP takes particular interest in the research plans of less experienced
colleagues, providing continuous feedback on draft outputs and advising on publication strategy.
New ECRs have reduced teaching loads, and do not undertake major administrative tasks for at
least two years. ECRs are fully represented in the School’s committee structures, including
Research Committee. UoN’s Researcher Academy (ex-Graduate School) offers a dedicated
programme of Researcher Development courses. School ECRs attend early career bid-writing
‘boot-camps’, run by the Centre for Advanced Studies.

Our postdoctoral community was further strengthened by: (i) appointments of Appleton (2019) and
Kattan (2020) to prestigious NRFs; and (ii) creation of two School-funded Postdoctoral Research
Fellowships in Law, providing a career ‘stepping stone’ for talented PhDs to enhance their profile
through structured collaboration and advanced mentoring. Both appointees subsequently achieved
permanent posts: Jutte (UoN 2018-20, UCD 2020- ); Gramcheva (Middlesex, 2019- ). Holloway
secured an ESRC postdoctoral fellowship (2018-20), and was subsequently appointed Teaching
Fellow in the School.


(c) PGR Recruitment, Support, Training and Supervision
A thriving PhD programme is a major facet of the School’s research activity with broadly-based staff
participation. Thirty-six colleagues were (co)supervising doctoral students at the census date (with
full teaching credit), and many more participate in Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) courses,
methods training and work-in-progress seminars, as viva chairs and internal examiners, and
                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through the Annual Doctoral Colloquium (ADC) – a day-long workshop at which all current doctoral
students present their research and receive supportive oral feedback (plus, for third years, written
comments on submitted draft papers) from colleagues and peers. In recent years, the ADC has
also featured external discussants/commentators, typically ECRs from other universities (many are
Nottingham PhD graduates). PGRs are active research centre members, organising workshops,
delivering papers, and networking.

Planned expansion of PhD registrations from 28 (RAE 2008) to 44 (REF 2014) has achieved a
sustainable cohort of c.40 PGRs (plus c.10 “thesis pending”), with effective critical mass –
especially in areas of strength mapping onto the six research centres. Global recruitment attracts
applicants of exceptional ability and promise, including national scholars (e.g. Alverez and Vallejo
Trujillo under the Colombian Government’s Colciencias-Colfuturo scheme; Celiksoy and Kaya
won Turkish Government scholarships; Diva Ersya was funded by the Indonesian Government;
Leepuengtham was Thai Government-sponsored, and on graduation was appointed to Thailand’s
Supreme Court; Mosaka was a FirstRand Foundation Scholar). During the REF2021 period
Nottingham students secured DTP scholarships through three RCUK schemes: AHRC Midland 3
Cities (7 awards); ESRC Midlands Graduate School (5); and EPSRC Horizon Centre (2). UoN funds
PhD scholarships for exceptional students (7 awards to Law in this period, including the prestigious
VC’s Scholarship claimed by Abrusci), with fully-funded School of Law PhD scholarships
supporting another 8 PGRs since 2014. On average 12 doctorates are awarded annually to
students supervised (in whole or part) by School staff – 77 graduates in total, 2014-2021.

All new full-time (and optionally, many part-time) doctoral students attend a term-long bespoke
module on Research Methods in Law, delivered in-house by experienced researchers with
methodology publications (Fraser and Roberts, with van der Eijk (Politics) and Law Librarian
Simmonds). Intensive regular contact with dedicated supervision teams (typically pairing
established experts with more junior scholars, sometimes in interdisciplinary combinations) affords
smooth progression from “training” and mentoring to the production of mature scholarship and
outputs (e.g. Mistry in REF2), simultaneously mentoring ECR colleagues in PhD supervision.
Active collaboration between supervisor teams and students extends to co-authorship. PGRs audit
relevant LLM modules (and subject-specialist courses across UoN), alongside generic skills training
by the Graduate School (relaunched in 2020 as the Researcher Academy:
www.nottingham.ac.uk/researcher-academy/) tailored to each stage of the PhD life-cycle. The
School’s Research Committee organises career-development workshops (‘How to Get Published’;
‘Doing and Disseminating Research Online’; ‘Maximising Research Impact’), with significant input
from postdoctoral fellows. Subject to satisfactory progress, PGRs may acquire tutorial and/or
seminar teaching experience, with structured support and supervision by module leaders.

Annual Panel Reviews monitor progress, channelling constructive feedback and advice from
senior scholars outside the primary supervision relationship. Most School PGRs pass with minor
or no corrections and produce high-quality theses, kick-starting many successful research
careers. REF2 includes UoN PhD-derived monographs by Davitti, Ghazaryan, Hyde, Saidova
and Shucksmith-Wesley. The School’s PGR programme has a proven record of nurturing
scholarly talent and bolstering research capacity in the sector. Graduating PGRs commencing
academic careers in the UK and overseas in this REF period include: Akintola (Lancaster), Botte-
Kerrison (SSHRC, Ottawa), Brittle (NTU), Chadwick (NTU), Chave (UCL, IBIL), Che (CUPL,
Beijing), Chen (Hertfordshire), Cruz (Bristol), Davitti (UoN), Ezechukwu (BCU), Garstka
(Cambridge), Hayes (Sheffield), Holloway (UoN), Jacques (UEA), Kaprou (Brunel), Keeling

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(Leeds), Landefeld (DMU), Masiko (UoN), Mistry (UoN), Mosaka, (Cape Town), Ojogbo (BIU,
Benin City), Peake (UoN Rights Lab), Pulvirenti (Liverpool John Moores), Purshouse (UEA),
Reichstein (UEA), Scali (Kingston), Thomason (UoN), Vallejo Trujillo (Tolima, Colombia),
Wallace (Leeds), Watkins (NTU), Shucksmith-Wesley (UoN).


(d) EDI policy and Practice

EDI policies are central to UoN’s mission (Institutional ES, § 3.6, 3.7, 4.3), and integral to the School
of Law’s ethos: equality, diversity and inclusion are aspects of justice, which the School has a proud
tradition of championing. Birch was amongst the UK’s first cohort of female law professors, and was
previously Dean of the Faculty of Law and Social Sciences. In 2020, Bekou was appointed the
School’s first female Head. Of the current professoriate, six are women, there is rough gender parity
at associate professor level, and the ratio of female: male assistant professors is 2:1 (reflecting recent
appointments). On their retirement in 2020, Footer and Arrowsmith became the School’s first two
Professors Emerita. In terms of nationality, age, and ethnicity, the School’s academic staff profile is
diverse at all grades. Twenty-nine colleagues (55%) are non-British, from: Armenia, Australia,
Belgium, Canada, China, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, New Zealand,
Romania, Serbia, South Africa, Uganda, Uzbekistan and Zimbabwe. Amongst the student population,
there is broad gender parity (f = 51%, m = 49%) and significant ethnic diversity at undergraduate
(c.40% identifying as “BME”), PGT (f = 60%; “BME” = 50%) and PGR (f = 66%, “BME” = c.30%) levels
across the REF period. In relation to progression and awards, female students outperform male
students in first class and 2:1 undergraduate degrees every year by a significant margin (e.g. in
2018/19 aggregated 2&3 year results: f = 45% 1 or 2:1, m = 38%). Outcomes are roughly gender
balanced at masters (LLM) level.

Informed by the Vitae Report (2015), the School undertook a root-and-branch administrative review
of EDI policy, leading in 2017 to the creation of a School Equalities, Diversity and Inclusion
Committee (SEDIC) to mainstream EDI polices and practice within the School’s committee structure
and practices. SEDIC meets regularly throughout the year to identify and address all pertinent
issues, for staff and students. Its recommendation that all senior School administrative roles should
be filled by open application was implemented in 2019. Well-attended occasional seminars, e.g. on
“unconscious bias” and mentoring, supplement broader UoN initiatives. The School secured an
Athena Swan Bronze award in 2019, and subsequently devised a detailed action plan to monitor
ongoing progress and embed best practices.

Moreover, inclusion and diversity are promoted directly through the School’s research activities,
publications and PGR supervision, which in the current period (cf. REF2) addressed disability rights,
juvenile justice, modern slavery, postcolonialism, anti-Semitism, feminism, queer theory, equality and
non-discrimination.




                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

(a) Location and Physical Infrastructure

School of Law staff offices, research centres, PhD study spaces and the principal teaching rooms
form a cohesive unit, within the Law and Social Sciences Building (L&SS) – shared with Politics and
Sociology – on the 330 acre main University Park (UP) campus site. L&SS has lift access to all four
floors and accessible bathroom facilities.

L&SS sits adjacent the Hallward Library, housing the Law collection, and facing the Centre for
Advanced Studies (CAS), remodelled in 2012. Colocation within this informal social sciences hub
facilitates daily interaction within and between Schools and promotes both direct research
collaboration and cross-disciplinary initiatives, underpinned by Faculty structures and resources.
UoN continually invests in its award-winning campuses. The newly-constructed Monica Partridge
Building (MPB) opened in September 2018, providing extensive new teaching, meeting and study
space accommodation just metres from L&SS – forming a courtyard-style, fully pedestrianised social
and circulation space without compromising UP’s overwhelmingly open and verdant character. L&SS
backs onto the ‘secret’ Millennium Garden, leading to the on-campus Orchard Hotel (built 2012) and
the East Midlands Conference Centre, both of which host academic meetings (§4(c)(i), below) and
other School events. The School also utilises UoN’s Malaysia and China campuses on an ad hoc
basis (e.g. hosting HRLC professional training courses).

Academic staff occupy their own, well-equipped, tutorial offices, with 24-hour, 365-day access.
Doctoral students enjoy 24-hour access to a dedicated PGR work room, equipped with study carrels,
networked computers, lockable desk space and unlimited printing. Additional ‘multi-functional’ social,
meeting and seminar space for research students is housed in the School, MPB, CAS and the
Hallward Library. L&SS’ internal décor blends achievement with inclusive collegiality. Posters
celebrating major (book) publications by School members adorn corridor walls. Humans of the
School of Law, led by Goodwin and Mistry, was launched in 2017, to replace yellowing cartoon
portraits of yesteryear’s judiciary with images conveying “the difference and diversity that makes our
School what it is”. New photographs of School students and staff – past and present – are captioned
with short vignettes encapsulating personal engagements with law, law school and legal scholarship.
One testimonial reads simply, “here is where I can be the me-est version of me”.

(b) Information Resources

Information constitutes the ‘test tubes and consumables’ of legal research. The School’s Information
Resource Committee works closely with a dedicated Law Librarian (Simmonds, with 23 years’
experience in legal education) to ensure excellent library provision and professional IT support.
Simmonds provides intensive legal research skills education, specialist collections curation, and
individualised project support, alongside senior Information Services management. UoN Hallward
Library houses an extensive, ‘full service’ Law collection, augmented by ever-expanding on-line
resources and subscriptions (Westlaw, LexisLibrary, HeinOnline, etc), directly (and remotely)
accessible to all staff and student computers and portable devices. The School of Law contributes
to funding specialist subscriptions such as i-law, Kluwer Arbitration and the Index to Legal Periodicals
& Books.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since 2018, UoN’s Research Information System (RIS), has streamlined grant applications (including
internal peer review), facilitated coordination between research teams across HEIs and
internationally, and managed archiving and dissemination of publications, supporting – inter alia –
Open Access and REF submissions. All staff benefit from state-of-the-art office desktops, portable
devices (many recently upgraded to SurfacePro tablets), and (well before Covid struck) long-loaned
computing equipment to facilitate flexible home-working. Access to the full suite of on-line library
resources and licensed research tools (e.g. SPSS, STATA, NVivo, Qaltrics) is available on campus
and off-site via Cloud and “remote desktop” technology. Switch-over to Office365 and OneDrive
cloud-based computing during the period has enhanced collaborative working and expanded data
storage capacities (5GB personal, secure, storage to replace the aging R:Drive). Data management
policy and infrastructure have been refreshed across the institution, partly to secure compliance with
GDPR. School staff work with UoN Digital Research Specialists to drive innovation, KE and research
impact: e.g. Bekou utilised the cloud-based Automated Transcription Service; Hyde collaborated to
produce a regulatory compliance VR Game (with forthcoming publications); Kemp’s Digital Legal
Rights project was supported to produce an app and “Know my Rights” website to assist police station
interviewees: https://knowmyrights.org.uk/.


The School’s continuous investment in IT-support, including website curation publicising weekly
events, advertise expertise (for consulting and research collaboration) and disseminate research
findings, proved vital to the resilience of research (and teaching) activities during the pandemic.

(c) Research Support and Income

Dedicated funding and administrative support targets individual and collaborative research, within
UoN and externally. R&T staff are allocated £1,500 p.a. flexible research allowance (temporarily
reduced to £500 for 2020-21) for conference travel, books and equipment, small-scale research
assistance (often supplied by PhD students, and simultaneously providing research mentoring), etc.
Published outputs (cf. REF2) evolve organically from scholarly initiative, nurtured by a collegial
School environment affording time and space to think, write and discuss work in progress with
knowledgeable colleagues (buttressed by supportive research leave policies and opportunities for
advanced research-led teaching and PGR supervision, as previously outlined). Many books, articles
and research projects began life as (postgraduate) modules or seminars.

The School’s six research centres naturally attract major external funding. Notably, HRLC’s ongoing
participation in the FRAME consortium of 19 international human rights research centres generated
£200,000 to assist in preparing the Handbook on Access to Justice and updating the EU
Fundamental Rights Agency’s 2019 Annual Report. The CJRC and the PPRC house numerous
funded projects (see below). As well as supporting its research centres and rolling seminar
programmes, the School provides strategic pump-priming for promising initiatives, e.g. Mulgrew’s
developmental e-learning tool (with Europris and Council of Europe) for foreign prisoners, launched
in September 2019 in English, French, Spanish, German, Greek and Italian (with plans for Turkish
and Arabic translations); and invites applications for occasional expert workshops, symposia, etc,
frequently associated with published outputs (e.g. the half-day colloquium and book launch of
Amatrudo (ed), Social Censure and Critical Criminology (2017), hosted by contributor Roberts in
November 2017).

External funding applications to facilitate larger, collaborative research programmes are proactively
encouraged. A mentorship scheme for developing grant proposals, targeting ECRs but also

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
established scholars branching out into new and/or interdisciplinary methodologies, was introduced,
with a £500 bonus to personal research allowances to further incentivise major bid writing. CAS
supplies additional administrative support, identifies potential funding opportunities, organises
(interdisciplinary) peer-review within UoN, and completes technicalities (institutional undertakings,
detailed costings, etc).

These initiatives have borne fruit. Total external grant income for the period 2014-2020 was £2.36
million (+19% on REF2014). UKRI research councils (20%) and the EU (57%) were the primary
external sponsors, supplemented by UK-based charities (12%), UK government (7%) and overseas
public bodies, industry and commerce (3%). Twenty-two members of staff were named project
PI/CIs, and many others collaborated and co-authored outputs. Highlights include:

   •   Arrowsmith: BA Newton Advanced Fellowship (£74,000) with Stellenbosch University; and
       Achilles Information Ltd (£180,000) for global public procurement research;
   •   Bartlett: multiple NIHR-funded projects on forensic psychiatry/mental health law (totalling
       over £200,000);
   •   Bekou: Magna Carta Fund for Human Rights and Democracy (£495,360) for Strengthening
       the Investigation, Documentation and Prosecution of Sexual Violence in Conflict (2016-17);
       €1.2m (UoN share £112,000) from EIDHR/Norwegian government for Enhancing the Rome
       Statute System of Justice (2013-16); ESRC NGO Data Funding 2018-20 (£20,000);
   •   Cercel: Romanian Government-funded Heads of State: Authoritarian Dynamics in Romanian
       Constitutional History funded by the (RON850 000, c.£163,000);
   •   Derclaye: consortium awarded €270,000 by European Commission for Evaluation of
       Directive 96/9/EC on the Legal Protection of Databases (2017);
   •   Footer: European Commission funding (£379,500) for Security of Transnational Flows of
       Natural Resources;
   •   Georgopoulos: Innovate UK Sustainable Innovation Fund (c.£30,000 UoN share, plus £4k
       UoN QR grant) for Tracking and Enhancing Sustainability and Diversity in Healthcare
       Procurement in light of COVID-19;
   •   Hyde: ESRC-GCRF grant (£177,367) in collaboration with UoN Psychology for Building an
       Integrated Data Platform for Early Child Development in Malawi; and EPSRC-funded
       (£14.5m, UoN share £2.8m) interdisciplinary consortium developing a Trustworthy
       Autonomous Systems Hub;
   •   Jackson: BA/Leverhulme Senior Fellowship (£43,000), producing Special Advocates in the
       Adversarial System (2019);
   •   Kemp: multiple awards for researching suspects’ digital rights in police stations (see [2020]
       Crim LR 129-147], including major Nuffield funding (£259,233) and Legal Education
       Foundation (£58,000);
   •   La Chimia: AHRC Global Challenges-funded Rising from the Depths: Utilising Marine
       Cultural Heritage in East Africa (£2 million; UoN Law & Archaeology share £1m);
   •   McCorquodale: Norton Rose Fulbright 2014-18 (£200,000); European Commission 2018-
       2020 (£250,000) to research corporations’ human rights due diligence;
   •   Mevorach International Insolvency Institute award (US$54,000) to develop A Framework
       for Cross-Border Resolution of Financial Institutions;
   •   Milanovic: BA Mid-Career Fellowship 2020 (£114,112);
   •   van Zyl Smit: Leverhulme (£222,785), producing Life Imprisonment (2019);
   •   White: Dutch NWO-funded (€100,000) project on private security in Indonesian extractive
       industries.

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Smaller awards include: BA/Leverhulme (Georgopoulos, Jackson, Kemp, La Chimia), ESRC
Impact Accelerators (Appleton, Bekou, Kemp, Mevorach, Mulgrew, Nolan, van Zyl Smit), EU
FP7 (Torremans), MLR (Jackson, Foster), Max Planck Fellowships (Appleton, Shah, van Zyl
Smit).


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Belying its provincial location and relatively modest size, the School continues to make an enormous
and distinctive contribution to legal research, policymaking, law reform and the discipline of Law,
within the UK and internationally. REF2 outputs and REF3 impact case-studies offer selective
snapshots of far broader, dynamic research activity and (international) collaboration – much of it
interdisciplinary – extending across thirty or more diverse legal specialisms, whose “users”,
“beneficiaries” and “audiences” include: national and international courts and tribunals; UK
government; law reformers and policymakers worldwide; international organisations; legal and
associated professions and professional associations; charities; NGOs; law teachers; and law
students, at home and abroad. Building on Nottingham’s proud tradition of academic leadership,
scholarly collaboration and exceptional productivity, spearheaded in previous decades by Sir John
Smith and (now Emeritus Professor) DJ Harris, research in this REF period has promoted good
governance in the UK and internationally, championed liberal values of democracy, equality,
inclusion and cultural pluralism, safeguarded natural and cultural environments, and served the
peoples of the world to live in peace and security under the rule of law, with enhanced protection for
their fundamental rights and effective access to justice.

(a) Direct contributions to adjudication, legislation and law reform

Publications by Nottingham scholars are copiously cited to, and by, courts, advocates, legislatures,
law reformers, and policymakers:

       (i) Judicial citations to published work:
         UK Supreme Court: Navigators Insurance Co v Atlasnavios-Navegacao [2018] UKSC 26,
         [27] (Bennett); Belhaj v Straw [2017] UKSC 3, [107] (Harris and Sivakumaran);
         Mohammed v Secretary of State for Defence [2017] UKSC 2 (Milanovic); Coventry v
         Lawrence [2014] UKSC 13, [248] (Rotherham);

         E&W Court of Appeal: Atlasnavios-Navegacao v Navigators Insurance Co [2016] EWCA
         Civ 808; [2017] 1 WLR 1303, [31] (Bennett);

         E&W High Court: SRCL Ltd v NHS Commissioning Board [2018] EWHC 1985 (TCC), [173],
         [180]-[196]; & R (Gottlieb) v Winchester CC [2015] EWHC 231 (Admin), (Arrowsmith); R
         (Trafford) v Blackpool BC [2014] 2 All ER 947, [53] (Bailey); The B Atlantic [2014] EWHC
         4133 (Comm); [2015] 1 Lloyd’s Rep 117, [234], [255] & Ramburs v Agrifert SA [2015] EWHC
         3548 (Comm); [2016] 1 CLC 46, [6] (Bennett); Senior Taxi Aereo Executivo v Augusta
         Westland [2020] EWHC 1348 (Comm), [143] & Morrow v Shrewsbury RUFC [2020] EWHC
         379 (QB), [136]-[146] (Hyde); Mohammed v Defence Sec [2014] EWHC 1369 (QB), [273]
         (Milanovic); Halsall v Champion Consulting Ltd [2017] PNLR 32 (Todd);

         Court of Protection: Re SH; The Public Guardian v RL, FJ, and KLC [2016] EWCOP 2
         (Bartlett);



                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       UK First Tier Tribunal: Paragon Customer Communications v Revenue and Customs [2018]
       UKFTT 162 (TC), [119] (Arrowsmith);

       European Court of Human Rights: Fernandes de Oliveira v Portugal, GC(78103/14), 31
       January 2019 (Bartlett): Muhammad v Romania GC(80982/12), 15 October 2020
       (Concurring Opinion); Ilias and Ahmed v Hungary GC(47287/15), 21 November 2019
       (Judges Bianku and Vucinic); Svinarenko and Slyadnev v Russia GC(32541/08), 17 July
       2014 (Judges Nicolaou and Keller) (Harris/Buckley); Chiragov v Armenia, GC(13216/05),
       16 June 2015 (Judge Gyulumyan) & Jaloud v Netherlands, GC(47708/08), 20 November
       2014 (Judge Motoc) (Milanovic); Moreira Ferreira v Portugal (No. 2), GC(19867/12), 11
       July 2017 (President Raimondi) (Mowbray);

       EU Court of Justice: AK v Sądownictwa, C-585/18, [84] (AG Tanchev, 27 June 2019)
       (Kenner); Cofemel v G-Star Raw, C-683/17 (A-G Szpunar, 2 May 2019) (Derclaye); AMS
       Neve (EU trade mark action for infringement) [2019] EUECJ C-172/18_O, nn 26 & 42 (A-G
       Szpunar, 28 March 2019) (Torremans); Eurobolt BV, C-644/17, [33] (A-G Hogan, 28
       February 2019) (Kenner); Western Sahara Campaign UK v Revenue and Customs [2018]
       EUECJ C-266/16_O, [243] (A-G Wathelet, 10 January 2018) (Milanovic); Orsi, C-217/15,
       [26] (A-G Campos Sánchez-Bordona, 12 January 2017) (Kenner); SARL v Samsung
       Electronics [2016] EUECJ C-618/15_O, [58] (A-G Wathelet, 9 November 2016)
       (Torremans).

       International Criminal Court: ICC-02/17-138, [26] (appeal on situation in Afghanistan)
       (Bekou); ICC-01/04-02/06-1707, [48] (Prosecutor v Ntaganda) (Sivakumaran).

       Northern Ireland High Court: Doherty v Ministry of Defence [2019] NIQB 35, [14] (Hyde);

       Scottish Court of Session: Hughes v Turning Point Scotland [2019] CSOH 42 (Hyde);

       Dutch Supreme Court: AG Drijber’s Opinion of 16 March 2018 ECLI:NL:PHR:2018:254 in
       Pearson, 8 June 2018; & AG Verkade’s Opinion in Ryanair v PR Aviation, 7 January 2015
       ECLI:NL:HR:2014:88 (Derclaye);

       Irish Supreme Court: Cromane Foods Limited v Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries & Food
       [2016] IESC 6 (Todd);

       Namibian Supreme Court: S v Gaingob (SA 7/2008, SA 8/2008) (2018) NASC 4, [61]ff (6
       February 2018) (Appleton/van Zyl Smit);

       Newfoundland and Labrador Court of Appeal: AA (Re) 2019 NLCA 7 (Bartlett);

       New Zealand Court of Appeal: Vero Insurance New Zealand v Morrison [2015] NZCA 246
       (Todd); Strathboss Kiwifruit Limited v Attorney-General [2020] NZCA 98, [101], [167], [184];
       & High Court [2018] NZHC 1559 (Todd).


     (ii) Citation/participation in litigation argument:
     McCorquodale represented Vanuatu in Advisory Opinion on Chagos Archipelago (ICJ
     decision 25 February 2019), and civil society organisations before the UK Supreme Court in
     Vedanta v Lungowe (2017) and Bancoult No 3 (2015). Foster advised the Canadian
     Government in relation to the Six Nations Litigation. Colleagues were cited in counsel’s
     arguments before the UK Supreme Court (Bartlett in N v ACCG [2017] UKSC 22); by the ICC
     OTP (Kattan in Prosecution Response to the Observations of Amici Curiae, Legal
     Representatives of Victims, and States, Situation in the State of Palestine, 30 April 2020;
     Mistry in Prosecutor v Laurent Gbagbo, ICC-02/11-01/15-1277-Conf, 15 October 2019’, 17



                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     March 2019); and in ICC defence submissions (Mistry in Defence of Charles Blé Goude, ICC-
     02/11-01/15-1315-Conf, 6 March 2020, 9 March 2020).


     (iii) UK legislative process and law reform:
     Arrowsmith appointed to the Cabinet Office’s Procurement Transformation Advisory Panel
     (2019- ) and the DTI’s Expert Trade Advisory Group (Procurement) (Feb 2020- ). Bartlett
     served as specialist advisor to the House of Lords ad hoc Scrutiny Committee on the
     Implementation of the Mental Capacity Act 2005 (HL Debs, 10 March 2015); Butler provided
     written evidence to HC Transport Committee’s Intercity East Coast Franchise Inquiry (HC 891,
     2018). Cartwright served on the Law Society’s Consumer Law Reform Reference Group
     (2016), and assisted the HC BISS Committee on the Draft Consumer Rights Bill; & SRA,
     Quality of Legal Services for Asylum Seekers (2014). Georgopoulos contributed to HC
     Defence Committee’s, Gambling on Efficiency (2017); HC BEIS Committee’s Forced Labour
     in UK Value Chains (2020); and HC DCMS Committee’s Broadband and the Road to 5G
     Network (2020). Hyde made submissions to the Scrutiny Committee on the Food Hygiene
     Rating Northern Ireland Bill (2014). Kemp advised the Ministry of Justice on post-LASPOA
     2012 criminal legal aid; the Cabinet Office’s Open Innovation Team on Understanding and
     Measuring Trust in the Justice System; & HMCTS on the Voice of the Defendant, digital
     technologies and remote working. Both Kemp and Arrowsmith have been appointed by the
     Lord Chancellor to the Expert Panel advising the (Bellamy) Independent Review of Criminal
     Legal Aid (2020- ). Jackson served on the Gillen Review advisory panel on legal procedures
     in serious sex offences in Northern Ireland (2018-2019); and is a member of the NI DoJ Core
     Reference Group on Sentencing (2017- ).
     McCorquodale served as Special Advisor to the UK Parliament’s Joint Committee on Human
     Rights’ Inquiry into Corporations Responsibility and Accountability for Human Rights (2016-
     2017), drafting its final report. Mevorach has been appointed to UK Office for Science Covid-
     19 Recovery Trade and Aid Working Group (2020). Milanovic submitted evidence to JCHR
     Inquiry into The Government’s Proposed Derogation from the ECHR (12 April 2017) and oral
     testimony to the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Drones (5 December 2017). Munro
     provided written evidence to JCHR Enquiry Detention of Young People with Autism and
     Learning Disabilities (HC121, 2019; HL POSTNote on Autism Jan 2020). Nolan was appointed
     to the Scottish First Minister’s Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership in 2017,and
     served on the Scottish Government's Child Rights Working Group 2019-20. Roberts’ work on
     forensic science was extensively quoted in HC Debs vol 680 (23 Sept 2020, Rupa Huq MP).
     Tosato is a member (2014- ) of the English Secured Transactions Law Reform Project. White
     provided oral and written evidence to HC Political and Constitutional Reform Committee’s
     Report on Parliament’s Role in Conflict Decisions (HC 892, 2014; reproduced HC Briefing
     Paper 7166, 12 May 2015); and to HC Defence Committee on UK Armed Forces Personnel
     and the Legal Framework for Future Operations (HC 931, 2014).
     Contributors to UK Law Commissions projects included Bartlett (wills, liberty safeguards),
     Bennett (insurance contracts), Hyde (data sharing, contract, defamation) and Tosato (law
     reform programme).


     (iv) International legislation:
     Jackson joined ELI’s project team on Admissibility of E-Evidence in Criminal Proceedings in
     the EU (2020- ). McCorquodale co-authored the Study on Due Diligence in the Supply Chain
     (2020) for the European Commission and serves as Independent Special Advisor to the UN
     Open-Ended Working Group on Drafting a Legally Binding Instrument on Business and Human
     Rights (2014- ). Mevorach contributed to multiple UNCITRAL insolvency instruments.
     Milanovic served as appointed peer reviewer of ICRC’s new commentaries on the Geneva
     Conventions and the Tallinn Manual on International Law in Cyber Operations. Nolan


                                                                                         Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     contributed to the Guiding Principles on Human Rights Impact Assessments for Economic
     Reform Policies (A/HRC/40/57, 2018); drafted part of UN Committee on the Rights of the
     Child’s GC19 (2016); and was on the Drafting Committee of the Abidjan Principles on the Right
     to Education (2019). As an Executive Committee member of the Association littéraire et
     artistique internationale (ALAI), Torremans co-authored two opinions on EU Directive
     2019/790 currently before the EU Commission and Court of Justice. In 2020 Tosato joined the
     US Uniform Law Commission’s Commercial Code Revision Study Group (digital assets).


     (v) Worldwide policy-making: research, advice and knowledge transfer:
     Appleton is an Expert Advisor to the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (2018- ) and
     in 2020 became a Board Member of Penal Reform International. Arrowsmith assisted the
     OECD through the International Partnership Against Corruption in Sport, Task Force 1 (2018-
     19), and was a member of the World Bank International Advisory Group on Procurement
     (2012-2016). Bartlett served as Council of Europe Special Advisor on mental health law reform
     in Georgia, Armenia, and Serbia, and wrote Appendix M to the Independent Review into the
     Preventable Death of Connor Sparrowhawk (Verita, 2015). Derclaye contributes expertise and
     legal advice through memberships of the Research Experts Advisory Group to the UK
     Intellectual Property Office, the European Copyright Society, and the International Association
     for the Protection of Intellectual Property (AIPPI)’s Special Committee on Intellectual Property
     and Environmental Technology/Climate Change (Green Technology).
     Georgopoulos advised the Dutch government in relation to EU Commission infringement
     proceedings against the Netherlands. Kattan provided legal advice to two Palestinian
     ministries (Negotiations; Foreign Affairs) and is cited by the UN Special Rapporteur’s Report
     on Human Rights in the Palestinian Territories (UN Doc A/73/45717, 22 October 2018). La
     Chimia was a member of the World Bank reporting team on Benchmarking Infrastructure
     (2020), the ICAI-appointed panel reviewing UK aid purchasing, and advised the Afghanistan
     national procurement authority on comprehensive institutional reform. Mevorach was Senior
     Counsel to the World Bank and Global Task Force lead on Insolvency and Creditor/Debtor
     Regimes (2014-2015), advising governments in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Caribbean; and
     represented the World Bank (2014-2016) and later joined the UK Delegation (2016- ) to
     UNCITRAL Working Group V. She is quoted extensively in World Bank policy papers on
     insolvency, directors’ obligations and creditor/debtor regimes. Milanovic’s work features in the
     UN Special Rapporteur’s report to the Human Rights Council on the murder of Jamal
     Khashoggi (A/HRC/41/CRP.1). Mistry (with Bekou) informed the Independent Review of the
     ICC and Rome Statute (March 2020-), and advised the FCO Legal Directorate on HMG’s own
     submission. Mulgrew advised the CoE DG of Human Rights and Rule of Law (2019), the EU
     Fundamental Rights Agency (2015), and - in association with Europris and the Belgian Prison
     Service - prison administrators from 17 countries and two international courts on prisoner
     transfers (2016).
     Roberts served on the RSS’s Statistics and Law Working Group (2009-2015), co-authoring
     widely-cited     Practitioner    Manuals      on     Statistical Evidence     (rss.org.uk/news-
     publication/publications/our-research) and promoted evidence law reform in China and
     Tanzania via membership of the International Association of Evidence Science. Tosato was a
     Member of the Italian Delegation to UNCITRAL Working Group VI, Secured Transactions
     (2014-2019), advising the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs; and subsequently appointed to
     UNIDROIT Working Groups on Best Practices in the Field of Electronic Registry Design (2019-
     ) and Warehouse Receipt Model Law (2020-). van Zyl Smit and Appleton supplied research
     data for a Penal Reform International briefing paper on Life Imprisonment (2018), also
     disseminated in Arabic, French, Japanese and Russian translations. White contributed to the
     UN Working Group on Mercenaries (2015) and UN Doc A/HRC/42/42 (29 July 2019) on private
     security and extractive industries.


                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(b) Legal pedagogy, institutional infrastructure and disciplinary development:

The School’s outstanding scholarship enriches the capacity and vitality of UK and international legal
research and sustains its disciplinary infrastructures. Colleagues referee countless papers, book
proposals and grant applications, taking leading roles in research administration in the UK, Europe
and internationally (e.g. McCorquodale is Expert Reviewer for the Australian Research Council,
Roberts is on the Standing Review Board, Hong Kong Grants Council; White was a Hong Kong
RAE2020 Panel Member; and Fraser continues on the REF2021 Law Sub-panel).

As academic leaders in their respective fields, Nottingham scholars commission and edit book series
(§1(b), above), and author leading practitioner works (e.g. Blackstone’s Criminal Practice: annually,
Birch; Charlesworth & Percy on Negligence, 14/e, 2018: Hyde, Todd) and discipline-defining
textbooks (e.g. Harris, O'Boyle and Warbrick, Law of the European Convention on Human Rights,
3/e 2014 & 4/e 2018; Russian, Bulgarian, Turkish trans. 2016: Buckley and Harris).

Multiple editorial board roles exemplify colleagues’ extensive and diverse contributions to the
institutional fabric of (global) legal scholarship:
       Asian Journal of International Law (Kattan);
       Business and Human Rights Journal (McCorquodale);
       Cambridge International Law Journal (Milanovic);
       Criminal Law & Philosophy (Roberts);
       Criminal Law Review (Birch, Jackson);
       European Journal of International Law (Milanovic);
       EJIL: Talk! (Milanovic, Co-Ed 2012- );
       European Public Law (Mowbray);
       Global Restructuring Review (Mevorach);
       Human Rights LR (Bartlett, Kenner, Kritsiotis, McCorquodale, Mistry Rev Ed 2017-,
             Mowbray, Nolan, Shah, Rec Develops Co-Ed);
       International & Comparative Law Quarterly (McCorquodale, Gen Ed 2008-18);
       International Human Rights Law Review (Nolan);
       International Journal of Children’s Rights (Nolan);
       International Criminal Law Review (Mulgrew, guest ed vol 19(1) 2019);
       International Journal of Evidence & Proof (Jackson, Roberts);
       International Journal of Human Rights (McCorquodale);
       International Organizations Law Review (White);
       Journal of Banking Regulation (Cartwright);
       Italian Review of Public Management (La Chimia);
       Journal of Conflict and Security Law (White, Editor-in-Chief; Kritsiotis);
       Journal of Ethics in Mental Health (Bartlett);
       Journal of European Consumer and Market Law (Cartwright);
       Journal of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology (Bartlett);
       Journal of Forensic Science & Medicine (Roberts);
       Journal of International Humanitarian Legal Studies (Milanovic);
       Journal of Law and Society (Bartlett);
       Law and Philosophy (Roberts);
       Law, Probability & Risk (Roberts);
       Le Costituzionaliste (La Chimia);
       Lloyd’s Maritime and Commercial Law Quarterly (Bennett);
       Modern Law Review (Roberts, Revs Ed 2017-20; Shah, Legislation Ed 2019-);
       Personality and Mental Health (Bartlett);
       Public Procurement Law Review (Arrowsmith, Gen Ed 1992-2019, Butler, Co-Eds 2019-,
             La Chimia, Georgopoulos, Trepte, Wang);


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Quaestio Facti (Jackson, Roberts);
       Revista Digital de Derecho Administrativo (Georgopoulos).


(c) International collaboration and research networks
In addition to the activities of the research centres (§1(b)) and networks associated with funded
research projects (§3(c)), Nottingham scholars are prominent in national and international research
groups and contribute extensively to academic meetings, collaborative research and knowledge
transfer, e.g.:

       (i) Hosting conferences, workshops, etc:
       Nottingham hosted the 2014 SLS Annual Conference (and PhD conference, organised by
       then-doctoral students Jacques, Mistry and Shucksmith-Wesley, all now in permanent
       posts). Appleton and van Zyl Smit organised an Oñati workshop (2015), generating a co-
       edited book (Hart, 2016), and an International Webinar (2018) on life imprisonment. Kenner
       convened EU FP7 FRAME workshops in London (2015) and Harvard (2017). The world-
       renowned Annual Junior Faculty Forum for International Law was held in Nottingham in May
       2017 (Kritsiotis, with Weiler (NYU) and Nouwen (EUI)) – producing a special edition of EJIL
       – with subsequent meetings hosted by Melbourne (2018), NUS (2019) and Renmin (2020)
       law schools.

       In collaboration with the Nottingham Autism Police Partnership, Bartlett and Munro hosted
       two UK Mental Disability Law Conferences (2016 & 2018), funded by Wellcome Trust and
       Browne Jacobson Solicitors, including attendees with relevant lived-experience.

       The School hosts the ILA British Branch Regional Seminar Series (convened by Van der
       Ploeg). Annual JC Smith Visiting Senior Scholars in residence, who participate in a range of
       School classes and events including an international workshop, were John Gardner (2014),
       Liebenberg (2015), Kovacic (2016), Charlesworth (2017), Ewing (2018) and RA Duff (2019).

       (ii) Academic networks, scientific collaboration:
       Appleton and van Zyl Smit coordinate a Global Coalition on Life Imprisonment Reform, in
       collaboration with Penal Reform International. Kenner led Nottingham’s participation in the
       EU FP7 FRAME human rights project 2014-17 (www.fp7-frame.eu/). Kritsiotis delivered
       the inaugural Eli Lauterpacht Memorial Lecture (Cambridge, 2017); Jackson and Roberts
       are members of the North Sea Group on Legal Evidence; and with van Zyl Smit are
       participants (2015-) in Anglo-German Dialogues on Core Concepts in Criminal Law and
       Justice, www.department-ambos.uni-goettingen.de/index.php/anglo-german-dialogue. La
       Chimia coordinated a research group on Italian procurement law reform under the auspices
       of the Astrid foundation; is a founding member of the European Association of Public-Private
       Partnership (EAPPP); and with Davitti are founder-members of the International Economic
       Law Collective. Roberts is on the scientific (organising) committees of International
       Conference on Evidence Law and Forensic Science (ICELFS) and International Conference
       on Forensic Inference and Statistics (ICFIS). Van Zyl Smit gave the 2020 Roger Hood
       Lecture (Oxford).

       (iii) Professional associations and wider public life:
       Bailey chairs the SLS Legal Education Sub-Committee, having been President 2013-14; was
       Vice Chair of Derby Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (2014); and on University of Lincoln’s
       Board of Governors (until 2019). Derclaye has been elected President of the European
       Copyright Society (commencing 2021). Fraser was elected Fellow of the Academy of Social
       Sciences in 2020.


                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       McCorquodale was Director of the British Institute of International and Comparative Law
       2008-2018 (on secondment from UoN), and is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts and a
       Bencher of the Middle Temple. In 2020 Mevorach joined the International Advisory Council
       of the Singapore Global Restructuring Initiative (SGRI) and was appointed to the Lord
       Chancellor's Advisory Committee on Private International Law. Milanovic served as Vice-
       President (2015-2018) and Executive Board member (2010-2018) of the European Society
       of International Law. Nolan serves on the Steering Group of BA's Childhood Policy
       Programme, is an Academic Expert (Children's Rights Group) at Doughty Street Chambers,
       and in December 2020 was elected Vice-President of the European Committee of Social
       Rights.

(d) Other recognition:

In 2019 Arrowsmith was appointed QC (Hon) for services to English law. Kattan won the Asian
Society of International Law Younger Scholar Prize 2017. Mevorach became an International Fellow
of the American College of Bankruptcy in 2019, and in 2020 was listed amongst Lawdragon’s 500
Leading Global Restructuring & Insolvency Lawyers. Whilst completing her Nottingham PhD in 2014,
Mistry claimed the Antonio Cassese Prize for Innovative Perspectives in International Criminal
Justice. Toth won the St. Petersburg International Legal Forum Private Law Prize 2018.
Sivakumaran’s co-authored Oppenheim's International Law (2019) was awarded the American
Society of International Law Certificate of Merit. Van der Ploeg’s research on non-state entities in
international law won the 2019 Swiss Network for International Studies Award. In 2020 van Zyl Smit
and Appleton scooped both the ESC and ASC (International Division) Outstanding Book Awards.

Personifying the School’s disciplinary and wider contributions to law and society over many decades,
Birch, who joined as a lecturer in 1975 directly on graduation from the Nottingham LLB, was awarded
an OBE for services to legal education in the 2015 New Year’s Honours list.




                                                                                           Page 23
