Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UoA05

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1 Overview
 The School of Biological Sciences (SBS) at the University of Edinburgh is one of the largest in the
 UK (138.6 FTE returned here, growing 26.3% from REF2014). Our research is integrated and
 thematic, covering a spectrum from molecules to organisms, genetics to populations, and data
 innovation to solution-driven science. We have provided leadership in many fields (e.g. genetics,
 molecular biology, evolutionary biology, parasitology, stem cell biology, epigenetics, systems and
 synthetic biology), and built an environment that has catalysed connections between fields. In this
 REF period we have strategically nurtured collaboration with industry and consolidated our links
 with human and animal health researchers across Edinburgh. Our size and breadth provide the
 foundation for our truly integrative research vision: we support excellence in discovery science,
 while investing in solution-led research to address issues of health and wealth in society and the
 sustainable environment. This ambition requires multi-dimensional approaches, and has had led
 to discoveries that harness the power of quantitative, modelling-based and predictive biology:

    •   Establishing the mechanisms of circadian rhythms in plants by modelling how the gene
        network of the circadian clock links across scales from genotype to phenotype, using
        transcriptional pathway data to predict whole-plant growth and phenotypes (Millar,
        Halliday, Molecular Systems Biology, 2015; PNAS 2014).
    •   Driving evolutionary biology to the forefront of the response to the Covid-19 pandemic by
        leading the coronavirus sequencing consortium (CoG-UK), a SAGE sub-committee funded
        by the UK Government and Wellcome (£20M) to provide phylogeographic analyses of
        SARS-CoV-2 transmission across the UK (Rambaut, Lancet Microbe 2020,
        https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/scientific-advisory-group-for-
        emergencies/about )
    •   Bringing ageing research to studies of wild animals, with multi-generational data
        demonstrating that immunosenescence is a strong predictor of mortality, unexpectedly
        mirroring the age-associated decline in human immune function (Pemberton, Nussey,
        Science, 2019).
    •   Providing significant new hope for sufferers of Rett syndrome by identifying minimal gene
        constructs that can be transferred into mice where they substantially repair neurological
        abnormalities, reversing even established neurodevelopmental disease (Bird, Nature,
        2017).
 We have actioned our research vision via major interdisciplinary funding awards, substantially
 diversifying our income sources. During the REF period, we obtained funding awards totalling
 £196.3 million, an increase of ~25% over the previous REF period, including £2.7 million from
 industry. Funding highlights include:
    •   £13M from UKRI to establish the UK Centre for Mammalian Synthetic Biology led by
        Rosser and augmented by £4.8M from BBSRC to establish the Edinburgh Genome
        Foundry, the world’s largest automated DNA assembly platform.
    •   £7M from NIHR for TIBA (Tackling Infections in Africa; http://tiba-partnership.org), a unique
        Africa-led, multi-disciplinary programme. This includes developing a SARS-CoV-2

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        antibody test for Africa, led by Woolhouse, Mutapi and Matthews. TIBA has since
        attracted £2.5M in follow up funding from 10 agencies for capacity building, training and
        community engagement.
    •   £13.7M from Wellcome for two 4-year PhD programmes in ‘Hosts, Pathogens and Global
        Health’, and ‘Integrative Cellular mechanisms’; each providing broad, interdisciplinary
        training, respectively combining research from infection, immunology and evolutionary
        biology (Matthews, Woolhouse) or cell biology, physics, chemistry and medicine
        (Marston, Regan and Allshire).
    •   £2M for industry engagement and commercialization activities including a strategic
        partnership with multinational FujiFilm Diosynth Biotechnologies UK to create a ‘Centre of
        Excellence in Bioprocessing 2.0’, the formation of spin out companies OGI Bio Ltd,
        Pilizota, Green Bioactives Ltd, Loake, and two further spin out companies from research
        on protein factor H (Gemini Therapeutics (now quoted on NASDAQ), Invizius. Barlow).
    •   $35M from the US-based Simons Foundation for the Simons Initiative for the Developing
        Brain co-directed by Bird.
    •   £20M from India to build the Gujarat Biotechnology University in partnership with the
        Government of Gujarat. A conceptually similar program with Zhejiang University created
        the translational Joint Research Centre in Engineering Biology has seen ‘in-country’
        investment of >£10M.
    •   £3.5M for a NERC Large Grant to advance wild animal ageing work by studying the
        relationship between the microbiome and healthspan (Nussey, Pedersen, McNally,
        Free).
    •   £25.3M in external capital funding from RPIF, the Darwin Trust, the Wolfson foundation
        and others, to construct a state-of-art facility for world-leading interdisciplinary research,
        the £125M ‘new biology’ project. Due to open in early 2023 the construction has been
        delayed by COVID-19 until 2025).
 We have embedded our research vision through strategic collaborations, research centres and
 interdisciplinary programmes. Following our success in establishing the Centre for Regenerative
 Medicine with MRC Centre status (2008), we have deepened our collaboration with Medicine
 through TIBA and the Initiative for the Developing Brain. The UK Centre for Mammalian Synthetic
 Biology has strengthened our collaboration with Engineering and Medicine, and our Centre for
 Synthetic and Systems Biology provides a key interface between Biology, Physics, Engineering,
 Informatics and Medicine. We have grown two Wellcome-funded Research Centres - the
 Wellcome Centre for Cell Biology (£6.2M renewal in 2020), a world-leading centre of excellence
 for cell biology research, and the Centre for Immunity, Infection and Evolution to advance
 interdisciplinary infection biology. These have each successfully won new Wellcome PhD
 programmes expanding our interdisciplinary ambition in both areas. Additionally, we have
 enhanced our translational potential by securing £600K in BBSRC IAA funding, £257k in EPSRC
 IAA funding, and £800K through a Wellcome Institutional Translational Partnership Award (iTPA),
 recently renewed to 2024 (£2.4m), with which we have progressed 33 impact projects. Our
 researchers are further supported by access to ~60 PhD studentships per year, largely via new,
 interdisciplinary Doctoral Training Programmes (DTPs), including two Wellcome and four UKRI
 programmes (BBSRC, NERC, EPSRC, and MRC). The diversity of our DTPs illustrates the
 breadth and interdisciplinarity of our research, while the award of substantial new
 programmes from both Wellcome and UKRI recognize the positive research culture we
 have created - a key assessment metric for both agencies. Our research excellence has
 been recognised by a 2021 QS World University Ranking of 20.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research Strategy
 We are structured around three scientific themes that operate without boundaries. Deliberately,
 within each, we have assembled networks to drive fundamental research and deliver solutions to
 the global challenges in health and the environment. Consequently, we have identified three
 global challenges that have driven forward our strategic effort in this REF period, marking a
 transition from the approach we adopted in REF2014 and leading us towards a vision of
 Building a New Biology.


 This strategy of integrating our science to address global challenges has brought together biology,
 physics, maths, chemistry, engineering and data science research. Our scientific themes
 increasingly aim to address these challenges through innovative bio-based solutions for industry,
 society and our planet, working in synergy with applied practitioners in medicine, veterinary
 sciences and industry, as needed. This precision engineering of biological systems and the data
 skills to interrogate them, sums to our Building a New Biology project; a new way of doing biology
 research with new tools to drive impact. Physically, this ambition will be embodied in our £125M
 New Biology Building where we will co-locate researchers from across the breadth of our activities
 in 2025.

 Highlights by Scientific Theme
    •   Evolution, Infection and Immunity
    •   Cell and Structural Biology
    •   Systems and Synthetic Biology

 Evolution, Infection and Immunity (EII): 62 category-A staff; 104 current PhD students
 EII combines a strong foundation of evolutionary biology, woven into the study of infection and
 ageing. Capitalizing on this long-standing strength, ECRs funded through the Centre for Immunity,
 Infection and Evolution (2007-2017) developed collaborative projects working between
 immunology, infectious disease and evolutionary biology labs. This model, also central to the
 ‘Hosts, Pathogens and Global Health’ Wellcome PhD programme, has proved exceptionally
 productive, with the outputs from both established and junior groups highlighting the diversity,
 innovation and quality of science within this theme. Highlights include:
    •   Tracking and modelling the real-time dynamics of Ebola, Zika, avian influenza and
        Coronavirus outbreaks (Rambaut, e.g. Nature 2014, Virus Evolution, 2018, Nature
        Microbiology 2020)
    •   Elucidating the molecular basis of quorum sensing mechanisms in trypanosomes that
        control transmission to the insect vector and their impact in coinfections (Matthews, Cell,
        2019; Nature Micro 2017).
    •   Showing how extracellular vesicles from a helminth parasite suppress macrophage
        activation and constitute an effective vaccine for protective immunity (Buck, Cell Reports,
        2017, Nature Comms, 2014)
    •   Revealing novel mechanisms that are key to tissue repair and wound healing (Allen,
        Science, 2014, Zaiss, Science, 2017)
    •   Shedding light upon why females live longer than males: Regan (eLife 2016) used genetic
        sex reversal of a specific gut region to uncover a substantial sex difference in the pathology
        of the aging gut in Drosophila



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    Discovering a key mechanism that influences recognition of self-antigens in autoimmune
         settings (Zamoyska, Nature Immunology, 2014).
    •    Finding that the transcription factor FOXN1 specifies development of the thymic epithelial
         cell lineage, which crucially regulates T cell development and T cell repertoire selection
         (Blackburn, Nature, 2017).
    •    Revealing the vast evolutionary diversification and potential for zoonotic transfer of
         Plasmodium vivax parasites from apes to humans (Sharp, PNAS, 2018)


 Cell and Structural Biology (CSB): 63 category-A staff; 149 current PhD students
 Led by the renewed Wellcome Centre for Cell Biology, CSB has made major advances in
 chromosome and RNA biology, and the epigenetic control of gene expression. It is now apparent
 that epigenetic mechanisms span much of the tree of life, from yeast to mammals. Highlights
 include:
     •   Revealing how centromeric DNA and hetero-chromatin mediate transgenerational
         inheritance of epigenetically regulated traits (Allshire, Science, 2015).
     •   Discovering that over-expression of the kinetochore protein CENP-A results in genome
         instability in aggressive tumours (Earnshaw, Nature Comms, 2016).
     •   Leading the burgeoning field of mass spectrometry cross-linking for proteomics
         (Rappsilber, Structure, 2020), allowing the architecture of the Mycoplasma expressome
         to be characterised below 1nm resolution (Rappsilber, Science, 2020).
     •   Revealing that the 3D structure of the peri-centromere is critical for proper chromosome
         segregation during cell division (Marston, Nature, 2020)
     •   Developing and applying key techniques (CRAC, CLASH and TRAPP) for the analysis of
         RNA-protein and RNA-RNA interactions (Tollervey, Molecular Systems Biology, 2019),
         including for the analysis of SARS-CoV-2 (Tollervey, Wellcome Open Research, 2020).
     •   Demonstrating that piRNA-directed DNA methylation silences young active transposable
         elements, is key to genomic integrity and specifies immortality of the male germline
         (O’Carroll, Nature, 2017).


 Systems and Synthetic Biology (SSB): 33 category-A staff; 64 current PhD students
 SSB springs from SynthSys, the Centre for Synthetic and Systems Biology
 (https://www.ed.ac.uk/biology/synthsys). SynthSys provided the leadership that established the
 UK Centre for Mammalian Synthetic Biology in 2015 and the Edinburgh Genome Foundry (EGF)
 in 2016. The EGF has revolutionised high-throughput assays that can involve simultaneous
 assembly of many hundreds of simple DNA constructs within a few days. This is supported by our
 expanding capabilities in cell phenotyping, with the development of a sister facility, EdinOmics.
 SSB has an overt aim to combine fundamental science with translational impact in microbiology,
 industrial biotechnology, crop science/agritech/food security, medical biotechnology and cell
 biology. Highlights include:
    •    Completing the synthesis of the first yeast chromosome, even before the EGF was
         established (Cai, Science 2017, Year).
    •    Constructing synthetic Human Artificial Chromosomes that undergo rearrangements
         (chromothripsis) that have implications in cancer development (Cai, Earnshaw, Science,
         2017, 2018).




                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Developing a low-cost, easy-to-use biosensor to address an unmet global health
        challenge: arsenic contamination of water that affects 140 million people (Wang and
        French, Nature Chemical Biology, 2019)
    •   Modifying the CO2-capturing enzyme Rubisco to allow its aggregation in higher plants into
        a unique liquid-like compartment called the pyrenoid to improve photosynthesis
        (McCormick, Nature Comms, 2020)
    •   Optimising the expression and secretion of biologic drugs in mammalian cells as part of a
        strategic partnership with FujiFilm DioSynth Biotechnologies
    •   Demonstrating that the self-organisation of embryonic stem cells depends upon
        geometrical constraints (Lowell, Development, 2018).
    •   Discovering that prokaryotic Argonaute proteins provide a third mechanism (in addition to
        restriction-modification and CRISPR) to control invader DNA in bacteria (Leach, Nature,
        2020).


 Highlights by Global Challenge
    •   The Biology of Our Changing World
    •   The Biology of Health and Disease
    •   Engineering Biology for Health and Wealth
 The Biology of Our Changing World addresses directly the effects of environmental change on
 life, integrating evolutionary genetics, ecology, epidemiology and pathogen biology, but also
 encompassing aspects of global health studies and areas such as AMR, emerging infectious
 diseases and pandemic monitoring. Our successes in reshaping Rubisco (McCormick, New
 Phytologist 2017, PNAS 2019) and modelling the circadian clock (Millar, Molecular Systems
 Biology, 2015; PNAS 2014) move us forward in underpinning food security; understanding the
 evolution of SARS-CoV-2 (Rambaut, Lancet Microbe 2020, Science 2021) has permitted a deeper
 understanding of the current COVID-19 pandemic spread; our new understanding of plant and
 animal reproductive flexibility in response to warmer springs promises help in mitigating the effects
 of global warming (Phillimore, Global Change Biology 2015, Nature Climate Change, 2018).
 The Biology of Health and Disease works across scales (genes to systems) and draws in cell
 and molecular analysis of immune cells and pathogens in addition to fundamental studies on
 cellular function. This encompasses infection and cell biology, immunology, stem cells,
 development and aging studies. Our successes in addressing fundamental aspects of wound
 healing (Allen, Science, 2014, Zaiss, Science, 2017) and immunology (Zamoyska, Nature
 Immunology, 2014) complement our understanding of the development of the immune system
 (Blackburn, Nature Immunology, 2016). At two ends of a spectrum, the ability to reverse the
 symptoms of Rett syndrome (Bird, Nature, 2017) and delivery of health care in Africa through
 TIBA (Mutapi, TIBA, http://tiba-partnership.org) stem from our understanding of fundamental
 science.
 Engineering Biology for Health and Wealth, develops cutting-edge technologies for basic
 research and biotechnology solutions. This challenge builds on our platform technologies (e.g.
 the Genome Foundry) and our industrial collaborations (e.g. the strategic partnership with FujiFilm
 DioSynth Biotechnologies). Our successes in bioengineering cyanobacteria (Cyanogate: Wang
 and French, Plant physiology, 2019) and expression constructs for the expression and secretion
 of biologic drugs in mammalian cells (Rosser, Nucleic Acids Research, 2014, 2019) attest to our
 approach to this challenge.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.3. Impact Strategy
 Over the REF period, we have explicitly linked our scientific research themes to global challenges
 in health, environment and development, elevating the profile of impact in in our academic
 discourse. Our strategy for impact has been:
    •     To carry out world-class fundamental research that drives innovation.
    •     To promote research outcomes that directly address societal and economic needs, through
          addressing global challenges, providing enabling funding (e.g. Impact Accelerator
          Awards), and making strategic appointments of staff (e.g. Rosser, our Director of Industrial
          Engagement; Burgess, our Impact Champion; Wallace who has won a UKRI Future
          Leaders Fellowship in 2020).
    •     To identify, nurture and develop opportunities for impact wherever they arise. This has
          been achieved by close work between our Director of Industrial Engagement, Impact
          Champion, Business Development Executives, Public Engagement team and Edinburgh
          Innovations (the University’s commercialisation service).
 Winners of EPSRC (5 awards) and BBSRC (17 awards) Impact Acceleration funding include:
 Horsfall to work with GSK on optimisation of penicillin-producing strains (£86K); Pilizota to work
 with IBioIC to spin out OGI Bio Ltd. (£65K); Rosser to develop a strategic partnership with FujiFilm
 Diosynth Biotechnologies UK (£96K). The Wellcome Institutional Translational Partnership Award
 (iTPA) has awarded 11 grants for translational activities, with an average of £20K per project,
 including a project on repositioning lead trypanocidal drugs for clinical and veterinary use, led by
 Walkinshaw, and the development of UV light cleavable quantitative proteomics tags, by Ly.
 Public Engagement
 Our core public engagement (PE) programme (https://www.ed.ac.uk/biology/public) is coordinated
 by dedicated PE staff and co-funded by SBS and the Darwin Trust of Edinburgh. In addition, the
 Wellcome Centre for Cell Biology and the Centre for Regenerative Medicine deliver their own PE
 programmes. Currently, our PE Team coordinates over 10 long-term projects.
 We have sought to engage young and adult audiences, and built projects targeting under-served
 local communities. This includes participation in the Edinburgh Council Discover Programme,
 which provides meals and engaging activities for deprived children during the summer holiday,
 and our long-term work with deprived communities close to campus, e.g. award-winning work
 done in the Craigmillar area by the PE Team at Centre for Regenerative Medicine. Our PE and
 Communications are enhanced by projects such as BioPOD (the official SBS podcast, produced
 by PhD students), and the Press Gang (a group of staff and student volunteers who promote
 current research in collaboration with University Press Office). In all our activities, we strive to
 engage with socio-economically deprived communities, and to raise Science Capital within such
 communities local to our campuses. We have fully embedded PE in the structure of SBS, and key
 to this is involvement of researchers and PG students in all PE activities. This enables them to
 gain vital skills and experience, directly engage people with their research, meet funder
 requirements, and obtain support in creating their own PE projects.
 Policy
 We have created links with policymakers, and our research and expertise directly influences
 decision makers. Mutapi (Zimbabwe, Schistosomiasis and Africa/COVID generally through WHO
 and African Academy of Science), Leigh-Brown (UK/US, HIV) and Rambaut (UK SAGE,
 coronavirus) have significant influence in the area of health policy; Rosser and Millar have direct
 input to Scottish and UK industrial policy: Rosser as member of the Scottish Scientific Advisory
 Council, and Millar as Chief Scientific Advisor on Environment, Natural Resources and Agriculture

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for the Scottish Government. Oyarzun is a World Economic Forum Global Future Council Fellow.
 Pemberton, Ennos and Stone have influence in the area of the environment and ecological
 policy, via Scottish National Heritage, the Woodland Trust, and Edinburgh City Council
 respectively.
 Health
 Our strong collaborative interactions with Edinburgh Medicine and the Roslin Institute, especially
 in the areas of stem cell biology, immunology, infectious disease epidemiology and global health,
 provides a clear route to impact in health and clinical medicine of humans and animals. A prime
 example of this is the embedding of our stem cell biologists in the Centre for Regenerative
 Medicine, where their impact is maximized by close juxtaposition with clinical scientists maximising
 the opportunities for collaboration. Examples include Kunath (Parkinsons disease treatment),
 Blackburn (Eurostemcell resource), Telfer (change to UK fertility guidelines and practice).
 Mutapi’s leadership of Tackling Infection to Benefit Africa (TIBA) brings together researchers from
 across biological sciences and veterinary science to deliver real benefits to Africa.
 Economy
 A dedicated team of Business Development Executives liaise directly with researchers in SBS and
 identify opportunities that can then be developed via specialized marketing, contracts or spinout
 teams. Edinburgh Innovations (EI) has also engaged an ‘entrepreneur in residence’ to provide real
 world advice on spinouts and commercialization. SBS has set up an Industrial Engagement Group
 led by Rosser to build strategic relationships with industrial partners. The group has led the
 development of industrial engagement workshops for staff and students, and set up an industry
 advisory board, with stakeholders encompassing the diverse expertise in SBS research, from
 instrumentation to agri-tech.
 The University of Edinburgh is a founding member of Scotland’s Industrial Biotechnology
 Innovation Centre (IBioIC), with SBS staff on the scientific advisory board (Burgess) and EI staff
 on the commercial advisory board (Kerr). IBioIC, provides partnership access to over 400
 companies, from micro SMEs to multinationals, as well as funding to leverage academic industrial
 partnerships. Since 2014, IBioIC has funded 31 projects involving Edinburgh academics, with a
 total value of £2.4M. This has leveraged £3.2M of industrial cash and in-kind matched funding.


 1.4. Open and ethical research
 Our research culture has rapidly become more data-intensive and Open within this assessment
 interval. Open Access publication in the School is advocated and supported by a full-time School
 staff member, with compliance at 94%. Many groups now use preprint servers, such as BioRxiv,
 as part of the strategy to accelerate Open dissemination, and post-publication review is also
 growing, in particular, through Wellcome Open Research.
 As part of our ongoing implementation of DORA (see also People section), the School is
 supporting, sharing, measuring and recognising a broader range of research outputs. Our
 researchers invest heavily in data generation, and the School seeks to return the best value from
 increasing re-analysis and re-use. Research Data Management (RDM) is key to this process. The
 University’s aspirational RDM policy of 2011 set the tone and is now being updated to reflect FAIR
 (Findable-Accessible-Interoperable-Reusable) principles. However, the diversity of our research
 products has required a nuanced, domain-specific approach, with School and University support,
 researcher-led training, and advocacy from senior academics. The University of Edinburgh
 Research Data Service Steering Group is chaired by Millar from the School.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Our research groups use sustainable, University infrastructure for Data Management, as well as
 customised, internal resources. All active research groups store their working data on the
 University secure Filestore, and several use the central Git repository for software projects that
 can be Open. ~25% of groups are disseminating data via the University’s Open, Trusted
 Repository, which is discoverable through DataCite and Google, though disciplinary resources are
 preferred, such as PRIDE, MetaboLights and the European Nucleotide Archive (ENA). Datasets
 can be located through links stored in the University CRIS (PURE). Our Research Centres and
 School facilities advise on the most appropriate Open resources to use, and offer domain-specific
 training, including for all new staff and student inductions. Several staff lead ‘Carpentries’ training
 in good data and software practices, supported by the University’s advanced computing centre
 EPCC and by the UK Software Sustainability Institute.
 For bioinformatics and image data, the Wellcome Centre for Cell Biology has two technologists to
 support data management. The team in the SynthSys Centre now support the School and groups
 in Medicine, using a £300k contribution from the shared Wellcome ISSF. This “Bio_RDM” team
 led by Millar comprises two research software engineers and a curator. Bio_RDM trains and helps
 grant applicants with Data Management Plans, curates biomedical data to a high standard and
 provides services such as an Electronic Lab Notebook based on the University wiki, and a shared
 OMERO server for Open microscopy images. Electronic notebook use has been embedded in the
 training for our new Wellcome PhD programmes supporting adoption by the next generation. For
 advanced users, the team adapts open-source data systems that automate data analysis and
 management. The team also links to the UKRI Reproducibility Network locally, supporting bottom-
 up advocacy. At the University level, Millar chairs the Research Data Steering Group and the
 Responsible Research Metrics working group. Several staff are external advocates: for example,
 Allshire is engaged in the development of Open Research policy in the Wellcome Trust, as is
 Millar in Scottish Government, BBSRC and the international FAIRDOM project, and Rambaut is
 a leader in the global sharing of viral sequences (see Wellcome-funded ARTIC network).

 All research carried out in SBS now undergoes ethical scrutiny and approval (including
 undergraduate projects). This is via an on-line approval system that is light-touch for most of our
 work, but escalates to full review for relevant research projects. An Ethical Review Group led by
 Schirmer carries out these reviews. This group also acts as a point of contact to address issues
 around research integrity (Rowe) and leads on discussion with students on ethical and societal
 responsibilities in research. All of our (1 styr) PhD students attend a compulsory ‘Ethics Day’ training
 that is very well received and generates much heated discussion. A network of Postdoc Advisors
 supports our postdoc community providing the first port of call for discussion of research integrity
 issues, in addition to career and mentorship advice.




                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.5. Future strategy and vision
 Our ambition of integrating our science to address global challenges is encapsulated in the
 Building a New Biology project to bring most of our science together in one new building.




 Our ambition of Building a New Biology has driven plans to consolidate our interactions within a
 new building. £105M of university and £25.3M external investment from UKRPIF, the Darwin
 Trust, the Wolfson Foundation and others are going into new estate to support this flagship
 development. This project was due for completion in late 2022 (opening early 2023), but because
 of COVID is delayed until 2025. The University of Edinburgh’s vision, to create one of the world’s
 finest research clusters for the Biological Sciences, is an ambitious plan to grow our research
 capacity, quality and outputs in directions that support intellectual discovery and generate health,
 social and economic benefits. This iconic building will co-locate our researchers and technologies
 within an integrated research complex to create an interactive physical environment that reflects
 these ambitions.




                        Figure 2: Building a New Biology, architect images




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The foundation of this estates programme is the complete re-development of our Darwin Building
 to create a physical and metaphorical heart for Biological Sciences: a gateway to Biology in
 Edinburgh, a focal point for outreach activities, and a magnet for attracting partners to enable our
 translational work. It will house 3 floors (3,000m2) of shared-access, advanced technology facilities
 (Edinburgh Genomics, the Edinburgh Genome Foundry, Proteomics/Metabolomics, Protein
 Production and Biophysical Characterization, Flow Cytometry, Micro-fluidics, Advanced Imaging
 and Cryo-EM). These facilities, and access to the expertise of our academics, will attract industrial
 collaborators into a research hotel within the building, and this space will also act as an early-
 stage incubator for early-stage proof-of-principle work leading to spin-out opportunities arising in
 the School. Moving up the Darwin Tower, we will have 6 floors (6,000m2) of state-of-the-art, open-
 plan research laboratories designed for ultimate flexibility that will be occupied based on thematic
 co-locations, or ‘research neighbourhoods’. Specifically, we intend to expand our research in:
     •   antimicrobial resistance and global health
     •   environmental change
     •   sustainable biotech solutions for the circular economy
 The new building will house 350 researchers - a 50% increase on previous occupancy. At the front
 of the Darwin Tower, a section called ‘the Hive’ gives physical meaning to the ‘Gateway to Biology’
 providing multi-functional space that acts as a cross-road for researchers in all our connected
 buildings and beyond, offering dedicated engagement space for our community (i.e. scientists
 from other disciplines on King’s Buildings and the general public), and meeting rooms for industrial
 contacts. Catering, social and social learning space will be key to making this an attractive
 destination and meeting place.


 2. People
 2.1 Staffing and recruitment strategy
 Our people strategy has been to combine new appointments to areas of strategic research
 opportunity with career development, retention and advancement for excellent ‘home-grown’
 researchers. This has led to a 27% expansion in our academic staff numbers (142 staff submitted
 to REF2021 compared to 112 to REF2014).

 In this REF period, we have recruited 6 early career researchers (ECRs) to the University’s tenure-
 track Chancellor’s Fellowships (CFs) (Laohakunakorn, Macias-Ribela, McNally, Soufi, Spence,
 and Vale) and 17 ECRs to lectureships (Agrawal, Baranovic, Barker, Blin, Buonomo, Burgess,
 Cachat, Cowan, Darmon, Oyarzun, Philip, Regan J, Richardson A, Vohra, Wallace S, Wilson
 and Wood). 6 of these (Macias-Ribela, Soufi, Spence, Wallace S, Wilson and Wood) have
 gone on to win externally funded Fellowships (Wellcome, MRC, Royal Society, UKRI-FLF). We
 have also sponsored a further 18 independently funded (e.g. Research Council) Fellows
 (Alexander, Arulanandam, Cheerambathur, Cook, Granneman, Hartfield, Heun, Ly, Martin,
 Ross, Sibley, Johnston, Lowell, Makovets, Twyford, Voigt, Wallace E, Welburn and van
 Ooijen).
 As our staffing strategy includes encouraging the sponsorship and recruitment of independently
 funded research fellows, we operate a comprehensive Fellowship Review and Retention policy.
 All externally funded career development (first fellowship) fellows undergo an advisory
 development review after 3 years and are supported through advice and mentorship to make a
 successful Senior Fellowship application. Part of this review is to indicate various paths that might
 be open to each individual researcher and one of these is transfer to a University-funded position

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 after the cessation of fellowship funding. For those who have shown excellence in achievement in
 their first fellowship, and a strong fit to our strategic priorities, we make a commitment to transfer
 to an open-ended academic post. We have made this commitment to 7 ECRs in the current REF
 period. The majority of our ECR fellows have gone on to gain Senior Fellowships (9 in this REF
 period). The achievement of a Senior Fellowship guarantees future retention.
 To balance the intake of early-career staff, we have made 8 senior appointments over the period
 to provide leadership of strategic research areas. Burgess has been appointed as a Senior
 Lecturer in Biological Mass Spectrometry and Stracquadanio as a Senior Lecturer in Synthetic
 Biology. Kaufman, O’Carroll, Regan L, Riley, and Silvertown have been appointed to
 professorships in Immunology, Stem Cell Biology, Interdisciplinary Science, Immunology and
 Infectious Disease, and Technology Enhanced Science Education, respectively.
 The University Chancellor’s Fellow scheme, started in 2013 and continued in this REF period, has
 been a game-changer in scale and quality of ECR recruitment, but also with regard to the support
 and encouragement that has enabled these ECRs to succeed. These ‘tenure-track’ positions have
 been nurtured through mentorship and advisory reviews and CFs have been given every
 opportunity to succeed. We have underwritten contracts to allow them to apply for grant and
 fellowship funding right up until the end of their initial 5-year appointment period. In the two years
 prior to the REF2021 period we made a major investment in 12 ECR appointments to CFs to drive
 forward our ambitious thematic research strategy. This went hand-in-hand with the appointment
 of 9 lecturers and recruitment of 18 externally funded fellows. All of these ECR staff have been
 supported and encouraged to succeed during this current REF period. Several have moved into
 leadership positions in our School (e.g. Pilizota, Director of Research, and El Karoui, Director of
 Equality & Diversity, and then Director of SynthSys), and have already been promoted to personal
 chairs (Spoel, El Karoui, Pilizota, Horsfall, and Lowell).
 The quality of our appointments is attested by the number of externally funded Research
 Fellowship awards at all levels in the period (24 compared to 18 in the previous REF period). In
 addition to those externally-funded fellowships listed above more senior awards have been made
 or renewed within the School during the REF period, including: 3 Wellcome Principal Research
 Fellows (Allshire, Earnshaw and Tollervey); 1 Royal Society Professor (Beggs); 1 RAEng
 Professorship (Rosser); 14 Senior/Advanced/Leadership Fellows with funding from MRC,
 EPSRC, WT, NERC, CRUK and EU; 42 ‘Career development' and other standard-level fellowships
 (WT, MRC, NERC, BBSRC, EPSRC, RS, EU and other charities); and 14 training/mentored
 fellowships (WT, EU, RS and other charities). The quality of our people is also reflected in other
 external measures of recognition and esteem including a knighthood to Bird, 6 elected to
 membership of EMBO (Bird, Chambers, Kaufman, Marston, O’Donal, Pemberton), 3 elected
 to FMedSci (Matthews, Allshire, Riley), 3 elected FRS in the period (Keightley, Matthews and
 Pemberton) bringing the total FRS employed in the School during the period to 9.


 2.2 Staff development, training and support
 New academic appointments are allocated a ‘start-up package’ to support the establishment of
 their research activity at Edinburgh. The scale of the package depends on the level of appointment
 and the need for specialist equipment. However, for new lecturers the package usually includes a
 PhD studentship (or technician/RA) and a lab consumables budget (~ £30k). New staff have
 reduced teaching and administration loads in their first two years to facilitate the establishment of
 successful research programmes.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Staff development is key in SBS for all career stages. We utilise all of the training programmes
 run by the University’s highly-valued Institute for Academic Development (IAD). IAD has a very
 broad remit in developing staff (and PhD students) in both research and teaching. We nominate
 all of our new ECRs and new fellows for the IAD ‘New Research Leader’ programmes that focus
 on the transition from postdoc into lab management for the first time (over 40 new PIs have
 completed the training since 2014). Ten early- to mid-career staff have completed the
 Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice (PgCAP). For senior staff (grade 9 and 10), there
 is an opportunity to develop the skills to lead large and collaborative projects in a Strategic
 Leadership in Research Programme, culminating in an ‘Ideas Summit’. Senior PIs showing
 interest in, or aptitude for, academic leadership roles are encouraged to attend leadership
 development provided by UoE HR Department (more than 20 staff have completed the ‘Senior
 Leadership’ course to date). We also support staff to take up external opportunities such as the
 EMBO group leader course and Wellcome Leadership Programmes. In addition, SBS has
 developed, in association with an external Leadership coach, training sessions for people entering
 the first stages of their leadership path or those aspiring to this role. This is a hybrid model that
 combines one-to-one sessions (x2) and group work (x5) and has been universally popular with
 feedback from all 12 staff being, “I wish I’d done this earlier in my career”. Five female academic
 staff have attended the highly-regarded the Advance HE Aurora programme in the last 5 years.
 The School also offers additional opportunities for staff at all levels through focused personal
 coaching programmes; since 2017 we have run ‘career coaching’ for staff in postdoc or junior PI
 roles (40 staff so far). Initiated in association with Equate Scotland, and focused on female staff,
 we have since widened the programme to include other grades and genders, while increasing our
 funding to grow cohort size 3-fold.
 Additional coaching support is available for returning parents or others who have taken career
 breaks. All new PIs are allocated a more experienced member of academic staff as a one-to-one
 mentor for the first few years or for the length of their fellowship. While this is a formal arrangement,
 new ECRs and Fellows normally develop additional, more informal, mentoring relationships with
 senior academics in their field. In recent years, we have focussed on extending what has been a
 long-standing social and professional development network (‘BioDocSoc’) for postdoctoral
 research staff and PhD students. In 2018, we recruited 2 early-mid-career staff to act as ‘Postdoc
 Champions’ and they in turn recruited a team of ‘Postdoc’ Advisors’ who are available on an ad
 hoc basis to any postdoc for career advice and any other support and guidance that may be
 sought. These advisors, who are volunteers from amongst the School’s established PIs, can
 provide individual advice and can direct postdoctoral staff to a range of other helpful resources or
 support them to resolve problems in the workplace. This arose from the work of our ‘Postdoc
 Champions’ who undertook an in-depth discussion with the postdoc community as to what would
 most benefit them. Another initiative to arise from this has been a more structured programme of
 training and development for teaching experience available to our postdoc staff, including a small
 number of paid part-time secondments tenable for up to 3 years, to allow postdocs to undertake
 CPD (e.g. Edinburgh Teaching Award towards a Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy)
 and gain mentored teaching experience to benefit their future academic careers. In developing
 these schemes as School policy, and championing them with both PIs and postdocs, the School
 has pre-empted and indeed gone further than much of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers.
 Opportunities for sabbatical leave to pursue research ideas are open to all academic staff and
 there is financial support for female staff to take sabbaticals specifically in relation to activities that
 will bolster their promotion to professorial Grade 10. Staff members at all levels have annual

                                                                                                    Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 performance and development reviews with their line manager, which help identify achievements
 and plan for future success, or agree beneficial development opportunities such as the training
 described above.
 We operate a completely transparent Workload Allocation Model (WAM; all staff can see their
 colleagues’ workload numbers), that allows balance in teaching, research, administration,
 knowledge exchange and wider academic contributions. The WAM also ensures that funded
 research projects are deliverable: The model reduces the expectation for contributions other than
 research as the research group increases in size. The WAM includes recognition for time spent in
 contributions to the wider scientific community such as journal editorships and membership of
 grant-awarding panels. It also recognises leadership of major research collaborations and for
 impact and engagement activity.
 Promotion for academic staff between grades 7-10 conforms to the DORA principles in that it is
 not based on publication metrics, but on a combination of measures. Indeed, Millar chairs the
 University's Research Metrics Group which oversees the roll out of this. In this UoA we have for
 many years combined achievement (publication quality, funding awards and research student
 training) with contribution (teaching and leadership), together with knowledge exchange to reach
 decisions on promotion cases. Each year all academic staff are considered for promotion or
 contribution reward linked to performance, achievement, and contributions to the School and
 discipline. Each staff member is reviewed by two line managers and the Head of School. The
 recommendation for promotion or reward does not require application or nomination and the
 annual assessment of trajectory allows line managers to feedback and mentor staff towards
 progression in future years. All aspects of an individual’s role as a university academic come in to
 play, but research, impact and knowledge exchange are key components.
 We recognise the activity of all staff groups (and students) for their achievements in the area of
 research and impact with School Annual Awards for individuals and teams. The awards are not
 competitive (no ‘winners’) and the nominations are from other staff, including their peers. This also
 recognises the contribution of the support staff in our facilities (including media prep, wash-up and
 workshop) in making the environment the best it can be for our researchers. The University also
 recognises and rewards achievement in research and impact across all its activities, in the shape
 of the Chancellor’s Awards. In the past few years SBS staff have won this University-wide prize
 for Research (Rambaut), for Rising Research Star (Horsfall) and for Impact (Mutapi).


 2.3 Research students
 The School of Biological Sciences gains much of its diversity and energy by recruiting excellent
 Post-Graduate students from across the globe. Our portfolio of studentship funding offers a wide
 choice to prospective students and we recruit ~60 PhD students per year. To do this we have won
 the support of a variety of funding sources including the BBSRC, NERC, EPSRC, MRC, Wellcome
 and the Darwin Trust. In addition, the University/SBS provides matched funding to the level of 13
 studentships per annum.
 We are the lead Institution for EASTBIO, the third largest BBSRC Doctoral Training Partnership
 (DTP). This £17M postgraduate research training partnership, awarded funding in 2019, brings
 together departments across the University of Edinburgh with partners in Aberdeen, Dundee, St
 Andrews, Stirling and SRUC, IBioIC, James Hutton Institute, Moredun Research Institute and Cool
 Farms Ltd.; the collaboration is an excellent way for us to share practice, develop our training
 offering and benefit from research expertise and facilities across the partnership. EASTBIO


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 awards ~27 studentships per year at the University of Edinburgh, of which ~12 are awarded in
 UoA5. We have expanded access to this training partnership to international students funded
 through the University’s Global Research Scholarship and Principal’s Career Development
 Scholarship.
 On average 8 studentships per year are funded through our MRC, NERC Doctoral Training
 Partnerships and a UKRI Centre for Doctoral Training (CDT). The MRC Precision Medicine DTP
 (£8.8M) partners Edinburgh and Glasgow in biomedicine generally, and SBS contributes greatly
 in systems and synthetic biology and computational biology training. The NERC funded E4 DTP
 (£7.5M) is a partnership between Biological Sciences and Geosciences (in Edinburgh) and
 focuses on ecological analyses that help understand environmental change. The UKRI-funded
 CDT focuses on ‘Biomedical Artificial Intelligence’ approaches to biomedical data from molecular
 level (drug discovery) to genomic/populations levels.
 The Wellcome 4yr PhD programme ‘Integrated Cell Mechanisms’ takes a data-driven and
 interdisciplinary skills-led approach to study cell biology/physiology. Our other Wellcome 4yr PhD
 programme, ‘Hosts, Pathogens and Global Health’, has recently renewed its funding for another
 5 years (£5.5M) to build on its activity at the interfaces between infection biology, evolutionary
 biology and public health, with an emphasis on tropical diseases, with the opportunity for student
 experience in partner countries (mainly in Africa). A University-funded student of low and middle
 income country (LMIC) origin is supported on this programme each year, including full consumable
 and training costs. We contribute to the ‘One Health’ Wellcome Programme run out of Edinburgh
 Infectious Diseases (EID) and the Roslin Institute. Edinburgh was highly successful in this funding
 competition being the only University awarded 4 programmes in 2019, with this School hosting 2
 programmes. This reflects recognition of our strongly supportive research culture and training
 excellence.
 Funding from the Darwin Trust (20 students each year), is not focused on a particular area of
 science, but for overseas students, mainly of LMIC origin. On average we also host 6 PhD
 studentships per year that are co-funded by industry through IBioIC, CASE or individual research
 grants.
 All of our funded PhDs are for 3.5-years or for 4-year, and all students are offered the same (or
 similar) training opportunities provided in-house or by our partner Institutions. Further training
 opportunities, including access to a unique tool for identifying training needs, are available to all
 students through IAD, which offers over 50 practical courses for students on PhD, taught MSc or
 Masters by Research programs. We have also developed and harmonised supervision procedures
 across the UoA where each PhD student chooses a second (academic) supervisor, and is
 assigned a pastoral supervisor and a committee chair. This thesis committee of four meets
 formally with the student once per year, with the proceedings logged through an online system.
 This regular tracking of student progress keeps students on target for submission within four years
 (over the last three cohorts our submission rate was 81% within four years, the remaining 19%
 includes those who have taken interruptions of study for ill health/maternity/internships).
 We manage 8 vibrant MSc programmes (in Biochemistry, Biotechnology, Bioinformatics, Systems
 and Synthetic Biology, Drug Discovery and Translational Biology, Synthetic Biology and
 Biotechnology, Quantitative Genetics, and Biodiversity and Taxonomy of Plants, the last in
 association with the Royal Botanic Garden at Edinburgh) and recruit roughly 150 Masters students
 each year.
 We implement robust recruitment procedures centred in all cases on student quality as opposed
 to supervisor need. Our PGT/PGR student body is diverse (53% F: 47% M and 33% international

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 student/visa holders), while we are piloting policies (flagging applications and customising
 recruitment materials) to ensure that students with disabilities and from disadvantaged
 backgrounds are attracted to apply and are selected for our EASTBIO programme. We have a
 strong focus on student mental health and wellbeing and have developed a bespoke workshop for
 students on resilience. A fortnightly drop-in session for PGR students who have problems they
 want to discuss is being piloted through EASTBIO. We see this work as building on a strong
 foundation of careful recruitment (all students are interviewed by a gender-balanced panel) and
 embedded pastoral and academic monitoring. During this REF period our PGR programmes have
 been run by a very successful Graduate School, that is embedded within College-level PGR
 structures. With the increase in interdisciplinary programmes and training, the University has
 recently set up a Doctoral College to disseminate and harmonise best practice across the
 University.


 2.4 Equality and diversity
 Equality, diversity and inclusion lie at the heart of all our strategies to provide a working
 environment that is welcoming and encouraging. Dignity and respect are core principles and good
 citizenship is rewarded through annual School and College awards and formally via the promotion
 or contribution reward processes. Established in 2009 the School Equality and Diversity
 Committee oversees our policy and practice regarding gender, race and disability. Our work to
 promote gender equality was recognised by an Athena SWAN Silver Award to the School, first in
 2013 and renewed in 2016 (extended to 2022). Over this REF period, the School has become a
 beacon of good practice and is working towards an application for Athena SWAN Gold.
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) has been mainstreamed in all our decision-making fora.
 The 14 member School Executive Committee (our senior management group) includes seven
 women; two Heads of Institute (Regan and Zamoyska), Director of Research (Pilizota), Director
 of the Graduate School (Blackburn), Director of Industrial Engagement (Rosser). Director of
 Professional Services (Payne), and the Chair of the EDI Committee (Collins). To support the work
 of the EDI Committee we have funded two student internships for focused EDI projects, leading
 to improvements in web content and communications, and in 2019 we allocated strategic funding
 and appointed an EDI Officer. Since then the EDI officer has launched a new LGBTQ+Bio Society
 to coincide with Pride 2019 and has run 8 differently themed focus groups to hear the suggestions
 and concerns of staff. Towards the end of the COVID19 lockdown our EDI Officer ran a survey in
 the School to capture people’s varied experiences of having to work at home often in difficult
 circumstances. The results of this are being used to inform our ‘work from home’ policy, post-
 COVID and also changes to our space utilization and support for staff working at home. We have
 also captured individual circumstances and the impact on people’s career progress, which will be
 fed into future career progression decisions. In addition, informal ‘Equali-Tea’ and Pride get-
 togethers provide networks supporting mental well-being, and a Biology student-run welfare
 network spanning the whole campus, ‘WellComm Kings’, emerged from the School’s initial support
 for this activity.
 As an indication of the success of our recruitment, support and mentorship of excellent female
 academics, during the REF period we have seen an increase in our proportion of women at grade
 10 Professor from below 25% to just over 33% (19 out of 57), with 4 mid-career women promoted
 in 2020 (Collins, Horsfall, Lowell and Pilizota). We predict this will continue to grow as currently
 40% of grade 9 Principal Investigators are women and, over the past 5 years, >40% of newly
 recruited PIs were women. Leakage from this pipeline seems to be stemmed by our promotion


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 processes that are not based on self-nomination, conform to DORA principles, and take into
 account family circumstances. A sabbatical scheme specifically aimed at supporting women to
 reach their next promotion target (in particular grade 10) was introduced in 2019. Family-friendly
 policies include: a default expectation that flexible working requests will be supported (5 to date),
 access to departmental funding to support childcare or other dependent responsibilities so that
 staff can attend career development opportunities such as conferences, a shared parental leave
 policy incorporated in to workload adjustments, a nursery located on-campus, workload
 adjustments for post-maternity-leave returners to enable them to re-establish their research
 activity (e.g. by delaying taking back their previous teaching contribution), access to coaching for
 returning parents and provision of facilities in the School’s buildings for nursing mothers. These
 family friendly policies have been utilised by at least 10 academic staff since their introduction.
 From analysis of our recruitment procedures, the EDI Committee noted that we have appointed at
 roughly 50:50 F:M ratio, having shortlisted balanced groups for interview, however, the applicants
 for posts were not well balanced. To rectify this, we have modified our recruitment adverts to seek
 to attract a wider range of applicants, e.g. to emphasise aspects of working life important to diverse
 applicants and stress the opportunities for support, mentorship and training open to all, thus
 ensuring parity of access to career development and reward. All members of interview/selection
 panels have undertaken unconscious bias training and EDI training related to recruitment
 processes.
 Our EDI activities have moved beyond the School: in 2017 Halliday organised an exhibition
 focused on equality in STEM, highlighting the gender gap and women’s professional journeys –
 ‘Potential Difference’. This was hosted at the Royal Society of Edinburgh and then toured
 Scotland. Halliday also co-directs a major E&D research project (eBase) looking at barriers to
 success for women in large research leadership/grant competitions, as part of the EPSRC-funded
 Inclusion Matters programme. Halliday is now the College Dean of EDI and is developing a matrix-
 type model of EDI initiatives that draws in expertise from each of 7 Science and Engineering
 Schools, spreading good practice and ensuring pooling of efforts. Strategically, now and into the
 future, our focus is on the racial and ethnic diversity of our staff to provide role models for our very
 diverse student body and help address the attainment gap for BAME students. In this regard, of
 the cohort of six academic staff recruited in the last 6 months we have appointed 3 BAME
 lecturers/CFs.
 Lastly, we have considered Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion in this REF submission. All staff
 involved, completed a specific training course on EDI for REF. We have followed policies and
 processes set out in our institutional code of practice, and inclusion in the output portfolio is based
 solely on merit, as assessed by a panel of academics specific to each biological discipline. Where
 appropriate, special circumstances have been considered in determining an individual member of
 staff’s contribution to the output portfolio.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The School maintains a strong portfolio of research funding and has broadened the range of
 funding types and sources that support our research since REF2014. Over the REF period we
 have attracted £196M in research grants and contract awards. Mean annual expenditure (income)
 over the REF period is £28M. Our research award portfolio thus ensures we have a healthy funding
 base for continued research expenditure beyond the REF period. 44 research grants awarded

                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 during the period have been between £1M and £2M, and 18 grants over £2M in value. These
 include the £8M renewal of WTCCB (2016), and a £13M BBSRC/MRC/EPSRC strategic award to
 create the UK Centre for Mammalian Synthetic Biology (2014) and TIBA (£7M). £19M of funding
 comes from schemes targeted to translate fundamental discoveries into applications, including
 BBSRC Sparking Impact, MRC Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme, WT Seeding Drug
 Discovery and the Technology Strategy Board and most recently an EPSRC Prosperity
 Partnership award (£7.9M) with Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies. Not included in the total award
 figures, we have secured a Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (ISSF) of £2M per
 annum since 2011. Over the REF period the breakdown of our awards from our major funders are
 as follows: BBSRC, £35M; EPSRC, £2M; MRC, £24M; NERC, £10M (total UKRI=£70M);
 Wellcome, £75M; EU, £14M; Industry projects, £2.6M


 3.2 Infrastructure
 The identification and development of large-scale research opportunities such as strategic awards,
 centres and major collaborative initiatives, including collaboration with industry, is supported
 through three dedicated research managers. We have expanded this team 3-fold over the REF
 period to help our researchers work across traditional discipline boundaries and secure new
 funding sources for innovative research. All research managers are PhD-qualified biologists,
 meaning that they can contribute significantly to coordination and writing of proposals to support
 academic success. Three administrative staff provide advice on proposal preparation, costing and
 submission, and grant management. This team works closely with the four Business Development
 and Commercial Relations Executives (BDE/CREs), with expertise in commercialisation and
 knowledge transfer, who work within the School and between us and Edinburgh Innovation s (EI,
 the commercialisation arm of the University). Our BDE/CRE team has three functions: to identify,
 protect and develop IP assets for commercial outcomes; to engage with industry to foster long-
 term research partnerships; and to work with University services to provide specialist expertise in
 licensing, consultancy and company formation. The BDE/CRE roles are partly funded by a
 Wellcome Trust iTP Award, which has enabled us to expand this team (3-fold) since the last REF.
 These staff are members of a wider support team managed by EI, which also coordinates events
 and offers training in commercialisation and entrepreneurship.
 The School has a full-time Public Engagement Manager and a Science Communications Manager
 leading a team of 4 staff running science communication and public engagement. Grants from the
 Darwin Trust (£300K), STFC (£200K), Wellcome (£443K in funding since 2016) and EU (EUR
 600K), have supported a range of activities that provide opportunities for researchers to engage
 with external audiences and so deliver impact from our research.
 Research strategy development is a multi-layered process. We have always encouraged and
 supported bottom-up initiatives in a way that can lead to bids for external funding (the Centre for
 Immunity, Infection and Evolution and Edinburgh Infectious Diseases are good examples of this).
 The development of a Centre for Environmental Change is being supported by investment posts
 at Lecturer/Senior Lecturer level, the appointment to the Chair of Natural History (Pemberton), a
 recently-awarded Royal Society Professorship (Kruuk) and by the launch of a Masters
 programme in Environmental Change Biology. Sustaining these activities and ensuring that cross-
 disciplinary opportunities are not lost is the role of our Research Committee. Discussions that lead
 to major initiatives often arise informally from our strongly interactive research environment and
 are facilitated by the School Research Symposium and an annual awayday as well as more
 focused thematic workshops to develop ideas. SynthSys (Centre for Systems and Synthetic
 Biology; http://www.synthsys.ed.ac.uk/our-centre) co-ordinates research activity across several


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 different Schools and is a prime example of a part of our organisation that brings forward and
 realises strategic projects. Our Research Committee works to ensure that funding opportunities
 are flagged and progressed. We have created a webpage to consolidate information about current
 and forthcoming funding calls, including deadlines, which is updated weekly and communicated
 by e-mail newsletter. Our PIs are supported to submit applications by a highly-responsive and very
 well-regarded (pre-award) Research Administration team of 5 people. Currently, with changes to
 the funding landscape and funding levels in some quarters, we are actively managing the number
 and quality of applications coming forward from our PIs.

 3.3 Facilities
 The School recognises the value of multi-user equipment and staff expertise in supporting world-
 leading research. Research themes and centres are underpinned by ‘small research facilities’
 (SRFs), which offer equipment and expertise via cost-recovery models. Facilities work with a
 dedicated finance team that helps to set costs, develop business cases and sets cost-recovery
 expectations. The majority of facilities have an expert manager as well as an academic scientific
 director, who respectively provide long-term support and a focus on novel approaches. The
 facilities are represented at a monthly SRF meeting, where all facilities managers meet to share
 best practice and discuss challenges.
 Technology facilities are grouped into ‘design and build’ and ‘measure and analyse’ themes.
 The Centre for Regenerative Medicine (CRM), a joint venture between the Schools of Biology
 and Medicine, also maintains several world-class research support facilities.




 Figure 3: Visualisation of the School’s facilities and their integration with the evolving themes.
 Design and build: constitutes the Edinburgh Genome Foundry (EGF), the Plant Growth
 Facility and the Edinburgh Protein Purification Facility (EPPF). The EGF is unique in the UK
 and is the largest automated DNA production line/assay facility in Europe; it attracted inward
 investment of £5M from BBSRC and partnerships with Autodesk, Thermo Fisher and BGI for the
 equipment and programming and ~£2M in UoE-funded building refurbishment. This will be a major
 attractor of national and international, academic and industrial collaboration. This is especially
 borne out by the recent acquisition of a BBSRC-funded Berkeley Lights Beacon instrument with a
 value of £2M, which will allow ultra-high throughput screening of engineered cells.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




      Opening of Edinburgh Genome Foundry
            Dr. Pat rick Cai, co- direct or

     Opening of Edinburgh Genome Foundry
           Dr. Pat rick Cai, co- direct or
 Figure 4: The Edinburgh Genome Foundry: automated, robotic DNA production line, and Berkeley
 Lights Beacon cell sorting and selection instrument.


 EPPF has developed a worldwide reputation as a centre of excellence for the production and
 characterisation of high value proteins, in both industry and academia. EPPF has worked with
 several biopharma companies, who chose the EPPF for reagent production and characterisation.
 More recently, EPPF developed a novel cross-species crystal-seeding methodology that resulted
 in crystal structures for ‘impossible to crystallise’ macrocyclic peptide ligands, one of which was
 solved at the highest resolution so-far reported for a protein:ligand structure: 0.77Å. For work on
 this innovative technique, in 2018, members of the EPPF team were awarded a prestigious UK
 prize from the British Crystallographic Society. The Edinburgh Plant Growth Facility comprises
 over 2200 m2 of glasshouse space and six controlled environment rooms (over 500 m 2).
 Measure and analyse: constitutes Edinburgh Genomics (EdGe), EdinOmics, the Flow
 cytometry core facility, the Wellcome Centre Optical Instrumentation Laboratory (COIL), the
 Electron Microscope (EM) facility and Research Data Management.
 Discovery sciences are provided by a combination of genomics and transcriptomics services.
 EdGe are equipped with an Illumina MiSeq and NovaSeq, an Oxford Nanopore PromethION and
 have just received delivery of a BBSRC-funded PacBio Sequel IIe, the first of its kind in Europe.
 The Sequel IIe will provide extremely long reads (up to 20kb) with an unprecedented high accuracy
 of 99.9%. EdinOmics provides metabolomics and proteomics via five mass spectrometers,
 including the only Agilent 6560 Ion Mobility Q-ToF and 7200 GC-QToF in Scotland. EdinOmics,
 an Agilent Partner Lab, is focused towards synthetic biology, and consequently is a partner lab of
 both EGF and EPPF, providing rapid strain and protein characterisation for these facilities. Both
 EdGe and EdinOmics provide extensive bioinformatic support and experimental design services
 to collaborators, to ensure maximal exploitation of complex ‘omics datasets.
 Electron Microscopy and Cryo Electron Microscopy facilities have merged and recently
 obtained funding for a new direct electron detector module for the Jeol CryoEM, providing
 unprecedented sensitivity and resolution. The School is a founding partner in the Scottish
 Macromolecular Imaging Centre in Glasgow            (https://www.gla.ac.uk/researchinstitutes/iii/
 cvr/scmi/about/about/), (SMIC) providing access to a state-of-the-art JEOL CRYO ARM 300kV
 microscope for both single particle analysis and cryo-electron tomography. Flow cytometry
 supports four instruments – three 20 parameter 4 laser models and a 3 laser 10 parameter
 instrument.


                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Light Microscopy is provided by COIL and the CRM Light Microscopy unit. Staff at COIL were
 recently co-authors on (Paldi et al. Nature 2020) and among the instrumentation is a unique
 Multifocus microscope. This experimental system is capable of obtaining images from 9 different
 focal planes without movement, providing unprecedented capabilities in super-resolution
 microscopy.
 Edinburgh Phenotypic Assay Centre (EPAC), established in partnership with the School,
 provides high throughput screening capabilities for drug discovery. The facility houses an IncuCyte
 ZOOM coupled to a Heracell 240i incubator for phenotypic monitoring under normoxic and hypoxic
 conditions. It also houses an ImageXpress MicroXl platform for high-content imaging, fully
 equipped with plate handling robotics. The facility is also equipped with extensive compound
 libraries, comprising a 12,000 compound diversity set, as well as a 1280 compound library of
 existing drugs for repurposing.
 CRM facilities consist of GMP Cell Therapy, the Chemistry and Computational Biology of the
 Niche (CCBN) facility, Light Microscopy and High Content Screening.
 GMP Cell Therapy is a state-of-the art 1000m2 good manufacturing practise facility, designed in
 consultation with the Medicine and Healthcare Regulatory Authority (MHRA) to provide high
 quality manufacturing of cell therapies and stem cell products within UK and Europe. The facility
 is licensed by the Human Embryology Fertilisation Authority (HFEA), Human Tissue Authority
 (HTA) and MHRA. CCBN is a joint facility between the School of Engineering and CRM, using a
 PRIMO platform to manufacture custom cell substrates for the control and standardisation of in
 vitro microenvironments (2D/3D micropatterns, microfluidic devices). The high content
 screening facility is equipped with an Operetta high content microscope and a Vectra Polaris
 quantitative pathology imaging system, allowing high levels of cells morphology and physiology
 data to be collected in high throughput.
 SBS is supported by large scale animal facilities, as well as centralised media prep and washup.
 The animal facility consists of a 1500m2 unit for rodents, fish, birds, insects and amphibians,
 supporting animal model research in development and disease, vector-borne infectious disease
 studies, and behavioural research.
 The University has invested £7M in building Waddington II that houses plant growth rooms, growth
 chamber facilities, transgenic plant growth capability and adjacent new glasshouses. We have
 refurbished over the past 5 years the Ashworth Laboratories (£6M) and the Roger Land Building
 (£8M) as decant space from the old Darwin Building.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Public engagement
 The School has 4 public engagement (PE) practitioners who deliver a wide range of high quality
 and exciting activities to thousands of people of all ages across Edinburgh City and surrounding
 regions. During REF2021 we integrated this team to develop and deliver a more coherent strategy
 for engagement and revised our activities to meet the demands of modern audiences and to target
 more ‘hard to reach’ demographics. Our vision has been to establish the School as a leader in the
 provision of creative and impactful PE activities for multiple audiences. We aim to stimulate
 meaningful discourse about our research and its impact on our world and to encourage all our
 staff and students to embrace PE as an integral component of their roles. To support the latter,
 we deliver training to encourage and build researcher confidence in the design and delivery of

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 exciting and impactful engagement activities. The School also appointed an Impact Champion
 (Burgess), to ensure that impact is high on our agenda.
 Our PE staff are supported by grants from Wellcome (as part of the Centre for Cell Biology award)
 and the Darwin Trust, which generously funds us at a level of £100K per annum. As a result, we
 have developed a diverse portfolio of PE activities. Our Science Communications Manager is
 raising the profile of our research through press releases, feature articles, social media (followers
 @SBSatEd on Twitter up 50% - to over 1600 in 2019/20) and digital media (short science videos
 created for Twitter have gained 28,000 views in the last three years). Increased research
 coverage, social media promotion and other communications have helped to drive traffic to
 research stories on the School website. In the year 2019/20 the News and Events section received
 over 12,000 page views.
 During the REF2021 period, we delivered the following:
    •   We engaged with over 13,000 school pupils thereby supporting the secondary school
        biology curriculum (e.g. PCR classes in the National Museum for Scotland, Pupils in Labs,
        Bioinformatics training). These projects are in high demand by schools that could not
        otherwise offer this practical work in class. For instance, the ‘Pupils in Labs’ programme
        hosting workshops and lab visits on campus. Over the past 4 years we have welcomed
        513 students from 19 different schools into these laboratory workshops.
    •   Our ‘4273π Bioinformatics project’ has visited 74 schools and reached 170 schools and
        over 1600 school children (through workshops, CPD events, masterclasses, online CPD
        events) across Scotland to deliver bioinformatics training; this programme led by Barker
        has been adopted and funded by the Science and Technology Facilities Council as a
        flagship initiative.
    •   We engaged over 270,000 members of the public with interactive activities delivered
        through science and related festivals and events (e.g. including the high-profile Edinburgh
        Science Festival, Midlothian Science Festival, Mind the Lab [events based in transport
        hubs], Tattoo my Science, Life through a Lens). These projects showcase our current
        research, enable people of all ages to meet our scientists, and provide crucial engagement
        opportunities for our staff and students.
    •   We collaborated with the National Museum and Scotland and the Universities of Glasgow
        and Dundee to develop a major exhibition focused on neglected tropical disease:
        “Parasites-Battle for Survival”. This ran November 2019-March 2020 and was targeted to
        school-aged children, attracting >37000 visitors before premature closure due to COVID.
        The exhibition particularly highlighted the contribution of woman in science with special
        features on Mutapi and Reece from Edinburgh and with input from many researchers in
        our EII theme.
    •   We have engaged 580 people in community-based projects, which allow us to engage
        'hard to reach' members of our local community (e.g. young adults) as well as those in
        socioeconomically deprived areas, working on building longer-lasting relationships for the
        future. For example, in the past two years we have supported Edinburgh Council’s
        Discover! programme to reach children in more deprived communities during the summer
        school holidays.




                                                                                              Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Researcher-led public engagement activities are also encouraged and supported. These include
 the flagship EuroStemCell website for stem cell biology (Blackburn), the launch of an Edinburgh
 Café Synthetique (a version of Café Scientifique focused on the topic of synthetic biology), and
 BioPodCasts, a postdoc led activity to highlight School research topics via podcasts.

 4.2 Policy
 Staff have played active roles in the development of policy, nationally and globally. Some of the
 most influential are listed here:
 Rosser is a member of the EU High Level Strategy Group on Industrial Technologies. The group
 gave strategic recommendations to the European Commission on which key enabling
 technologies to prioritise post Horizon 2020 in European research and innovation in order to
 strengthen Europe's innovation capacity and leadership in industrial technologies. Rosser
 continues to be an active member of the Scottish Science Advisory Panel (SSAC), providing
 advice to the Scottish Government on science funding.
 Millar is a member of the BBSRC Council and ‘New Ways of Working’ panel, and is seconded to
 the Scottish Government as Chief Advisor for Rural Affairs and the Environment. He is also on the
 UKRI Research Infrastructure Roadmap working group on Biosciences, Food and Health, and
 Chair of the BBSRC sLoLa panel (Strategic Longer Larger Grants) 2019.
 Mutapi is member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Post-Covid Futures Commission and is also
 a member of the World Health Organisation, Diagnostic Technical Advisory Group (DTAG) for
 neglected tropical diseases (Schistosomiasis Sub-group) that develops guidelines to feed into the
 new global NTD roadmap 2021-2030. She also sits on the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and
 Development Office (FCDO) Accelerating Sustainable Control and Elimination of Neglected
 Tropical Diseases (ASCEND) Steering Committee and the Wellcome Trust Global Monitor
 External Advisory Board, which steers the world’s largest study on how people around the world
 think and feel about science and major health challenges. Mutapi is also a major player in the
 African Academy of Sciences (AAS), where, as part of the steering committee she is influencing
 transformation of lives on the African continent through science. Example projects include
 Epidemic Preparedness and Grand Challenges Africa, a multi-million dollar funding body led by
 AAS and the New Partnership for Africa's Development fund (with Bill and Melinda Gates
 Foundation).
 Rambaut heads a group of viral sequence evolution modellers monitoring the trajectory of the
 COVID19 epidemic in the UK and the effect of lockdown measures. Rambaut is a leading member
 of the CoG-UK coronavirus sequencing consortium that delivers rapid and large-scale viral-
 genome sequencing to local NHS centres and the UK government - their project reports are fed
 into the UK SAGE Committee. They have generated over 1000 SARS-CoV-2 genomes in
 Edinburgh (more than any individual country other than USA and Australia). The sequencing
 approach being used by most of the groups in the UK (and many globally) came directly from this
 lab.
 Woolhouse sits on the SPI-M (SAGE subgroup) and the Scottish Covid-19 Advisory Group
 Pemberton is active at a national and governmental level (Scotland) on deer culling policy and
 other issues such as conservation of mountain hares (with Nature Scotland).




                                                                                          Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3 Industry engagement
 The School has significantly enhanced its approach to engagement with industry during REF2021.
 A dedicated business development team in Edinburgh Innovations (EI) supports our new
 commercial engagement as well as technology transfer. In 2018, we created an academic
 leadership role of Director of Industrial Engagement (Rosser); the Director is a member of the
 School Executive Committee and ensures that enterprise in all its forms is integrated into our
 School’s forward planning. This instils the opportunities for technology translation and commercial
 collaboration across all our activities, from teaching, training and research.
 A variety of new activities have encouraged and supported improved industry collaboration and
 commercialisation over the REF2021 period. Staff have attended EI delivered workshops which
 help raise awareness of industry challenges and encourage researchers to consider how their
 research might apply (e.g. AIM Day Future Manufacturing, AIM Day Bio-Solutions). Access to local
 translational funding (BBSRC/EPSRC Impact Acceleration Accounts and Wellcome iTPA) and
 more recently a BBSRC Flexible Talent and Mobility Award have helped seed a wide variety of
 productive new commercial links. The most recently awarded, £600K in BBSRC IAA funding and
 £800K through the Wellcome Trust Institutional Partnership Award (iTPA), have encouraged
 ECRs and PDRAs to apply as project leads and to date we have secured £287K and £241K of
 IAA and iTPA funds to progress 22 projects.
 During REF2021, the School has developed more strategic partnerships with companies, forging
 a number of key partnerships with Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies, UCB Pharma, GSK, ScotBio
 and Ingenza. This recognizes that larger businesses often have complex needs that cannot be
 addressed by a single research group. Thus, collaborations with UCB Pharma (Parkinsons’s
 diseases, Biologics - Kunath, Rosser); FujiFilm Diosynth Biotechnologies (bioproduction,
 analytics, devices - Pilizota, Horsfall, Rosser); GSK (antibiotics, biologics, metabolomics –
 Horsfall, Rosser, Burgess); ScotBio (natural products - McCormick); Ingenza (metabolic
 engineering, automation – Horsfall, Rosser, EGF) have been fruitful for both partners. For
 instance, our collaboration with FujiFilm Diosynth Biotechnologies has further evolved into
 strategic partnership to establish a Centre for Bioprocessing 2.0 with York and Manchester
 Universities with an initial investment of ~£2M. This FujiFilm Diosynth partnership has recently
 been expanded with a Prosperity Partnership award of £7.9M from EPSRC.
 As founding partners of Scotland’s Industrial Biotechnology Innovation Centre (IBioIC) we have
 worked closely to build impact and reach. SBS staff sit on the IBioIC advisory board and we benefit
 from IBioIC-funded competitions. As an example, we co-led an invited re-application for £22M for
 UKRI Strength in Places Fund, supported by over 70 companies, enterprise agencies and local
 authorities, to build a platform to accelerate the development of novel bioproducts using our world-
 class facilities and expertise. This will support the creation of a Research Hotel to host these as
 well as SBS spinouts and local start-ups.
 We have also had success in generating spinout companies such as OGI Bio Ltd (novel
 bioreactors, Pilizota), Green Bioactives Ltd (natural products, Loake), Gemini Therapeutics Inc
 and Invizius Ltd (novel therapeutics, Barlow). This is indicative of new entrepreneurial energy
 within the School.


 4.4 Academic partnerships
 We recognise the opportunities inherent in collaboration, both to address gaps in our capability
 (e.g. in research or translational potential) and/or to create stronger, broader and more

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 comprehensive research programmes/capabilities. This commitment is exemplified through many
 pan-University, and regional, networks including:
     •   Centre for Regenerative Medicine – A co-location of basic and applied stem cell biologists
         physically located close to Edinburgh Royal Infirmary.
     •   Centre for Infection, Immunity and Evolution – A close association between biological and
         medical researchers seeded by Wellcome support.
     •   Centre for Synthetic and Systems Biology (SynthSys) – a pan-University network of
         research around synthetic and systems biology, agnostic of system or application.
     •   Edinburgh Infectious Diseases – an Edinburgh City wide network of over 860 scientists
         and clinicians working on infectious diseases.
     •   Edinburgh Plant Science – a multi-institution network of over 600 plant and soil scientists
         who provide wide ranging expertise and capability in food security, environmental
         sustainability and policy.
 The School is also closely associated with CSEC (the Centre for Science at Extreme Conditions)
 and COSMIC (the Collaborative Optical Spectroscopy, Micromanipulation and Imaging Centre).
 The Centre for Translational and Chemical Biology, along with support for the joint venture (with
 Medicine) of the Edinburgh Phenotyping Centre contributes strongly to drug discovery projects
 across the university (Walkinshaw, Auer, Schnaufer).
 We are a founder member of the Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance (SULSA) that
 transformed cell biology and especially systems biology research capacity in Scotland; it has gone
 on to drive capacity building in drug discovery and more recently, as SFC funding reduced, SULSA
 has championed the broadening of emphasis to focus support of ECRs in all life science areas


 4.5 International Partnerships
 Trans-national collaboration has always been a keystone of our science, with our research
 excellence attracting international collaboration at all scales, from the individual lab to Institutional
 co-ordination. For example, during this REF period we have nurtured lab-to-lab collaborations in
 45 countries, from South Korea to Ethiopia and Chile to New Zealand. More broadly, early in this
 period we signed an agreement with the University of Nagoya in Japan for a Joint PhD exchange
 programme. We encourage similar exchange links outside of this, including the student and
 postdoc scheme run by SULSA (PECRE, Postdoc and Early Career Researcher Exchange).
 These collaborations have been strengthened by the award of 8 GCRF projects.
 A major development in the last 3-4 years has been the investment in strategic partnerships that
 build infrastructure and staffing for research and training with key partners in China and India. In
 China we began discussions in 2017 with the College of Life Sciences in Zhejiang University
 (Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province). Zhejiang is ranked 3 in China and 54 in the QS global rankings.
 This project builds on a burgeoning partnership forged by the UoE Medical School with Zhejiang
 University on a new international campus in Haining (60km east of Hangzhou); the Joint Institute
 delivers undergraduate teaching (in English) and research in biomedical science. Extending this
 relationship, we have formed, via an MoU, the Joint Research Centre in Engineering Biology. This
 Centre is housed in a new building that is currently being kitted out for collaborative projects
 between 4 labs each from ZJU and UoE. The aim of the Centre is to carry out research that is
 overtly translational in the area of biotechnology (industrial and plant/agritech, initially). Funding
 for postdoctoral workers and PhD students is beginning to flow and the aim will be to provide
 opportunities for exchange of students and early career researchers to work both in Edinburgh
 and Haining. We have brought Edinburgh Innovations into the project and have increasingly


                                                                                                  Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 productive links with Juanhu Lake Translational Park close to the International Campus to engage
 Chinese (and UK) industry in the research projects.
 In India, the Gujarat Biotechnology University (GBU) has been developed as a novel and
 imaginative partnership between the Dept. of Science and Technology, Government of Gujarat
 (GoG) and the University of Edinburgh, to embed Innovation and Entrepreneurship in all its
 activities. Funded, by GoG, (£20M for the Edinburgh component) this new state university is
 founded with an ambition to enhance the training of the student body (initially at Masters and PhD
 levels). The skills and mindset of the faculty and research collaborations with external industry
 partners will be key to making this a unique offering in Indian Higher Education. With innovation
 and entrepreneurship culture at its core, we aim to deliver at GBU a research project-based
 training with societal impact as a critical outcome of all projects. We fully expect to see the
 development of new REF impact cases from this project in the future.
 TIBA (Tackling Infections to Benefit Africa; http://tiba-partnership.org) is a centre programme with
 a dispersed structure and the University of Edinburgh at its hub. Importantly, the work of TIBA is
 Africa-led. Funded by the UK National Institute for Health Research (£7M), the partners are in 9
 African countries (Botswana, Ghana, Kenya, Rwanda, South Africa, Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda
 and Zimbabwe). Its aim is to harness expertise and technical capability and to empower African
 scientists in effecting rapid change in reducing the burden and threat of infectious diseases. This
 involves rapid impact, ‘making a difference’ projects, toolkit projects, technology transfer and
 training to influence development of health policy and to strengthen health systems. It includes
 preparedness for pandemics (Ebola and others) and response to health emergencies. Our
 commitment to this area is demonstrated by the appointment of 2 Chancellor’s Fellows for Global
 Health (Moule and Mwangi). Mutapi leads the initiative across all 3 Colleges in the University.


 4.6 Indicators of wider influence/contributions to the research base.

 Governorships and senior office bearers:
 Blackburn: Board of Directors, and Coordinator of Training and public engagement activities,
 European Consortium for Systematic Stem Cell Biology. Loake: BBSRC, Management Board;
 President, International Society of Plant Reactive Oxygen and Nitric Oxide Research. Co-Founder
 and Governing Board member, IBioIC; Founder, Green Bioactives Ltd. Lowell: Board of Directors
 for the Company of Biologists. Smith: Elected to the International Association of Medical Science
 Educators Board of Directors.

 Royal Society Fellows:
 Pemberton, Keightley, Matthews (+ pre-existing: Allshire, Beggs, Bird, Earnshaw, Sharp,
 Tollervey)

 Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellows (in this REF period):
 Blackburn, Blaxter, Chambers, Gray, Mutapi, O’Carroll, Matthews, Reece, Rowe

 Royal Society of Edinburgh’s Young Academy of Scotland:
 Horsfall




                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 EMBO membership:
 Bird, Chambers, Charlesworth B, Charlesworth D, Kaufman, Marston, O’Carroll,
 Pemberton, Welburn (Young Investigator)

 FMedSci:
 Bird, Allshire, Matthews, Riley

 International and national advisory board membership:
 Allshire: Management Board for EpiCrossBorders. Auer: Scientific Advisory Board, Celcuity LLC;
 Drug Discovery Advisory Panel, Parkinson’s UK. Bird: Gairdner Foundation Medical Advisory
 Board; International jury for the Start and Wittgenstein Prize of the Austrian Science Fund;
 Governing Body, Lister Institute for Preventive Medicine; Institute of Molecular Pathology, Vienna;
 Gurdon Institute, Cambridge [Chair]; Friedrich Miescher Institute, Basel [Chair]; Francis Crick
 Institute, London [Chair]; Adviser to National Autism Project. Cavanagh: European & Developing
 Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP). Chambers: Strategy Advisory Panel Member,
 BBSRC Bioscience for Health; Chair, Regenerative Biology and Stem Cell Working Group,
 BBSRC. Collins: Global Ocean Acidification Observing Network North Atlantic Hub Executive;
 Co-convenor of Scientific Committee on Oceanic Research. French: Advisor to Synbio Africa.
 Horsfall: Advisory Board member- European Synthetic Biology Society (EUSynBioS). Kidner:
 ESR confidante for Plant.ID EU DTP. Marston: Scientific Advisory Board Member, Max Planck
 Institute for Molecular Genetics. Millar: UKRI: Infrastructure Advisory Committee. Molnar:
 International advisory board of the Agricultural Institute Martonvasar, Hungarian Academy of
 Sciences. Mutapi: Member, RSE Post-Covid Futures Commission 2020; UK Department for
 International Development (DFID) Science Advisory Group; World Health Organisation, Member,
 WHO Diagnostic Technical Advisory Group (DTAG) for neglected tropical diseases; UK Research
 and Innovation (UKRI) Global Challenges Research Fund Strategic Advisory Group; World Health
 Organisation Expert Advisory Group: Technical Working Group; African Academy of Sciences
 Steering Committee; WHO Africa Region Director’s Independent Advisory Group. Pemberton:
 Scientific Advisory Board of MPI for Evolutionary Biology, Ploen; National Trust for Scotland
 Natural Heritage Advisory Group; RCUK Individual Merit Promotion Committee. Rambaut:
 Participant of UK Government Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies (SAGE) committee for
 COVID-19; CoG-UK Coronavirus Genomics Consortium Steering Committee; Scientific Advisory
 Board, Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID); HIV Sequence Database Editorial
 Board, Los Alamos, USA. Reece Strategic Advisory Boards, Max Planck Institute for Infection
 Biology. Riley UKRI COVID-19 research task force; DHSC/NIHR/MRC rapid response review
 panel (COVID-19), MRC- Council; member- external advisory board, MRC Centre for Virus
 Research, University of Glasgow; member external advisory board, Helsinki Institute for Life
 Sciences, University of Helsinki; Member, MRC Zika Rapid Response Initiative Panel; Deputy
 Chair, MRC Infections and Immunity Board (IIB). Rosser: EU High Level Strategy Group on
 Industrial Technologies; International scientific advisory board of Stem Cell Australia; member of
 Scottish Science Advisory Council; Engineering Biology Leadership Council; Scottish Industrial
 Biotechnology Development Group; Scientific Advisory Board – Synthetic Biology Doctoral
 Training Centre (Oxford-Warwick-Bristol). Schnaufer: Agency for Science, Technology and
 Research in Singapore, SBRI Innovation Grants. Spoel: Chair of GARNet Advisory Board;
 GATSBY Plant Science Advisory Board.



                                                                                            Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Committee membership of professional bodies, charities and trusts:
 Allshire: Chair of Wellcome Trust/ Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Fellowship; Wellcome Trust Open
 Research - Expert Advisory Group; Board of Trustees for the Darwin Trust of Edinburgh. Barker:
 NERC Advisory and Implementation Group. Bird: Foreign Associate, US National Academy of
 Sciences; Lister Institute for Preventive Medicine; CRUK, Trustee of the Rett Syndrome Research
 Trust, USA, Trustee of the Kirkhouse Trust, Scotland. Earnshaw: ASCB International Affairs
 Committee; Sir Henry Wellcome Postdoctoral Fellowship Interview committee. French: Chair of
 the Responsible Conduct Committee for iGEM. Horsfall: Elected Section Co-chair:EFB’s
 Bioengineering and Bioprocessing section; Executive Board member: European Federation of
 Biotechnology; Member of the iGEM diversity and inclusion committee. Leigh-Brown: UK HIV
 Drug Resistance Database-Steering Committee; Executive Committee; Chair, Molecular
 Epidemiology Study Group. Loake: Member of strategic review committees for John Innes
 Institute, UK, Sophia Agrobiotech Institute, France, Helmholtz Zentrum Institute, Germany.
 Matthews: Sectional Committee member, Academy of Medical Sciences. Millar: BBSRC Council.
 Mutapi: UK Department for International Development (DFID) Accelerating Sustainable Control
 and Elimination of Neglected Tropical Diseases (ASCEND) Steering Committee; African Academy
 of Sciences Steering Committee; African Academy of Sciences Epidemic Preparedness
 Committee; Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Grand Challenges Meeting; Grand Challenges
 Africa (GC Africa) Steering Committee member; Chair WHO committee on treatment of
 Schistosomiasis in preschool-age children and paediatric Praziquantel formulations. Pemberton:
 Expert panel of Scottish Natural Heritage’s Scientific Advisory Committee. Rambaut: HIV
 Sequence Database Editorial Board, Los Alamos, USA; Lead PI for Wellcome Trust Collaborator
 Award (ARTIC Network); PI and Executive committee of Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
 programme. Reece Editor for Advances in Parasitology. Riley: Chair- Bioscience for Health (BfH)
 Strategy Advisory Panel; Chair- Scientific Evaluation Panel, Zoonoses and Emerging Livestock
 Systems (ZELS); Member- BBSRC Research Advisory Panel; Member- Doctoral Training
 Programmes midterm review panel; member- BBSRC Vector Borne Diseases Expert Working
 Group. Rosser: Steering Committee Global Biofoundries Alliance; Member of the EU High Level
 Strategy Group on Industrial Technologies; Member of the Scottish Science Advisory Council;
 Member of the Scottish Industrial Biotechnology Development Group. Rowe: Management
 Committee of The European Malaria Reagent Repository. Schirmer: European Laminopathies
 Network. Smith: Elected to the International Association of Medical Science Educators Board of
 Directors; Program Committee for the IAMSE Annual Conference in Leiden, Netherlands.
 Wallace: elected member of the Chemistry-Biology Interface Council of the Royal Society of
 Chemistry.

 Membership of grant and fellowship awarding bodies:
 Bayne: Basic Science Interview Committee, The Wellcome Trust. Chambers: EMBO LTF Panel;
 ERC StG panel; FWF panel member for the Austrian Science Fund. Hartfield, Pedersen,
 Obbard: NERC Peer Review College Horsfall: BBSRC Research Committee D. Hudson:
 Research Council of Norway, Evolution & Ecology panel. Kidner: Norwegian Research Council
 Ecology and Evolution. Kunath: CRACK-IT NC3Rs grant panel; BioSKAPE grant panel. Lohse:
 Academy of Finland grant/fellowship evaluation panel for Evolution. Matthews: Wellcome Trust
 Science Interview panel; Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland research assessor;
 McCormick: Member of the BBSRC NIBB PHYCONET Management Board. Mutapi: Deputy
 Chair, UKRI and UK Department of Health, National Institutes for Health Research (NIHR); Panel
 member- UK MRC Digital Innovation for Development in Africa (DIDA) GCRF Panel; Chair, UK

                                                                                        Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Department of Health, National Institutes for Health Research (NIHR) Global Health Research
 Funding Groups Panel; UK Department of Health, NIHR Research Professorships panel; Panel
 member EU Horizon 2020, Unit E3: Fighting Infectious Diseases and Advancing Public Health;
 Deputy Chair, UK Department of Health NIHR –GCRF Funding. Obbard: IRF Panel. Pedersen:
 Academy of Finland - Research Council for Biosciences and Environment (RCBE). Reece: ESF
 panel of experts. Riley: Member- Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC).
 Rosser: Deputy Chair BBSRC Committee D; EPSRC Science, Engineering and Technology
 Board (SETB). Rowe: Member of the Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellowship panel; Member of
 the American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene/Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation Travel
 Award Committee; Member of The Royal Society Newton International Fellowships Panel.
 Schirmer: Comisión Nacional de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica, Chile. Smith: Committee
 Member -International Association of Medical Science Educators (IAMSE) Educational
 Scholarship Committee; IAMSE Junior Faculty Travel Awards. Spoel: GATSBY Plant Science
 Advisory Board. Swain: International Human Frontier Science Program Committee. Stone: NERC
 Peer Review College. Tollervey: Edinburgh University ISSF committee. Voigt: Referee for
 research proposals for Wellcome, Worldwide Cancer Research, FRM (Fondation Recherche
 Medicale – France). Zamoyska: ERC starting grants LS6 “Immunity and Infection”. BBSRC Pool
 of Experts: Burgess, Buonomo, De Sousa, Horsfall, Matthews, Pilizota, Welburn. Wellcome
 Trust Expert Review Groups: Lowell, Marston, Reece, Tollervey, Zamoyska.

 Honours, fellowships and other awards:
 Alexander: Royal Society University Research Fellowship. Allshire: Elected Fellow of Academy
 of Medical Sciences Bird: The Brain Prize; Buchanan Medal, Royal Society, London; Fellow of
 the American Association for Cancer Research; Foreign Associate, US National Academy of
 Sciences; Charles Rodolphe Brupbacher Prize for Cancer Research, Zurich; Shaw Prize in Life
 Science and Medicine, Hong Kong; BBVA Frontiers of Knowledge Award, Madrid; Jacob’s Ladder
 Norman Saunders International Research Prize, Toronto; Knighthood New Year's Honours list.
 Briggs: British Society for Parasitology – President’s Medal. Cook: British Crystallographic
 Association's Early Career Researcher Award. Chambers: Hooke Medal, British Society for Cell
 Biology; Visiting Professor, University of Tsukuba. Earnshaw: Elected Inaugural Fellow, American
 Society for Cell Biology; Daiwa Adrian Prize for UK-Japan Scientific Collaboration. Goryachev;
 F1000Prime; Faculty Member of the Year, Microbiology. Hartfield: John Maynard Smith Prize
 (ESEB). Keightley: Centennial Award for outstanding GENETICS article. Johnston: The
 Genetics Society Balfour Lecture. Leach: Leverhulme Trust Emeritus Fellowship. Marston:
 Wellcome Collaborator Award. McCormick: Best Innovative Collaboration Award with ScotBio,
 Scotland's Life Sciences Awards. Matthews: Sanofi-Institute Pasteur international prize for
 tropical medicine, 2015; Royal Society Research Merit Award. Mutapi: Elected Fellow, Zimbabwe
 Academy of Sciences; Elected Fellow, African Academy of Sciences; Elected Fellow, Africa
 Science Leadership Program and Future Africa Fellow; Elected Fellow, African Science Institute;
 University of Edinburgh Chancellor’s Award for Impact. The Impact Award, David Livingstone
 Medal, Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons of Glasgow. Pemberton: Darwin-Wallace
 medal of the Linnean Society. Reece: CA Wright Medal; British Society for Parasitology, Scientific
 Medal, Zoological Society London. Riley: Fred L. Soper Lecturer, American Society of Hygiene
 and Tropical Medicine, USA; Ronald Ross Medal, LSHTM. Rosser: Royal Academy of
 Engineering Chair in Emerging Technologies. Rowe: C.A. Wright Medal from the British Society
 for Parasitology. Tollervey: Biochemical Society Novartis Medal and Prize; Mendel Medal,
 Masaryk University, Brno, Czech Republic. Wallace: Chartered Chemist status of the Royal
 Society of Chemistry.

                                                                                           Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                          Page 29
