Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Glasgow Caledonian University

 Unit of Assessment:
 17: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure

 Business and Management Studies research at Glasgow Caledonian University embeds our
 Common Good mission through a commitment to co-producing research that has a direct impact
 on the communities in which we are embedded – whether local, national or international. This
 research impacts positively on both policy and practice in the public, private and third sectors,
 and strengthens, supports and underpins research-informed teaching in connection with the UN
 PRME (Principles of Responsible Management Education) agenda. Our overall goal is to
 conduct world-leading research that has a direct impact on our economy and society, reflecting
 the University’s mission and aligning with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs); in
 particular SDGs 1 (No Poverty), 3 (Good Health and Well-being), 4 (Quality Education), 5
 (Gender Equality), 8 (Decent work and economic growth), 10 (Reduced Inequalities), 16 (Peace,
 Justice and Strong Institutions) and 17 (Partnerships for the Goals).

 Our submission for UoA17 is highly interdisciplinary and draws upon the work of colleagues
 based within various Departments of our Glasgow School for Business and Society (GSBS) and
 the Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health. Four research groups facilitate cross-working
 across departments and centres to address these issues and drive research-informed teaching:

    •   Social Economy
    •   Community Development, Citizenship and Participation
    •   Economics of Health and Wellbeing
    •   Migration, Populism, Equalities and Social Inclusion

 This interdisciplinary work is undertaken mostly (but not exclusively) in three Research Centres:

    •   The Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health
    •   The WISE Centre for Economic Justice
    •   The Moffat Centre for Travel and Tourism Business Development

 Research Group (and Centre) leads meet regularly to develop research agendas and promote
 working across themes. We collaborate with colleagues across the University around thematic,
 methodological and theoretical areas of shared interest, and with universities across the world.
 We engage with stakeholders in the public, voluntary and private sectors to develop our
 research and knowledge exchange strategy, and to maximise the impact of our research.


 Progress since REF 2014

 We have made significant progress since REF 2014, the results of which indicated that we had
 to focus on a number of key areas, including: significantly increasing our research income,
 particularly from European and ‘blue-chip’ funders; developing our research environment;
 broadening and internationalising our research partnerships and outlook; and increasing both
 the quality and volume of significant, rigorous and impactful research outputs. Our main
 objectives were to:

    •   Invest in strategic areas of international expertise and interdisciplinary research strength
        (Outputs)


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Develop a publicly focused and collaborative approach to knowledge exchange based on
        stakeholder engagement (Impact)
    •   Develop mechanisms of support to facilitate our research culture (Environment)

 As this Environment Statement demonstrates, we have achieved considerable success. Notable
 highlights include:

    •   Significantly increasing our research income over the REF period (from £0.934 million in
        REF 2014 to £3.69 million)
    •   Improving the number of researchers submitted to the UoA (from 18 to 24)
    •   Growing the number of research doctoral degrees awarded (from 23 to 74.84 FTE)
    •   Establishing a new Research Centre (WISE Centre for Social and Economic Justice) and
        further investing in the Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health
    •   Facilitating four thematic research groups, encouraging cross-department/centre working
    •   Leading several major EU funded projects (e.g. VOLPOWER, RESPOND) including
        some specifically related to supporting researcher mobility (e.g. FAB-MOVE and
        EMPOWER-SE).


 Research and Impact Strategy

 Since 2014, and in line with the 2017 refreshed University Research Strategy, our Business and
 Management Studies research has been focused on growing our income, increasing the number
 of PhD completions, and improving the quality and impact of our research outputs.

 Following the institutional strategy of focusing attention on nurturing ‘pockets of excellence’, over
 the course of the REF period for Business and Management Studies we have focused attention
 on building niche areas of international excellence and critical mass via strategic investment into
 three Research Centres in particular. For UoA 17, the focal point for much of this attention has
 been on:

    1. The Yunus Centre for Social Business and Health, which works to conceptualise and
       evidence ways that lives of individuals and communities can be improved through a
       better understanding of various community-based and health-focused initiatives. Directed
       by Baker (submitted to UoA3), and where our PVC Research Donaldson, conducts the
       majority of his research, over the last ten years the Yunus Centre has grown to become
       one of the largest centres of its kind in the world. It comprises some 36 research staff
       and PGR students, and is organised into three research groups, namely: (i) Social
       Economy (led by Roy), (ii) Community Development, Citizenship and Participation (led by
       Steiner) and (iii) Economics of Health and Wellbeing (led by Mason, who is submitted to
       UoA 3).

           i.   In the first group, the idea of ‘Social Economy’ is conceptualised in two ways: as a
                term to mean the ‘third sector’ comprising value-led organisations, such as social
                enterprises, voluntary organisations, co-operatives and mutuals; and as a term
                that reframes and disrupts notions of the economy as a web of relationships
                designed to serve the needs of society. Researchers within the group draw upon
                and combine a range of methods from both constructivist and realist
                epistemologies, with specific expertise in qualitative research methods; from
                ethnography (including digital ethnographic techniques) to participant
                observation, in-depth interviewing, oral histories, and realist evaluation. They
                regularly work with the social enterprise sector in Scotland, the UK and
                internationally, particularly in relation to shaping policies and instrument to
                support the growth and development of the social economy.

          ii.   The work of the second research group, with an emphasis on Community
                Development, Citizenship and Participation, is focused on community, resilience,

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                and the conditions that enable people to thrive. Recognising that participation of
                different kinds contributes to healthy communities and a functioning democracy,
                work under this theme explores participatory approaches that, through community
                empowerment and civic involvement, effectively utilise local assets, capacities,
                and resources in order to address the needs of citizens. Researchers within the
                group work closely with government representatives as well as community
                groups, businesses, and social enterprises, co-constructing responses to social
                vulnerabilities, empirically testing new ideas through action research, participatory
                evaluation, surveys, and outcome measurement to generate applied knowledge
                that informs community development practice, labour market policies as well as
                advancing theories in the field.

         iii.   The third group, the Economics of Health and Wellbeing, works at the interface
                between UoA 17, UoA 3 (Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and
                Pharmacy) and UoA 16 (Economics and Econometrics, albeit GCU are not
                submitting to this UoA). The work of this group focuses on resource allocation,
                societal wellbeing and distributional justice, on the basis that decisions are made
                all the time about how shared resources are used by government, by officials
                working in health and social care systems, and by households. Most of our
                economic evaluations are collaborative projects with colleagues across the
                School of Health and Life Sciences at GCU as well as within the NHS and
                academic partners elsewhere, with expertise in health economics, Q
                methodology, preference elicitation and priority setting, and in the use of ‘financial
                diaries’ to examine the links between microfinance, health and wellbeing.

    2. The WISE Centre for Economic Justice, which fosters creative interdisciplinary initiatives
       to inform public policy for more just societies, and thus also relates to UoA 20 – Social
       Work and Social Policy. Directed by Cantillon (submitted to UoA 20), the WISE Centre
       undertakes interdisciplinary research on economic equality, new economics, public
       policy, gender, social history, poverty, migration and human rights issues under the
       broad theme of economic justice. The WISE Centre undertakes both theoretical and
       empirical research on issues relating to economic equality, gender, social justice and
       human rights; poverty and income inequality, financial exclusion, living standards within
       households; gender budgeting, occupational segregation and employability, skills, race
       and migration, both locally and internationally. The main research areas relate to the
       historical and cultural origins of inequalities and theories of justice; public policy,
       governance and institutional change; labour market and household inequalities; the
       political economy of care; social inclusion and migration; and activism and social change.
       Our migration, population, equalities and social inclusion-themed work is led from the
       WISE Centre. Korkut, who leads these efforts, has had considerable success with
       European projects on this topic (including the aforementioned VOLPOWER and
       RESPOND).

    3. The Moffat Centre for Travel and Tourism Business Development, which is the UK’s
       largest university-based consultancy and research centre for tourism and travel market
       research and economic development. The Moffat Centre was established in 1998
       following a commercial endowment from The Moffat Charitable Trust (family trust of the
       founders of AT Mays Travel Agents). Since 2016, the Centre has compiled national
       accommodation performance and occupancy data (from 2,000+ organisations) and since
       1999 national visitor attraction performance data (from 1,000+ organisations). These are
       unique, highly representative data sets that are cited by OECD and UNWTO and used by
       Scottish Government (SG) in calculation of the value of tourism and most recently in the
       impact of the Global Pandemic.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Strategy for growing our research income

 Research income has grown from £0.934 million in REF 2014 to £3.69 million in the current REF
 period. This is due to a deliberate strategy of growing a critical mass of excellent researchers
 capable of competing regularly for blue chip funding and offering them the capacity,
 encouragement and support to do so.

 The Research and Innovation Office are tasked with highlighting specific responsive mode
 funding opportunities aligned with each Centre’s strategic aims. Our research leaders assemble
 bid teams with a range of complementary skills and expertise, commensurate with the size of the
 opportunity. Depending on the nature of the bid, this can involve working across Centres or
 Schools, or – as regularly happens – with colleagues at other universities, including
 internationally. Partnerships are created and maintained through regular attendance at
 conferences and other scholarly activities, facilitated by interchange opportunities (such as the
 aforementioned FAB-MOVE and EMPOWER-SE). New opportunities are targeted to meet, as
 far as possible, towards the end point of grants, with the aim to build sustainable, long-term
 research, building on earlier successes and maintaining a credible and impactful track record
 while Centre Directors are responsible for ensuring a pipeline of funded projects and ensuring
 continued employment for researchers.

 There has been a conscious effort made to grow research activity from (often small-scale)
 exploratory projects to large-scale awards, regularly dovetailing with the scale and ambition of
 the journey of our emerging research leaders, where they would be encouraged to bid for a
 personal Fellowship, and then move to build up to their first grants as Principal Investigator, and
 then to large-scale programme grants. Unsuccessful bids are regularly repurposed so writing
 and thinking are rarely wasted, thus ensuring efficiencies and partnerships built up are
 maintained, grown and encouraged. Finance Business Partners are involved in regular meetings
 with a view to ensuring that research leaders are aware of the time lag between submission of a
 bid and commencement of research, so that this can be appropriately bridged. Effectively,
 success has involved appreciating that a combination of strategies is usually the key to attaining
 and achieving a solid pipeline of research income across different portfolios.


 Strategy for improving the quality of research

 One of our key priorities has been increasing the number of, and improving the quality of,
 research outputs. Rather than focusing on research income in order just to ensure continuity of
 work, our whole emphasis is to translate such work into quality, impactful research.

 In the current REF period, we have focused attention on creating opportunities for researchers to
 create and maintain partnerships with colleagues in other universities in order for them to
 increase our internationally co-created and co-authored research outputs through
 interdisciplinary research of global excellence, funded by the most prestigious grant awarding
 bodies, including the Research Councils and various Foundations and Government bodies. We
 timetable in bid writing and the establishment of consortia as part of the Workload Allocation
 Model, in addition to conducting research. We seek to reward collegiality and recognise the
 potential for research leadership, via promotion criteria for research pathways.


 Strategy for increasing the number of PhDs

 Over the course of this REF period, we have grown the number of research doctoral degrees
 awarded to 74.84 FTE from 23 FTE in REF 2014. We did this by:

    •   Offering funded scholarships and recruiting funded PhDs as a consequence of being part
        of collaborative research projects. Often European research projects (e.g. VOLPOWER)
        have had a number of PhDs attached.

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Growing our reputation. As the international reputations of our Centres have increased,
        we have seen a number of excellent students approach us, often with grant funding
        secured (e.g. through the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission), to undertake a PhD
        with an internationally recognised scholar in a world-class research centre (e.g. on the
        topic of social innovation/social enterprise).
    •   Specifically targeting countries (e.g. in the Middle East, China, or the Indian sub-
        continent) where there is demand for PhD-qualified individuals, especially from a UK
        institution. However, we have only recruited where we have capacity and skills to offer
        proper, robust supervision (thus ensuring good completion rates), and whose topics and
        interests closely align with our existing research priorities.
    •   Increasing the attractiveness of undertaking a PhD at our Research Centres through
        investing in co-working areas and ensuring that a collegiate and supportive infrastructure
        is maintained. Deliberate emphasis is placed upon ensuring that PhD students are
        treated as colleagues and made to feel they are a vital component of Centre life and of a
        thriving internationally respected and focused research community. They are involved in
        regular seminars and staff meetings.


 Strategy for increasing impact

 The strategy for enhancing the impact of our research has three components: the first relates to
 inculcating an ‘impact culture’. This involves: ensuring that different forms of research impact are
 understood at all levels and discussed during staff appraisal and promotion decisions; providing
 support for researchers from dedicated staff members to plan for impact alongside project
 execution; promoting active engagement of staff with relevant external stakeholders in the
 public, private and third sectors through regular stakeholder events and communications; and
 supporting researchers to embed research outcomes and impact case studies into teaching
 materials. The second component of the impact strategy involves engagement with, and
 influence upon, stakeholders. This is done through involvement in various networks and
 committees by academic and administrative staff; encouraging the submission of joint research
 bids with community partners (e.g. to the Scottish Government’s Social Innovation Fund); and
 ensuring regular briefings and lines of communication to the media, and in regular face-to-face
 events. The third component relates to investment in capacity and process to enable impact to
 be captured effectively which has involved investing in PURE modules to capture impact, and
 training on the use of these modules and in the collection and collation of evidence of impact.


 Future plans

 Broadly aligning with departmental structures, newer research groups have recently started to
 emerge to encourage and develop additional areas of research excellence, providing a
 framework for supporting early career researchers. These are on the topics of: Consumer
 Lifestyles and Experiences (led by Ritch) Responsible Business (led by McGuire), and Risk and
 Governance (led by McRae).

 Our institutional environment statement sets out the growing importance of the Times Higher
 Education Social Impact Rankings and, in particular, our ambition to become the world’s leading
 university focused on social innovation. The institution will continue to align our research with the
 UN Sustainable Development Goals. Indeed, the research undertaken over the course of the
 current REF period in this UoA affirms the importance of Business and Management Studies to
 delivering key strategic outcomes for GCU. With this in mind, our future strategic aims will
 involve building on our growing international reputation on the topic of social innovation in
 particular, through:

    •   Developing infrastructure to facilitate even greater interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary
        research across the Research Centres and research groups, better facilitating,


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        recognising and connecting the work that goes on within different Schools and Research
        Centres broadly defined as ‘social innovation’.

    •   Creating further research groups, including within business and management studies,
        focused on addressing key societal challenges, and connecting these to research
        clusters in other areas of the University. All of these activities will be mapped to the
        SDGs and the Scottish Government’s National Performance Framework. This provides a
        clear line of sight between work with community groups, research (co-)design, policy
        priorities, and global actions.

    •   Co-locating researchers and research students in a dedicated physical space centred
        around a ‘living lab’. This will bring community groups and practitioners, researchers,
        policymakers and knowledge exchange professionals together, with a view to
        meaningfully co-producing local social innovation solutions, responding to global
        challenges.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy and staff development

 As a post-92 institution, we recognise the continuing need to constantly work at embedding a
 ‘culture of research’ into all parts of the University. One advantage is that our ‘Common Good’
 mission, operationalised through actions linked to the SDGs, has shaped the type and nature of
 the research we have undertaken in Business and Management Studies. This has attracted
 several excellent researchers to come to GCU because of our mission and ethos and the type of
 research we undertake, and also works to encourage and motivate staff who have not been
 research active to become engaged in research consistent with their values. Our mission is fully
 supported by our staff and has shaped our institutional identity – particularly over the course of
 this REF period – in innumerable ways.

 All staff in this UoA comply with GCU’s policy for Open Access to Research established in 2014
 (see University Environment Statement). The support for ‘gold’ open access route for
 manuscripts has been used to good effect, the cost of which has been supported through
 research grant funding and UKRI grants for open access publication, supplemented by internal
 funds.

 Twenty-four staff have classified as having significant responsibility for research in this UoA (20
 of whom are permanent members of staff while four are on Fixed Term contracts). This
 compares with 18 researchers submitted to the equivalent UoA in REF 2014. Of the 24 staff
 submitted, 10 are classified as early career researchers. While only four out of the 14 staff
 submitted not classified as ECRs are women, there are good signs that this trend will be
 addressed in future since the 10 ECRs submitted are exactly half women and men.

 Research time is currently facilitated through the Research Support Allocation (RSA) process
 where all members of academic staff receive a research allowance as part of their annual
 Workload Allocation Model (WAM). In addition, all academic staff engage with the University’s
 established systems of mentoring and performance monitoring, the core of which is the bi-
 annual Performance and Development Annual Review (PDAR). Reviews are generally
 undertaken by line managers. Individual staff discuss and monitor their goals and achievements,
 including in relation to publications, aspirations, training and development requirements, shaping
 research projects, and policy/community engagement activity.

 Initiatives to support and encourage staff to become and remain research active include writing
 groups for publication led by senior researchers within the School; supporting early career
 researchers with PhD studentship applications, including to the Scottish Graduate School for
 Social Sciences and other funding routes such as the Research Councils; and providing funding
 to present quality research at national and international conferences.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An Early Career Research (ECR) Network has been established within the Glasgow School for
 Business and Society, providing a forum for early career researchers to discuss issues they
 face, but also to act as a supportive peer network for colleagues embarking on their careers in
 academia. This ECR network has representation on the Development of Academic Researcher
 Excellence (DARE) a GCU wide body convened by the Graduate School.

 Regular research seminar series are held and over the current REF period these have taken a
 variety of forms. While our Research Centres have regularly had internationally recognised
 speakers, a weekly lunchtime research seminar series has run throughout term time, where PhD
 students, ECRs, faculty and senior Professors come together to discuss their latest research.
 Each lunchtime seminar includes a talk by a PhD student/ECR and a more senior colleague, in
 order to create a collegiate and encouraging atmosphere.

 Additionally, both the Yunus Centre and the WISE Centre have ‘town and gown’ initiatives. The
 former organises the annual John Pearce memorial lecture on social enterprise, which involves
 a prominent speaker from the sector from the UK or internationally, while the latter organises the
 annual Ailsa McKay memorial lecture, providing opportunities for showcasing research on the
 topic of feminist economics and social justice more widely. Both events offer networking
 opportunities with a wide community of scholars and practitioners from around Scotland.

 Over the course of this current REF period, researchers in the UoA have benefitted from
 outward mobility opportunities in other international research centres and organisations,
 principally through the FAB-MOVE (For a Better Tomorrow – Social Enterprise on the Move)
 project funded through H2020 Marie Curie RISE. This project has also encouraged around 20
 international scholars to visit GCU for a substantive period, ranging from a month to four months
 at a time. Since that project, Yunus Centre researchers have also been involved in the
 EMPOWER-SE project funded by COST (European Co-Operation in Social and Technology)
 which has also facilitated international movement of researchers and improved our international
 reputation still further. Additionally, scholars such as Korkut from the WISE Centre have taken
 up visiting professorships: he visited Hokkaido University’s Center for Slavic and Eurasian
 Studies and spent three months there in 2015.


 Support for, and training and supervision of, PGR students

 As mentioned previously, over the REF period, 74.84 FTE research doctoral degrees awarded
 were aligned to the Business and Management Studies Unit of Assessment. This compares with
 23 FTE reported in the equivalent UoA in REF 2014. This is split almost exactly between female
 (37.84 FTE) and male (37 FTE) students. The breakdown of our research doctoral student
 demographics shows that we have a significant international outlook in our offerings, with 11.5
 FTE completions from the EU, 16.84 FTE from the UK, and 46.5 FTE international students. The
 proportion of PhD students from diverse backgrounds and cultures encourages a rich
 intercultural dialogue and exchange of expertise, ideas and experiences.

 We have invested in facilities within the Research Centres to support and encourage co-location
 of PhD students with supervisors. This works to build a community of researchers and
 encourages and facilitates peer support networks. Our success in securing European grant
 funding has also enhanced the number of PhD students we have been able to recruit, with one
 recruited to work on RESPOND and another in DEMOS. Two further PhD students are also
 connected to the VOLPOWER project. PhD students are invited and encouraged to participate
 as members of research groups and also in the organisation and delivery of staff and research
 meetings. They also take part in activities, such as writing workshops and seminars with the
 support of both their peers and their supervisory teams. PhD scholars from Business and
 Management regularly take part in the annual ‘Three-Minute Thesis’ competition and in the
 annual celebration and promotion of post-graduate research. The PhD students in RESPOND
 and DEMOS also contributed to writing the project reports. Furthermore, VOLPOWER has a


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 myriad of activities involving training volunteers and an online exhibition and the VOLPOWER
 PhD students have played pivotal roles in delivering these activities.

 The training needs of each PhD in business and management are negotiated individually, with
 funds allocated to support their learning and development needs, such as formal learning as part
 of a Certificate in Research Methods taken in parallel with and complementing PhD study,
 courses provided by the Graduate School and the training provision organised around the Vitae
 Researcher Development Framework, guiding students through the entirety of their doctoral
 journey. Over and above this, PhD students in business and management studies have access
 to methods training provided by leading scholars. Many of our PhD students have attended the
 five-day residential Academic Writing School and Writing Retreat, which is regularly hosted at
 GCU, have attended summer schools, conferences and PhD training connected to our
 involvement in European projects and also access the Scottish Graduate School for Social
 Sciences summer schools and training.

 Progress of PhD students is monitored formally from the start with the formal registration of the
 research project (by the end of month one), at which research questions are identified and a
 brief outline of the thesis provided to the Graduate School, and the more-rigorous confirmation of
 progression (at around month nine), at which the student provides substantial written
 documentation, generally in the form of a literature review and detailed plan for the remainder of
 the thesis. This stage is reviewed, in the form of a mini-Viva, by an academic staff member who
 is not part of the supervisory team and is accompanied by a seminar presentation. All research-
 active staff in the area are strongly encouraged to attend the seminar presentation component of
 the student’s mini-Viva. They provide an early opportunity for PhD researchers to gain
 experience of delivering academic presentations, asking and receiving questions, and delivering
 constructive feedback. All PhD researchers are encouraged and supported to attend at least one
 academic conference per year, and to build and maintain networks of peers and senior
 colleagues. Wherever possible, PhD students are supported to undertake a placement,
 particularly later in their studies. Recent placements have been to the Scottish Government,
 funded by the Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences; to the World Health Organisation in
 Copenhagen, funded by the Wellcome Trust; and to research centres in universities abroad,
 including Queen’s University in Canada, and George Mason University in the US, funded by the
 Marie Curie-RISE FABMOVE project.


 Equality and Diversity

 At an institutional level, GCU: recognizes that institutional racism is a structural and not an
 individual issue; embraces tackling inequalities as part of the University’s Common Good
 mission; supports a whole institution approach involving all students, staff and stakeholders. For
 UoA 17 we promote equality and diversity in terms of access to research support by ensuring
 that all recruiting managers undertake diversity awareness and unconscious bias training to
 ensure we recruit a diverse workforce, and that, once recruited, staff have equality of
 opportunity, regardless of their background. We value and champion equality and diversity
 through our research leadership and mentoring programmes. Having mentors and role models
 from under-represented groups has significantly worked to address historical imbalances.
 Although we know that for this UoA there are still challenges to be overcome, for example on
 gender equality at more senior academic levels, we have a far more equal representation of men
 and women at ECR level, which should bode well for the future.

 In light of the challenges surrounding ethnicity of both students and academics across the
 University (14% of undergraduate students are BAME), a series of recommendations has been
 made, recognising that institutional racism is a structural and not an individual issue and that
 tackling racism and racial inequalities should form a core part of the University’s Common Good
 mission.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Work undertaken by our research groups has encouraged a focus on the ‘upstream’ or systemic
 (and intersectional) drivers of social inequalities. This includes inequality on the basis of gender
 and, indeed, this is the principal focus of the WISE Centre specifically, which adopts an explicitly
 intersectional approach. As the University for the Common Good, however, this moves us
 beyond merely studying social change, to praxis. Section 4 of this Statement covers our
 collaborations with community groups, and regular, deep and longstanding relationships with
 some of the most prominent national and international bodies, including local and national
 politicians, concerned with addressing social inequalities, including issues related to BAME
 communities, LGBTI+, Roma, and other traditionally excluded and disenfranchised communities.
 Athena Swan has been granted to the institution as a whole, and this therefore covers all
 organisational units comprising the UoA in relation to gender equality.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 As our income figures demonstrate, over £3.69million in research income has been earned over
 the course of the REF period, compared to £934,000 in REF 2014. This represents a remarkable
 395% increase in research income since REF 2014. The average annual research income over
 the current REF period has been £527,227 per annum (equivalent to £21,967 per researcher, or
 £22,531 per FTE).

 We have had significant success in collaborative EU project funding, with the greatest proportion
 (37%) being derived from EU government bodies. In addition to this, almost 22% of the total
 research income, just under £791,000, was received from the Research Councils. This is a
 significant change from REF 2014 when £14,747 in total was received from the Research
 Councils.

 This is a clear demonstration of the success of the Centre’s strategy, and represents a clear step
 change both for GCU, and this UoA in particular. For the university to compete for, and win,
 competitive funding regularly from ‘bluechip’ funders such as the Research Councils and EU
 Horizon 2020 is testament to the success of our strategy of investment in people and in research
 infrastructure and facilities, as discussed below. Just over a quarter (27%) of our research
 income has come from UK central government departments (which includes the Scottish
 Government). A smaller amount (representing 12% of the total) has come from UK-based
 charities via open competition, and from UK industry sources (2.8%).

 The CommonHealth programme grant led by Donaldson jointly funded by the MRC and ESRC
 (worth £1.9million in total, of which £757,712 has been apportioned to this UoA) was a five-year
 programme grant focused on developing methods to evidence social enterprise as a health and
 wellbeing ‘intervention’. This programme grant enabled the Yunus Centre to expand significantly,
 recruit an excellent cadre of young researchers, and reach international prominence. It is
 therefore no surprise that the impact and legacy of this programme forms the basis for one of
 our REF impact case studies.

 A project also led by Donaldson on Fair Credit, Health and Wellbeing: eliciting the perspectives
 of low-income individuals (FinWell) was funded by the Scottish Government Health Directorates’
 Chief Scientist Office (£198,281). This study, a collaboration with the Universities of Sheffield
 and Newcastle, employed qualitative methods (financial diaries, interviews and Q methodology)
 to establish the links between the use of social finance initiatives and wellbeing and the
 mediating mechanisms that might facilitate this association, such as confidence and social
 connectedness. Another project entitled Priority Setting in Health and Social Care (£193,303 to
 this UoA) from the same funder investigated methods for supporting policymakers and public
 sector managers to better develop and utilise evidence-based policy.

 Other projects have been awarded by the Scottish Government’s Social Innovation Fund, which
 was supported in part by European Structural Funds. Steiner has led several projects including
 COOL Music (worth £394,314 or £143,783 to the UoA) and Sheds for Sustainable Development
 (totalling £204,720 or £129,925 to the UoA). The Community Oriented Opportunity Learning

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (COOL) Music project is the focus of one of our Impact Case Studies and relates to working with
 a social enterprise – ‘Heavy Sound CIC’ – to develop and evidence actions designed to support
 the inclusion and development of disadvantaged young people who have faced significant
 barriers in life including adverse childhood experiences. The Sheds for Sustainable
 Development project, meanwhile, was funded by the Community Fund (previously known as BIG
 Lottery) and focused on supporting the development and sustainability of community-based
 ‘Men’s Sheds’ in Scotland to be both financially and socially sustainable, with a key focus on
 improving health and wellbeing within vulnerable groups. The team also undertook an evaluation
 of the potential health and wellbeing benefits associated with being involved in shed activities.

 Researchers in the UoA have demonstrated their competitiveness in attaining European funding.
 Over £484,000 was awarded to the migration, population, equalities and social inclusion group
 over the current REF period through several collaborative projects involving partners across
 Europe led by Korkut, funded by the EU’s Horizon 2020 framework and the Asylum, Migration
 and Integration Fund. The project VOLPOWER (£126,851 to the UoA) focused on how youth
 volunteering in sports and arts activities can serve as a mechanism for social integration;
 RESPOND (£239,767 to the UoA) studied the effects of migration and the ongoing refugee
 crisis; and DEMOS (£117,164 to the UoA) focused on democratic efficacy in the face of rising
 populism across Europe. The H2020 project TransSOL (£138,818 to this UoA) focused on
 transnational solidarity across Europe in the face of the current refugee crisis.

 The Moffat Centre, led by Lennon, was awarded £222,563 for the Scottish Accomodation
 Occupancy Survey project, and for tourism research with Scottish Canals (£94,920) and Scottish
 Tourism Alliance (£109,063), and £82,757 for involvement in an EU-Interreg funded project
 entitled Cruising Oceans on Latitudes above 51º North - The Cool Route to investigate all
 aspects of the practical logistics and business potential to establish a bi-directional yacht
 cruising route along the western offshore areas of the Northern Periphery Area, stretching from
 Co. Cork in the South of Ireland, to the UK, Faroe Islands and Norway.

 A range of large-scale capacity building projects funded under Erasmus+, focusing on the area
 of innovation, entrepreneurship and social innovation, generated a total of £174,959 for this
 UoA, specifically for research activities (while also enabling us to develop impact): Common
 Good First, LASIN (Latin American Social Innovation Network), SEASIN South East Asian Social
 Innovation Network), SIKE (Social Innovation Knowledge Exchange), Strategy for Change,
 NEXUS, ENPRENDIA and Free Network). Importantly, all of these projects have been
 collaborative projects with international partners and have cemented GCU as the UK’s largest
 beneficiary of Erasmus+ project funding, and enhanced GCU’s reputation as one of the leading
 universities on the topic of social innovation in Europe and beyond (more details on collaboration
 below).

 The quality and significance of the research has been as a result of a sustained (ten year)
 investment in both people and infrastructure over the REF period. All research staff occupy
 bespoke accommodation which includes co-location of PGR students who share offices with, for
 example, personal access to networked PCs, phones, photocopying and grants for conferences.
 School-based academic staff are provided with individual offices. Visiting Professors have
 access to personal offices within Centres, or to a dedicated workstation within co-working
 spaces. Seminar rooms and shared relaxation spaces develop a sense of collegiality and the
 sharing of ideas. University-wide facilities such as the library and access to research support
 through the University’s Research and Innovation Office are described in the University
 Environment Statement.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research networks, collaborations and partnerships

 Our research supports evidence-based policy making and organisational practice in Scotland
 and beyond. Additionally, our researchers make important contributions to a range of academic

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 disciplines through contributions to professional societies and conferences, academic journal
 editing, and collaborations with other universities, and, particularly through community
 engagement.

 As stated at the outset, there has been a firm strategic drive to develop mutually beneficial
 research networks, collaborations and partnerships, particularly with international colleagues.
 Each Research Centre and the School has a reference group made up of external stakeholders
 to help shape the strategic direction going forward.

 The following are examples of collaborative research projects involving research staff submitted
 to the UoA with a range of national and international partners from Universities, companies and
 civil society organisations:

    •   Towards an International Social Solidarity Enterprise Network for Justice (funded by the
        Scottish Universities Insight Institute, with colleagues from the Universities of Strathclyde,
        Edinburgh and Northumbria, and the social enterprise sector in Scotland and
        internationally).

    •   A Program of Research to Evaluate the Effectiveness of Work Integration Social
        Enterprise in the Mental Health Sector (funded by Employment and Social Development
        Canada, in collaboration with Queen’s University, Canada).

    •   Optimising the Roles of Online Communities in Rural Resilience (funded by the
        Australian Research Council, led by colleagues at Swinburne University, Melbourne,
        Australia).

    •   Can Social Enterprise Reverse Regional Socio-economic Disadvantage? (funded by the
        Australian Research Council Discovery, led by colleagues at Swinburne University,
        Melbourne, Australia).

    •   FAB-MOVE (For a Better Tomorrow – Social Enterprise on the Move) (European
        Commission Horizon 2020 Marie Curie RISE, led by colleagues at Münster University,
        Germany and involving dozens of international partners.

    •   The Challenges and Opportunities for Employment of Marginalized Groups by Social
        Enterprises – Regional Research Promotion Programme Western Balkans (funded by
        the Swiss Agency for Development and Co-operation and involving developing research
        capacity on social enterprise in the Balkans region of Europe).

    •   EFESEIIS - Enabling the flourishing and evolution of social entrepreneurship for
        innovative and inclusive societies (funded by European Commission 7th Framework
        Programme for Research) in collaboration with colleagues at the University of Florence.
        Partners comprised: Nxitja e Biznesit Social (Albania); Impact Hub (Austria); Syddansk
        Universitet (Denmark); University of Northampton; Sciences Po, Fondation Nationale des
        Sciences Politiques (France); Westfaelische Wilhelms-Universitaet Muenster (German);
        Stichting Dienst Landbouwkunding Onderzoek (Netherlands); Fondacija Za Razvoj
        Ekonomske Nauke (Serbia).

    •   Developing Methods for Evidencing Social Enterprise as a Public Health Intervention
        (CommonHealth), funded by the Medical Research Council / Economic and Social
        Research Council and involving the University of Stirling, Robert Gordon University and
        the University of the Highlands and Islands, with Glasgow Centre for Population Health
        and many social enterprises around Scotland.

    •   The Atlantic Social Lab: Atlantic cooperation for the promotion of social innovation (ASL).
        Co-financed by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) through the


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        INTERREG Atlantic Area Cooperation Program, this project supports GCU’s partnership
        with eighteen organisations located around the Atlantic coastlines of Spain, Portugal,
        France, and Ireland. Partners comprised: Enterprise North West; Centro de Estudos
        Sociais- Universidade de Coimbra; Comunidade Intermunicipal do Ave; Chambre
        régionale de l’économie sociale et solidaire de Bretagne; Communauté d'agglomération
        Pau-Pyrénées; Concello de Santiago de Compostela; Comhairle Cathrach Chorcai.

    •   Led by GCU, Latin American Social Innovation Network applied research in social
        innovation to institutions in the region. Partners comprised: COPPETEC Foundation, and
        Universidade Federal do Estado do Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), Universidad de Desarrollo,
        and Universidad Tecnica Federico Santamaria (Chile), Fundacion Universidad Area
        Andina and Universidad de Antioquia (Colombia), Universidad de Istmo and Universidad
        Catolica Santa Maria La Antigua (Panama).

    •   A network of gender researchers at GCU and the University of Cape Town and
        Stellenbosh University was launched in 2019-2020 to explore gender inequalities and
        gender relations in South Africa. Funding was awarded by GCU’s Global Challenges
        Fund. The network is led by Teasdale and she received a second round of funding to
        undertake capacity building and a small-scale research project on digital storytelling and
        the gendered division of labour.

    •   The Moffat Centre has managed a range of EU funded projects including Cool Routes;
        Cruising Oceans on Latitudes North of 51 degrees latitude, BODAM (using big data to
        understand international tourism value) and Trail Gazers (using travel routes to stimulate
        tourism).

 These collaborative grants have also included civil society partners and, in line with GCU values,
 facilitated knowledge exchange at local, national and international levels.

 The expertise of the people submitted to this UoA is regularly drawn upon to shape and
 influence various policy agendas (e.g. academics from the WiSE centre on various committees
 relating to economic and social justice; appearances in All-Party Parliamentary Groups and
 Parliamentary Inquiries within the Scottish Parliament on the topic of social enterprise; advising
 on the Scottish Government’s social innovation grant scheme). This expertise is drawn upon not
 only to evaluate the impact of national policies, but also to support the voice of practitioners at a
 national level.

 Researchers have been involved in advising the UK Government (including Beattie’s work with
 the lead of the UK’s Centre for Excellence in Physical and Personnel Security, which forms part
 of the UK Government’s new strategy on Developing Government Security Professionals) and
 transnational actors such as the OECD, ILO, European Union, and international practitioner
 forums such as the Social Enterprise World Forum. Principally through involvement in European
 projects, our researchers have developed a number of policy briefs aimed specifically at
 developing and influencing transnational EU policy on, for example: improving transnational
 solidarity in the face of populism and the refugee crisis (TransSOL); multilevel governance in the
 face of migration (RESPOND); developing effective social enterprise and entrepreneurship
 ecosystems (EFESEIIS).

 Steiner collaborates closely with the Community Empowerment team at the Scottish
 Government, informing and contributing to governmental debates about the Community
 Empowerment Act (2015) Scotland and participation legislation. He acted as an advisor on the
 Scottish Government Men's Sheds Short Life Working Group and contributed as a speaker to
 the Scottish Parliament’s Cross Party Group on Rural Policy.

 Roy also works closely with the Scottish Government, particularly advising on SIF grants, the
 development and implementation of social enterprise strategies in Glasgow, Scotland and


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally (key positions on Boards such as the Scottish Government’s Social Enterprise
 and Health Round Table, and the Glasgow Social Enterprise Board for the city).

 Teasdale co-led a workshop on gender awareness training for the Scottish Government in
 November 2019.

 Whittam is a Board member for Sunny Govan Community Radio and the Scottish Community
 Development Centre (SCDC), and an advisor to Linwood Community Development Trust. SCDC
 and Kibble Education and Care Centre were named partners in the Atlantic Social Lab project.

 Ritch has been involved with the Glasgow Science Festival and in various roundtables, including
 those organised by Hays Recruitment.

 Lennon, the Dean of GSBS, is a Director of Glasgow Chamber of Commerce, the Glasgow
 Chamber Business Resilience Committee (working on a post-Covid-19 urban recovery) and the
 Glasgow Tourism and Events Group. He is also a Non-Executive Director of North Coast 500
 Ltd (the organisation that markets and manages the most successful touring route in the UK),
 with a professional membership of 1100+. Lennon was a Senior Policy Advisor to VisitScotland
 (2008-2015) and a Non-Executive Director of Historic Environment Scotland (2009-2016).

 Donaldson has been a trustee for WEvolution (Self-reliant groups network for Scotland), Church
 of Scotland Priority Areas Committee, is currently a member of Sistema Scotland Evaluation
 Advisory Group and a member of the Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee
 Universities Scotland on the Supervisory Board.


 Peer Reviewing

 During the current REF period members of the submission have been involved in peer reviewing
 for major grant funders. Donaldson, for example, has been a member of the Medical Research
 Council Expert Review Group for the National Prevention Research Initiative, a member of the
 Carnegie Trust Small Grants Panel and a member of the Expert Review Group on Society and
 Ethics for the Wellcome Trust. Roy has been a regular grant reviewer for the National Institutes
 for Health Research, the Nuffield Trust, the Economic and Social Research Council, Health and
 Social Care Wales, the Scottish Government’s Chief Scientist Office, and the Leverhulme Trust.


 Journal Editorship

 Staff provide editorial leadership to a number of prominent journals. Roy is Editor in Chief of
 Social Enterprise Journal and Associate Editor of the Journal of Social Entrepreneurship. He is
 also on the Editorial Board of ANSERJ – the Canadian Journal of Social Economy, and
 Voluntas: the International Journal of Nonprofit and Voluntary Sector Research. McGuire was
 the Editor in Chief (Nov 2016-Jan 2020) of the journal Industrial and Commercial Training and
 also of Citescore (Nov 2016-Jan 2020). He is currently an Editorial Board Member of: New
 Horizons in Adult Education and Human Resource Development; Human Resource
 Development Review; and Human Resource Development Quarterly. Peng is Associate Editor
 for Event Management and Eurasian Business Review. Donaldson is Associate Editor of Social
 Business. Steiner is Associate Editor of the Journal of Social Entrepreneurship and a member of
 the Editorial Advisory Board of the Social Enterprise Journal. He also acted as a guest editor for
 Journal of Rural Studies. Ring is on the Editorial Board of The Journal of Corporate Governance,
 Insurance and Risk Management and the Journal of Accounting, Finance and Auditing Studies.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conference organisation and contribution to learned societies

 The UoA has hosted the following international conferences during the REF cycle: International
 Social Innovation Research Conference (ISIRC), September 2016 and 2019; ISBE (Institute for
 Small Business and Entrepreneurship) Graduate Day 2017; Regeneration Enterprise Sport and
 Tourism (REST) 2014; Rural Entrepreneurship Conference 2015; Social Care workshop 2020;
 EMES International Research Network on Social Enterprise 2016; Social Enterprise World
 Forum Academia Conference 2018. The WiSE centre organised and hosted the 2019 IAFFE
 (International Association for Feminist Economics) conference. In 2017, Lennon organised two
 major international conferences at GCU: the International Entrepreneurship Educators
 Conference (350 delegates) and The Interpretation, Architecture and Evidence for Curators and
 Management of Sites Associated with Incarceration, Mass Killing and the Holocaust (260
 delegates).

 Roy was (2013-2015) an elected member of the EMES International Research Network on
 Social Enterprise and is Deputy International Chair of the Annual Social Business Academia
 Conferences. He chaired the Social Enterprise World Forum academia conference in 2018. He
 regularly serves on the scientific committee of the EMES International Research conference and
 Polanyi International seminars organised by EMES, as well as the annual International Social
 Innovation Research Conference.

 Ring is a Senior Associate Member, Centre for Risk, Banking and Financial Services.

 Donaldson is Chair of the Scientific Committee for Annual Social Business Academia
 Conferences and member of the Dental Contract Pilots Evidence and Learning Reference
 Group.

 Whittam is on the Rural Entrepreneurship Annual Conference Committee and on the organising
 committee for REST.

 Edgar has served on the organising committee of several international conferences including:
 the European Conference on Games-Based Learning; European Conference on Management,
 Leadership and Governance.


 Expert appointments

 Donaldson is on the Supervisory Board, Scottish Graduate School for Social Sciences, he
 served as a member, Dental Contract Evidence and Learning Reference Group, appointed by
 the Department of Health and was a member of the Scottish Government’s Roundtable on
 Social Enterprise and Health. He was also appointed to the Lancet-LSE Commission on the
 Future of the NHS.

 Steiner was invited to provide evidence to the Scottish Parliament’s Local Government and
 Communities Committee supporting Post-Legislative Scrutiny of the Community Empowerment
 (Scotland) Act 2015. Steiner also acted as judge for the Rural Resilience Award 2019, an event
 that celebrates achievements of the European Union LEADER initiatives and awards
 accomplishments in areas of Rural Entrepreneurship, Rural Resilience and Inclusive
 Communities, UK.

 Lennon has been appointed to the Glasgow Tourism Partnership Executive Committee charged
 with management and marketing of the tourism assets of the city following the global pandemic.

 Teasdale is a member of the Scottish Government’s working group on the gender pay gap and
 also serves as a UK expert with the Fondazione Giacomo Brodolini (FGB) foundation
 contributing to the European Commission’s SAAGE network (Scientific Analysis and Advice on
 Gender Equality for the EU).

                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Roy works closely with Scottish Government, particularly advising on SIF (Social Innovation
 Fund) grants, the development and implementation of social enterprise strategies in Glasgow,
 Scotland and internationally (key positions on boards such as the Scottish Government’s Social
 Enterprise and Health Round Table, and the Glasgow Social Enterprise Board for the city). He
 has also addressed the Scottish Parliament’s Cross Party Group on Social Enterprise in two
 parliamentary sessions.

 Steiner and Kelly were advisors on the Scottish Government Men's Sheds Short Life Working
 Group (Community Empowerment Team, January – September 2019). He also served on the
 governmental group set up to progress Community Empowerment Asset Transfers and
 Participation Request legislation.

 McGuire serves as a Member of NISAG (National Independent Strategic Advisory Group), Police
 Scotland, and is also a Community Advisor for Police Scotland.


 Awards and conference keynotes

 Staff are regularly asked to give keynotes at international conferences and events.

 Donaldson has been a keynote at several international conferences and professional
 conferences including: Common Wealth to Common Health, TEDx Glasgow at the
 Conservatoire of Scotland; Global issues, local solutions: Rethinking health and wealth through
 the lens of social enterprise; ‘Community is the Answer’ Conference, University of Glasgow;
 ‘Health Economics: coming of Age’ Conference, London School of Hygiene and Tropical
 Medicine.

 Beattie has had her pioneering work on People Security/Personnel Security showcased at
 international and national professional/sectoral bodies including: The Chartered Institute for
 Personnel Development’s Annual Conference (for members) and The CIPD’s Annual Research
 Conference; the Defence Industries Security Association Annual Conference; Finance Sector; IT
 sector; The First International Atomic Energy Conference for Insider Threat (organised by
 Belgium’s agency for civil nuclear security & the US Department of Energy).

 Roy was awarded the Helen Potter Award of Special Recognition 2017 for the most original
 article in Review of Social Economy by the US-based Association for Social Economics. He was
 also awarded the Best Paper Award at the 12th International Social Innovation Research
 Conference Social innovation and enterprise for more prosperous, fair and sustainable societies
 in Sheffield in 2020. In 2019 he was awarded a Fellowship at the Center of Theological Inquiry,
 Princeton (Research Workshop on Religion and Economic Inequality). Roy has been a keynote
 speaker at the Forum on Social Entrepreneurship and Social Innovation in Emerging Markets at
 Renmin University of China, Beijing; at University College Cork, Ireland on Work Integration
 Social Enterprise; for the International Labour Organisation, Momentum Social and Solidarity
 Economy Conference, Trento, Italy.

 Steiner was a keynote speaker at Social Economy Conference 2020: Social Entrepreneurship in
 the face of the 21st century challenges, Poland and 16th Rural Entrepreneurship Conference.
 He provided a keynote at the Social Entrepreneurship and Social Innovations in Rural Regions
 RurAction Conference and at the 7th EMES International Research Conference on Social
 Enterprise: Sustainable development through social enterprise, co-operative and voluntary
 action, in Sheffield in 2020.

 McGuire provided a keynote at the Conference on Coaching, Mentoring and Supervision
 Research Conference; Forum for Human Resource Development Conference; 14th International
 Conference of the Asian Chapter of Academy of Human Resource Development; McGuire was
 also invited to present a podcast entitled: New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern's Success
 in Eliminating COVID-19 as part of the Dear Human Resources podcast, hosted by Western

                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Carolina University; and a webinar entitled: Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Work, Worker,
 and Workplace organised by the Academy of Human Resource Development.

 Other significant keynotes provided by UoA staff include:

    •   PBMA and Option Appraisal at an NHS Scotland Joint Strategic Commissioning –
        analysis event, Dunblane Hydro, Scotland
    •   Reflections on the 2nd Conference: Academia @ GSBS: our brief history and longer-
        term future. 2nd International Research Conference on Social Business, Mexico City
    •   Lost in translation: an economist’s rant. Introduction to Health Economics Network for
        Scotland event on ‘Lost in Translation’: economics and public health, University of
        Glasgow
    •   Economics and the new integration agenda. Chief Social Work Officer and Scottish
        Government Strategic Workshop. Edinburgh
    •   Perspectives on social enterprise and its potential contributions to public health: a
        research programme for Scotland. Canadian Institutes for Health Research/SIT-NET
        workshop on New pathways to health and well-being through social enterprise
    •   2nd Conference on Regional Development at Hallym University, Chuncheon, South
        Korea
    •   Scottish Communities Re-Investment Trust Annual General Meeting on Funding the
        Social Economy in Edinburgh
    •   Griffith University, Brisbane, Australia, on Understanding the role of social enterprise in
        addressing social inequalities
    •   Ontario Provincial Government on how social enterprises contribute to social inclusion in
        Toronto, Canada
    •   Center of Theological Inquiry, Princeton on The Role of the Social Economy in
        Addressing Health Inequalities
    •   FinSERN (Finnish Social Enterprise Research Network) Conference, Helsinki
    •   AICCON-Federsolidarietà School of Social Enterprise in Bertinoro, Italy on the topic of
        Social Impact Bonds
    •   Politécnico Grancolombiano, Bogota on Developing Research Profiles
    •   National University of Colombia, Bogota, Manizales and Medellin on The Doctoral
        Research Journey
    •   Challenges in Social Innovation at the University of St Gallen, St Gallen, Switzerland
    •   Innovation and Social Innovation in Latin America at the Swiss School of Latin American
        Studies (SSLAS)
    •   National University of Colombia, Bogota, on Advancements in Supervising Doctoral
        Students and Publishing
    •   Business Models and Planning for Spin-Offs at the FreeNetwork, Managua, Nicaragua
    •   European Policies Research Centre at Strathclyde University
    •   Swinburne Social Innovation Research Institute at Swinburne University of Technology,
        Australia
    •   15th Summer Academy on Social Economy and Sustainable Rural Development, Greece
    •   Social Policy Congress, Poland
    •   Entrepreneurship in Higher Education conference, Cape Town sponsored by the British
        Council
    •   Annual Conference on Entrepreneurship, the Hunter Centre for Entrepreneurship at the
        University of Strathclyde
    •   Conference on Social Innovation and Market Failure, University of Coimbra, Portugal
    •   Leading Change in the Public Sector Colloquium, Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Summary

 To summarise, we have set out how Business and Management Studies research at Glasgow
 Caledonian University embeds our Common Good mission, co-producing excellent research
 with a range of partners and collaborators, which has direct impact on the communities we
 serve. We have set out the context and structure of the UoA, explained our research and impact
 strategy, and the highly significant progress we have made since the last REF period. We have
 outlined our staff development strategy, including support for early career researchers, Post
 Graduate Research Students, and focus on equality and diversity; explained the strategic
 investments we have made over the REF period to enhance the research environment; and the
 significant contributions made by our researchers, through collaborative working, to positively
 enhance our economy and society. We have explained the actions we have taken to impact
 positively on evidence-based policy and organisational practice in the public, private and third
 sectors, all of which have strengthened and supported the delivery of internationally excellent
 research-informed teaching, aimed at addressing the most serious societal challenges, including
 those encapsulated by the UN Sustainable Development Goals.




                                                                                          Page 17
