Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Institution: University of Oxford
Unit of assessment: 25 Area Studies

1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

The mission of Oxford Area Studies is to foster the highest quality interdisciplinary research
on the politics, economies and cultures of non-Western societies characterised by literate
traditions from antiquity to the present. These include South, Inner and East Asia (societies
historically engaged with the literary and cultural traditions of China, Japan, and the diverse
languages and societies of Inner and South Asia), and the Middle East (societies historically
engaged with Arab, Turkish, Hebrew or Persian literary and cultural traditions). Our remit
corresponds to broadly shared self-perceptions of cultural continuity within the regions we teach
and research. These regions have long histories of complex interaction with each other, a fact
that Oxford Area Studies foregrounds through its unique institutional architecture.

Oxford Area Studies supports individual excellence in research with reference to four interlinked
dimensions: (1) a historical dimension extending through the full scope of the self-defined
continuities of Middle Eastern and Asian societies; (2) a geographical dimension covering the
changing geopolitical connections of the Middle East and Asia with each other and with
contiguous regions through history; (3) an interdisciplinary dimension encompassing a
comprehensive range of methodological approaches to research in the social sciences and
humanities; and (4) a linguistic dimension enabling research in the fullest possible range of
languages required for a given research project. By embedding individual research in these four
research dimensions, Oxford Area Studies maximises the potential for collaborative research
both within Area Studies and within Humanities and Social Science disciplines.

The Structure of Area Studies

Area Studies spans two divisions, Humanities and Social Sciences, within the University. In the
Humanities Division, staff are based in the Faculty of Oriental Studies (OS) and Museums
(hereafter Gardens, Libraries and Museums—GLAM). Most GLAM staff have appointments in
the Ashmolean Museum (one is based in the History of Science Museum), and some have
contracts split between OS and a Museum. In the Social Sciences Division, staff are based in
the Oxford School of Global and Area Studies (OSGA). We refer to both OS and OSGA as
departments in this statement. This cross-divisional structure is an advantage as it enables
colleagues to be rooted in different disciplinary cultures, while maintaining an overarching unity
of research, with rich potential for collaboration across regional boundaries.

The size of the UoA is 88.05 FTE category A staff: 51 in OS, 19.05 in OSGA, 11 in Colleges (six
attached to OS and five to OSGA), five in GLAM, and two from the departments for Politics and
International Relations and Development Studies. In comparison to REF2014, this number
represents an increase of 31 members of staff specialising in East, Inner and South Asia and the
Middle East. The UoA also intersects with staff in both departments who are not part of the Area
Studies REF submission. The 27 OSGA staff who specialise in Latin America, Africa and
Russia/Eastern Europe are submitted through the History UoA and a variety of Social Science
UoAs. In OS, 4.33 members of staff have expertise in ancient Near Eastern language and
culture, including Egyptologists, and are submitted via the Classics UoA, and three members of
staff have disciplinary expertise that fit best with the expertise of the Linguistics UoA.

In terms of regional specialism, staff in the Area Studies UoA are distributed geographically as
follows:

    •   East, Inner and South Asia (45.7 FTE)
    •   Middle East (42 FTE)


                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
They cover both the pre-modern (41 FTE) and modern (47.05 FTE) periods, and they approach
analysis from a broad range of disciplinary perspectives in the humanities and social sciences
(see Figure 1):

    •   History (28.3 FTE)
    •   Art and Literature (17.35 FTE)
    •   Religious Studies (15.2 FTE)
    •   Economics, Politics and International Relations (15 FTE)
    •   Anthropology, Sociology and Social Policy (12.2 FTE)

Figure 1: Disciplinary Breakdown of the UoA (%)




                                                    Anthropology,
                                                     Sociology &
                             Religious Studies      Social Policy
                                    17%                 14%




                                                            Art & Literature
                                                                  20%

                              History
                               32%
                                                    Economics,
                                                    Politics and
                                                   International
                                                     Relations
                                                       17%




One quarter of the staff employed by OSGA in the UoA hold joint appointments with Social
Science departments: Kariya with Sociology, Konishi with History, Mathur with Anthropology,
and Sullivan de Estrada and Thornton with Politics and International Relations.

We connect the diverse research interests of staff and students in this UoA through combined
programmes and research centres that cover each region. Staff from both departments teach on
programmes in Chinese Studies, Japanese Studies, Contemporary South Asian Studies, and
Middle Eastern Studies. GLAM staff engage more directly with the public than department-based
staff by virtue of their curatorial briefs, which include education at primary, secondary, and adult
levels, as well as for students of the University and researchers. Several of the GLAM staff have
joint museum-OS contracts, which put them in the rota for teaching and departmental
administration. Our staff and research students also take the leading role in research centres
linking expertise in Asian and Middle Eastern Studies across the entire University. They include
Area Studies centres and University research centres based in different Colleges and University
sites (all hereafter referred to as centres - see Figure 2). These centres provide platforms for
engagement between researchers specialising in Asian and Middle Eastern studies across

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
disciplines, periods of history and countries, and we return to their activities in more detail in later
sections. Furthermore, several Colleges have significant concentrations of Asian and Middle
Eastern Studies staff, library holdings, and resources, which enable them to organise high-level
academic events. Our staff and students play a leading key role in their activities.

Figure 2: Description of the UoA




Our Strategic Aims for Research and Impact

Our overall aim is to foster the highest standards of research excellence in interdisciplinary Area
Studies. Key elements of the research strategy are:

    •   supporting a flexible research environment that sustains individual research
        excellence;
    •   promoting interdisciplinary and collaborative research projects within and across
        areas of regional expertise;
    •   attracting and supporting early career researchers;
    •   investing in language-based research.

Since REF 2014, we have delivered on this strategy by:

    •   creating new one and two-year Master’s courses across both OS and OSGA in
        Chinese Studies, Japanese Studies, Modern South Asian Studies, and Modern Middle
        East Studies, which integrate staff and research students from OS and OSGA through
        collaborative and interdisciplinary research programmes;
    •   creating a new doctoral programme in OSGA, which complements the existing doctoral
        programme in OS; doctoral students from both departments can now access combined
        training in vernacular languages and methodological courses covering the ethical and
        professional frameworks in all relevant disciplines;
    •   establishing thematic research clusters within OS and OSGA, which promote
        collaborative, comparative and interdisciplinary Area Studies research, and seek to
        create synergies between Area Studies researchers within the University and beyond; in


                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        OSGA these clusters cover global themes – such as health, gender, nationalism –
        whereas in OS they engender cross-regional collaboration along disciplinary lines –
        Anthropology, Art, History, Language, Politics, etc;
    •   putting in place more dynamic systems for the effective early identification and targeting
        of funding opportunities for researchers, which has delivered GBP12.9 million in
        external funding;
    •   maintaining a dynamic community of early career researchers (ECRs); the UoA
        attracted 49 ECRs from August 2016, substantially augmenting its size;
    •   strengthening capacity in language expertise by creating posts and resources in
        existing and new fields, including:
         - a long-term commitment to Hindu religion and Sanskrit language: a new appointment
             in Sanskrit (Lowe), and extra funding for the Spalding Professorship of Eastern
             Religions and Ethics (Acharya);
         - permanent endowment of the Laudian Professor of Arabic (renamed the Abdulaziz
             Saud Al-Babtain Laudian Chair), the oldest Arabic literature position in Europe;
         - substantial investment in Arabic instructorships, which will prepare our graduate and
             postdoctoral students to work with archival sources by adding capacity in Arabic
             colloquials (Levantine and Egyptian), and palaeography;
         - new bridging posts to develop research linkages between modern and pre-modern
             Arabic, Persian and Turkish cultures: the Bahari Associate Professor of Sasanian
             Studies (Vevaina), which provides research specialisation in early Islamic Persianate
             Culture, and a new post in Ottoman History (Niyazioğlu);
         - new research opportunities for scholars working on the South Caucasus, a region
             previously neglected within the University and the United Kingdom more generally.
             Staff from OSGA and OS have worked together to launch new programmes in
             Georgian Studies and the Nizami Ganjavi Programme for the Study of Languages
             and Cultures of Azerbaijan, which provide new opportunities for Georgian and Azeri
             language learning.

Our impact strategy dovetails with these research aims by promoting and embedding research
combining local cultural engagement with interdisciplinarity. The impact case studies submitted
to REF2021 provide clear instances of this synthesis of regional expertise and multi-disciplinary
analysis, for example:

    •   Kariya’s research on the sociology of education in Japan and its influence on public
        debate surrounding higher education in that country;
    •   Leoni’s curating of a museum exhibition on Islamic occult practices (divination, amulets
        and other forms of material culture) that spurred public debate on Islamic culture and
        spirituality, drawing in young adults, Black and Minority Ethnic groups, local, national and
        international visitors.

Other notable examples include:

    •   research on domestic violence, which has been used in the training of counsellors who
        operate a help-line for Tibetan women who are victims of abuse (Rajan).

And, both departments generate impactful work by staff whose interdisciplinarity means that their
outputs are submitted with other UoAs, for example:

    •   research into issues of transitional justice in Latin America by Payne (Sociology UoA)
        and Lessa (postdoctoral fellow) was used in criminal prosecutions against the South
        American military dictatorships of the 1970s by the Inter-American Commission on
        Human Rights and Rome’s First Assize Appeals Court. The Operation Condor (Lessa)
        project made the final shortlist of the Vice Chancellor’s Innovation Awards in 2020.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Since REF2014, we have sought to achieve this impact strategy through:

    •   contracts that allow staff to work up to 30 days p.a. as consultants in the business and
        policy spheres;
    •   department and University-based research-support officers;
    •   the appointment of communications officers and consultants to provide regular
        dissemination of impact stories through departmental websites and other social media;
    •   the appointment of research impact facilitators to assist the UoA to develop impact
        activity;
    •   participation in workshops that facilitate knowledge exchange between researchers and
        practitioners from government agencies and NGOs. Examples include:
         - the Hammamet Conference Series, organised by the Middle East Centre at St.
              Antony’s College (Willis), which provides a platform for dialogue between
              academics, journalists and diplomats specialising in relations between the UK and
              North Africa;
         - the Sudanese Programme, co-founded by the Middle East Centre, which provides
              one of the few neutral meeting grounds for politicians, NGO workers and academics
              from both North and South Sudan;
    •   the creation of thematic research clusters involving policy makers, professionals,
        businesses and civil society in their work – e.g. the research network Climate crisis
        thinking in the Humanities and Social Sciences (Mathur), which provides a forum for
        interdisciplinary collaboration with climate scientists and external participants;
    •   visiting fellowships for practitioners from policy and business: e.g. the creation of the
        Rangoonwala Visiting Fellowship for Pakistani journalists, members of the judiciary,
        policy makers and politicians;
    •   University support for Knowledge Exchange Champions and a digital humanities
        network; the Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH), which supports
        networking, external partnerships and public dissemination; and University support for
        outreach initiatives like Public Engagement with Research, and the Policy Engagement
        and Business and Partnerships networks:
         - For example, research documenting the experiences of Nepalese pupils affected by
              the 2015 earthquake was funded by the Public Engagement with Research Seed
              Fund (Pradhan).



        The impactful success of this research has been recognised by prestigious awards:
                               International Booker Prize (Booth, 2019)
         Auckland University Research Excellence Award for impact (Whittaker, 2017)



Our Future Research Objectives and Impact Plans

Over the next five years we will sustain our main research goals in a number of ways:

    •   we will commit to individual research excellence by:
         - maintaining and enhancing research support for staff seeking external research
            funding;
         - committing to an annual research allowance for each member of staff for use on
            conference attendance and fieldwork trips;
         - departmental support for researchers accessing internal University funding for both
            large and small research projects (e.g. the University’s Strategic Research Fund);
         - attracting funding for new posts from diverse sources both within the UK and
            internationally;


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        -   using trust funds to augment research funding: there are 47 designated for a variety
            of purposes, including travel and research grants, and support for research
            positions.

    •   we will promote interdisciplinary and collaborative research by:
         - introducing a new master’s degree in Global and Area Studies in 2021, which will
            strengthen cross-regional and interdisciplinary ties in Area Studies, and will
            consolidate the disciplinary identity of Area Studies within the University;
         - creating shared Middle Eastern Studies posts with other departments (Sociology,
            Geography, Politics), which will provide research and integrated courses in
            computational sociology, urbanism and human rights;
         - creating a new Southeast Asian Studies Centre within OSGA, which will have posts
            focusing on contemporary issues facing the ASEAN countries, such as digital
            economy, environmental sustainability and public sector reform;
         - opening the new Stephen A. Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities, which will
            support interdisciplinary research by enabling new activity at the interface between
            traditional disciplines.

    •   we will facilitate the progression of early career researchers by:
         - embedding and expanding the new doctoral programme in Area Studies, which was
            introduced in 2017;
         - continuing to support and host large numbers of postdoctoral fellows (postdocs);
         - improving the working environment for postdocs, including new office space in a
            proposed building for the future Southeast Asian Studies Centre, which all OSGA
            postdocs will be able to access (one floor for postdocs with 40 desks and social
            space);
         - creating a separate working group forum for contract researchers (postdocs and
            non-permanent staff) to voice their opinions as a group, which will feed into
            departmental and divisional structures (e.g. the Social Science Research Strategy
            committee);
         - supporting applications for external and internal funding, such as applications to the
            John Fell OUP Research Fund, which is an important source of seed funding for
            young researchers;
         - maintaining a strong track-record for the promotion of early career researchers to
            positions within Oxford and other HEIs.

    •   we will invest in language-based research and enrich the regional expertise of the UoA
        by:
        - creating a new post in Tamil language and culture;
        - introducing a post in classical and Qur’anic Arabic, complementing the existing
            teaching provision in modern and spoken Arabic;
        - offering language training in Azeri through the newly established Nizami Ganjavi
            Centre.

Moving forward, we seek to embed the impact of the UoA’s research by
  • prioritising research impact in staff appointments and internal promotions, such as the
      University’s Recognition of Distinction exercise;
  • employing a research impact facilitator beyond the REF deadline to:
        - support researchers to develop new impact activities, helping them to shape their
           engagement with external partners and audiences and maximise the impact of their
           research;
        - ensure that researchers consider how best to evaluate and measure their impact on
           an ongoing basis;
        - feed into the development of impact activities for UKRI Research Councils and other
           research funding proposals requiring an impact component;
        - work closely with existing research facilitation teams within both departments and
           divisions and the new University-wide Strategic Research Development Team;

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          - help departments to shape and implement their research impact and engagement
              strategies;
    •    enhancing public engagement through further investment in media communications, and
         the University’s Public Engagement with Research initiative;
    •    developing tools for measuring public engagement, which will feed into media coverage
         of the UoA’s research activity;
    •    drawing on the University’s digital strategy to share research on rare manuscripts and
         artwork;
    •    working closely with the Oxford Policy Engagement Network in areas where our research
         has policy implications;
    •    encouraging staff to apply for the Knowledge Exchange opportunities funded by the UK
         Higher Education Innovation Fund;
    •    accessing the resources available in the Ashmolean and History of Science Museums by
         GLAM staff, and the new Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities for impact-relevant
         events in Area Studies.

Our commitment to an open research environment and research integrity

The UoA is committed to the University’s Open Scholarship policy. All outputs submitted in
REF2021 are available through the Oxford Research Archive. Our research officers monitor the
University’s Act on Acceptance reports, and we encourage staff to make data and other research
material available through Researchfish and other platforms.

UoA staff are actively involved in data-sharing and digitalisation. Examples of digital databases
include the Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative, the Josephus Project, the Online Corpus of the
Inscriptions of Ancient North Arabia, and the Semantics of Ancient Hebrew Database, a
collaboration between the universities of Amsterdam, Bonn, Cambridge, Edinburgh, Florence,
Oxford, Leiden, and Rome.

We expect high standards of research integrity, and require staff to adhere to ethical, legal and
professional frameworks that operate University-wide. Since REF2014, the University has
become a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), as part
of a movement towards the responsible use of research metrics. Every piece of research
involving human participants and personal data is subject to review by the Central University
Research Ethics Committee (CUREC).



        Over 300 CUREC applications have been submitted by both students and staff
        conducting research on Asia and the Middle East during the REF period.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2. People

Our staffing strategy and commitment to staff development

Our goal of achieving individual research excellence is an essential component of delivering on
the University’s strategy of career development by attracting, recruiting and retaining the highest
calibre staff. We also remain fully committed towards achieving a diverse staff profile, and to
supporting staff in their personal and professional development.

This strategy is central to staff recruitment:

    •   all posts are approved by the management committees of both departments in
        conjunction with their research priorities; notable new positions that augment existing
        disciplinary capacities include Erie (anthropology of law in China and Chinese studies
        broadly), and Niyazioğlu (Ottoman history);
    •   they are advertised nationally and internationally to maximise the pool of research
        excellence; distinguished appointments since REF2014 include Booth (Khalid bin
        Abdullah Al Saud Professor for the Study of the Contemporary Arab World, replacing
        Holes), and Olszowy-Schlanger (Director of the Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies
        and President of the Oxford Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies);
    •   selection panels provide an appropriate balance of gender and diversity;
    •   we use standardised recruitment materials, reviewed annually by our Athena SWAN Self-
        Assessment Teams, and emphasise our family–friendly policies and commitment to
        gender equality.

As can be seen in Figure 3, almost one-third of REF eligible staff in the UoA are recruited to the
unified academic grade of Associate Professor. In the first instance, this appointment is for a
five-year probationary period. During this period, staff are:
    • assigned a research mentor with whom they can discuss current and planned research;
    • assigned a teaching mentor to familiarise them with our teaching procedures and ethos,
        and give constructive feedback;
    • exempted from major administrative and examining roles;
    • invited to both an interim and formal review of their research achievements.

Figure 3: Academic staff categories in the UoA (July 2020)


                                                  Statutory
                                                  Professor
                                  Early Career      12%
                                  Researcher
                                      18%
                                                        Full Professor
                                                             14%

                           Researcher
                              21%
                                                  Associate
                                                  Professor
                                                    30%
                                   Curator
                                    5%




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

On their successful completion of their probationary period, research activity is supported
through:

    •   sabbatical leave: staff are eligible after six terms for one term’s sabbatical leave, which is
        assigned specifically for research work;
    •   teaching buy-out: staff are entitled to a buy-out from teaching when leading research
        projects, or to leave of absence as recipients of residential fellowships outside Oxford;
        examples are Booth (fellowships at New York University-Abu-Dhabi and at the Institute
        for Advanced Study at Princeton), Jacobs (recipient of a National Endowment for the
        Humanities award from the US);
    •   an annual research allowance; for OSGA staff, this was increased from GBP1200pa to
        GBP1700 pa over the REF period;
    •   the Returning Carers Fund, which supports the research of staff who need to take a
        break from their research work because of caring responsibilities;
    •   a designated Self-Assessment Team, which operates under the Athena Swan Charter to
        monitor the implementation of practices which ensure career development, flexible
        working, management of career breaks, and the department’s organisation and culture.

Research excellence is central to progression and promotion through the University’s
Recognition of Distinction exercise, in which all heads of department in each division draw on
external assessments to award the title of Professor. Of the staff appointed as Associate
Professors in the UoA, 14% had achieved the title of Full Professor by Spring 2020 (see Figure
3); of this number, six staff members achieved the award in the REF period (Ambrust, Melchert,
Murphy, Omri, Roesler, Salvesen). These posts are distinguished from ‘Statutory Professors’ or
named chairs which come with appointment. The UoA includes 11 of over 200 such posts within
the University.

As can be seen in Figure 3, early career researchers (ECRs) form 18% of the UoA. They are
hired as departmental lecturers (e.g. Mittelstaedt, Bongiannino), typically on twelve-month
contracts, or on postdoctoral fellowships funded by UK and European institutions such as the
Leverhulme Trust (e.g. Pradhan), the British Academy (e.g. Lord) and the European
Commission’s Marie Skłodowska Curie Fellowships (e.g. van Dijk). There are also many
postdocs who started their independent research career before 1st August 2016; they are
included in the ‘researchers’ category. This category includes staff employed by Colleges on
fixed-term contracts (e.g. Matthiesen, Wordsworth).

In the same manner as new academic hires, we provide postdocs with mentors who have
appropriate expertise and act as a source of information and an interface with the entire
department. The University’s Code of Practice for the Employment and Career Development of
Research Staff, offers guidance to mentors. It also sets out guidelines for early career
researchers, career development and researchers’ responsibilities, and provides links to the
Careers Services, the Oxford Learning Institute, the University and Colleges Union, and the
University Club (a hub for social activities designed for all University staff, but particularly for
researchers who lack a College affiliation).

Since REF2014, the research environment for postdocs in OSGA and OS has expanded
significantly through:

    •   the introduction of clustered office space to foster networking;
    •   a new research seminar specifically for postdocs in OSGA, which is open to OS
        researchers;
    •   funding for conference attendance in OSGA (in OS, most ECRs and postdocs are funded
        by schemes that provide access to conference and research funding);
    •   extensive training opportunities within both departments;
    •   the creation of a support network for ECRs;


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •   the introduction of research clusters to facilitate collaborative research projects between
           postdocs and tenured staff.

College centres bring together postdocs from both departments, developing ties and providing
access to shared office space and conference funding, thereby augmenting the resources of
both departments. The centres organise events for postdoctoral scholars and new hires. For
example, the Middle East Centre at St. Antony’s College convenes once-a-term meetings for all
Middle East-related postdocs.

St. Antony’s College, which is home to many area-specific research centres, is a key hub in
connecting early career researchers and new hires from OS and OSGA. It extends College
membership to postdocs from both departments, incorporating them into communities of like-
minded scholars and students. It also gives postdocs an opportunity to act as advisors to
graduate students.

The scale of the activities provided by a selection of the Area Studies centres is summarised in
Figure 4.

Figure 4: Number of Centre activities: outside speakers, conferences, film screenings,
exhibitions, book launches

  80
  70
  60
  50
  40
  30
  20
  10
   0
            2014-15        2015-16        2016-17        2017-18        2018-19        2019-20

                       Asian Studies Centre            China Centre
                       Japanese Studies Centre         Middle East Centre

Of the four centres in Figure 4, three are based at St. Antony’s College (the Asian Studies
Centre, the Nissan Institute of Japanese Studies, and the Middle Eastern Centre), and the
fourth is based at St. Hugh’s College (the China Centre). These centres organise seminars,
conferences and other activities (film screenings, exhibitions, book launches) on a weekly basis
(approximately 850 events over the REF period). They are an invaluable resource for young
researchers to present their research, and to establish contacts with the leading authorities in
their field. Over the last five years, the centres have been home to distinguished academics from
universities in each region (e.g. Doshisha University, Tel Aviv University, Tsinghua University).
The China Centre, for instance, holds a Mandarin Forum, a fortnightly seminar in Chinese with
papers given by visiting scholars from China. The centres also organise conferences on a
regular basis. Some highlights include:

       •   The Revival of Ideologies in Contemporary China (China Centre, 2015);
       •   Transnational Histories of the Left in the Middle East (Middle East Centre 2016);
       •   New Directions in Research on Myanmar (Asian Studies Centre 2017);
       •   Understanding Institutional Change in Asia: A Comparative Perspective with Europe, the
           third INCAS conference, which is an EU RISE-supported network aimed at fostering
           researcher exchange and mobility (Nissan Institute 2018);

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Neither Near Nor Far: Encounters and Exchanges between Japan and the Middle East
        (joint Nissan Institute/Middle East Centre event 2019);
    •   Thinking Globalisation in the Middle East (co-sponsored by the Middle East Centre and
        the Van Leer Jerusalem Institute 2019);
    •   Is it Madness to Keep Negotiating with North Korea? (China Centre 2019).

OSGA, OS and other University departments, such as the History Faculty, co-sponsor these
events, as well as University bodies such as the Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities
(TORCH).

The Centres also provide an opportunity for postdocs to organise their own conferences and
seminars involving academics, policy practitioners and experts. Examples include:

    •   Policy Reform in China’s Health, Environment and Welfare (China Centre, 2015);
    •   Ecologies of Knowledge and Practice (Nissan Institute, 2017);
    •   Rethinking Nationalism, Sectarianism and Ethno-Religious Mobilisation in the Middle
        East (Middle East Centre and Pembroke College, 2018).

This focus on ECRs and postdocs during REF2021 has contributed towards the vitality of UK
Area Studies in a number of ways:

    •   appointment to new academic positions during the REF cycle, including to new
        positions in Oxford (e.g. Driessen, Lord, Wordsworth, Jabb and Screnock), and to other
        universities in the UK and overseas, e.g. Cambridge University (Jones, Duqette),
        Northumbria University (Hill), Durham University (McCarthy), Goldsmiths (Sadeghi-
        Boroujerdi), the University of Amiens, France (Benbabaali), Azim Premji University,
        Bangalore, India (Wielenga);
    •   publication of high-quality research outputs: the ECRs included in the UoA
        submission produced 10 single-authored book monographs. These publications were in
        leading University Press series, including four published by Cambridge University Press,
        and two published by Oxford University Press. In addition, several ECRs who went on to
        secure positions at other universities, produced top-quality monographs during their time
        at Oxford. We have included three of these books in our submission, all published by
        Cambridge University Press (Ghiabi, Hill, Sadeghi-Boroujerdi). This research also
        received distinguished prizes, e.g. Hunt’s postdoctoral research was honoured with the
        2016 British Association of Chinese Studies Early Career Researcher Prize;
    •   contribution to teaching and supervision within their own subject areas and on the
        joint programmes organised by OS and OSGA.


Our determination to enhance the impact of Area Studies research is an increasingly important
factor in both recruitment and staff development. Impact achievements are a desirable criterion
in the selection of candidates for posts, and the outreach achievements of staff feature in the
University’s Recognition of Distinction exercise. Both departments in the UoA facilitate the
development of research impact through bids for external impact funding, and support
secondment to public bodies. Our staff have been:

    •   the successful recipients of multiple Knowledge Exchange Fellowships, funded by the
        UK Higher Education Innovation Fund (e.g. Kiaer, Sullivan de Estrada);
    •   consultants to major museums:
         - Johns, for example, worked with the British Museum, the Museum of Islamic Art in
             Doha, Qatar, the Royal Palace of Palermo, and the Reiss Engelhorn Museum,
             Manheim;
         - Leoni (Curator of Islamic Art in the Ashmolean Museum) has consulted for the
             Smithsonian Travelling Exhibition Service;


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        -   Rajan’s research on Tibetan women informed the Smithsonian Institution's Centre
            for Folklife and Cultural Heritage exhibition on Tibetan women in 2017.

Area Studies centres provide an important platform for our staff to raise the public outreach of
Area Studies and to enhance their contacts with leaders from the policy world and business.
Events involving representatives from government, business and the arts take place on a regular
basis. During the REF period, Area Studies centres facilitated many impact activities, including:

    •   regular hosting of ambassadors and diplomats from the Middle East and Asia:
        Barbara Woodward UK Ambassador to China (China Centre, 2015); Moroccan and
        Tunisian embassy delegations (Middle East Centre, 2016); Alastair Morgan, British
        Ambassador to North Korea (China Centre, 2019);
    •   talks by influential business and political leaders and cultural figures: Kaiser Kuo,
        Chief Communications Officer for Baidu.com, one of China’s most influential internet
        companies (China Centre, 2016); the Chinese film director Lu Chuan (China Centre,
        2016); Hiroto Saikawa, President and CEO of Nissan (Nissan Institute, 2018); Stan Shih,
        Chairman of Acer, speaking on Taiwan’s role as the manufacturing centre of the global
        Information and Communication Technology industry (China Centre, June 2018); Moncef
        Marzouki, President of the Republic of Tunisia, 2011-2014 (Middle East Centre, 2018);
        Sir John Chilcott speaking on the Chilcott Inquiry (Middle East Centre, 2019); Saeb
        Erekat, Secretary General of the Palestine Liberation Organisation (Middle East Centre,
        2019); Rebecca Fanin, Founder of Silicon Dragon Ventures, a media and events platform
        (China Centre, 2019);
    •   exhibitions and performances by leading artists: e.g. master Noh mask carver and
        maker, Hideta Kitazawa, one of Japan’s finest artists, gave demonstrations
        complemented by a photographic exhibition of the detailed process of Noh mask making
        (Nissan Institute, 2017);
    •   regular screenings of films in conjunction with lectures by filmmakers and academics:
        e.g. films from the BBC Arab Film Festival (Middle East Centre, 2016); Tibetan film
        screening (China Centre, 2019).

The Ashmolean Museum plays a role analogous to the Area Studies Centres in the fields of
material culture and the art of Asia and the Middle East. In addition to fulfilling an educational
brief to teach primary, secondary and adult members of the public, the Ashmolean features
regular academic lecture series serving the Oxford community. Some highlights include:
    • the annual Barlow Lecture on East Asian ceramics;
    • the annual May Beattie Lecture on the history of carpets in the Islamic world, in
         conjunction with the May Beattie Visiting Fellowship in Carpet Studies;
    • The Silent Traveller: Chiang Yee in Britain, 1933-55, an international symposium
         featuring experts, authors and academics specialising in the work of Chinese writer and
         painter Chiang Yee (2019)
    • Cai Guo-Qiang: Gunpowder Art Symposium, an international symposium featuring
         experts on the modern Chinese artist Cai Guo-Qiang (2019)

Integrating doctoral students into the UoA’s research environment

Since REF 2014, a key priority of Area Studies has been to strengthen research energies
generated within our doctoral community. We have accomplished this starting in 2017 by
introducing a three-year programme of doctoral study in OSGA for students undertaking
research into a specific country or region, or more than one country or region in a comparative
context. The OSGA doctoral programme complements a longstanding counterpart in OS. Both
programmes seek to sustain our commitment to interdisciplinary study.

Over the REF period, we have graduated 185.73 doctoral students in the UoA, an increase of
one-third on REF2014. This includes students supervised in Oriental Studies and in a wide
range of other departments: Archaeology, Anthropology, Classics, Geography, History,

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
International Development, Law, Linguistics, Politics and International Relations, Sociology and
Philosophy. This demonstrates the large footprint of Area Studies across the breadth of the
Humanities and Social Sciences Divisions. Moreover, the capacity for supervision has increased
with the initiation of the OSGA doctoral programme. Over 30 students have been recruited for
OSGA doctorates since 2017; they will begin graduating in the next REF cycle.

Doctoral students are well supported by a variety of funding sources. In addition to support from
students’ own national funding institutions (such as the governments of the United Arab Emirates
and Norway for Middle East studies students in OS), many students secure external or internal
scholarships. The most prominent external sources of scholarship funding are the Arts and
Humanities Research Council, and ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership, while many students
also receive internal funding from the Clarendon Fund, the Rhodes Trust, the Oxford Islamic
Centre, and the Ertegün Scholarship Programme.

In addition to these longstanding institutional sources of funding, new and augmented funding for
postdoctoral students is actively sought from donors and alumni. Some examples of new
sources of student support initiated over the course of the REF period are as follows:

    •   Aso Group Scholarships, introduced in 2014 for students in any subject whose first
        language is Japanese;
    •   Daiwa Scholarships in Japanese Studies, introduced in 2015 for UK citizens to study in
        either the UK or in Japan;
    •   John P. Clay Graduate Scholarship in Manuscript and Text Cultures: Sanskrit, introduced
        in 2018;
    •   Pachachi Scholarship, a longstanding award that was augmented by a GBP500,000
        bequest in 2019 for doctoral students in Middle East studies.

Area Studies admit doctoral students with a pre-commitment by a member of staff to act as their
supervisor. On arrival, both departments provide induction weeks, and devise a programme of
training in consultation with their supervisors. This may involve dedicated doctoral research and
methodology seminars, specific lectures, and language tutorials. Training that is flexible and
targeted is open to students across departments:

    •   research methodology seminars (both qualitative and quantitative) are convened by
        OSGA, and are also available to OS students;
    •   language tuition is provided by OS, which is open to OSGA students;
    •   training modules are offered by the Social Sciences Division in topics such as research
        integrity, research methods, and writing and communication;
    •   programmes of training delivered by the Humanities Division’s Researcher Development
        team, which introduce doctoral researchers to issues such as research collaboration,
        time management (e.g. juggling family life), and safe fieldwork;
    •   courses, also provided by the Humanities Division’s Researcher Development team,
        which cover career development, digital skills, business and entrepreneurship, heritage
        sector knowledge exchange, preparation for academic practice, and working with the
        creative industries.

Research students also benefit from greater investment by the University in formal training of
doctoral supervisors. The Centre for Teaching and Learning (CTL) offers training courses
specifically in doctoral supervision, as well as a broad course in Developing Teaching and
Learning (to be replaced in 2021 by the Advanced Teaching and Learning programme), and a
one-year Postgraduate Certificate in Teaching and Learning in Higher Education (PGCert). CTL
also provides a range of other training modules on relevant topics such as implicit bias,
admissions, and harassment.




                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We seek to maximise the contribution of doctoral students through:

    •   institutional representation: e.g. in OSGA the interests of doctoral students are
        represented through a designated Tutor for DPhil students;
    •   giving opportunities for students to present their research at centre and departmental
        research seminars, e.g. the Postgraduate Research Showcase, which is organised by
        the Asian Studies Centre on a termly basis;
    •   funding conferences and other dissemination events.

In Humanities, funding provided by Ertegün House supports an increasing stream of doctoral
students, and offers dedicated graduate workspace and programmes of events that enhance the
graduate experience. Beyond the current REF cycle, the new Schwarzman Centre will also
enhance and expand graduate training and work facilities.

Doctoral students are required to pass through two assessment thresholds: first Transfer of
Status (ToS) within the first four terms after matriculation, then Confirmation of Status (CoS)
within the first nine terms. The ToS and the CoS are not formal examinations, but each threshold
is subject to a pass/fail standard, and students cannot proceed with their research until they
have passed each stage. They are feedback exercises designed to give students a wider
perspective on their research. ToS ensures that students have viable topics in terms of scope
and disciplinary standards, robust methodological training, and sufficient linguistic skills before
they embark on extended field or archival research. The CoS is an assessment of two draft
chapters of the dissertation in order to ensure that the work meets the high standard of doctoral
research and scholarly presentation prior to completion of the full dissertation.

The structure of doctoral research achieves a balance between rigorous assessment and
expert input, and timely completion of the students’ dissertations. In the REF period up to
October 2020, well over 90% of doctoral students enrolled in both departments conducted the
ToS and CoS assessments within at most three months of the specified completion dates.

Doctoral students are provided with teaching and training opportunities in both departments:
   • the Preparation for Learning and Teaching at Oxford course is open to all graduate
       students;
   • graduate students are also advised to take advantage of programmes offered by the
       Centre for Teaching and Learning, which offers courses on Developing Teaching and
       Learning given over the course of a full term as well as a Postgraduate Certificate in
       Teaching and Learning in Higher Education;
   • since 2015, OS has featured a Graduate Teaching Scheme that offers substantial
       teaching opportunities to doctoral students in the department. In this scheme, supervisors
       work closely with their doctoral students, devising their own syllabi from which they
       deliver up to four hours of lectures within existing undergraduate course modules.

This training has contributed to the field of Area Studies in a variety of important ways:

    •   Our students have been the recipients of distinguished prizes: e.g. Jones, winner of the
        2017 Khyentse Foundation Award for Outstanding PhD Dissertation in Buddhist Studies;
    •   Their theses have been published by top University presses: e.g. five PhD theses were
        published by Cambridge University Press during the REF period;
    •   The majority of our doctoral students go on to secure academic positions:

                  Of the 125 doctorates that were awarded up to October 2019
                               21.6% secured tenure-track jobs
                        7.2% were employed in non-tenure teaching jobs
                  24% were awarded high-quality postdoctoral fellowships




                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Furthermore, these data understate the high success of graduates in securing permanent
academic jobs. This is because relatively few new PhDs move directly into tenure-track
positions. The percentage of doctoral students who hold tenure-track positions rises from the
aggregate figure of 21.6% to 41% for those who finished in 2014 and 2015.

       •   Many of our former doctoral students also go on to deploy their Areas Studies expertise
           outside academia. 16% pursued careers in foreign ministries and other government posts
           - e.g. Muneera Al Khalifa (2016), Bahrain Foreign Ministry; Michael Bonner (2014),
           Ontario government; in the media, e.g. Emilie Francois (2017), filmmaker; in risk
           consultancy companies, e.g. Naysan Rafati (2014), Iran analyst Crisis Group; human
           rights and international law organisations; museums and auction houses, e.g. Thomas
           Wide (2014), The Smithsonian Museum.

Equality, diversity and inclusion

The commitment to equality, diversity and inclusivity is central in our approach to the
recruitment, development and retention of staff.

Both departments in the UoA have made a determined and successful effort to improve the
female-to-male staff ratio during the REF period:

       •   the percentage of women in tenured positions has increased across all categories since
           REF2014 (see Figure 5);
       •   equal numbers of men and women achieved the title of Professor in the Recognition
           of Distinction exercise;
       •   the number of female Statutory Professors increased from one to three over the REF
           period (Bray, Booth, Harrison).


Figure 5: Percentage of Tenured Positions held by Women

  45
  40
  35
  30
  25
  20
  15
  10
   5
   0
            Statutory Professor          Full Professor          Associate Professor
                                     REF2014      REF2021



We aim to provide a research environment with a diverse cultural mix of staff:
  • we prioritise the recruitment of tenured staff (including the most senior positions) from
      universities across Asia and the Middle East. Examples during the current REF period
      include: Yadgar (Stanley Lewis Professor in Israel Studies), appointed in 2017 from the
      Bar-Ilan University, Tel Aviv; Niyazioğlu (Associate Professor in Ottoman History) who
      joined Oxford in 2017 from Koç University, Istanbul; and, Acharya, who took up the
      Statutory Spalding Professorship in Eastern Religions and Ethics in 2016, following posts
      at Kyoto University, and the Nepal Sanskrit University;

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   we also provide opportunities to ECRs and postdocs from the regions we cover (this is
        described in more detail in the next section);
    •   over one-fifth of academics in the UoA are originally from the regions that we study.

Our institutional arrangements have been designed to maintain and improve all levels of
inclusivity:

    •   The University of Oxford is a founding member of the Athena SWAN Charter, which
        recognises good practice in promoting gender equality in higher education. OSGA are
        applying for the Athena SWAN Bronze award; they have a specially assigned Self-
        Assessment team, and the Athena SWAN lead is part of the department’s senior
        leadership;
    •   We uphold the University’s commitment to promoting equality in the workplace, and strive
        to promote a working and studying environment that fosters awareness of discrimination
        on grounds of sexuality, race, gender and disability. Our staff development programmes
        recognise the importance of communicating an inclusive philosophy, and we provide
        induction information tailored for specific staff groups, including clear signposting about
        HR policies/procedures on equality and diversity, flexible working and other family-
        friendly policies. Staff have reported that they value our induction information;
    •   Both departments are supportive of staff with caring responsibilities:


          The OSGA initiative to recognise carers during the COVID-19 crisis was adopted
                            by other departments across the University


    •   Support was provided for staff affected by the issues of racial inequality raised in 2020 by
        the death of George Floyd, and academics within Area Studies had an important voice in
        the University-wide discussions and consultations – e.g. Mathur contributed to the
        Social Science Division event Stolen Works, Stolen Lives: Racial Erasure, Exclusion and
        Dispossession in Academic Publishing (September 2020);
    •   OS initiated a comprehensive review of its equality and diversity policy in July 2020, and
        of its departmental practices in many areas. In terms of staffing, it proposed equality and
        diversity training as part of staff induction, and the introduction of similar training for existing
        staff;
    •   We enthusiastically endorse recent University-wide initiatives such as the Black, Asian and
        Ethnic Minority Postgraduate Training Studentships in the Humanities.

We prioritised issues of equality and diversity throughout the REF process:

    •   On all selection panels, we maintained a fair gender balance among the assessors
        whose grades formed the basis for selection. Our external panel of reviewers had equal
        representation of men and women, and the internal panel that approved the final
        submission included men and women from both departments;
    •   All staff involved in REF decision-making are required to undergo equality, diversity and
        inclusivity training. The course focuses on the duties required of all staff under the
        Equality Act.




                                                                                                   Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Research funding and strategies for generating research income

Our strategy is to broaden and expand the resources for research in Area Studies. This focuses
primarily on national and international funding bodies such as the British Academy and, should
this remain possible, the European Research Council.

For the REF period, external research income amounted to GBP12.9 million. This represents an
increase of GBP1 million on REF2014.

An additional balance of GBP5,024,129 in financial year 2015/2016 is reported in the Research
Income data submitted, due to a deferred capital grant.

Figure 6: External Funding during the REF2021 Cycle




                                       Other
                                        8%           EU
                                                    20%


                             Charity
                              29%


                                               Research
                                               Councils
                                                 43%




Note: ‘charity’ includes EU, non-EU and UK charities; ‘other’ includes EU, non-UK and UK
industry, plus UK Public Sector and other sources


As these data show, we continue to secure most of our funding through UK Research Councils
and EU agencies. Bodies like the Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC), the British
Academy (BA), and the European Research Council (ERC) were the main source of funding.
Notable examples include:
    • Quranic Commentary: An Integrative Paradigm (Sinai, GBP1,582,386, ERC);
    • The History of the Jewish Book in the Islamicate World (Olszowy-Schlanger
       GBP284,315, AHRC);
    • China, Law, and Development (Erie, GBP1,364,437, ERC);
    • TEXTCOURT: Linking the Textual Worlds of Chinese Court Theatre, ca. 1600-1800 (Tan,
       GBP1,772,681, ERC);
    • Invisible East – On the Trails of Lapis (Azad GBP1,308,380, ERC; GBP644,726,
       AHRC);
    • The Children of China’s Great Migration and Urbanisation (Murphy, GBP96,488, BA).




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Much of this funding has supported projects led by postdocs. Examples include:

    •   Techno-social Eugenics and the Biopolitics of Humanoid Machines in Japan (Kovacic
        GBP129,510, BA);
    •   How Religious Minorities Develop Transnational Consciousness: Mapping Alevi
        Mobilisation since the 2011 Middle East Upheavals (Lord GBP70,646, BA).

We have also sought to diversify research income. UK, EU and non-EU charities comprise the
second largest external source of income received, and register an increase on REF2014.
Fundraising from charitable, private and government sources outside the UK and the European
Union has been particularly important in developing underdeveloped research areas and capacity
building in the regions we study. Examples include:

    •   the Oxford Centre for Hebrew and Jewish Studies, an independent charity, funded an
        extensive programme of research in Hebrew and Jewish studies, as well as providing the
        financial support for the majority of the University’s staff and related costs in this field (
        GBP1.48 million);
    •   the Sasakawa Middle East Islam Fund, established by the Sasakawa Peace Foundation,
        funded Japanese researchers who work on the Middle East to study in Oxford ( GBP429,
        922);
    •   the ZVM Rangoonwala Foundation created Visiting Fellowships and enabled up to three
        senior academics or professionals, who are ordinarily resident in Pakistan, to undertake a
        short working visit to Oxford with the aim of broadening their research experience,
        sharing their professional knowledge, and developing networks;
    •   the Shota Rustaveli National Science Foundation under the aegis of the Ministry of
        Education of the Republic of Georgia, established visiting one-year research fellowships
        for Georgian scholarships, and supported the development of Georgian language
        learning within the University (e.g. GBP390,000, 2016-19);
    •   the British Foundation for the Study of Azerbaijan and the Caucasus funded the Oxford
        Nizami Ganjavi Programme for the study of the languages and cultures of Azerbaijan and
        the Caucasus.

This funding includes projects initiated to launch collaborative research projects, which we detail
in the next section.

Researchers from the UoA have also successfully raised almost GBP600,000 in funding from
internal sources, notably the John Fell OUP Research Fund. This funding supports our research
strategy for excellence and early career research support through main grants and small grants
that support:

    •   pump-priming: e.g. Zeynep (GBP43,378), Johns (GBP39,193), McNamara (GBP58,290),
        Murphy (GBP30,613), McCartney (GBP30,694);
    •   start-up funding for early career researchers: e.g. Hirschhorn (GBP4,715), Foster
        (GBP5,660), Dudney (GBP4,000), Hasmath (GBP4,012), Sullivan De Estrada
        (GBP7,484); Yamaura (GBP6,255)
    •   matching funds for external bids: e.g. Smith (GBP80,133), Herzig (GBP60,000); Lord
        (GBP7,295)


                23% of all internal funding was allocated to early career support




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

Underpinning our strategy for generating research income is an organisational infrastructure
and administrative capacity, which supports staff to achieve their research goals. We support full
buyouts from administrative and teaching duties for PIs, and are flexible where possible for staff
involved in project bids. We also support staff who are recipients of residential fellowships outside
Oxford, as detailed above.

The infrastructure of both departments provides support for these research activities through:

    •   a Research Director and a Research Committee tasked to develop grant applications
        (119 applications in OSGA alone between 2014-2019). This has significantly raised the
        quality of submitted applications, and has contributed to the greater success of
        postdoctoral applications – e.g. over the course of REF2021, OSGA was successful in
        applications for Newton International Fellowships (3), British Academy Postdoctoral
        Fellowships (4), Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fellowships (3), and Leverhulme Early Career
        Fellowships (5)
    •   regular and targeted updates on funding calls, especially in areas germane to the UoA;
    •   dedicated webpages for ECRs and the funding schemes available;
    •   presentations of grant funding opportunities on a regular basis (e.g. in OSGA termly
        mock proposal workshops open to all staff run by the Research Officer and Director of
        Research).

The same structures also support impact activity, which has been further enhanced since
REF2014 by:
    • the employment of support staff charged with the task of publicising research impact - a
       dedicated communications post in OS, and funded external support for communications
       and public engagement in OSGA;
    • the support of impact through dissemination, both web-based podcasts and other online
       media (especially important during the COVID-19 lockdown), and live events that bring
       end-users into the University (see the Centre activities in Section 2);
    • division-based resources, which are accessed by both departments:
    • senior impact facilitators hired to cultivate a sustainable culture of research impact in
       departments;
    • research impact facilitators who act as the primary contact for support and advice on
       research impact and engagement; they provide technical expertise on undertaking and
       recording impact, maximising its reach and actively assisting in the development of
       impact narratives used in REF2021 and in departmental outreach;
    • research facilitation teams which provide one-to-one support for researchers on impact
       design, including proposals by early career researchers;
    • funding through the John Fell OUP Research fund for essential pump-priming funding of
       impact-focused research (see below);
    • Knowledge Exchange programmes aimed at fostering external partners (Knowledge
       Exchange Champions) supported by the UK Higher Education Innovation Fund;
    • a digital humanities network, which advises researchers on digital tools, techniques and
       opportunities aimed at enhancing the public availability of research, culminating in the
       creation of a new interdisciplinary hub, DiSc@Ox, supported by a GBP2.4M grant from
       the University’s Strategic Research Fund;
    • the Oxford Research Centre in the Humanities (TORCH), which funds networks, hosts
       visitors, and creates University-wide programmes showcasing research;
    • the Heritage Seed Fund, which is an internal grant scheme to support research,
       knowledge exchange and public engagement with research projects with UK and/or
       international heritage organisations;
    • the Policy Engagement team, which supports researchers' engagement with local,
       regional, national and international policymakers;

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   the Public Engagement with Research initiative;
    •   the Business and Partnerships team, which builds capacity among researchers who wish
        to develop mutually beneficial relationships or optimise their engagement with external
        partners, and manages Oxford’s ESRC Impact Acceleration Account and the Higher
        Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) Knowledge Exchange Fellowships programme.

In total, over GBP12,000 of internal funding was awarded to knowledge exchange and impact.
Examples include:

    •   Heritage seed funding: e.g. Foster’s Understanding Authenticity in China's Cultural
        Heritage (GBP2,400);
    •   Public Engagement with Research seed funding: e.g. Pradhan’s For the Better Future
        project (GBP4,000), which created a repository of poetry, stories, cartoons and songs
        created by school children during the 2015 earthquake in Nepal.

As the institutional-level environment statement explains, the University provides infrastructural
support for research through its many libraries and museums. Area Studies requires unusually
diverse resources in this regard. Important collections include:
    • Ashmolean Museum: extensive collections in the material/artistic culture of Asia and the
        Islamic world;
    • History of Science Museum: collections of early Islamic instruments relating to
        astronomy and mathematical measurement;
    • Oriental Institute Library: 55,000 volumes covering history, religion and culture
        pertinent to the Islamic World, Hebrew and Jewish Studies, Eastern Christianity, and
        East, South and Inner Asia;
    • Middle East Centre Library: unique and specialised holdings of publications on
        Humanities and Social Science subjects related to Turkey, Iran, Israel, and the Arab
        world, covering the period from the late 17th century to the present day;
    • The Bodleian Japanese Library and Nissan Institute Library: extensive holdings of
        collections relating to Japan;
    • China Centre Library: 50,000 volumes covering all aspects and periods of Chinese
        history and culture;
    • Wadham Persian Collection: titles in Persian history, literature, philosophy and
        theology;
    • Oxford Institute for Islamic Studies Library: a comprehensive range of topics relating
        to Islam and the Islamic world.
    • Bodleian Manuscript Collections: Middle Eastern Manuscripts and Rare Books;
        collections in the Christian Orient and Islamic world (Arabic, Persian and Turkish); South
        and Inner Asian Manuscripts and Rare Books; manuscripts and early printed books
        starting mainly in the 19th Century, covering Sanskrit, Gujarati, Hindi, Tamil, Prakrit,
        Marathi and Pali; the main Georgian archive in Europe (the Wardrop Collection);
        Mongolian and Tibetan materials, Chinese Manuscripts and Rare Books;
    • Sackler Library: collections in classical, art historical and archaeological works;
        extensive coverage of Asia and the Middle East;
    • Social Science Library: extensive collection of social science literature in Area Studies.

These libraries made a concerted effort to provide electronic resources during the COVID-19
pandemic.

In the period after REF 2021, the planned Schwarzman Centre for the Humanities will house a
Humanities library that will serve an analogous purpose to the Social Science library.

This research infrastructure supports collaborative research with other universities in both the UK
and overseas. Notable examples include:



                                                                                           Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Documenting Multiculturalism: Coexistence, Law and Multiculturalism in the
        Administrative and Legal Documents of Norman and Hohenstaufen Sicily (Johns): the
        project is based at both the University of Oxford and the Università degli Studi di
        Palermo; its advisory committee consists of scholars based in Italy, Germany, and the
        United States, and the seven-member project team includes four members based in
        Italian universities;
    •   The India-Oxford Initiative (chaired by Kumbera Landrus): this project seeks to develop
        equitable partnerships with Indian organisations and institutions, leading to collaborative
        academic research of mutual benefit; funded since 2018 by the Global Challenges
        Research Funds at Oxford, IndOx’s projects include a collaborative (including the
        Ashmolean) project titled Heritage and enquiry-based learning in urban primary schools
        in India, led by the Department of Continuing Education.

In Section 4, we detail other collaborations.

Addressing equality and diversity issues in research funding

Research funding enhances cultural diversity within the UoA by creating:

    •   an international cohort of postdocs, with researchers from both the regions that we study
        (e.g. northern Kurdistan [Turkey], Israel, Japan) and from elsewhere (e.g. France, Italy,
        Germany, Russia);
    •   programmes that enable postdocs from across Asia, Eurasia and the Middle East to
        study in Oxford and collaborate with Oxford postdocs. Examples established during the
        REF period include:
        - the Georgian Programme: facilitates collaboration between Georgian scholars and
            Oxford researchers, and provides language training in Georgian for Oxford research
            students;
        - the Sasakawa Middle East Islam Programme: funded by the Sasakawa Peace
            Foundation, this programme facilitates collaborative research on the Middle East
            between Japanese and Oxford postdoctoral researchers.

And, with the support of the UK government’s Global Challenges Research Fund, our staff have
conducted research that addresses challenges faced by societies in the Global South:

    •   Innovation and Firm Growth in the Pakistani Textile Sector (McCartney, GBP45,401);
    •   Visions of Education: Education, development, and state in Nepal (Pradhan,
        GBP14,041);
    •   Sustainable Lives in Scarred Landscapes: Heritage, Environment, and Violence in the
        China-Myanmar Jade Trade (Sadan, GBP99,413).

These projects are described in the next section.

We foster a supportive research environment that has been successful in encouraging gender
equality in research funding, especially among early career researchers:

    •   of the FTE included in the UoA, the number of women with at least one successful
        application for external funding was equal to that of men during the REF period, and
        similar numbers of women applied for internal University funding;
    •   OSGA ECRs appointed during the REF period were overwhelmingly women (75% in
        2019), in OS it was closer to parity, and 53% of ECRs included in the unit of assessment
        were women;
    •   funding was awarded for research on issues of gender inequality: e.g. Rajan’s Communal
        Conflict and Inherited Trauma on the Tibetan Plateau: The Impacts of Social Upheaval on
        Gender and Family Relations (GBP135,470, British Academy);


                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
However, gender inequalities remain in funding for tenured staff. Both the amounts of research
funding received, and the success rate of applications is lower for women. Our investment into
research support is an attempt to mitigate this problem, as are resources like the Returning
Carers Fund (referenced above).



    Sullivan de Estrada’s impact case study showcases research promoting diverse cultural
                        perspectives on UK foreign policy towards India




4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research collaborations, networks and partnerships support

Research collaboration between staff within and across regional specialisms and disciplines is a
central component of our research strategy:

    •   one-quarter of OSGA staff in the UoA are joint appointments with other departments –
        these appointments contribute towards collaborative research, and provide a direct link
        between the Humanities and Social Science Divisions;
    •   OS and OSGA share research interests and research training (notably language training)
        with Anthropology, History, Classics, International Development, Linguistics, Medieval
        and Modern Languages, and Politics and International Relations;
    •   we offer extensive opportunities to visiting scholars: during the REF period, we hosted
        many scholars, e.g. from the Chinese University of Hong Kong; the Çukorova University,
        Turkey; Hebrew University, Israel; Jawaharlal Nehru University, India; Seoul National
        University, South Korea; Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, China; Tohoku
        University, Japan;
    •   we organise pump-priming collaborative events through departments and UoA networks,
        which are embedded in the Area Studies centres: e.g. a 2016 workshop on Revolution
        and Counter-Revolution in the Middle East (Rogan and Matthiesen), which was a
        collaboration with the Project on Middle Eastern Political Science and George
        Washington University (GWU), resulted in an open access publication produced by
        GWU;
    •   we foster collaboration through the creation of thematic research clusters; e.g. the OSGA
        cluster in Economic Growth, Industry and Development resulted in the publication of one
        research monograph during the REF period: Compressed Development (Whittaker).

A major achievement of both departments is the way in which they have supported academic
staff in leading large-scale collaborative research projects, funded by national and European
funding bodies such as the Wellcome Trust, the Leverhulme Trust, the AHRC and ERC.
Research partners have included leading national and international universities, cultural
institutions (museums and heritage organisations), governments, and private foundations.
Outstanding examples include:

    •   Quranic Commentary: An Integrative Paradigm (Sinai, ERC): this project delivering the
        first historical-critical commentary in English on a sizable portion of the Qur’an involves
        the University of Tübingen;
    •   China, Law, and Development (Erie, ERC): this project studying the impact of Chinese
        investment, trade, and financing on the legal modernisation of developing or fragile states
        involves the National University of Singapore, the Graduate Institute Geneva, Monash


                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        University, Vrije University Amsterdam, and the Australian National University College of
        Asia and the Pacific;
    •   Nizami Ganjavi Programme for the Study of Languages and Cultures of Azerbaijan and
        the Caucasus (Herzig, British Foundation for the Study of Azerbaijan and the Caucasus):
        this programme founded as a joint initiative with the Baku branch of Moscow State
        University, provides resources for students and scholars from all over the world to
        investigate collaboratively the pre-modern history of Azerbaijan and the Caucasus;
    •   Understanding Institutional Change in Asia: A Comparative Perspective with Europe
        (Whittaker, Horizon 2020): this project creating an advanced training network on
        institutional change in Asia involves the School for Advanced Studies in the Social
        Sciences, France, Free University of Berlin, and Waseda University;
    •   Sustainable Lives in Scarred Landscapes: Heritage, Environment and Violence in the
        China-Myanmar Jade Trade (Sadan, British Academy): this project exploring the diverse
        life experiences of people mining, trading, gambling, processing, and consuming jadeite
        across this region, involves Yunnan University and the Kachinland Research Centre,
        Myitkyina, Myanmar;
    •   Building Sustainable Peacetime Economies in the Aftermath of War (Sadan, ESRC): this
        project seeking policy solutions to transform drug economies into peacetime economies
        in the aftermath of war, involves collaboration between Oxford, SOAS, and universities
        and research centres in Myanmar (the Kachinland Research Center and Shan Herald
        Agency for News), Colombia (National University and the University of Los Andes), and
        Afghanistan (the Organisation for Sustainable Development and Research and the
        Afghanistan Research and Evaluation Unit);

Several of these projects include training components that have facilitated capacity building:
   • Building Sustainable Peacetime Economies in the Aftermath of War has contributed to
      the strengthening of research organisations in Afghanistan, Colombia and Myanmar by
      developing a suite of training, collaboration and shared learning initiatives with research
      partner organisations;
   • Knowledge Exchange Fellowship in Eastern Art (Kumbera Landrus, Higher Education
      Innovation Fund): in collaboration with the Lead Curator of the Wales National Trust, this
      project developed new display material on the global history of the Powis collection (one
      of Europe’s largest and most important collections of objects from South Asia, held at
      Powis Castle in Wales); the project created training and interpretive materials for
      volunteers and staff to present this South Asian collection to the general public.

Relationships with key research users and audiences
Engagement with research users has been manifold and has enriched the research environment
in numerous ways:

    •   the creation of visiting fellowships for practitioners. For example:
         - a visiting fellowship funded by the UK Government’s Defence Science and
             Technology Laboratory producing a large collaborative project on multimodal
             communication involving OSGA (Wilson), the Oxford Internet Institute and the
             Ministry of Defence;
         - the Charles Wallace Trust Visiting Fellowship for a Pakistani academic or
             professional to spend three months with the aim of broadening their research
             experience, professional knowledge and contacts.
    •   the Rangoonwala Visiting Fellowships open to early-career Pakistani academics and
        practitioners - journalists, members of the judiciary, policy makers and politicians.
        Examples include: Salman Choudhry, Peshawar’s Deputy Inspector General of Police
        (2020);
    •   conferences and workshops have brought together researchers and practitioners. For
        example, a conference organised in 2017 on Ethno-Religious Minorities and Mobilisation
        in the Middle East (Lord) enabled representatives from the Iraqi Kurdistan government,



                                                                                          Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Yezidi activists, and regional specialists to assess the challenges facing minorities in the
        Middle East;
    •   Open Policy Knowledge Exchange Network (OPEN) Fellowships funded by the UK
        Higher Education Innovation Fund have facilitated engagement with practitioners in the
        field. For example, in 2019 Sullivan de Estrada, the recipient of an OPEN Fellowship,
        spent a week with the Head of Mission of the Indian Ocean Commission (IOC) in
        Mauritius. This placement facilitated knowledge exchange aimed at consolidating a
        shared understanding of the IOC’s maritime security policy priorities and perspectives in
        their broader regional context;
    •   economic and societal technology transfer in the UK and beyond:
    •   McCartney’s collaboration with the Technology Centre of the Lahore School of
        Economics has contributed to policy advice and technical innovations within the Pakistani
        textile industry and the Punjab and Sindh Bureaus of Statistics;
    •   Lord’s work with minority groups in Turkey has resulted in collaborative dissemination
        workshops involving journalists and representatives of the most influential organisations
        of the Alevi movements in the UK, Germany and Turkey;
    •   consultancy work for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and risk analysis
        companies:
    •   many staff in the UoA from both OS and OSGA serve in consultancy roles for Oxford
        Analytica (e.g. Herzig), an analysis firm which draws on experts to advise clients, such as
        the European Commission and World Bank on strategy and performance in Asia and the
        Middle East.

Public engagement with research

UoA staff have participated in a wide range of public engagement activities underpinned by
research. GLAM staff in particular have been prominent in this regard. Some examples are:

    •   Power and Protection: Islamic Art and the Supernatural (Leoni, Leverhulme Trust): the
        first major exhibition to explore the supernatural in the art of the Islamic world
        (Ashmolean Museum, 2016-17);
    •   Chinese Art in the Ashmolean (Vainker): Vainker curates three public galleries in the
        Oxford University Ashmolean Museum - China 3000BC-AD800, China from AD800, and
        the Khoan and Michael Sullivan Gallery for Chinese Painting; exhibitions curated by her
        included the work of Chinese painter Liu Dan and Fan Zhaoling;
    •   Japanese Art in the Ashmolean (Pollard): Pollard is the curator of Japanese art in the
        Ashmolean; her exhibitions included Hiroshige’s Japan: Fifty-Three Stations of the
        Tōkaidō Road (2014-15), Yoshida Hiroshi: A Japanese Artist in India (2015) (co-curated
        with Kumbera Landrus), and Plum Blossom and Green Willow: Surimono Poetry Prints
        (2018-19);
    •   South and Inner Asian Art in the Ashmolean (Kumbera Landrus): Kumbera Landrus is
        the Keeper of the Eastern Art Department; her main curatorial responsibilities are in
        Indian, Himalayan and Southeast Asian Art, and her exhibitions included Bengal and
        Modernity (2015).

All of these exhibitions attracted large numbers of visitors and were amplified by the scholarship
of the curators.




                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Contribution to disciplinary sustainability

We feel a deep responsibility to support and sustain the development of Area Studies within both
the University and the wider UK and international academic communities. We seek to do this
through:

    •   fund-raising to expand language-based research within Oxford:
    •   since REF2014, we have enriched our resource base in Caucasian languages, history
        and culture; and
    •   through representation on bodies such as the University’s Language Centre, we promote
        foreign language learning within the University;
    •   efforts to enhance the intellectual coherence of Area Studies at Oxford, which we
        consider vital for the sustainability of Area Studies moving forward. Important
        developments towards this goal have been:
    •   the creation of the new doctoral programme at OSGA, which welcomed its first cohort of
        doctoral students in October 2017 and matches the existing programme at OS. This
        programme will train a new generation of scholars committed to Area Studies;
    •   a new master’s programme in Global and Area Studies, which is part of a broader
        initiative aimed at strengthening cross-regional and disciplinary ties in Area Studies, and
        developing the disciplinary identity of Area Studies within the University;
    •   initiatives aimed at establishing and embedding partnerships with European Area
        Studies institutions and other centres outside of the European Union, in response to the
        UK’s departure from the European Union and other challenges that face the discipline:
    •   OSGA has taken the lead in creating a network with several Area Studies departments at
        leading European universities: Charles University, Free University of Berlin, the German
        Institute of Global Area Studies in Hamburg, Leiden University, University of Warsaw,
        and the Moscow Higher School of Economics. A conference launching this initiative held
        in Oxford (2020) has established the basis for collaborative research partnerships and
        has already enabled cooperation between research students;
    •   OS has created networks with universities in Berlin, Doha, Kobe, Tokyo, Tsinghua, Qatar
        and Vienna.


Indicators of wider influence and contribution to vitality and sustainability of the research
base

The achievements of our staff across a range of indicators contributes towards the vitality and
sustainability of Area Studies by:

    •   sustaining the Area Studies research environment: members of the UoA play a key
        role in supporting the organisations and events that are the lifeblood of Area Studies in
        the UK and globally. They include:
    •   membership of The British Academy: three professors were awarded fellowships during
        the REF period (Harrison, 2014; Rogan, 2017; O’Hanlon, 2020);
    •   leadership of the main Area Studies associations: e.g. in 2019, Murphy was elected
        President of the British Association of Chinese Studies;
    •   editorship of flagship Area Studies publications: e.g. R. Goodman’s editorship of the
        Nissan-Routledge Japanese Studies Series is the largest series in the world on
        contemporary Japan with more than 100 volumes;
    •   advising Area Studies funding councils: e.g Whittaker’s membership of the Japan
        Foundation endowment committee, which provides small grants to support research in
        Japanese Studies in the United Kingdom;
    •   supporting foreign language publications: e.g. Yadgar’s role in the editorial board of the
        Hebrew journal Theory and Criticism;



                                                                                            Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   contributing towards scholarly life in the regions that we study: e.g. Murphy’s role as
        external examiner at City University Hong Kong since 2014 for the MA in Contemporary
        Chinese Studies;
    •   delivering keynote addresses: The British Society for Middle Eastern Studies (Rogan,
        2015); Nordic Conference on Middle Eastern Studies (Armbrust, 2016); Khyentse Award,
        University of Hamburg (Roesler, 2018), Thomas Trautman Lecture, University of
        Michigan (Minkowski, 2019);
    •   receiving distinguished prizes: International Booker Prize (Booth, 2019), Humanities and
        Social Sciences Prize of the 74th Mainichi Shuppan Bunka Sho (Kariya, 2020), Middle
        East Studies Association Nikki Keddie Book Award (Ghiabi, 2020), National Endowment
        for the Arts Literature Translation Fellowship (Jacobs, 2020), American Ethnological
        Society Sharon Stephens Prize (Mathur, 2017), the Saidi-Sirjani Book Award,
        Association for Iranian Studies (Brookshaw, 2020).


                      Oxford topped the 2021 Complete University Guide
                for East and South Asian Studies and for Middle Eastern Studies


    •   making the case for Area Studies in UK higher education policy and
        overseas: members of the UoA are passionate advocates for Area Studies in wider
        policy debates on higher education:
    •   in 2015, R. Goodman was appointed Chair of the Council and since 2020 President of
        the UK Academy of Social Sciences, which, through its 45 learned societies, represents
        around 90,000 social scientists and has over 1400 elected fellows. In this role, he has
        promoted the importance of Area Studies. He has also contributed globally towards
        policy debates in education, e.g. keynote lectures at the inaugural event for the Japanese
        Government’s 7.7 billion yen Super Global University Initiative, Tokyo, 2014, and the
        annual meeting of Malaysian Vice-Chancellors, chaired by the Deputy Prime Minister and
        Minister of Education, Kuala Lumpur, 2015.
    •   maintaining the vitality of Area Studies expertise outside academia: examples
        include:
    •   contributions to policy discussions in both Whitehall and Westminster on UK policy
        towards China (Irwin Crookes), India (Sullivan de Estrada), the Middle East (Armbrust,
        Cronin, Matthiesen, Mignon, Rogan, Willis) and North Africa (Willis);
    •   Sullivan de Estrada was invited to join the UK FCO South Asia Advisory Board as one of
        four permanent members, and she was named in 2019 as one of 13 thought leaders in
        UK-India relations by India Inc.;
    •   commentary for national and international TV and press media (e.g. Dirik, Mathur,
        Rogan);
    •   providing educational programmes for school pupils and adult learners through the
        Ashmolean Museum: e.g. religious education on Buddhism, Hinduism and Islam; study
        room visits and gallery tours in the Ashmolean’s Jameel Centre for Eastern Art; bespoke
        training in the History of Islamic, Asian, and South Asian Art; and Continuing Professional
        Development courses to school teachers (Bhandare, Kumbera Landrus, Leoni, Pollard).




                                                                                           Page 26
