Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Bishop Grosseteste University (BGU)

 Unit of assessment: 23 – Education

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The return from BGU to Unit of Assessment (UoA) 23 for REF 2021 is considerably larger
 than its submission for REF 2014. There are 56 outputs from 20.5 FTE members of staff are
 submitted, rising from the 21 outputs from 6 FTE staff in the previous exercise. The
 development of research culture and productivity at BGU reflects the wider growth in
 education-related programmes, postgraduate activity and research activity all of which have
 aided in the growth in volume and quality of research.

 1.1 Context and structure

 1.1.1 Departmental context

 The interdisciplinary Education subject field is located within four of the University’s five
 programme portfolio areas:
 • Arts and Humanities
 • Education and Lifelong Learning
 • Primary and Early Years Initial Teacher Education (ITE)
 • Secondary, Further Education (FE) and Teacher Development.
 The awards across these areas include single and joint-honours undergraduate
 programmes, taught postgraduate programmes and doctoral provision (both PhD and EdD).
 Research and knowledge exchange (RKE) collaborations have also developed in these
 areas.

 1.1.2 Subject structure

 With a rich history since 1862 as a teacher training college, Education studies remains the
 cornerstone of BGU’s learning and teaching offer and is its largest focus for RKE. University
 status was achieved in 2012 and the number of students enrolled on Education-related
 programmes has remained relatively high (Table 1). The provision spans a wide range of
 educational areas including:
 • Teacher Education (at both undergraduate and postgraduate levels)
 • Early Childhood Studies
 • Special Educational Needs, Disability and Inclusion
 • Education and Professional Studies
 • Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages (TESOL).
 There is also taught postgraduate provision in Education, Education with TESOL, and
 Special Educational Needs and Disability.

 Table 1: Education-related Student Numbers (FTE)

                                         UG        UG
             Apprentice FdA                                   MA       PGCE   PGR     Total
                                        Single     Joint

  2013-14 0                 451       756          302        93       543    3       2148

  2019-20 0                 290       860          81         219      396    19      1865




                                                                                         Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2 Research and impact strategy

 The research and impact strategy set out in the submission to REF 2014 focused on the six
 emphases outlined below. The work carried out during the current REF cycle shows a
 strongly developing research culture, supportive in helping all members of academic staff
 fulfil their research ambitions.

 •     Measurable differences in educational research activity as a result of internal
       investment, research strategy and recruitment policy.

       There have been measurable positive changes in the level and overall quality of the
       Education research activity with over twice as many outputs (52 in 2021, 21 in 2014)
       returned by over three times as many researchers (20.5 FTE in 2021, 6.0 in 2014). This
       growth has been the result of internal investment (all but a very small number of staff are
       on teaching and research contracts) and recruitment focusing on research readiness as
       a selection criterion. Internal research funding has been used to pump-prime projects to
       help Early Career Researchers (ECRs) develop a coherent research programme and
       expand networks; the work of the Well-being and Workload Research and Knowledge
       Exchange Unit (RKEU) is a good example of this growth in activity.

 •     Around 20-25 students expected to be engaged in doctoral study and plans to
       extend BGU’s own master’s level provision in education will be well-advanced

       Taught postgraduate provision has been enhanced through the development of the MA
       in Education programme (with 109 full-award graduates between 2014-2020; Table 2)
       and more recently the MA in Education with TESOL and MA in Special Educational
       Needs and Disability.

 Table 2: MA in Education awards, 2014-20
           Graduate
           with full Passed with
           MA        Exit award
           Award     (PGCert/PGDip)

     13/14           25                 4

     14/15           11                 2

     15/16           18                 1

     16/17           15                 1

     17/18           13                 1

     18/19            9                 2

     19/20           18                 4

                   109                 15



 Doctoral study has continued to grow with an increasing number of completions (see
 section 2.2).

 •     The proportion of staff holding doctorates to have increased and research-
       informed teaching and learning more evident within the curriculum

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


     The proportion of Education staff holding doctorates over the REF cycle has increased
     by almost 50% since 2014 – and includes doctoral completions from BGU / University of
     Leicester as well as other institutions. Research informed teaching has also developed
     because of this with several active research projects focused on teaching, particularly in
     Initial Teacher Education. In 2019-2020 there was a University-wide annual
     development target to embed research-based learning within curricula which led to a
     renewed focus on this in Education-related programmes. There has also been a
     significant rise in the number of projects led by staff with students as co-producers of
     research (see section 1.2.2).

 •   Professors and Readers in education will continue to induct and mentor new and
     advanced educational researchers and to operate strategically in other ways

     Both formal and informal support has developed over the REF cycle. Formal support
     has been offered through various workshops. For example, one focused on academic
     writing for publication to help ECRs especially, and this has had a positive impact in
     relation to the quality of outputs for the REF 2021. Staff development sessions have also
     been provided on developing doctoral supervision expertise and on embedding impact
     into research projects.

     Informal support has included one-to-one mentoring and small group coaching to help
     ECRs and more experienced researchers develop their work through targeted support.
     The growing strand of research and impact evident in well-being (see section 1.2.2
     below) is illustrative, with a group of ECRs entering into dialogue with a Reader to
     consider the direction in which they wanted to develop their research and its impact.
     There has also been support from senior researchers in developing research bids,
     recently leading to funded projects with both the British Academy (£10,000) and
     Erasmus+ (€178,000). Two research community led initiatives have also developed –
     Theory and Chips is a group which meets monthly to discuss a piece of published
     research; and Writing Attack provides an opportunity for two-day writing retreats for
     anyone from masters level and above to focus on their own academic writing.

 •   Further collaborative research partnerships will be established with HEIs and
     other partners

     Work has continued to augment pre-existing networks and to establish new ones. For
     example, Atkin has developed his network linked to Global Challenge projects with the
     University of Birmingham, Loughborough University, University of Nottingham,
     University of Oxford and University of Southampton. New networks have been
     established including involvement in the East Midlands Doctoral Network, establishing a
     new set of opportunities for research development at BGU as well as a networking
     opportunity for doctoral researchers.

     The Well-being and Workload RKEU has established strong links with researchers in
     Denmark and Finland and has completed the initial steps to set up a pan-European
     special interest group in well-being and education under the direction of the Association
     of Teacher Educators in Europe.

     Parrish has formed an expanding international research community focused on Self-
     Determination Theory and organised international seminar meetings and joint research
     projects. Lawrence is the regional coordinator of the Participatory Autism Research
     Collective and has extensive professional networks beyond academia particularly within
     parent and local authority activities.

 •   Income generation in relation to educational research projects is expected to
                                                                                          Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     increase

     Income generation has expanded over the course of the 2014-2020 cycle as set out in
     section 3.1 below and demonstrates BGU’s growth and increasing maturity as a provider
     of Education-related RKE.

 1.2.1 Output

 The increase in research capacity since 2014 is evident from the growth in the number of active
 researchers (see above). In addition to the 20.5 FTE return from current staff returned there are
 three former staff also included in the submission. Whilst growing capacity for Education
 research, there has also been a drive to improve the quality of outputs. In REF 2014 37% of
 outputs were rated either ‘nationally recognised’ (1*) or ‘unclassified’ (U/C). In preparation for
 the submission to REF 2021 there have been attempts to eliminate possible 1* and U/C
 outputs and hence secure a larger proportion of 2* and above. This cycle has seen a rapid
 improvement and increased maturity of BGU’s submission to the Education UoA for REF 2021
 and reflects the success of the initiatives described above.

 1.2.2 Impact and knowledge exchange activity

 The institution’s strategic objectives for extending its research footprint and impact through
 partnerships is expressed very strongly in the work of the Education UoA and its sub-themes.

 •   Teacher Education in Thailand

     A research study examining ITE has led to far-reaching impact on policy and professional
     practice across Thailand. This has led to major changes to guidelines, expectations and
     standards of the Thai initial teacher education system. The most significant dimension has
     been the reduction in the length of undergraduate ITE programmes. The change in the
     curriculum will affect all of Thailand’s undergraduate trainee teachers, as well as the
     country’s 130 universities that offer the Government/Teachers’ Council of Thailand
     accredited ITE programmes leading to ‘licence to teach’ status.

 •   Well-being in Initial Teacher Education

     The significance of well-being in initial teacher education is important for ensuring
     successful completion of training by students. The Well-Being and Workload RKEU has
     carried out research across Europe and has developed materials to student teachers in
     relation to well-being – an Erasmus+ funded project is underway to create well-being
     toolkits for student teachers in Denmark, Finland and the UK.

 •   Community Education and Futures Education in India

     Community engagement within this project drew attention to the potential role of education
     in supporting engagement with, and potential benefits of smart cities and urban
     observatories. Workshops were attended by universities and schools – with schools
     particularly keen to take up the sustainability imperative and work with their students
     examine how smart city data could be used to identify economic and societal development
     opportunities.

 •   Autism

     Engagement with autism stakeholders has led to a range of impacts. Parents have been
     influenced through presentations, social media and publications, leading to greater
     understanding of issues which affect them and their children, and providing practical advice
     for engendering more positive outcomes. Teachers have been supported, adding to their
                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     awareness of issues relating to the inclusion of autistic children in educational contexts, and
     including tools to aid teachers in their classroom roles. Wider impact has been secured
     through the media, local networks, and an arts-based project.


 •   Equality and ethnicity

     Ongoing research has led to several impacts about challenging inequality and promoting
     equality in education. Opportunities have been created to understand the experiences of
     black and minority ethnic students and to encourage them to increase their involvement in
     university activities. These run in parallel with raising awareness of issues from engagement
     with staff and students through the Students’ Union and curriculum development. Wider
     impact has been made through the development of website resources and engagement with
     the Black History Month magazine and museum through a curriculum development project
     with trainee teachers.

 •   Rural Hybrid Energy Enterprise Systems

     This large EPSRC funded multidisciplinary project led by the University of Nottingham saw
     researchers at BGU focus on the work package ‘community engagement’. The research led
     to a curriculum development tool designed to allow adult educators to provide programmes
     to address the gaps between awareness of and understanding of alternative energy systems
     and government policy.


 •   Student research engagement and co-production

     Student involvement in the co-production of research is a typical feature BGU’s Education
     research. Several projects have also been supported by internal funding by BGU’s Centre for
     Enhancement in Learning and Teaching, through the Learning and Teaching Investment
     Fund and Student Engagement Innovation Fund with a total of £9,220 supporting 10 seed-
     corn initiatives since 2017-18. These have included A Learning Community – what does it
     mean to you?, Supporting Paired Reading for Foster Parents, Investigating 21st Century
     Literacy in Primary classrooms: Children and student teachers’ experience of learning in
     digital spaces (2018-2019); Capturing perceptions of Learning Communities, The PGCE
     Journey at BGU (2019-2020).

 1.2.3 Interdisciplinary research

 Education researchers at BGU have been building the scope of their interdisciplinary and
 cross-disciplinary activity. In part, this reflects institutional ambitions to build research capability
 and capacity, but it is also the result of the increased maturity as a research provider. This
 submission embraces the eclectic nature of Education as an applied social science with
 interdisciplinarity highlighted in some examples of externally funded, collaborative projects with
 other universities to which BGU researchers have contributed.

 •   Digital Urbanism & Diasporas: Walking the Cultural Heritage of Calcutta’s Riverfront

     A project involving Cultural Heritage, History, Education and Geography. The Education
     element focused on knowledge exchange and community engagement. The potential of
     education in schools and with adults to highlight the nature of and opportunities presented by
     cultural heritage. (Arts and Humanities Research Council AH/T005009/1)

 •   Novel strategies for the recovery of deforested and degraded landscapes in the
     Amazon region: sustainable solutions for energy-food-water services

                                                                                                    Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     A project involving Geography, Agriculture, Anthropology and Education. The Education
     element focused on knowledge exchange and community engagement. (Biotechnology and
     Biological Sciences Research Council and Newton Fund Brazil EP/M029212/1)

 •   SMArtCitIES Network for Sustainable Urban Futures (SMARTIES Net).

     A project involving Geography, Risk Management, Social policy, Architecture, Town
     planning, Public health, Law, Business and Education. The Education element focused on
     knowledge exchange and community engagement, providing minority groups within urban
     society with a voice. (Economic and Social Research Council and Newton Fund India
     ES/P000517/1)

 •   Rural Hybrid Energy Enterprise Systems

     A project involving Geography, Renewable energy policy, Remote mapping, Engineering,
     Business and Education. The Education element focused on the role of education in
     promoting renewable energy amongst the wider population – schools and in adult education.
     (Engineering and Physical Science Research Council and the Department for Science and
     Technology, Indian Government. EP/J000361/1)

 The University’s RKEUs provide a focus for research in Education. They also reflect the
 interdisciplinary nature of research within this submission. Examples include The Ordered
 Human RKEU which brings together researchers from UoA 31 – Theology and Religious
 Studies with Education researchers and has led to symposia and publications considering the
 educational potential of the works of Robert Grosseteste.

 The Literature and Literacies RKEU spans the Education and UoA 29 – English Language and
 Literature with a focus on children’s literature; and the Philosophy and Theory of Research
 RKEU combines Education with researchers from UoA 31 and also from UoA 28 – History with
 an emphasis on philosophical underpinning and theoretical orientations in research.

 The interdisciplinary nature of much of the BGU’s Education research also aligns with the
 university’s interdisciplinary education programme structures. This is particularly clear in the
 Education Studies programme with students often combining with another joint honours subject
 field (e.g., Education Studies and Mathematics, or, Education Studies and Psychology).

 1.2.4 Income

 As part of a wider institutional imperative, Education researchers have aimed to increase grant
 capture primarily through securing its first Research Council funding and through other grants
 to support its growing profile for research, knowledge exchange and related projects. Pump-
 priming, student-research engagement and RKEU projects have also been supported by
 internal funding from either the Research and Knowledge Exchange Centre or Centre for
 Enhancement in Learning and Teaching – see Sections 3 and 4.

 1.2.5 Doctoral research

 There has been continued development of BGU’s EdD and PhD provision throughout the
 current REF cycle reflected in the significant increase in supervisory capacity and scope. This
 shift has been supported by a larger researcher development programme internally and active
 membership of the East Midlands Doctoral Researcher Network. Chaired by BGU in 2018-19,
 the University hosted the annual conference attended by 200 doctoral researcher delegates
 from De Montfort University, University of Derby, University of Leicester, University of Lincoln,
 Loughborough University, University of Northampton, University of Nottingham and Nottingham
 Trent University.

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.2.6 Strategy for post-REF 2021

 The present REF cycle has been crucial for the growth, development and maturation of
 Education research at BGU. The emphasis for the next planning period is to consolidate this
 emerging expertise and ensure that all researchers can develop their expertise further still,
 whilst also nurturing new ECRs. Core structures and processes have been established to
 support expansion and further improve the quality of research activity. A key priority will be the
 enhancement of the impactful research and links to existing and new knowledge exchange
 activities. Therefore, the main elements of the strategy for the development of Education
 research from 2021 onwards are as follows.

 •   Development of quality and quantity of research supported by a new researcher
     development unit

     There is a pressing need to expand Education research and to support individuals and
     emerging research teams in maturing further the quality of their research, whilst also
     encouraging and nurturing new ECRs as they pursue their RKE aspirations. These aims
     will be underpinned by the development of a new researcher development unit which will
     provide both group and individual support through developmental sessions, mentoring and
     coaching at all levels.

 •   Development of the impact/KEF agenda

     Education researchers will work to embed the concept of impact within research projects
     more widely and give advice and structures / resources to support all researchers
     understand the role and nature of impact within their emerging research themes. The same
     opportunities will be provided in relation to the KEF. This will also be supported by the
     researcher development unit, and where requested, more targeted mentoring.

     There will be a more explicit strategy for engaging stakeholders beyond academia as well
     as raising BGU’s profile within the academic education community. This will entail work with
     RKEUs and on an individual mentoring and support basis.

 •   Development of activity in RKEUs

     The RKEUs will play an increasingly important role in supporting researchers in specialist
     areas and in developing the research environment through the development of seminar
     series, external speakers, and informal mentoring. They will also be pivotal in the
     development of doctoral researchers and in developing grant income to develop further
     research and partnership opportunities.

 •   Continued development of PGT / PGR

     The 2014-2020 REF cycle has seen a rapid growth in doctoral researchers and
     postgraduate taught programmes. This managed expansion requires ongoing development
     of the supervisor base to consolidate the existing portfolio and to sustain further growth of
     doctoral research. The University will seek to expand its PGT offer, including the
     development of a PG Cert in Doctoral Supervision to support the growth and quality of our
     research support.

 •   Development of core resources

     As Education research evolves it will be essential to ensure that the core resources match
     the growth. This is particularly the case in relation to the library where the University will
     extend the spread of available materials, especially in the case of academic journal
     availability. Appropriate resource coverage and availability are key elements of the ambition
                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     to achieve Research Degree Awarding Powers, and of the ability to submit consistently
     high-quality academic publications.

     Moving into the next REF cycle, it will also be necessary to extend the senior researcher
     base to help with mentoring and capacity building. To ensure that Education researchers
     can consolidate and develop their research activity, the Workload Allocation Model will
     continue to ensure sufficient time for consistent RKE engagement.

 •   Further expansion of research income

     The 2014-2020 cycle has provided a strong platform for further funded research
     opportunities. We intend to expand research income further by supporting more bid writing
     by emerging research teams whilst also developing impact and knowledge exchange
     activity and funding. This will be achieved by increased mentoring and support by senior
     researchers in helping individuals / teams / RKEUs identify suitable research funding when
     available and then working with them to develop and refine research bids, particularly in
     relation to research council, British Academy and Leverhulme grants.

 •   Development of further external engagement and network development

     As researchers develop their work, they will continue to be supported in their external
     engagement and networking activity through internal funding of RKE such as conference
     attendance and network workshops. A regular research newsletter is being developed
     which will advertise potential opportunities that may be of interest to Education researchers
     to encourage further external engagement and networking.


 Section 2. People

 The staff included in this submission are increasingly research active, evidenced in the greater
 quantity and improved quality of outputs in REF2021 when compared to REF2014. The impact
 case study threshold has also been met and shows the development of networks regionally,
 nationally and internationally to further develop research activity and non-academic impact.

 2.1 Staffing strategy and development

 The approach to staffing for Education research at BGU has been to increase the number of
 research-active members through both recruitment and the development and support of staff.
 All staff are encouraged to develop their RKE activities, and support is given in research time
 and through doctoral programmes for those at early stages in their research journey as well as
 the support from more experienced colleagues (see section 1.2). A large number of staff are
 currently pursuing their own doctoral studies, with regular completions now occurring to expand
 the proportion of staff who will be eligible for return in the next REF cycle whilst also enhancing
 the pool of potential research degree supervisors.

 Table 3: UoA permanent staff establishment (FTE)

                 Submitted      Professor     Reader            Senior              Doctoral
                                                               Lecturer/           Supervisors
                                                               Lecturer
   REF 2021         20.5             1          1                18.5                    14
 * Note: the output of 3 further former member of staff are also submitted

 The submission is strengthened by the contributions of three former full-time members of staff
 who worked at BGU between 2014 and 2020 (i.e. Hemstock, Hill and Puttick). During the REF
 cycle one of the Readers also applied successfully for a Personal Chair (Wood).
                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Opportunities for researcher development have also been pursued actively through external
 service on committees and panels, peer review of research for journals, and internally through
 involvement on institutional research committees and sub-groups working on strategy and
 policy. In addition to the RKEUs mentioned in section 1.2.3, other RKEUs have been developed
 by members of the Education UoA, specifically, Well-being and Workload and Higher Education
 Policy and Practice. These groups contribute to staff development through cultivating
 collaboration, interdisciplinary activity, project development, event planning, bid writing, and
 mentoring of early and mid-career researchers.

 2.2 Postgraduate research

 The development of doctoral student research provision within the Education UoA has
 continued, with a larger supervisor base and an increased number of applications and doctoral
 researchers. Doctoral research projects are typically supervised by both Education and
 interdisciplinary teams. Increased supervision capacity involving Education staff during the
 current REF cycle is shown below:

 Table 4: Conferrals

  Conferrals                                    To 2017-18              2018-19          2019-
                                                                                          20
  Per year                                            6                     4              7
  Total
  Per year                                            2                     1              2
  Academic staff
  Per year                                            4                     3              5
  Non-academic staff
  Accumulative                                        6                    10             17
  Total+


 Table 5: Recognised doctoral supervisors

                No. of first   No. of second
               supervisors      supervisors
  2014              2                 8
  2020              6                 8

 The development of a larger and broader supervisor base has provided the capacity to support
 a growing number of doctoral researchers who span both the PhD and EdD programmes and
 who are developing research in several areas. Examples include:
 • Constructing scientific knowledge in the classroom: a multi-modal analysis of conceptual
     change and the significance of gesture – Callinan, PhD, 2014
 • Capturing the struggle: understanding the metacognitive strategies for academic writing of
     mature, work-based learners at University – Mason, PhD, 2017
 • Perceptions of dyslexia held by students with dyslexia and teachers within a secondary
     school – Majer, EdD, 2018
 • Describing Elusive Educational Practice: What is teacher presence and what characteristics
     of the phenomenon do teacher practitioners in English primary schools describe? Paige,
     EdD, 2020.

 The support structures for the doctoral students have also grown, with both internal
 development seminar series, and the use of the University of East Anglia doctoral webinar
 series. All doctoral researchers are supported through a funding system which is available for

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 conference attendance and specialist training, regardless of whether they are self-funded or
 scholarship recipients.

 Doctoral researchers involved in learning and teaching activities are encouraged to gain
 Associate Fellow status with Advance HE and are supported in gaining teaching experience
 during their study period. Doctoral researchers are employable on completion of their studies
 and some have secured positions, both post-doctoral and academic faculty, in other UK
 universities.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 Equality and diversity (E&D) are overseen and reported at institutional level, with UoA-specific
 profiling monitored and evaluated as part of centrally directed REF Equality Impact Assessment
 (EIA).

 The E&D data are reported in summary form in the Institutional Environment Statement, the
 EIA final report, and made available for audit as appropriate. Data are not given in detail in
 BGU’s REF5b Environment statements with full protected characteristics profiling, given the
 relatively small numbers of staff comprising the submission to this UoA.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The amount of income capture has grown substantially within the Education UoA, more than a
 four-fold increase, with the generation of Research Council funding consistent with the strategic
 planning set out in the REF 2014 submission (see section 1.2).

 Table 6: Research income from UoA 23, 2008-2020

     2008-2014        £88,000
     2014-2020       £294,285

 Examples of grant income include those listed below.

 •     Thailand Education Project

       This research was funded by the UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office in 2016-2018 working
       with the Thai Ministry of Education to review initial teacher education (ITE) programmes in
       Thailand’s Rajabhat universities. Atkin led the research with findings and recommendations
       shared with the Thai government in 2016 and the wider ITE community in February 2018.
       The findings led to several significant policy changes in ITE and is presented as one of the
       impact case studies.

 •     PLAN International Cambodia

       Led by Pearson between 2015/16 and 2017/18, the PLAN Cambodia Baseline Study led to
       Integrated ECCD Programmes and a Design of Outcomes Monitoring System (£50,000)

       Government of Brunei Darussalam Research Council funding (BRC 7): Education, Well-
       being and Nation Building in Brunei Darussalam: Community Engagement in Education
       (CEiE) – Principal Investigator on sub-project A: Building Quality Early Childhood Education
       in Brunei Darussalam. Includes collaborative project on Documenting ‘Noteworthy’ ECCD
       practices across the Asia Pacific region, co-funded with the Asia Pacific Regional Network
       for Early Childhood, UNICEF (Regional Office South Asia) and the Open Society Foundation.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Balance from 2014 (£81,047) – row 28 Rural Hybrid Energy Enterprise Systems
     RHEES)

     Atkin led the community engagement work package of this large EPSRC funded project
     [Grant No. EP/J000361/1 £3,217,331] focussed on local energy systems working together
     with national power generators. The project was replicated in India and funded by the
     Department for Science and Technology, Indian Government as part of a joint call for
     proposals under a ‘Bridging the Urban Rural Divide’. Professor Michele Clarke from the
     University of Nottingham was the project Principal Investigator.


 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

 3.2.1 Library

 Education research has been assisted by the general expansion and development of
 University Library Service provision. Since August 2015, approximately £20k has been spent
 on 980 printed books and £24k on 380 electronic resources. The Modern Language
 Association’s MLA International Bibliography was first acquired in 2015, the first subscription to
 Gale Reference Complete in 2017 (including access to Gale Literary Sources and costs around
 £5,000 per year), access to multidisciplinary collections and databases, such as JSTOR and
 Project MUSE, and, since 2015,access to the Cambridge, Wiley, SAGE and Taylor & Francis
 journal collections. Overall, BGU library subscribes to twenty-four collections and databases
 that cater for this Unit at a cost of about £150k per year.

 The Teaching Resources Collection (TRC) is home to about 24,000 resources for primary and
 secondary trainee teachers, students intending to work (or already working) in educational
 settings, and students who are interested in children's literature. It has a dedicated Teaching
 Resources Librarian, who edits The Four Corners newsletter. This is the successor of
 Hullabaloo!, which also promoted children’s literature and the TRC’s children’s literature
 collection between 2005 and 2019. During the REF2021 cycle, English department staff and
 students contributed to Hullabaloo! as writers, reviewers and editors, under the expert
 guidance of the current Head of Library Services, and the previous Teaching Resources
 Librarian. This collection stimulates the work of the RKEU Literature and Literacies, and hosts
 some of its activities and events.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society.

 4.1 Collaborative partnerships and networks

 Over the 2014-2020 period, Education researchers have developed extensive national and
 international partnerships and collaborative networks.

 •   In the languages and English area, Parrish is a member of the Language policy special
     interest group within the British Association of Applied Linguistics, and Montgomery is a
     member of the English as an Additional Language Research special interest group in the
     same association. Rogers is a member of the Teachers' Reading Group in association with
     the UK Literacy Association and the Open University. As part of this work, teachers and
     students meet on 6 occasions across the year to develop case studies of effective practice
     which will be published on the website www.researchrichpedagogies.org to share innovative
     pedagogies based in research. She is also a member of the UK Literacy Association Special
     Interest group focusing on Digital Literacy which is a network allowing teachers and HE
     lecturers to discuss research on Digital Literacy.

 •   In mathematics education, Nye is a lead independent evaluator for the National Council for
     Excellence in the teaching of Mathematics (NCETM). This work has led her to evaluate the
                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

     impact of Mathematics Hubs and the quality of Continuing Professional Development on the
     teaching practice of Mathematics educators at a national level.

 •   Puttick is a recognised international leader in geography education and is a leading member
     of the national Geography teacher educators' network which influences the direction of initial
     teacher education in Geography at a national level.

 •   Lindley-Baker continues to be involved in and develop a national network centred on well-
     being in education and beyond http://www.aquietplace.co.uk/. This has led to support and
     collaboration with local communities/ schools, as well as local authority services.

 •   Vettraino has become an important member of the Team Academy UK Network which
     consists of practitioners (coaches and programme leaders) of Team Academy based
     methods in the UK, used primarily as an alternative pedagogic approach in Business
     Schools.

 •   In developing networks centred on participant involvement and democracy in education, Hill
     has been a long-standing member of the Collaborative Action Research Network and a
     Trustee of Human Scale Education.

 •   Quickfall, Clarke and Thompson are members of both nation al and international networks
     (BERA and ATEE) focusing on well-being in teacher training and have developed a strong
     network with partners at the University of Eastern Finland, UCC Copenhagen, and Leeds
     Beckett to develop this work further, including through the recent capture of an Erasmus+
     project across the three countries to develop and evaluate well-being toolkits for teacher
     trainees and educators.

 As with partnerships and networks, the Education researchers have increasingly been invited to
 take up committee and leadership positions in subject associations and societies as well as in
 other interdisciplinary contexts.

 •   In languages and literacy, Parrish is a member of the British Association of Applied
     Linguistics Language Policy Forum and chairs the local organising committee for the
     Language Policy Forum. Rogers is a regional representative for the United Kingdom literacy
     association.

 •   In developing insights into teacher work, Hounslow-Eyre is a founding fellow of the Chartered
     College of Teaching whilst Lambert is a representative for the Primary and Early Years
     Committee, and Wynn is Chair of Secondary Committee at UCET.

 •   Mathematics education has representation from Compton through her work with The
     Association of Mathematics Education Teachers (AMET) where she is the elected secretary.
     Kimber is the secretary of the Enrichment Executive Committee of the UK Mathematics
     Trust. Nye is the lead evaluator for the National Council of Excellence in the Teaching of
     Mathematics, reporting directly to the DfE on the impact of mathematics initiatives at a
     national level.

 •   Rimmer is a member of the Visual Arts Advisory Group – for The Collection: Art and
     Archaeology in Lincolnshire whilst Kerridge is a Soundlincs Executive Board member and a
     National Drama, Executive Board Member and Higher Education Representative.

 •   Relating to outdoor education, Gee is a member of the Recruitment & Retention Steering
     Group of the Fenland Opportunity Area and Fell-Chambers is the Voluntary Director of the
     Densholme Care Farm. In addition, a trustee of the Make it Shine SEND Charity.


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   In areas of equity and participatory approaches to education, Peart is the convenor of the
     Social Justice Special Interest Group of the British Education Research Association. Hill is a
     CARN executive committee member and founding member of the British Educational Studies
     Association as well as being a trustee of Human Scale education.

 •   Working internationally, Abdulrahman is the chairperson of the ‘Out of School’ children sub-
     committee of the Arewa Educational Renaissance Initiative, Nigeria, and a member of the
     Islamic Philosophy in Conversation working group.

 •   Atkin is an Education subject expert of the Hong Kong Council for Accreditation of Academic
     and Vocational Qualifications. Hemstock is a trustee of the Pacific Regional Federation of
     Resilience Professionals, working on resilience development in Pacific Nations against
     disaster and climate change.

 4.2 Publication editorial positions and reviewing activities.

 Members of the Education UoA fulfil several editorial positions. Clarke is an editorial board
 member for the Support for Learning journal, Peart was an editorial board member of Race
 Equality Teaching until it ceased publication in 2019, Wood is a member of the editorial board for
 Management in Education, and a member of the International Advisory Panel for Educational
 Action Research. Kerridge is a member of the editorial boards of National Drama's Magazine for
 educators and theatre practitioners and of National Drama's Online peer reviewed journal.
 Finally, Abdulrahman was the co-editor of a special issue of the Journal of Contemporary African
 Studies.

 Members continue to be involved a large amount of peer reviewing for journal, showing a strong
 commitment to the wider research community, and review across a wide range of journals:
 • Abdulrahman: Journal of Contemporary African Studies
 • Atkin: International Journal of Lifelong Education; International Journal of Research and
    Method in Education; Education + Training Journal; Journal of Further and Higher Education
 • Clarke: TEAN journal; European Journal of Special Educational Needs
 • Elliott: Journal of Further and Higher Education
 • Gee: Journal of Adventure Education & Outdoor Learning
 • Kerridge: National Drama Research Journal
 • Kimber: Teaching of Mathematics and its Applications (Journal of the Institute of
    Mathematics and its Applications); Research in Mathematics Education; Journal of British
    Society for Research in Learning Mathematics
 • Lawrence: Communications, Palgrave McMillan; Research in Autism Spectrum Disorders
 • Maynes: Palgrave Communications
 • Meredith: Early Child Development and Care
 • Parrish: Routledge Studies on Global Student Mobility (book series); International Journal of
    Education Policy and Leadership; Pakistan Journal of Languages and Translation Studies;
    Language Teaching Research (journal), TESL Canada Journal
 • Peart: Reviewer for Routledge books (since 2012); IoE/UCL books; Policy Press (University
    of Bristol); British Journal of Special Education
 • Puttick: International Research in Geographical and Environmental Education; School
    Effectiveness and School Improvement
 • Rogers: Monster publication for Palgrave
 • Thompson: TEAN journal.
 • Wood: Journal of Further and Higher Education; International Journal of Lesson and
    Learning Studies; Journal of Educational Change; Educational Action Research;
    Management in Education.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3 Conference and symposium organisation

 Conferences have been organised by Education researchers both in the ULK and internationally:
 • Quickfall co-organised the Sheffield Institute of Education Doctoral Conference at Sheffield
    Hallam University (2016 and 2017).
 • Lawrence co-organised the Academic and Creative Responses to Death and Dying
    conferences at BGU (2020).
 • Wood organised the East Midlands Doctoral Network Annual Conference at BGU (2018).

 Larger international conferences were organised by:
 • Hemstock International Symposium on Climate Change and the Role of Education. (at BGU -
    April 2019)
 • Moana – Water of Life: Navigating Climate Change for Planetary Health. International
    conference hosted by the Diocese of Lincoln and the University of Lincoln. Both conferences
    had participants from around the world.
 • Hill was involved in organising large, international conferences for CARN: November 2018
    Manchester International Collaborative Action Research Conference (CARN) Voicing and
    Valuing: Doing and Daring CARN, Executive / Organising Committee Member; November
    2017 Rethymno Crete International Collaborative Action Research Conference (CARN)
    Reflecting on Action Research in an Unequal World CARN, Executive / Organising
    Committee Member; November 2016 Lincoln BGU International Collaborative Action
    Research Conference (CARN) The 4 Ps: integrating the personal and political in
    Professional Practice; Principle Organiser on CARN Executive Committee October 2015
    Braga Portugal International Collaborative Action Research Conference (CARN) and Action
    Research Across Disciplinary Settings CARN, Executive / Organising Committee Member
    November 2014 Newcastle International Collaborative Action Research Conference (CARN).
    Connecting Researchers, Connecting Communities CARN, Executive / Organising
    Committee Member.

 4.4 Grant/project external peer refereeing/reviewing

 There has been a small amount of project grant reviewing, mainly for large scale research
 funding organisations.
 • Compton: Nuffield Foundation
 • Atkin: ESRC peer review college member, reviewed grants for the European Horizon Fund,
    EPSRC, AHRC, Russian Science Foundation, and The Hong Kong Research Grants
    Committee
 • Hemstock: European Union.

 4.5 Awards, prizes, distinctions and fellowships

 Education researchers have gained a range of awards and distinctions. In addition to Fellowship
 and Senior Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy / AdvanceHE, they include:

 •   Atkin: SMArtCitIES Network for Sustainable Urban Futures project was one of ten projects
     considered for the Newton fund India prize winner. It was the only social science project
     considered. Fellow of the Royal Anthropological Society.
 •   Gee: Visiting Professor, Nakhon Ratchasima Rajabhat University.
 •   Hemstock: IVETA (International Vocational Education and Training Association) 2016 World
     Conference Award for project having the most impact in the Pacific region (EU Pacific
     Technical and Vocational Education and Training in Sustainable Energy and Climate Change
     Adaptation); International Symposium of Climate Change Impacts in the Pacific – winner of
     the Springer-Verlag Science Publishers award for research with most impact in the Pacific
     region (2016); joint winner of the University of the South Pacific’s VC’s Prize for Research
     (creative works) 2014 & (project) 2016

                                                                                          Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Mason: International Professional Development Association Prize was awarded for her
     doctoral research.
 •   Nye: Royal Statistical Society (Fellow), The Society for Education and Training (Fellow)
 •   Quickfall: Finalist Sheffield Hallam Three Minute Thesis – 2018 and 2019. Sheffield Hallam
     University, Research Image Competition, Summer 2018, won best research image prize.
 •   Whiteoak: Best Thesis Award from the British Leadership Management and Administration
     Society (BELMAS) (2014) for PhD Thesis as 'outstanding' and for its ‘contribution to the
     understanding of educational leadership and policy’.

 4.6 Keynote addresses and public lectures/workshops/performances/media

 Since REF2014, there has been a large increase in keynote and other interactions with those
 beyond the university.

 •   Abdulrahman: State of IHE Policy in Southern Africa Zimbabwe Council for Higher
     Education, keynote (2020).
     Interview with Muslim Scientists Europe (2020).
     Television interview focusing on Islam school abuse
     (https://www.facebook.com/globaljrnlist/videos/567004660728723/) (2019).
 •   Atkin: A review of initial teacher training in Thailand (2016/17) Teachers’ Professional
     Development: Competency Framework Conference, The British Ambassador’s Residence,
     British Embassy Bangkok, keynote, (2018).
     Community Engagement with Urban Observatories UK-India Joint Network on Sustainable
     Cities and Urbanisation in India. Kolkata, keynote (2017).
     Internationalising Higher Education Higher Education Academy; 2014-15 cohort
     dissemination event, Birmingham, keynote (2016).
     Smartcities - talking heads blog.
 •   Compton: STEM Education Centre London at the Institute of Education - Teaching Science
     and Mathematics Creatively with Young Children: Finding Opportunities, keynote and
     workshop (2014)
     Enabling Creativity through Science and Mathematics in Early Years Education, symposium
     and workshop (2014)
 •   Hemstock: Springer Nature – “SpotOn 2019”, The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
     Development. Invited speaker (2019).
     Moana – Water of Life: Navigating Climate Change for Planetary Health. The Diocese of
     Lincoln and the University of Lincoln invited speaker (2019).
     “MODERN GEOGRAPHY: LET 'S TEACH IN GLOBAL CONTEXT - INTERNATIONAL
     DISCUSSION FORUM”, in České Budějovice, University of Southern Bohemia, Czech
     Republic, keynote (2018).
 •   Mason: Think2Speak annual conference: Improving relationships and communications with a
     whole school approach, workshop (2017).
 •   Muir: Liverpool John Moores University, Diversity and Well-being, keynote (2018).
     TEDx Brayford Pool Tea with Trans (what's on - and off the menu) - available on You Tube,
     (2017)
     Manchester University Drama 'blog' on Tea with Trans (and weblink to You tube) (2017)
     Tweets and blog posts by BGU in relation to Tea with Trans (2017)
 •   Parrish: Self-Determination Theory: How it can help you thrive in uncertain times.
     BGU blog, retweeted by Center for Self-Determination Theory and posted on their Facebook
     page. (30/3/20).
     BBC Radio Lincolnshire: Discussion of GCSE uptake of foreign languages. (27/2/19)
 •   Puttick: BERA Blog: https://www.bera.ac.uk/blog/knowledge-exam-boards-and-school-
     subjects .
 •   Quickfall: BERA blog published on PGCE well-being (https://www.bera.ac.uk/blog/the-pgce-
     journey-wellbeing-and-workload)


                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Rimmer: Academic and Creative Responses to Death and Dying conference, BGU,
     workshop (2020).
     YouTube channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCc0z-m2VrVaYYWEETv83IrA
     Website: www.johnrimmer.co.uk.
 •   Rogers: www.emmarogers.org.uk, twitter and Facebook accounts to discuss Primary English
     developments (2006 – current).
 •   Vettraino: British Academy of Management, 3-6th September, UWE, Bristol, workshop
     (2018).
     International Drama in Education Research Institute 9, 2-9th July, Auckland, New Zealand,
     workshop (2018).
 •   Wynn: PGCE Wellbeing Conference at the John Moore University, Liverpool, keynote,
     workshop (2018).
     BBC Radio Lincolnshire interview discussing PGCE recruitment (2016).




                                                                                       Page 16
