Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: Unit 24 (Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context

 The Institute of Sport, Physical Education and Health Sciences (ISPEHS) is a vibrant group of
 40 staff integrating expertise from sport and exercise science, social science, education, public
 health and medicine. Located in the Moray House School of Education and Sport, ISPEHS is
 committed to producing outstanding research, knowledge exchange and impact (RKEI) on sport,
 physical education, physical activity, and outdoor environmental education. In line with the
 University of Edinburgh’s (UoE) strategy, our mission is to produce and share research that
 advances the United Nations’ (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Accordingly, our
 research contributes to solving the global pandemic of inactivity, improving quality of physical
 education and sustainability education, and demonstrating ways of reducing inequalities in and
 through sport. An increasing focus of our work is tapping the potential of data and digital devices
 to improve health outcomes, working in collaboration with the Data Education in Schools
 programme within the data-driven innovation (DDI) theme of the Edinburgh and South East
 Scotland City Region Deal (£237m from UK and Scottish Governments to UoE as part of an
 overall DDI package of £661m, 2018).

 1.2 Research, knowledge exchange and impact strategy

 Over the REF period we have achieved the following:
    • creation of 12 new posts bringing in outstanding young researchers and one Professor
        (Collins) to boost expertise in key areas;
    •   100% of our academic staff were research-active by 2015 (compared to 65% in the
        last REF period) and 94% of all staff have applied for grants over this period with a 40%
        success rate;
    •   a substantial increase in research income from £2.7m in previous REF period to £4.7m
        over the current period;
    •   transformation of our PGR programme, which led to a substantial increase in doctoral
        student completions (from 18 in the previous REF period to 40 over the current period);
    •   expansion of partnerships with industry, government, international organisations and
        the third sector to generate over £1m in consultancy funding (compared to £88k in the
        previous REF period);
    •   forging new collaborations to extend the reach of our research and impact with diverse
        global and local organisations, including: global health organisations (e.g. WHO), sport
        governing bodies (e.g. World Golf Federation), charities (e.g. Cerebral Palsy International
        Sports and Recreation Association, CPISRA), and internationally-renowned academic
        institutions (see Section 4).

 These achievements are a result of our overarching strategic goal during this REF cycle of
 creating an ambitious and supportive community empowered to produce high-quality and
 impactful research which contributes to the SDGs noted above. Key elements of this strategy
 are:
     • recruitment and staff support focused on achieving ambitious goals in publications,
        external funding, and impact (see Sections 2 and 3);
    •   strengthening PGR and early career researcher (ECR) support to bring on the next
        generation of research leaders in sport, physical education, physical activity and outdoor
        environmental education;


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   the development of 5 interdisciplinary groups to foster collaboration and provide
        support for grants, outputs and KEI (see 1.3 below);
    •   forging strategic partnerships across the University, nationally and internationally, to
        deliver world-leading, interdisciplinary and challenge-led research and impact (see
        Section 4); and
    •   a KEI strategy targeting key partners and audiences, delivered through consultancies,
        public engagement and MOOCs (see 1.4 below).

 1.3 Structure

 ISPEHS activities are organised around five interconnected groups, bringing together staff,
 PGRs and associate members within and beyond UoE. These groups meet regularly; have
 played a pivotal role in supporting and integrating our early career and PGR communities; and
 have acted as the linchpins for broader, strategic engagement with RKEI partners. Each staff
 and PGR member of our Institute must be affiliated to at least one group. The numbers indicated
 for each group below reflect primary affiliations but some staff are affiliated to more than one
 group.

 1.3.1 Physical Activity for Health Research Centre (PAHRC)

 Directed by Professor Nanette Mutrie, PAHRC brings together 8 staff in a multi-disciplinary team
 of psychologists; physiologists; epidemiologists; and exercise, public health and medical
 scientists. They share a mission to encourage people of all ages to “sit less and move more” and
 enjoy the physical, mental and social health benefits of an active lifestyle. PAHRC’s research
 focuses on developing, testing and implementing theories and interventions that support all
 segments of the population to increase physical activity and reduce sedentary behaviour. In this
 way the group contributes to the solutions needed to halt the global pandemic of inactivity. Since
 2014, PAHRC members have secured more than £1m in research and consultancy income.

 PAHRC’s research challenges paradigms. For example, research on the concept of “prevented
 for the population fraction” estimated that existing global physical activity levels prevent almost 4
 million premature deaths per year. Before this the field had focused solely on the harm of not
 being active (The Lancet Global Health, 2020). PAHRC has also challenged the idea that
 messaging about the risk of inactivity will influence behaviour change, instead providing
 evidence that gain framed messages could be more successful (International Journal of
 Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity, 2020).

 PARHC’s intervention work ranges from individual approaches to natural experiments. Its
 evidenced-based approach to promoting walking with football fans helped them adopt a healthier
 lifestyle and increase physical activity (The Lancet, 2014). Now 125 professional clubs in football
 and other sports run this programme (see Impact Case Study “Football Fans in Training”).
 Changes to the environment could help or hinder local physical activity levels but such
 interventions are difficult to study. Researchers showed, using detailed data over 8 years in a
 natural experimental design, that a new motorway reduced physical activity for local residents in
 comparison to residents in an area not influenced by the motorway (International Journal of
 Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity, 2017).

 PAHRC research has also informed policies to improve public health and promote
 sustainability. PAHRC researchers were the first to evidence that the benefits of walking and
 cycling outweigh the adverse health effects of air pollution (Preventive Medicine, 2016). This
 research underpins the models used in WHO’s online Health Economic Assessment Tool
 (HEAT), which policymakers around the world use to conduct economic impact assessments of
 walking and cycling (see Impact Case Study “Enhancing global, UK and Scottish physical
 activity policy and guidance”).



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.2 Human Performance Science (HPS)

 Directed by Dr Tony Turner, HPS brings together 12 staff with expertise in psychology,
 physiology, biomechanics and education research. The group’s mission is to improve human
 performance through evidence-informed research and education in a variety of contexts such as
 sport, law and healthcare. Since 2014, this applied research group’s activities have extended
 from local projects in the arts, sport and health to projects with international charities and sport
 governing bodies.

 Martindale and Collins’ research has evaluated professional judgement and decision making
 in high-pressure, rapidly-evolving environments in performance sport (The Sport Psychologist,
 2019), in crime scene examinations (Scottish Institute for Policing Research, 2015) and most
 recently in organ retrieval teams (Transplantation, 2020). This work has advanced sports
 coaching policy and practice to develop more than 3,000 practitioners’ judgement and decision-
 making, and it also improved the Scottish Police Authority Forensic Service’s understanding of
 professional judgement to change the way it trains its 120 Crime Scene Examiners to make
 decisions at approximately 25,000 crime scenes each year (see Impact Case Study “Enhancing
 professional judgement and decision making in hyperdynamic environments”).

 Phillips and Verheul’s motor control and exercise physiology research, in collaboration with
 international charity Cerebral Palsy International Sports and Recreation Association (CPISRA,
 €20k) has contributed to the development of frame running (formerly race running), an
 innovative sport where people with severe motor and coordination impairments race specially
 designed pedal-less tricycles. Their research (Gait & Posture, 2018) demonstrated which
 potential measures of impairment would be valid for classification purposes. The World
 Paralympic Association has used these findings in developing frame running sections of their
 Classification Rules and Regulations, ahead of the planned introduction of frame running at the
 Paralympic Games in Paris in 2024.

 1.3.3 Physical Education Research Forum (PERF)

 Directed by Dr Shirley Gray, and with 9 staff, PERF has played an important role in influencing
 curriculum developments in PE locally and internationally. For example, PERF researched what
 Scotland’s new Curriculum for Excellence meant for the future of PE (Scottish Educational
 Review, 2016). This research showed that PE teachers found the curriculum guidance difficult to
 interpret, and concluded that the new policy would have little impact on their current
 practice. Education Scotland reported that this research was a major driver in the development
 of additional policy guidelines (the Significant Aspects of Learning and the Benchmarks for PE).
 This research underpinned Gray’s work in developing the PE curriculum in Malta and similar
 work by Jess’s in Vietnam as part of an international World Bank Group project ($20k).

 A further theme for PERF is the role of physical activity in cognitive development. Booth
 employed a longitudinal cohort design of almost 5,000 children to show that physical activity at
 age 11 positively influenced academic achievement in later years (British Journal of Sports
 Medicine, 2014). She has also researched an approach to teaching primary school PE which
 emphasised co-ordination (Better Movers and Thinkers) and showed that improving co-
 ordination enhanced executive function and improved reading skills (British Journal of
 Educational Research, 2019). As part of its “Terrific Scientific” science curriculum for children,
 the BBC commissioned Booth to explore the impact of just 15 minutes of exercise on children’s
 cognitive abilities. Through experiments with more than 20,000 UK primary school pupils, the
 researchers found that 15 minutes of exercise can have a significant positive effect. Booth also
 co-designed a BBC “live lesson” on the subject, which was watched by more than 8,000 primary
 school children when it aired in September 2017.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.4 Social, Political and Cultural Sport Research Forum

 Directed by Professor Grant Jarvie, the Forum brings together 6 staff with a mission to research
 and advocate the role of sport for social, political and cultural change. The Forum’s
 researchers explore sports policy as well as sports diplomacy and cultural relations. These
 researchers examine the role of sport in enabling SDGs on eliminating poverty; reducing
 inequalities; advancing gender equality; and promoting peace, justice and strong institutions.
 Since 2014, its members have produced more than 120 research outputs and secured in excess
 of £378k research and consultancy income.

 Forum researchers delivered the 2015 World Sports Values Summit for Peace and Development
 in Cape Town. Funded by The Handa Foundation, the £40k event invited more than 150 young
 leaders, athletes, experts, influencers and distinguished guests, such as the Mandela family and
 Lord Moynihan, to explore the role sport can play in advancing cooperation, development and
 peace. The global agenda-setting summit catalysed a relationship with Handa, which enabled
 more than 8 funded youth fellowships in low and middle-income African countries.

 Forum research – including work on North and South Korea (Lee) and Scotland and Wales
 (Jarvie) – supported a series of research workshops on sports diplomacy and cultural
 relations attended by more than 300 policy influencers from various countries. Supported by
 UNESCO, Banda’s (2019) report on sport for development in Zambia was endorsed at the
 meeting of African Sport Ministers in Madagascar. J. Kelly’s research contributed to the
 Offensive Behaviour at Football and Threatening Communications (Repeal) (Scotland) Bill as
 part of evidence to the Scottish Parliament Justice Committee in November 2017. Research by
 McDowell on the nexus between sports history, management, and organisation studies was
 nominated for Best Article of the Year (2015) by the International Journal of the History of Sport.
 J. Kelly and Lee drew on the group’s interdisciplinary expertise from sports history to sports
 management and international development to co-edit the influential Routledge Handbook of
 Sport and Politics (also featuring contributions from Jarvie and Reid).

 1.3.5 Outdoor Environmental Education Unit (OEEU)

 Directed by Professor Peter Higgins, the Unit brings together 5 staff with a mission to research
 the theory, philosophy and practice of Outdoor Environmental and Sustainability Education.
 Research from this group advances Learning for Sustainability (LfS) which is a key Scottish
 educational policy priority that includes Outdoor Learning as a core theme. Since 2014, the team
 has developed and led research and consultancy worth over £1.5m. Specifically, research by
 Higgins, Nicol, Beames, Christie and colleagues has provided evidence of the educational value
 of LfS. As a consequence, the team advises Scottish Government, UNESCO, Scottish
 Qualifications Authority, Quality Assurance Agency, Education Scotland, General Teaching
 Council for Scotland (GTCS) and British Council by sharing their research knowledge. The
 OEEU research aligns with all SDGs and underpins the national policy architecture that positions
 LfS as an entitlement of all 690,000 state school pupils across Scotland and a responsibility of
 all 56,000 teaching professionals and leaders registered with the GTCS. This makes Scotland a
 global pioneer with education policies that are world-leading in incorporating LfS into the national
 curriculum(see Impact Case Study “Embedding Learning for Sustainability in Scottish education
 policy and teaching practice”).

 Higgins and Christie, in partnership with the Scottish charity Venture Trust, secured £395k of a
 €3.4m grant from the Norwegian Grants Fund for Youth Employment to develop the Scottish
 contribution to the European “From Outdoors to the Labour Market” (FOLM) project. FOLM’s
 main innovation comes from the approach used for social and personal growth through Outdoor
 Learning which is based on OEEU research. The project will support 1,000 young people from
 Spain, Poland and Ireland to build confidence to pursue education, employment or training
 opportunities.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Strengthening impact

 Impact is thoroughly embedded in all strands of ISPEHS research, as illustrated in the
 description of research groups above. Our strategy has focused on building skills and
 professional support for researchers across all career stages, and at all stages of research.
 Our impact strategy is illustrated by these key examples:
    • ISPEHS has actively invested in and prioritised strategic partnerships to enhance the
        impact of our research. Key partners include: Scottish Government, Paths for All, NHS
        Scotland Organ Retrieval Team, and European Golf Tour (see Section 4.1 for further
        details). These partnerships allow all ISPEHS projects to benefit from an advisory board,
        convened from relevant stakeholders, with the purpose of maximising the impact of our
        research.
    •   Our partnerships with beneficiary organisations have been strengthened by a series of
        consultancy roles. For example, PAHRC has a strong partnership with Paths for All,
        Scotland’s national charity for walking, for which both Mutrie and P. Kelly are Board
        Directors. This relationship has generated: 2 PhD scholarships; joint research projects
        (for example in relation to the workplace Step Count Challenge). Richards and Turner
        from HPS also provided consultancy (approximately £38k) to clients of Elite Sport
        Performance, designing and delivering sport science as part of international motorsport
        driver development programmes with national and international organisations.
    •   We have set up the Scottish walking for Health Research Exchange (SHaRE) in
        collaboration with the Scottish National Walking Strategy Delivery Forum. SHaRE
        provides a mechanism for researchers to disseminate findings; a place for practitioners
        and policy makers to access walking research; and communication and exchange of
        ideas between researchers, practitioners and policymakers.
    •   We have also promoted public understanding through a series of Massive Online Open
        Courses (MOOCs), developed by ISPEHS and our collaborators, which have attracted
        over 100,000 learners to engage with the issues researched by ISPEHS over the past 6
        years. Learners (almost 65,000 to date) have rated our “Sit less, get active” MOOC at 4.5
        out of 5 for excellence. Since 2014, more than 40,000 learners have taken part in
        “Football: More than a Game”, which disseminated football research and was the world’s
        first football-related MOOC. The “Learning for Sustainability” MOOC was the world’s first
        in LfS with 12,750 participants enrolled from 176 countries; it was ranked 4.8 out of 5 for
        excellence by these learners.
    •   We established The Academy of Sport (led by Professor Grant Jarvie) which is a think
        tank that gathers together world-leading researchers and practitioners to promote the
        power of sport to improve lives and enhance communities. Since 2014, more than 2,000
        members of the public have participated in the academy’s 30 joint seminars with the
        University of Toronto on topics such as sport, dementia and health, sport diplomacy and
        cultural relations. Academy of Sport research is cited in Australia’s 2030 Sports
        Diplomacy Strategy launched by Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade in
        2019.

 1.5 Open Research and Research Ethics and Integrity

 ISPEHS is committed to promoting an open research environment, as part of our broader
 commitment to sharing the benefits of our research to promote goals of health, well-being and
 inclusion. We have an Open Research strategy, which sets out our goals, opportunities and
 support measures to ensure we maximise access to our outputs, and share our data and
 methods as openly as possible. This strategy focuses on advancing rigour, transparency and the
 accessibility of our methods, data, findings and outputs. We are also committed to identifying
 responsible research metrics which could be used to further incentivise open research. This
 Open Research strategy is aligned with Plan S, a global initiative for Open Access publishing.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our open access (OA) policy requires that all outputs published since 2016 (including book
 chapters and commissioned reports) be deposited in our institutional repository. Supported by
 our dedicated full-time RKEI Data Coordinator, we have seen a significant increase in OA
 compliance with a sustained a rate of >97% since 2016. We also work closely with OA teams at
 University-level to drive improvements and ensure consistent procedures for recording,
 evaluating, storing and communicating research. Data sharing is supported by the University’s
 comprehensive Research Data Management Programme, which includes: training, file storage
 for active research data (DataStore) which is used by both students and staff as projects
 proceed; an archive storage service (DataVault); a Data Safe Haven facility which is used for
 projects involving NHS patients; and a Version Control Service to allow users to store codes. We
 also use DMPOnline, a tool which helps our researchers develop data management plans and
 all funded projects have such a plan. We increasingly use OA data in our research. For example,
 census data held by Administrative Data Research UK are being used to track active commuting
 behaviour and STATS19 data on injuries and mortality are being used in an ongoing project
 which focusses on the impact of 20MPH traffic zones.

 Over the REF period, we made substantial investment in governance of research ethics and
 integrity, rolling out rigorous ethics guidance and procedures to cover all staff and student
 research projects (funded and unfunded). The Moray House Research Ethics Committee
 oversees all ethics applications and reviews research and data collection methods in line with
 ethical procedures including General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). It works closely with
 UoE’s Institute for Academic Development to provide comprehensive training on research ethics
 and data integrity. All ISPEHS research adheres to the UK Research Integrity Office’s code of
 practice for research and The Universities UK Concordat to support research integrity. Between
 2016 and 2018 ISPEHS updated its approval process for exercise testing with human
 participants (children and adults) in line with professional standards set by the British
 Association of Sport & Exercise Sciences and the British Psychological Society.

 ISPEHS members Niven and Saunders have taken on wider responsibilities in relation to
 research and integrity. Niven, as College Associate Dean for Research Ethics, is overseeing
 implementation of a new College online ethics tool, the roll-out of DORA (San Francisco
 Declaration on Research Assessment – see Section 2.3) and new training modules for
 researchers across the College. Saunders is serving as College Academic Misconduct Officer.

 1.6 Future strategy

 Over the next 6 years, ISPEHS will continue to empower our researchers to realise ambitious
 goals and we will strengthen our interdisciplinary and international partnerships to tackle key
 societal challenges in line with the SDGs. ISPEHS plans to:
    • Launch and develop a new Sport & Exercise Medicine research group to further extend
        the University’s world-class medical research into the world of sport and exercise
        medicine, in collaboration with the University’s Sports Injury Clinic and associated
        partnerships with global organisations such as the World Golf Federation and WHO. An
        immediate target will be to co-ordinate and develop our work on concussion in sport.
    •   Deepen our engagement with the Data Driven Innovation Skills Gateway within the
        Edinburgh and South East Scotland City Region Deal Skills Programme (see Section 4),
        building upon our existing work and partnerships to deliver data and digital literacy
        through sport, PE and physical activity. An immediate target is to evaluate evidenced
        based teacher resources which aim to use data to enhance physical literacy.
    •   Extend our research on sports diplomacy and sports management working with
        partnerships in countries in the global north and the global south. An immediate target
        will be to research how to align sport for development initiatives with local area strategic
        development plans in Zambia and Rwanda.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and development

 Our staffing strategy focuses on fostering a stimulating and supportive environment to enable
 staff to realise ambitious RKEI goals. We achieve this through a combination of strategic
 recruitment in our key research areas, and tailored support for staff across all career stages
 through mentoring, guidance and flexible access to generous resources (see Section 2.1.2).

 2.1.1 Recruitment and staff composition

 Over the REF period we have created 12 new posts, appointing outstanding researchers to
 strengthen excellence in key areas of physical education, physical activity, sport science and
 outdoor environmental education (Baker, Banda, Booth, Carse, Carson, Fitzsimons, P. Kelly,
 Phillips, McMillan, MacIsaac and Smith) and re-appointing Collins (original appointment 1998 –
 2005) to a Professorship as a strategic investment to provide expertise and mentorship to the
 Human Performance Science Group. Over the same period, 4 staff have left due to retirement or
 to pursue new opportunities.

 Examples of research excellence that new staff bring include:
    • P. Kelly bringing epidemiology and evaluation expertise to physical activity for health.
    •   Banda bringing connections between countries located in the Global South and those in
        the Global North through sport for development programme design. These include: Italy,
        Israel, Lithuania, South Africa, Spain, Russia, Turkey, and Zambia.
    •   Phillips bringing cutting-edge use of animation and infographics to outputs.

 Three of these new posts (Fitzsimons, Baker and MacIsaac) have been achieved through the
 conversion of fellowships to open-ended contracts. Fitzsimons and Baker’s highly-
 competitive, tenure-track 2012 Chancellor’s Fellowships became open-ended contracts in 2017,
 and since 2014 they have generated a total of £804k in collaborative research funds from
 external agencies, including MRC and the Chief Scientist’s Office. Similarly, MacIsaac’s
 prestigious Bicentennial Fellow post allowed her to obtain a doctoral degree (2017) whilst
 gaining experience in other aspects of her academic career and she moved to an open-ended
 contract in 2018. Over the REF period, we have implemented a number of initiatives to support
 research active staff who were not in open-ended roles. As a result, only 1 member of staff in
 this submission does not have an open-ended contract.

 We have benefited from a high retention rate of mid-career colleagues, whom we have
 supported in achieving (since 2014): 12 promotions to Senior Lecturer (7 men and 5 women:
 Beames, Booth, Christie, Gray, Horrell, Martindale, Nicol, Nash, Phillips, Psycharakis, Richards,
 Saunders), 1 to Reader (P. Kelly) and 2 personal Professorships (Sproule and Nicol). Those
 in promoted positions now play key leadership roles, including: directing research groups and
 RKEI centres; leading KEI activities; acting as PGR Director; directing ISPHES (Nash); and
 serving as Depute Head of School (Fawkner). This combination of appointments and promotions
 has created an excellent balance across career stages, with a strong emphasis on nurturing the
 next cohort of RKEI leaders.

 2.1.2 Support for staff

 New staff are supported by a number of initiatives, including:
   • allocation of a “buddy” to provide initial support and promote integration, supported
       through a comprehensive induction programme including a new School induction
       portal;
    •   appointment of a research mentor and regular meetings with the relevant senior
        manager and research director;

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •     expectation that all new staff join one or more research groups, with strong
          encouragement to discuss research plans with group leaders as soon as in post;
    •     reduction of teaching duties by 10% for the first two years following appointment, and
    •     suite of professional development opportunities provided by UoE’s Institute for Academic
          Development (IAD), including a competitive annual course on research leadership. 5
          researchers have won places on this course (P. Kelly, Martindale, Gray, Turner and
          Baker) since 2014. Turner and Gray subsequently took on ISPEHS research group
          leadership roles and Martindale and Kelly led on impact work for their research groups.

 All staff have an Annual Review meeting to discuss professional development and note
 achievements against identified milestones, including those in individual RKEI plans. Staff also
 benefit from generous research leave entitlement of 1 semester every 3 years, provided they
 agree research goals (including outputs) and submit a subsequent report. Since 2014, 13 staff
 were awarded research leave and this resulted in 3 PhD completions, 4 book or publication
 completions, and 6 grant proposals.

 Each staff member has access to £1k over a 2-year period for research training and
 development; in total, £48,500 has been allocated to ISPHES staff over the REF period. While
 conference attendance/travel is the most frequent use of these funds, some projects have
 evolved from this support. For example, Baker received proposal development funds in 2013,
 leading to a successful MRC-funded project in 2015. These opportunities are in addition to the
 annual personal development allowance of up to £500 and the annual budget of £2k allocated to
 ISPEHS for organising seminars, colloquia, impact curations and networking.

 To encourage the development of research skills and to help groups flourish and collaborate, all
 ISPEHS staff take part in a half- or full-day research retreat away from our normal working
 environment each year. These events include sharing good practice and exploring potential
 collaborations between our research groups, as well as targeted research development
 workshops with support from University research offices. The theme for each event is needs-
 driven by research groups.

 2.2 Research students

 In this REF cycle we have graduated 40 doctoral students compared to 18 in the previous
 REF cycle. We achieved this by increasing the number of eligible supervisors, and enabling
 staff (4 in this REF cycle) without a doctoral degree to complete this qualification through
 strategic research leave. In addition, our growing research reputation created an increased
 number of high quality applicants. Our strategy also teamed up experienced primary supervisors
 with less-experienced second supervisors. Through these initiatives, we have increased our
 PGR numbers and nurtured a vibrant, multidisciplinary PGR community from a diverse range of
 nationalities: the PGRs active in 2019/20 included around 30 researchers from 12 different
 nationalities, with an almost even split of female and male researchers. Eighteen of these PGRs
 (60%) are funded by competitive scholarships, including ESRC, Principal’s Career Development
 Scholarships and charities including Paths for All and the Calvert Trust. The total number of
 doctoral degrees awarded each year are as shown in the table below (fractions indicating joint
 supervision across Schools).

    2013/14        2014/15       2015/16       2016/17          2017/18       2018/19      2019/20

  PhD      EdD     PhD EdD PhD EdD            PhD     EdD       PhD EdD PhD         EdD   PhD    EdD

  4.35         0    6       0   7.75      1   6.1         0.5   3.15     1   6.15   0.5   3.17   0.8

        4.35            6          8.75             6.6           4.15          6.65         3.97


                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGRs receive training in research methodology, benefitting from learning about the diverse
 range of methodologies employed across ISPEHS. For example, the training ranges from
 historical enquiry to randomised controlled trials in clinical settings. PGRs also benefit from the
 training provided by the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS, with Jarvie as
 our local pathway lead), funded by ESRC and the Scottish Funding Council. SGSSS training
 encompasses advanced methods as well as ethics, public engagement and publishing. SGSSS
 also provides opportunities for internships, a summer school, interdisciplinary hub festivals, a
 high-profile impact competition and business booster activities.

 Research students are encouraged to begin industry engagement supported by Edinburgh
 Innovations who offer access to expert advisers, start-up workshops and competitions aimed at
 enhancing graduates’ employability. For example, one recent PhD graduate (Adams) engaged
 with the sports industry as part of her Principal’s Career Development Scholarship to design a
 new education app to promote concussion awareness and is now working on a Wellcome Trust
 iTPA-funded project (“Scaling up a concussion education and best practice package to promote
 health and well-being”).

 ISPEHS supports PGRs throughout their PhD journey with regular checkpoints introduced to
 ensure that they are progressing satisfactorily and receiving adequate support, but also to
 develop skills required for oral examinations and introduce feedback from colleagues outwith the
 supervision team. New PGRs are encouraged to write an updated PhD plan after 4 months and
 then, within the first year, submit a paper and present to a progression panel containing at
 least 2 staff (excluding supervisors). A further opportunity exists, where recommended, for such
 additional feedback at the end of year 2.

 PGRs are closely integrated into the research community, with each researcher aligned to 1
 or more ISPHES research groups, which provide various forms of support, including strong
 encouragement to present work in progress, rehearse conference presentations or share
 emerging findings. On alternate years, our PGRs organise and deliver a half-day conference for
 staff and PGR students. The mini-conference is designed to showcase ongoing research with
 contributions ranging from conference-style posters to oral presentations, dependent on their
 stage of study. In addition, each year PGRs select a topic for research development and staff or
 guest speakers deliver presentations and workshops on this theme. This creates a dynamic
 research environment in which students feel they are valued and receive feedback from a wide
 range of viewpoints. Our students contribute to a monthly student-led newsletter, circulated to all
 staff, doctoral and master’s students. This promotes local and international events and training
 opportunities, includes personal reflections on key transitions and the viva, and provides updates
 on funding opportunities and academic vacancies.

 All doctoral students are encouraged to engage with the University’s Careers Service that offers
 students a range of advice services during their studies and for up to 2 years after graduation.
 We also support PGR students with applications for fellowships and research positions as
 they near completion. Successes from this approach include: a post-doctoral fellowship at the
 University of Cambridge; an appointment as a high performance scientist at the SportScotland
 Institute of Sport; 3 appointments straight to lecturing positions on graduation at Scottish,
 English and Australian universities; and 3 UoE research positions. Our students are encouraged
 and supported to publish as they proceed and most graduate with at least 1 publication
 completed from their PhD. Since 2014, we have had 41 publications first authored by our PhD
 students in some of the most prestigious peer reviewed journals in our field (e.g., British Journal
 of Sports Medicine, International Journal of Behavioural Nutrition and Physical Activity) and a
 top-10 entry in the Scottish Graduate School of Social Sciences Research Impact and
 Knowledge Exchange competition.

 2.3 Equality and diversity

 ISPEHS is committed to creating a fully inclusive research environment, and ensuring that
 every member of staff has the opportunity to develop and progress their research regardless of

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 age, race, gender, class, sexual orientation, religion, belief or disability. In this submission we
 have 9 staff (10%) from overseas, 62% of the submission is male and we have an equal number
 of lecturers and senior lecturers (16), one reader and 7 professors. On the census date we had 3
 ECRs according to the REF definition (Carson, MacIssac, McMillan).

 We have held the Athena Swan bronze award since 2014 and, as part of the Moray House
 School of Education and Sport, we are now working towards the silver award. Supported by our
 Equality and Diversity (E&D) committee, we actively pursue a culture of equality and respect.
 E&D is a standing item on staff meetings, with gender-aware recruitment to management roles
 and attention to maintaining gender parity amongst Annual Reviewers.

 Our own research on E&D includes disability in sport, gender issues in PE, physical activity
 promotion in ethnic minority communities and football for homeless people. Our E&D
 environment is enriched by inviting a vibrant mix of researchers and practitioners to share their
 work and experience. For example, we recently hosted a presentation from the organiser of the
 Homeless World Cup; Professor Bruce Kidd (University of Toronto) delivered the Moray House
 2018 annual lecture on equity in sport; and in 2016 Hala Ousta (FIFA’s access and diversity
 manager) gave a talk on equality and diversity in football.

 Inclusivity and flexible working are strongly encouraged and these topics are included as part
 of the staff induction process. All requests for flexible working (4 over the REF period) including
 part-time working, concentrated days and “working from home” opportunities (prior to the Covid-
 19 pandemic) were approved by line managers. Supporting staff with caring responsibilities,
 awareness of work-life balance and health and well-being, and advancing family-friendly policies
 have been key agenda items on Institute away days. We have moved to provide transparent
 workload models and approaches to workload allocation, aimed at creating equity and
 supporting all colleagues to balance the demands of research, teaching and administration.
 Annual Reviews are disaggregated from workload reviews to allow a clear focus on career
 progression in the former. Our current action plan places a specific focus on supporting staff
 returners to re-engage with their research career (for example, after parental leave) including
 providing returner buddies and a workload allocation of 0.1 FTE given for re-familiarisation
 support in workload planning. We have also introduced an annual Returners Career
 Development Fund (£5k) for training/conference attendance (including childcare). Other actions
 include: a dedicated E&D intranet page; and a culture of scheduling meetings between 10.00
 and 16.00 while avoiding Fridays and local school holidays for Institute and committee meetings.
 Staff are actively encouraged to use their full annual leave entitlement, and they have access to
 opportunities for regular in-house mindfulness and yoga sessions.

 In terms of accessibility, the building in which our core business is delivered is fully accessible
 via ramps and lifts, with accessible study, office and teaching space. Provision for research
 students with disabilities has recently been upgraded with specific student-led changes made
 within our local Library and accessible study rooms.

 The impact of all of our E&D measures is evidenced in our Climate and Culture Survey. From
 the initial ISPEHS survey in 2012/13 to the 2016/17 survey, there was a 38% improvement in
 perceived cultural climate, with between 75 and 100% of staff and 90-100% PGR students in the
 2016/17 survey perceiving a positive climate in relation to a range of questions relating to
 equality and diversity. The survey will be repeated in 2021.

 The University is a signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment
 (DORA) and we recognise the need to assess research on its own merits rather than rely on
 external indicators such as journal impact factors. In line with the UoE REF2021 Code of
 Practice, we have adopted an inclusive approach to defining “independent researcher” and have
 welcomed the decision to return 100% of eligible academic staff. Following unconscious bias
 and equality and diversity training, we adopted a rigorous and transparent approach to selecting
 outputs. We established an independent group to review the distribution of outputs across staff
 by gender and career stage, although we were unable to access data on other protected

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 characteristics given the voluntary nature of disclosing this information. The review concluded
 that the selection had occurred without bias and with a reasonable balance across gender and
 career stage with an appropriate spread of number of publications represented in the personal
 best and open lists.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 Our external funding strategy has focused on supporting all staff, and especially ECRs, in
 submitting competitive funding bids. Our target was for each staff member to be part of at least 1
 grant application each year. Over the period 2013/14 to 2019/20, we successfully increased the
 percentage of staff applying for research grants from 65% to 94% (from 76 to 128 applications).
 Our success rate was 40%, resulting in 51 awards totalling £2.7m. In addition, the unit has
 earned over £1m in consultancies since 2014 in comparison to £88k in the previous REF cycle.
 This strategy has resulted in a substantial increase in research income from £2.7m in previous
 REF period to £4.7m over the current period (see REF 4b).

 Since 2014 we have focussed on supporting grant applications from staff who had not yet been
 principal investigators, with senior staff facilitating their involvement in established networks.
 Successes include:
     • the “WATER project: Which AquaTic ExeRcises work best? Identifying muscle
         recruitment for aquatic exercises used in interventions for core strengthening and
         rehabilitation from musculoskeletal disorders”, led by Psycharakis and funded by the
         Chief Scientist’s Office (£305k);
    •   the advancement of the changing lives through sport and physical activity project, led by
        Reid through joint funding (£250k) from Scottish Government, SportScotland and the
        Robertson Trust; and
    •   the development of a culturally-adapted walking programme for South Asian adults, led
        by Baker and funded by the MRC Public Health Intervention Development Scheme
        (£185,500).

 New staff have also been successful as Co-Investigators (Co-Is) in collaborative projects, for
 example: P. Kelly and Baker are Co-Is in the 20MPH project for which Jepson (at UoE) is PI
 (£880k from NIHR) and Fitzsimons is a Co-I in a £3m project funded by NIHR to develop and
 evaluate strategies to reduce sedentary behaviour after a stroke.

 A key element of our strategy is to partner in large bids to build our networks. For example,
 Mutrie collaborates as Co-I in multidisciplinary teams, such as the 4-country collaboration funded
 by the European Union FP7 programme (€6m) to develop and evaluate a healthy lifestyle
 programme for European Football Fans. That network has resulted in a new collaboration with
 the Free University of Amsterdam to investigate the role of walking in men’s lives.

 Our diverse portfolio of funding sources includes support from UKRI (ESRC, EPSRC, MRC,
 British Academy); research charities (Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland); the EU
 (European Commission); Government (NHS Health Scotland, National Institute for Health
 Research, Scottish Government, Chief Scientist’s Office); and other charities (British Cycling,
 FIA Institute for Motor Sport Safety and Sustainability, Paths for All, Cerebral Palsy International
 Sport and Recreation Association, CPISRA).

 Since 2014, ISPEHS has increased the number of applications for competitive internal University
 funding sources from 10 to 28, winning over £37k seedcorn funding, in comparison to just over
 £10k in the previous REF cycle. These seedcorn awards have resulted in: 2 larger grants on the
 same theme being awarded by external agencies (£159,961); new collaborations with UoE’s
 College of Medicine and Veterinary Medicine; and a partnership with the University of Limerick
 to support research staff collaboration and exchange. We also had success with internal funds to

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support KEI activities. Since 2014, we have won 7 internal KEI grants totalling £18,724 (awards
 to Niven, Baker, Higgins, Turner, Booth, Niven/Phillips and Gray). Examples include establishing
 a network for ethnicity and physical activity research, engaging with the BBC for a citizen
 science project and using animation to enhance KEI. We also had success with ESRC Impact
 Acceleration Accounts (IAA) with 5 awards totalling £54,787 (awards to Martindale (x2), Mutrie,
 Niven and Booth). Examples include establishing the SHaRE repository for walking research in
 Scotland and workshops with both organ retrieval teams and crime investigators on decision-
 making processes. Gray and Adams also won IAA placement awards worth £15,314 for working
 in local schools to collect relevant data.

 3.2 Infrastructure

 ISPEHS benefits from specialised research support through the RKEI office which has
 expanded from 2 to 5.5 FTE over the REF period. The staff provide comprehensive guidance
 and development support for funding applications, including weekly updates on research funding
 schemes, targeted communication of opportunities specific to the profile and funding plans of
 colleagues, as well as 1-to-1 tailored support. This support is complemented by the University-
 level Edinburgh Research Office, which provides specialised support services, including funder
 priorities and horizon-scanning, as well as support for larger and more complex applications. In
 addition, we provide a rigorous system of internal peer review for applications, with each
 proposal reviewed by two senior colleagues with relevant expertise.

 We organise a range of activities to support grants and publications, including away days,
 writing retreats, mini-conferences, workshops and seminars. Examples of workshop topics
 include ethics, data management, creating and tracking impact, writing successful grant
 proposals and engagement with external partners. This infrastructure has also enabled us to
 increase the accessibility of our expertise and research outputs through a wide range of events,
 jargon-free briefings, social media and press releases.

 3.3 Facilities

 ISPEHS benefits from its own dedicated research facilities within the St Leonard’s Land
 building on the University’s Holyrood Campus, a short walking distance from the Scottish
 Parliament, the National Library of Scotland and National Records of Scotland. Over the REF
 period, the University has made substantial investment (£24m) in the Centre for Sport and
 Exercise with its world-class sport and recreation facilities (see Figure 1).




 Figure 1: Some of the upgraded world-class sporting facilities available to our staff and PGR
 students for applied research in sports and exercise, including: cardio suite (top left), high-
 performance strength and conditioning gym (top right), free-weights reclaimed vault (bottom left)
 and Peffermill playing fields incorporating the National Hockey Centre (bottom right)

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Continued investment has been made in facilities and estates at Moray House since 2014 with
 the formation of dedicated PhD suites and improvements to open access computer labs. There
 is also a new catered social space, “Levels”, where staff and students can connect and
 collaborate. In addition, a new PhD hub opened in 2019 in the heart of the campus, offering a
 new state-of-the-art social/networking spaces.

 There are two main dedicated sport and exercise laboratories in ISPEHS, with flexibility to adapt
 existing spaces to include interdisciplinary projects as required. Since 2014 a major upgrade
 (£130k) to the biomechanics/motor control laboratory has been implemented with the installation
 of a new land-based motion capture system (see the top right panel, Figure 2) that can
 accommodate and integrate electromyography (EMG) and eye tracking data. In addition, further
 significant upgrades to the aquatic biomechanics motion capture system have been installed and
 brought online in the last 12 months in our own 25 metre swimming pool – the only facility of its
 kind in the UK (see the bottom panel, Figure 2). Both of these facilities were central to our novel
 research demonstrating the safety and suitability of aquatic exercises for individuals with chronic
 low-back pain (WATER project, CSO £305k). Advanced planning is underway to refurbish the
 physiology teaching and research laboratory; this will include installing new hardware as well as
 cloud-based data capture and analysis software.




 Figure 2: Investment in cutting-edge technology and software, such as the 3-D motion capture
 system (top right panel) and wireless EMG being demonstrated in our unique “wet lab” facility
 (bottom and left panels)

 Significant audio-visual upgrades have been made to the dance studio, both labs and the main
 games hall. These substantial upgrades enable online, touchscreen video analysis and
 playback to be projected onto a designated screen for visual analysis. Aside from developments
 to the existing fabric of the Institute and the submission of large-scale bids, a 3-year (£200k)
 investment from the School has been earmarked solely for the purpose of upgrading existing
 equipment and purchasing new technology. Examples of new equipment purchased include an
 integrated Global Positioning System (GPS) and heart rate monitoring system bought in
 partnership with the Scottish Rugby Union. These substantial investments illustrate the
 commitment that the University is making to provide excellent research facilities and equipment

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for staff and research students to utilise, as well as sustainable development through sharing
 equipment and lab spaces with external partners such as the SportScotland Institute of Sport.

 Much of the Sport library collection is held in a dedicated learning resource centre. It has an
 e-preference policy, giving direct access to over 700,000 e-books and 100,000 e-journals, as
 well as an extensive range of specialist databases, print sources and important special
 collections. The School’s Dalhousie library and main University library are nearby, as is the
 National Library of Scotland which is one of 6 legal deposit libraries in the UK. In collaboration
 with the University library staff, we are undertaking a Wellcome Trust funded project on physical
 training, education and movement with the records held by the archives of Dunfermline College
 of Physical Education (which merged with Moray House in 1985). The archives have also
 supported research at PhD level in Early Years Education and Dance Science.

 The University’s computing provision is amongst the most advanced in Europe, providing first-
 class facilities for collaboration, high performance computing and design services, which our
 students and staff use for analytical processes and to produce infographics to illustrate findings.
 Cloud printing is now easily accessible for all staff and students across the whole campus and
 Moray House has excellent audio-visual and videoconferencing facilities to support collaborative
 and international research activities.

 We collaborate on teaching, student research projects and support for sport performance with
 the University’s Centre for Sport and Exercise and the Sport & Exercise Medicine Clinic.
 All UoE staff and students benefit from these world-class facilities and resources such as the
 Eric Liddell High Performance Sports Scholarships, the Katherine Grainger Scholarship and an
 Olympic rowing facility. The proximity of these facilities and the high number of performance
 athletes at the University afford us excellent opportunities for our applied sports scientists to
 work alongside performance coaches to enhance their knowledge. For example, 28 students
 competed in the 2018 Commonwealth Games and one of our students, Grace Reid, won gold in
 the 1 metre springboard diving. These athletes are supported by performance coaches, many of
 whom are graduates of our undergraduate and postgraduate courses (for example Strength and
 Conditioning and Performance Psychology) thus making collaborative working easily achievable.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaboration

 4.1.1 International collaborations

 Collaboration is central to our research endeavours, both to enhance academic quality and to
 maximise our impact. As described in Section 3.1, our largest grants have been won in
 collaboration with other institutions, often based internationally. Formal collaboration with other
 Institutions is also important and the institution-level Memorandum of Understanding signed
 with the University of Toronto has enabled international staff exchanges (Donnelly, Beames,
 Jacobs, Kidd, Jarvie), joint supervision of PhD research students and the production of 40
 research podcasts in the joint Edinburgh and Toronto public symposia series. We also have
 MoUs with the Universities of Limerick and the Technical University of Munich, and research
 teams from each Institution have made visits to outline collaborative plans. Jarvie and Mutrie are
 both invited members of the Open Ended Working Group Meeting of the Commonwealth
 Secretariat on Model Indicators on Sport and the Sustainable Development Goals. These
 appointments show our collaboration with national and global agencies.

 4.1.2 Collaborations which build research capacity

 We have several collaborations which offer training to researchers or students to enhance future
 global capacity in sport and health-related research. One example is the highly successful
 course on the methodology of pragmatic evaluation for physical activity research, led by P.
 Kelly (with co-leads Varney in New Zealand and Milton at University of East Anglia). This course

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has run 8 times in 8 different countries with 130 ECRs from 33 countries taking part to date. This
 team has been commissioned by governments in Qatar, New Zealand and Ireland to help them
 form processes for evaluation of physical activity programmes.

 One example of an international network is the European Primary Physical Education Network
 (EPPEN) co-founded by Jess and Carse in 2016. This network includes over 50 teacher
 educators involved in primary PE from across Europe, engaging in RKEI and advocacy work.
 Currently this network is engaged in 2 main projects:
    (1) a knowledge exchange project Disentangling Inclusion within Primary Physical Education
        (DIPPE) is funded by an ERASMUS+ KA2 grant of €256k and is developing an online
        resource for teachers to support inclusive practice;
    (2) a stakeholder analysis identifying perceptions of the purposes of primary PE.

 4.1.3 Local and national collaborations

 A team within PAHRC is working directly with the Data Education in Schools programme on
 work funded by the Data Driven Innovation Skills Gateway, within the Edinburgh and South East
 Scotland City Region Deal Skills Programme (see REF5a for further details). Within this
 programme of work, we are combining expertise in physical activity and data education to
 explore the future of a society driven by digital health literacy, and engage with stakeholders to
 make available curricular materials to simultaneously help address health and data literacy
 inequalities. The work is advancing the mission of the Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI, funded
 by the City Deal) to engage in meaningful collaboration across disciplinary boundaries to tackle
 complex ethical challenges relating to data in society.

 A further local partnership with the National Library of Scotland provided £20k to appoint a
 sports writer in residence to further disseminate research-informed stories in English and
 Gaelic. The outputs have included research to inform the creation of the first dedicated Gaelic
 Sports Website as well as publications and public talks about sport in English and Gaelic.

 One example of a national network is the Scottish Physical Activity Research Connections
 (SPARC) directed by PAHRC. SPARC is a vibrant network of 200 policymakers, practitioners
 and researchers and has an annual conference funded by the Active Scotland division of
 government. SPARC is now in its fifth year, with conference attendance of over 150 delegates
 including a very successful online conference in 2020. The Republic of Ireland have emulated
 this process and Mutrie and members of Active Scotland visited Ireland in 2018 to offer advice.

 4.1.4 Government and third sector collaborations

 One of our RKEI goals is to facilitate access to our research for the third sector, the NHS,
 professional networks and government. Examples include:
     • A Systematic Review Methodology Course run by Saunders in collaboration with the
        Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility. This course trains staff PGRs in universities,
        the NHS and industry in gold-standard systematic reviewing processes and
        interpretation.
    •   Higgins, Christie and colleagues received over £700k funding from the British Council to
        create professional development courses for teachers in learning for sustainability,
        thus aligning current educational research, national educational policy and General
        Teaching Council for Scotland professional registration agendas.

 In response to national priorities, we have researched topics that relate to updating policy and
 guidelines. For example, The PERF research on practitioner enquiry contributing to the
 Professional Learning as Critical Enquiry (PLaCE) for Whole-School Improvement project
 feeds into teachers’ professional updates to continue their General Teaching Council
 Registration, thus showing responsiveness to national priorities for teaching. PLaCE is a
 Scottish Government-funded KEI project which supports practitioners to examine and

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 understand practice through critical enquiry and develop pedagogical expertise to progress
 learning. The project involves working in partnership with 3 secondary schools and 5 primary
 schools across 5 local authorities. For the 2019-20 academic year schools committed staff
 development time and used the PLaCE approach to address a key aspect of their improvement
 plan.

 Our wide-ranging contributions to society can also be seen by 4 members of PAHRC being
 appointed by the Chief Medical Officers to update guidelines on physical activity for health in
 2018 and 3 of them (Mutrie, Strain, P. Kelly) have been appointed to work on expert panels to
 provide guidance on communication and surveillance for the home countries. Mutrie has been a
 member of the Scottish Government’s national strategic oversight group for sport and physical
 activity from 2014-2018 and was then appointed as the Chair of Active Scotland’s development
 group for physical activity and sport from 2018- 2021.

 4.1.5 Collaborations with research users

 To ensure our research is useful to practitioners and policymakers, we engage with a wide range
 of stakeholders, communities and publics. Our research proposals benefit from involvement of
 the public, patients or stakeholders, thus ensuring realistic proposals and clear pathways to
 dissemination of results. We collaborate with a diverse set of organisations that use our research
 to inform practice and/or policy. They can be divided into sport-related research users, health-
 related research users and education-related research users, with their integration illustrated
 by a few key examples shown in Figure 3.




 Figure 3: Venn diagram illustrating some of the wide range of stakeholders that use our research
 to inform practice or policy, with the overlaps emphasising the close integration in RKEI between
 sport, education and health users



                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 An example is our partnership project with golf caddies on the European Golf Tour, which
 established areas of need for their health and performance, such as mental health, that directly
 informed the provision of better support at the European Tour events. A policy-related example
 is a consultancy we completed with the Dumfries and Galloway Health Board to advise on an
 evaluation of their physical activity strategy. The final strategic framework is now in place and
 has provided a template that other local authorities are using for evaluation.

 4.2 Contribution to our disciplines

 We are playing a significant role in supporting the sustainability of our disciplines by regularly
 undertaking external examining for over 20 institutions, peer reviewing for over 50 of the
 leading journals in our areas and reviewing grant applications for the following agencies:
 Dunhill Medical Trust, ESRC, Hong Kong Health Research Agency, Irish Research Council,
 MRC, and National Institute for Health Research, During the REF period, Mutrie has also been a
 member of the ESRC peer review college.

 Our staff have Editorial Board roles on the following: Curriculum Studies in Health and PE
 (Gray), International Encyclopaedia of Teacher Education (Higgins), Journal of Sports Sciences
 (Fawkner) and Mental Health and Physical Activity (Mutrie).

 Guest Editor roles for special editions have included: Sport, Education and Society, “Creating
 thriving and sustainable futures in physical education, health and sport” (2019, Thorburn and
 Gray); Asia Pacific Journal of Sport and Social Science special issues in 2015 4(3) “Examining
 Korean nationalisms, Identities, and politics through sport” and in 2017 20(3) “Sport in society”
 (Lee).

 In terms of other contributions to our disciplines, we are particularly proud of the roles of our
 early/mid-career researchers:
     • P. Kelly: Board Member and Society Treasurer of the International Society for Physical
        Activity for Health.
    •   Carse: President of the Scottish Educational Research Association (SERA); Editorial
        Board of European Physical Education Review; Associate Editor of Teachers and
        Teaching: Theory and Practice.
    •   McDowell: ex-officio Past Chair of the British Society of Sports History (Secretary 2014-
        17; Chair 2017-19); “Major sporting events: beyond the big two” (guest editor; Sport in
        Society (20,3 (2017)); “Records, language, and discourses: new histories of Scottish
        sport” (guest editor; Sport in History 36, 3, (2017)).


 4.3 Conference hosting and organising

 We have hosted 3 major International Conferences since 2014. In 2015, we hosted the
 International Society of Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity annual conference in the
 Edinburgh Conference Centre with over 1,200 delegates attending. We also co-hosted the 2015
 World Sports Values Summit in Cape Town. In 2018 we hosted Association Internationale
 des Écoles Supérieures d’Éducation Physique with over 500 delegates.

 Our staff have been involved in the scientific committees of the following international
 conferences showing international recognition for our research: International Council for
 Coaching Excellence (2015, 2017, 2019); International Society for Physical Activity for Health
 London (2018); European Congress of Sport Sciences (2021); International Conference on
 Biomechanics & Medicine in Swimming (2018); Association Internationale des Écoles
 Supérieures d’Éducation Physique (2018 and 2019).




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Fellowships, visiting professorships and prizes

 We have been recognised externally as leaders in our fields by several prestigious
 fellowships including HEPA-Europe, BASES, the University of British Columbia and the Royal
 Geographical Society. We have staff holding honorary or visiting professorships at the
 Universities of Toronto and Ulster, the Technical University of Munich and the MRC Social and
 Public Health Sciences Unit at Glasgow University. Further esteem indicators include:
      • Mutrie was awarded an MBE in 2015 for services to physical activity for health and in
        2019 the British Association of Sport and Exercise Medicine David Hemery Award for
        outstanding contribution to lifestyle medicine.
    •   P. Kelly was invited to present the ECR keynote at the 2015 International Society for
        Behavioural Nutrition and Physical Activity (IJNBPA) conference and the subsequent
        publication from that keynote won an IJBNPA award for the most cited methodological
        paper in 2016. He also won the IJBNPA best systematic review paper in 2014.
    •   The Scottish Funding Council, Scottish Government, and a UNESCO Chair nominated
        Higgins and his research team in 2018 for one of the world’s most prestigious education
        prizes – the Yidan Prize.
    •   McIsaac won the Estelle Brisard award for the best ECR paper at the 2019 Scottish
        Educational Research Association Conference.
    •   Turner was awarded best overall poster at the 2019 annual conference of the British
        Association of Sport & Exercise Sciences for a collaborative project with Scottish Rugby
        Union.

 To foster our internationalisation agenda, we have a programme of hosting international
 visiting scholars and, since 2014, have hosted 25 scholars from diverse locations including
 Australia, Austria, Germany, China, USA, Spain and Turkey. These scholars have worked on
 collaborative projects, provided seminars and written joint publications during their visits.

 We have hosted 7 Honorary Professors since 2014, each serving a 3-year term. Each
 Honorary Professor has played a unique role in supporting and building our research capacity,
 for instance:
      • Murphy (University of Ulster) supported ECR staff;
    •   Oliver (NHS Surgeon) supported our role in teaching physical activity for health in the
        Medical School and helped us develop a social media strategy;
    •   Woods (University of Limerick) is providing collaboration and guidance on EU grant
        writing;
    •   Davies (Bristol and Napier Universities) is providing expertise in transport for health;
    •   McMorris (Chichester) advised on sport and exercise science projects;
    •   Wright (USA) is leading collaborative projects with PE research staff;
    •   Bull (World Health Organisation) advises on and co-authors research related to health
        policy.




                                                                                              Page 18
