Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 24 – Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Research Highlights

Since the 2014REF and over the course of the current REF period we have far exceeded our
strategic aims of:

           i. increasing the quantity and quality of our published output: over 450 outputs
           published during the REF cycle with over 100 outputs externally rated 3* and 4*
           ii. increase the number of PhD completions and enrolled PGR students (2014
           completions 8 v 19.5 completions in 2020; enrolled n = 60)
           iii. increase the amount of research income and increase the number of staff securing
           research related income (2014 income £418K v £1.1m 2020 income)
           iv. developing research with impact, in line with the University’s strategic aim

In addition, we have successfully implemented strategic changes to enhance the research base by
            i.aligning our research and teaching strategies and internal structures, in the
              context of the University’s strategic aim of research-informed
              teaching, ensuring greater coherence between teaching and research, and through
              involving students in research publication;
           ii.increasing our postgraduate research cohort by validating a professional doctorate
              in sport and exercise;
          iii.developing a more balanced research structure aligned to the newly created
              University Research Priority Areas: moving to four key research themes with two
              themes embedded in both our subject communities which encompass the research
              aspirations of all the UoA’s staff. These themes are strategically linked to the
              University Research Priority Area strands.
          iv.developing early career researchers via the newly developed University Early Career
              Researcher network and strategically appointing external fellows, associate professors
              and professors to the four key research themes

UoA structure and governance

Since the 2014REF the University reviewed its governance and structure of research related activity
and moved to strategically organise and manage research via Research Priority Areas (RPAs). This
UoA sits within the University’s RPA of Sport, Exercise, Health and Well-being and comprises staff from
2 Schools: School of Sport and Exercise, School of Natural and Social Sciences. RPAs were conceived
and built upon research strengths with a long-term strategic vision to promote and develop world-class
research areas encompassing a range of disciplines. This dynamic academic culture empowers staff
and enables the training of postgraduate research students in world-class facilities. Excellent multi- and
inter-disciplinary research networks exist within the UoA, which extend to world-leading national and
international collaborations.

Research activities are hosted by the RPA and supported within the School of Sport and Exercise by a
Postgraduate Research Student Lead (PGRL) who co-ordinates writing retreats, workshops, seminars
and conferences for the PGR students. The PRGL is supported by two research leads embedded within
the two subject communities. This structure helps to deliver the key research strands identified within
the School Research Plan and provide a structure around which to organise pro-active and re-active
research bids and a coherent external ’brand’ for the UoA’s research activities in an increasingly

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
competitive research market. The RPA Leadership team (which comprises the RPA lead, UoA co-
ordinator, PGRL, Subject community research leads and Early career research lead) facilitate and
direct strategy across the UoAs. four strands both in terms of research output and income generation.
The UoA benefits from a number of collaborative relationships with universities both in the UK and
overseas and hosts one visiting professor, three visiting associate professors and three visiting
research fellows. The School has also hosted circa 15 visiting International PhD students from around
the world including the USA, Czech Republic, Spain and Germany.

A restructuring of the School of Sport and Exercise research strands and subsequent strategy was
developed after an external review of the School in 2018. The proposed research strands for the School
were aligned with RPA objectives and based within the two subject communities that make up the
School (Applied Sport and Exercise Sciences (ASES); Community, Leadership, Education and Society
(CLES). The strands were framed within the context of six key considerations:1) an identifiable critical
mass of researchers; 2) current REF output; 3) current and potential impact; 4) strong links to national
and international organisations; 5) potential for grant income; and 6) a direct link to teaching, including
opportunities for students to engage at all levels with the research strand. Based on discussions with
School Academic Subject Leads and RPA leadership team, the UoA developed 2 key themes in each
subject community:

(CLES) – Theme 1: Pedagogy, coaching and ethics;
         Theme 2: Community and inclusion:

(ASES) - Theme 1: Physical activity intervention in populations with long term
                  diseases;
        Theme 2: Injury management in sport

All staff within the UoA align to one of the key themes, although this structure also allows staff to work
across themes in a multi-disciplinary way. A good example of this is evident in the impact case study
led by De Ste Croix, Hughes and Roberts, as this work sits in both the pedagogy, coaching and
ethics theme, as well as the injury management in sport theme. Strategic external appointments of
visiting fellows, associate professors and professors to each of the key themes was employed, where
strong existing relationships were formally recognised. It is the ambition of the UoA to grow these
themes in terms of numbers of staff involved in writing research outputs and identifying potential Impact
Case Studies for REF2027.

UoA research strategy

The UoA’s mission is to be located as a centre of excellence in research by academic and practitioner
communities and to guide and influence national and international policy development through rigorous
and theoretically-informed research and evaluation. The School has enjoyed particular success in more
recent years in relation to research publications/outputs, PGR recruitment, and research grant bidding.
The School has a strong track-record in collaborative, evaluative and multidisciplinary research and is a
major national provider of innovative programmes and courses in sport, exercise and health the delivery
of which draws upon its research base. A key component of our research expansion has been the
development of significant collaborative research activity with a range of external collaborators.
In line with University’s development of research leadership via the RPA structure the UoA set out to
structure its research strategy (and related activities) around three main areas, aimed at increasing the
quality of outputs, potential for external research grant bidding and generating impact: (i) developing

                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
early career researchers; (ii) one-to-one and group mentoring to develop individual research outputs
and profiles; and (iii) instigating a rolling programme of internally funded research projects (via the
RPA). To deliver on this strategy the RPA has funded the following activities over the REF cycle to
promote research output, impact and environment:

    1) 2.5FTE Research assistants on 3 year fixed term contracts – RAs ran a research seminar
       series as well as aiding staff in circa 20 projects
    2) 12 writing retreats
    3) Impact Case Studies
    4) 40 Research Projects via a small grant scheme
    5) A 0.5FTE research technician to support building bespoke equipment and servicing data
       collection
    6) A yearly conference and support for the Early career research network
    7) The purchase of new equipment so that novel techniques could be employed
    8) A number of MSc by Research projects aimed at evidencing impact

This strategy resulted in a significant increase in the quality of research outputs, pump primed projects
for staff to apply for external research funding, provided early career staff with the opportunity to bid for
internal research funding, and secured bespoke equipment for research projects. In this process
experienced researchers (including the visiting fellows, associate professors and professor) peer-
mentored early career researchers in bid writing, project management, data collection, research output,
dissemination and impact. Thus a key part of the UoA strategy was to develop our current talent
pipeline through the identified University Teaching and Research strand. Research within the UoA has
also historically used a student model to involve students at all levels of study in staff research and this
was a key component to the current REF strategy. This has all led to exceeding the strategic aims set
out after the 2014REF outcome, as highlighted at the start of this section.

Impact development

The UoA has always aimed to conduct research with impact and this was evident in the outcomes of
the 2014REF submission with 100% of the impact identified as 3 and 4*. The development of this
emerging impact in 2014 was strategically supported, with both impact case studies in the current
submission an extension of work submitted in 2014. One of the key strategic aims for the current cycle
was to build upon that strength, especially the applied nature of the research within the UoA. This is
built upon strong links with organisations, external communities and research partners around the
world. The success of this strategy is evident in the number of commissioned pieces of research, by
large organisations, focusing on the impact of specific interventions in the two impact case studies. Part
of the impact strategy was also to start to develop impact in the research undertaken in the 4 defined
research themes with the view of establishing potential impact at the design stage of research projects.
Experienced research staff and the visiting researchers have worked with early career researchers to
ensure that impact is embedded at the study design stage of projects. Impact of the research work
within the School is important for further developing links with organisations and also provides both
postgraduate research as well as undergraduate students with opportunities to gain experiences of
working with national and international organisations. Moving into the next phase of the UoA research
strategy is to identify a range of impact case studies for 2027 but also encourage staff to ensure that all
research is impactful. Dedicated CPD sessions have focused on impact generation and the annual RPA
symposium in 2019 focused on generating and embedding impact into research projects. For
coherence the 2020 symposium is focused on using impact to apply for research grant bidding. In
addition to the submitted impact case studies other areas of work that have seen emerging impact, are
in ethical governance in sport (Ryall), vascular physiology and health (Fryer), athlete well-being and

                                                                                                     Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the dual athlete (Campbell), biomechanics in World Athletics (Bissas) and biomechanics in children
with cerebral palsy (Theis).

Future research and impact strategy

The key strategy for the next REF cycle is to continue to produce impactful research by supporting
staff to publish and maintain the current volume and further enhance the quality of outputs and to
include impact as a key part of the research design process. Part of the strategy is to continue to
develop early career staff who have a practitioner focus, who are embarking on developing
research informed practice, via enrolment on PhD and Prof Doc programmes (currently 3 staff are
enrolled as Research Students with 3 more starting in 2021). The key research objectives for the
next REF cycle are:

1. Identify and develop potential Impact Case Studies for 2027 with support from internal funding
and via external commissioned research.

2. Encourage staff to attend writing retreats and CPD events to enhance 3/4* outputs

3. Ensure that all research active staff have publication plans which feed into the annual cycle of
discussion around effective use of Research and Scholarly Activity time

4. Continue to mentor early career staff via the early career researcher network and to bid to the
internal small grant scheme funded via the RPA

5. To ensure that an effective mentoring approach is embedded in across the 4 research strands

6. To effectively use the expertise of the visiting fellow, associate professors and professors in
developing a sustainable research environment within the School

7. To ensure that the PGR plan aligns with the 4 research strands within the School to maximise
output, impact and environment

8. To maximise collaborative research with staff in the growing School of Health and Social Care,
and in Technology and Engineering

8. To increase the number of staff applying for external research grant funding

9. For PGRL and community research leads to continue to provide events for PGR students and
staff to enhance the research environment
 2. People

   The University’s commitment to equality and diversity is embedded in our values and in our
   People and Culture Strategy. Some of the key University headlines since the 2014 REF which
   have influenced the UoA include:
      •a new corporate Strategic Plan for 2017-2022, underpinned by a new Academic Strategy
      and a new People and Culture Strategy.
      • a new framework for the direction and management of research across the University,
      overseen by a new Research Committee chaired by the Vice Chancellor.
      • a review of the pipeline to Professor and Reader and to improve the diversity of our
      Professors and Readers.
      • launch of an Early Career Research Network for early career academic staff and
      postgraduate research students.
      • preparation of a revised and updated statement of Academic Career Pathways, to give
      clarity to the expectations of academic staff at each level.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      • female professors forming a group to review issues of gender in relation to research at the
      University.

Staffing strategy:

 The present submission comprises 15.2 FTE staff, with most on full-time or fractional teaching
 and research academic contracts, two on fractional fixed term research contracts and one on a
 full-time research contract. The current submission is made up of 2 Professors, 2 Readers, 3
 Senior Research Fellows and 10 senior lecturers, which constitutes 49% of School staff.
 Although the total FTE is slightly lower than the last REF the percentage of staff submitted is
 greater than the 2014REF submission (33%). All staff have responsibility for delivering varying
 amounts of undergraduate and/or postgraduate teaching and for academic-related
 administration. Two staff (James and Bissas) hold significant structural management positions.
 45% of the current submission are female staff and this is an increase from the last REF
 submission where only 32% were female. This has been enhanced by the appointment of a
 number of experienced female researchers since 2014, including Turner, Theis, Bullingham
 and Campbell. The appointment of an experienced researcher (Bissas) to a structural
 management role with line management responsibility was strategic in guiding and mentoring
 staff in the ASES academic community. In this cycle Ryall was promoted from Senior Lecturer to
 Reader, further strengthening the female research leadership in the UoA. Baker was also
 promoted from Research Fellow to Senior Research Fellow and took up the role of postgraduate
 research lead in this cycle. In terms of staffing strategy and development around research
 related-activity, since 2014 a significant amount of time and resourcing has been invested into
 the one-to-one and group mentoring of School/UoA staff specifically in relation to research
 outputs and impact. As part of De Ste Croix’s wider responsibilities, all staff are offered monthly,
 bespoke support sessions in relation to research outputs, grant bidding, impact generation and
 broader career development. Senior staff, including the community research leads and visiting
 researchers, routinely offer to co-author with early career researchers to initiate publishing
 presence/profiles. Garner and Croad’s appearance in the present submission are excellent
 examples of this process, as both are currently undertaking their research degrees and
 publishing at the same time. A core part of the UoA strategy was to formalise long standing
 external academic partnerships by appointing a number of Visiting Fellows, Associate Professors
 and Professors in line with the key research themes in each of the 2 subject communities within
 the School. Visiting Professor Jean Cote and Visiting Fellow Dr Richard Harry supports CLES
 theme 1, Visiting Associate Professor Dr Wendy Russell supports CLES theme 2, Visiting
 Professor Neil Cronin and fellow Dr Ross Julien support ASES theme 1 and visiting Associate
 Professors Dr Paul Read and Dr Francisco Ayala support ASES theme 2. This critical mass of
 visiting researchers contributes significantly to the UoAs research environment by co-supervising
 PhD and professional doctorate students, leading research workshops for both staff and students
 (as part of the subject community research seminar series and RPA symposium), mentoring
 early career research staff and co-writing with staff (over 60 co-written publications). The visiting
 researchers bring a wealth of experience in successful grant bidding, having secured over £5m
 over the past 10 years. Additionally the longstanding collaborative relationship with Read and
 Ayala has contributed to one of the submitted impact case studies.

Staff development and mentoring:

 Where broader career development is concerned, junior colleagues are encouraged to explore
 and expand their involvement in relation to activities such as: reviewing for journals, income
 generation opportunities, and internal research management responsibilities. The development in
 the current REF cycle of the University Early Career Network (ECRN) has had a significant
 impact on staff, who in some areas of the UoA, are practitioner academic focused, and has
 helped underpin their practice and teaching with sound research. In 2018 subject community
 research leads were established to continue to help mentor early career researchers in the
 school. These roles are unique to the institution, and the subject community research leads
 initiate and run bespoke research related CPD events in their subject communities, linked to the
 ECRN. The development of early career researchers and on-going career progression remains

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 core to the staffing strategy of the School/UoA. It is also common practice within the School/UoA
 to promote the combining of postgraduate study with contract research. For example, where a
 research project warrants the employment of a full-time Research Assistant, staff will often
 negotiate for the project funding to at least partly cover the PGR fees of the RA. This provides
 appropriate RA capacity for the project whilst contributing to the UoA PGR numbers. This model
 also provides an excellent platform for RAs who, as early career researchers, are able to gain
 valuable contract research experience whilst obtaining a higher education qualification. In these
 instances, Project Leads act as part of the RAs supervisory team.

 The 2.5FTE fixed term Research Fellow appointments were designed specifically to address an
 identified need for expansion in Sport, Exercise Health and Well-being. Given the gradual
 turnover of staff within the UoA it is not uncommon for those who enter on research-related
 contracts to be appointed to full-time, permanent academic contracts before the end of their initial
 period of tenure. A good example of this is Sumner who was one of the research fellows and is
 now senior lecturer is psychology and lead for one of the impact case studies identified in section
 3a. The UoA utilises the Researcher Development Framework (RDF) as a model around which to
 base (and enhance) the career development and progression of its research active staff, i.e.
 transferability of skills, employability, personal development needs, career progression, and
 public engagement. At the School/UoA level they are overseen and monitored by De Ste Croix
 and Ryall. Maintaining standards of research quality and integrity on an on-going basis remains
 a crucial function of the UoA. Project management is self-selecting as a consequence of the fact
 that staff lead on and manage the projects that they initially bid for (in line with the 4 strategic
 themes), ensuring a measure of expertise and seniority. Draft papers and reports are internally
 discussed and peer reviewed via research seminar series and research reading groups. In terms
 of the present submission, all research outputs were subject to review both internally (by the UoA
 lead) and externally by a nominated external assessor. Through the annual scheduled and
 informal activities, including the annual RPA Symposium, staff must present any projects funded
 via the small grant scheme. All research tenders, formal bids and associated data collection
 procedures are subject to mandatory internal procedures surrounding research ethics and are
 dealt with at an institutional level by the University’s Research Ethics Committee (REC) and/or at
 the School level by the School Research Ethics Panel (SREP), depending on status.

 On-going support for the career development of all staff is systematically provided through the
 annual process of Staff Development Review (SDR) where staff discuss their research plans for
 the year. These then feed into discussion surrounding research objectives for the coming year
 with their line managers.

Research students

A key strategy of the UoA action plan since 2014 was to continue to have research degree
students as a central part of the units research environment, allowing staff to gain supervision
experience. This has been successful with a doubling of research degree completions from 2014
(n = 8) to the current submission (n = 19.5). Over the REF period there has also been 10 MSc by
Research completions. The table below articulates the FTE of postgraduate research students
enrolled on doctoral programmes within the School/UoA as of the census date (n = 60).

       Item                                        n                               %
   Gender
     Male                                         39                              65.0
     Female                                       21                              35.0
   Level
     MSc by                                      13                               21.7
     Res
     PhD                                         27                               45.0

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Prof Doc                                      20                                33.3
   Mode
    Part time                                        51                              86.4
    Full time                                        8                               13.6

PGR numbers have been boosted by the strategic validation of a Professional Doctorate in Sport
and Exercise in 2017. The School recognised, through its strong links with national governing
bodies, that there was a need for a professional doctorate to meet the level 8 needs of
practitioners. So far 3 cohorts have enrolled onto the professional doctorate (n = 20) with the first
of those cohorts now in the research phase, with some students close to examination. 20 staff
across the school are supervising research students, including our visiting researchers. Most
students tend to be part-time (especially those enrolled on the Professional doctorate) and those
who are full time tend to be on research scholarships, often tied to commissioned research project.

The operationalization of all PGR administration is carried out by the University’s Academic
Development Unit (ADU) which monitors and records student progression. The ADU also oversees
the admission, training, supervision and progress of PGR students although the individual allocation
of supervisory teams is negotiated at School level with the PGRL, and aligned to the 4 themes in the
School research plan. The ADU also hosts a centralised system of supervision recording and an
annual Training Needs Analysis and Joint Annual Progress Reporting both of which are completed
by way of open consultation between students and supervisors. Student record-keeping and
reporting is managed through the MyGlos portal, and the ADU maps PGR research at the University
against the QAA Research Development Framework. All students complete two taught modules
focusing on philosophy of research and methodology and methods, which must be passed for
students to continue on their research journey. These modules feed directly into a detailed research
proposal (project approval form) which is submitted, following a rigorous process of scrutiny of their
viability amongst supervisory team members, to school panel members. This happens normally
within one year of registration, and is a pre-requisite of proceeding to data collection and the ultimate
completion of the thesis. These monitoring and training process address the broad range of skills
and development that a student needs in preparation for employment and effective further academic
work (in accordance with the RDF). The ADU holds a number of ‘shut up and write’ sessions for
PGR students across the year and also hosts an annual conference and summer school at which
students have the opportunity to present papers to their peers. Students also compete in the 3-
minute thesis national competition. The RPA also holds a seminar series for PGR students and all
PGR students are invited to present their work at the Annual RPA Research Symposium. PGR
students have access to teaching opportunities and are encouraged to engage fully with the
Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES). Students are also encouraged to network
nationally/Internationally in their subject area and are provided with an annual professional
development budget.

Equality and diversity

Equality, diversity and inclusion are intrinsic not only to the values of the University as a whole, but
also to the UoA. The University of Gloucestershire was shortlisted for its outstanding contribution in
the Times Higher Education ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Awards’ in 2020. The University
provides specific mechanisms to promote the on-going support and mentoring of female and early
career members of staff and other under-represented groups, as reflected in its Women Professors
Group, Women’s Network, BAME Network and Early Career Network. The Women Professors
Group has an explicit remit to support and mentor female academic staff in their career

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
progression and promotion. The Women Professors Group actively seeks to rectify the gender
imbalance currently evident in senior and executive academic leadership across the sector, as well
as in areas of access to research opportunities, research funding allocation and publication. In a
recent example, in collaboration with the university’s Women’s Network and individual members of
staff, the Women Professors Group organised a series of informal interviews and an open online
plenary focusing on ‘Women Negotiating Academia: Empowerment and Challenges’ as part of the
University Festival in 2020. A representative of the Women Professors Group sits on the
University’s Professorial Appointments Panel and the Women Professors Group is spearheading a
culture shift in practices aiming towards academic career progression and leadership.

Members of the UoA team have attended university-wide training programmes on issues relating
to equality, diversity and inclusion. One example of this was the unconscious bias training for all
UoA coordinators, attended by De Ste Croix, with other members of the team attending similar
training events. Staff across the UoA have been encouraged to engage with the Code of Practice,
and transparent processes have been in place throughout the REF cycle. This includes the
selection of outputs for the current submission. All staff were asked to rate their outputs which were
also rated by the UoA co-ordinator and an external academic. Once papers were rated on an
annual basis all staff members had a one-to-one meeting with the UoA co-ordinator. For final
selection of outputs staff were asked to rank their papers and this was transparently discussed with
the UoA co-ordinator. In line with the code of practice final selection of outputs was undertaken by
the UoA co-ordinator with help from senior researchers in the UoA. Final selection was discussed
with all members of staff entered. Throughout the REF cycle all members of the UoA have been
provided on an equal basis with the opportunity to bid for internal research funds, to lead and take
an active part in impact case study projects and to supervise research students.

Equality, diversity and inclusion is a large part of a number of staffs research within the UoA, and
this is shared in research seminars and workshops. The school has a large focus on women’s
sport and co-own Severn Stars netball team and is an FA high performance centre for women’s
football. A number of staff in the UoA are members of the national Women in Sport and Exercise
(WISE) group. De Ste Croix was a keynote speaker at the WISE conference in 2019 and
Bullingham was the conference organiser in 2020, reinforcing the UoAs passion for women in
sport. Bullingham’s research has focused on gender stereotypes and lesbian athletes in sport,
work which she has shared with staff and students. She has also talked on the BBC: ‘The LGBT
sport podcast’ and presented on this topic in one of the University’s ‘Livingroom Lectures’ during
the pandemic. Based on her research Bullingham recently organised an equality, diversity and
inclusion week for undergraduate, post graduate students and staff. Seminars and workshops
included topics such as non-binary sporting life histories, England Swimmings LGBT+ ‘pride in the
water’ project, active communities role in race, ethnicity and sport, misrepresentation of trans in the
media and work of the Black Prince Trust. Additionally, Ryall has shared her research on ethical
issues in sport around sexual discrimination and good governance in sport to staff and students
across the University.

All members of academic staff in the UoA on fractional appointments are allocated pro-rata
equivalent mandatory ‘research and scholarly activity’ hours on their annual balance of duties as
set out in the Work Allocation Model. Additional hours may be allocated to allow fractional and part-
time members of staff to undertake funded research projects. The University promotes the welfare
of all staff and students through a variety of avenues and protects staff and students through the
provisions of the 2010 Equality Act. The University has achieved Level 2 of ‘Disability Confident’
and is actively working to reach Level 3. This Level would identify the University as a Leader.
Access to specialist equipment, ICT hardware and software programmes, guided support and
safeguarding measures are in place to facilitate the day-to-day work of staff and students with
notified disabilities. The University took an early initiative during the 2020 Covid-19 lockdown,
significantly in advance of the formal institutional shutdown, to allow shielding and vulnerable staff


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and students to work exclusively from home, and support to do so was quickly made available
online.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income:
A key research aim since the 2014REF was to diversify not only the range of organisations funding
research, but also to support a wider range of staff applying and securing grant income. The UoA
has witnessed significant growth and expansion in relation to its research income generation
activities across local, national and international contexts. Total income from the 2014REF cycle
was £418k and this rose to £1.1m during the current cycle. The diversity and range of income
generation is evident from health related bodies, such as NHS clinical commissioning groups, local
authorities such as Gloucester, Wiltshire and Bristol City Councils, national sports organisations
such as the FA and Sport England, community trusts such as the Rio Ferdinand Foundation and
Joseph Rank Trust, as well as local sports teams and schools such as Bristol CityFC, Forest
Green RoversFC and the Kings School. In addition to the income generation secured for UoG, total
research income from research projects that UoG staff are involved in have been in excess of £4m.
Some of this commissioned research features in our impact case studies (see REF3b) and shows
the breath of staff securing income. The UoA has been especially successful in securing income
generated through EU sources over the period, via five EU projects involving 20 partners across
Europe: SSaMs (Sports Students as Mentors - for boys and young men: Baker [PI] and Parker);
RISK (Reducing Injury in Sport with Kids: De Ste Croix [PI] and Hughes), EGS (Employability of
Graduates in Sport, EU Lifelong Learning: Crone [PI] and Baker); TAGS (Teaching awareness of
Ethical Governance in Sport: Ryall (PI); SPaCE (Supporting Policy and Action for Active
Environments: Crone – [PI] and Baker). Sport England funding has also been significant with two
major projects funded ‘Switch the Play’ (total budget £1m: Campbell and Roberts) and ‘Boing’
(total budget £120,000, Roberts and De Ste Croix). Other examples of the breadth of research
income comes from vascular physiology (Fryer), clinical biomechanics (Theis), sociology of youth
offenders (Parker and Morgan) and health and well-being (Baker). Research funding contributes
not only the financial sustainability of the UoA/School but also to the breadth and quality of
research publications and a number of submitted outputs draw on work funded through these
income streams. Most staff included in the submission have all been involved in research income
generation as either PIs or contributing researchers. This development in the volume of staff
securing research related income is due to the mentoring model for early career researchers that
has been in place since the 2014REF outcome. The RPA small grant scheme has helped staff with
bid writing skills, alongside project management skills, as the scheme is a competitive bidding
process. One of the key aims of the scheme is to pump prime research areas so that staff are in a
position to apply for external funding. A good example of this schemes success is the work of
Roberts who secured internal funding to develop his work on physical literacy and play. This in
turn led to substantial commissioned funding from Sport England to evaluate the effectiveness of
the BOING programme, and ongoing talks with GB Hockey for commissioned research. It is
envisaged that such activities will further enhance the income generation and business
development profile of the UoA during the next REF cycle, broadening the expertise, impact and
reach of the UoA. Core strategies of generating grant income are integral to the overall research
strategy as detailed above. One central focus for future income growth will be continuing to secure
research evaluations with charitable organisations and government departments, as well as sport
governing bodies which cohere with recent internal RPA small grant investment. There is growing
opportunity to bid with staff in the School of Health and Social Care in the health related areas of
work in the UoA, especially in vascular health and mental health and well-being. There is also
growing collaborative research grant possibilities in technology and engineering, with the UoA
looking to appoint a Professor of Sports Technology in the future.

Infrastructure and Facilities
Since the 2014REF there has been significant investment in infrastructure and facilities with the
building of a new £7.5m Sports Park which is integrated with the Oxstalls campus where the

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
School of Sport and Exercise is located. The UoG sports arena is a 700 seater International
standard indoor arena which houses teaching spaces including a sports therapy room and a
cryotherapy pool. There are flexible research spaces for ‘pop up’ labs for testing of teams who are
using the facility. The sports park houses the existing Oxstalls LTA tennis centre with 4 floodlit clay
courts, a sand based astroturf and 26 hectares of grass pitches. Two new 3G floodlit football and
rugby pitches, meeting FIFA and World Rugby standards allow field-based research to be
conducted throughout the year with clubs and teams who are using the new facilities. Further
facility developments at the Oxstalls campus are ongoing alongside allied health professions,
especially physiotherapy, with the design of a new functional rehabilitation space for strength and
conditioning and sports therapy. The new functional rehabilitation spaces will support the ASES
research strands, and further enhance the impact case study work into movement competency and
injury risk/rehabilitation. Bespoke areas for sports therapy and strength and conditioning have been
expanded since the 2014REF outcome. A new strength and conditioning suite was built at a cost of
£350k which also included a remodelling of the biomechanics laboratory. This space is regularly
used for teaching and research but is also used by the national governing body (UKSCA) for
weekend workshops and seminars. Investment in sports therapy saw the creation of an additional
18 bed space at a cost of £45k. More recently additional research and teaching space on the
Oxstalls campus has seen the creation of a new psychology laboratory and a new
physiology/nutrition lab. These additional facilities since the 2014 cycle complement the existing
extensive facilities that include physiology, biomechanics, biochemistry labs, and an environmental
and altitude chamber. Alongside teaching facilities for sports therapy the University hosts a
separate sports injury and massage clinic space that is also used for research projects.
PGR students enjoy protected workspace and facilities in the newly built business school at the
Oxstalls campus.

Equipment
There has been substantial strategic investment in equipment since the 2014REF which mainly
involves purchasing equipment that is portable so that applied work can take place in the field.
Circa £700k has been spent during the cycle by updating and complementing existing equipment,
alongside the investment in new equipment from RPA research funding. This includes but is not
limited to 5 portable force plates, timing gates, portable contact mats (Smartspeed) and Optojump
system, 30 GPS units, and portable strain gauges. As significant aspects of the research of the
UoA takes place in applied settings, and the recognition that the industry is embracing digital and
wearable technologies, there has been a strategic investment in mobile technology. This includes
significant investment in IPads, APPS, and Macbooks. The success of this strategy means that
equipment can be based at professional clubs so that season long/longitudinal data can be
collected. A good example of this is the purchase of a GPS system from RPA research funding
which has been used season long by Bristol City Women’s football team (as part of the University’s
status as an FA High Performance Centre for Women’s Football). Partner clubs have bought the
same equipment so that joint research can take place using the same equipment. For example
Bristol CityFC academy purchased an Optojump system so that season long data could be
collected. Via the RPA QR funding investment in a new ultrasound unit has enabled both the
vascular physiology staff and muscle mechanics staff to measure blood flow dynamics and muscle
fibres, as well as looking at novel techniques for determining muscle volume. The purchase of a
new 10 camera Vicon system, to complement an existing 8 camera system, allows for more
detailed 3D analysis for movement. A new cryotherapy pool is housed at the Oxstalls sports park
arena to examine recovery from sport and exercise. New blood pressure monitoring equipment



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and two near infrared spectroscopy equipment has allowed the vascular physiology group to make
new novel measurement in vascular flow dynamics, and collaborate with colleagues in the USA.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Beyond the collaborations identified in the impact case studies, staff from across the UoA have
forged strong collaborative research partnerships with local sports teams, local and regional NHS
providers, community groups and charities, National sports governing bodies, International Sports
governing bodies, and academic partners around the world. Aside from formal collaboration within
the institutional structure of the RPA and UoA, staff collaborate regularly with a wide range of
organisations including inter-disciplinary collaborations within the UK and across Europe; such as
psychology, public health, nutrition, physiology and public policy. In terms of multidisciplinary
working, co-collaborators include those from primary care (GP’s, nurses, physiotherapists), mental
health (psychiatrists, mental health nurses, exercise scientists), public health (public health
consultants, promoters), local government (leisure services, physical activity promotion
specialists), and the Third sector (CEO’s). UoA staff have forged many long-standing partnerships
with colleagues at other HE institutions with whom they have actively tendered for a variety of
research projects. Principle examples in the UK include the Universities of: Loughborough, Exeter,
Salford, Warwick, Birmingham, Leeds, York St John, Chichester, Royal Holloway, Portsmouth,
Lincoln, King’s College, Swansea, Chester, Plymouth, Ulster, Bath Spa and Cardiff (Metropolitan);
and Internationally: Bielefeld (Ger), Southern Denmark, Thrace (Greece), Murcia (Spain), Vitoria
(Spain), Olomouc (CZ), Massey, (NZ), Rochester (US) and New England (Australia). An excellent
example of this collaborative working is the joint work of Fryer and PhD students focusing on
vascular function and disease, often working on multi-million dollar research projects with the
University of North Carolina in the US. The success of the UoA in securing significant European
funding over the period is testament to the quality and depth of some of these relationships.
Collaborations with high level consultancies, NGBs and private industry providers are also central
to the UoA’s mission and success in securing commissioned research; notable examples include
the Football Association, Sport England, UK Coaching, UKSCA and ECB. Members of the UoA
contribute to the discipline and research base in a variety of ways through the provision of
expertise, assessment and peer review across the external academic and research environment.
Ryall is Chair of the British Philosophy of Sport Association and Executive Committee member of
the International Association for the Philosophy of Sport. Roberts is vice chair of the International
society for Physical Literacy and De Ste Croix is Deputy convenor of the BASES special interest
group: Paediatric Sport and Exercise. Cote was Chair of the Research Committee for the
International Council for Coaching Excellence.

All research staff regularly peer review papers for high quality international journals across a range
of mainstream and specific disciplinary areas including: physical activity, public health, psychology,
physiology, biomechanics and social science and collectively, UoA staff act as reviewers for over
80 academic journals. Staff sit on a variety of journal editorial boards including: Isokinetics and
Exercise Science and BMC Pediatrics (De Ste Croix), Journal for the Philosophy of Sport (Ryall),
Sports Medicine and Frontiers in Cardiovascular Medicine (Fryer); Frontiers in Rehabilitation
Sciences (Theis), Scientific data - Nature (Bissas), International Sports Coaching Journal,
International Review of Sport and Exercise Psychology and The Sport Psychologist (Cote), Higher
education journal of teaching and learning (Roberts). A number of staff in the UoA have been
grant reviewers for a number of organisations including Bissas for the Czech Science Foundation
and Aristotle University of Thessaloniki University, Greece; Cronin for international grant agencies


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in Belgium, Netherlands, Austria and France; De Ste Croix for MRC and Social Sciences and
Humanities research council of Canada (Cote).

Through their research the majority of staff are Accredited members/members of their respective
academic societies (i.e. BASES, UKSCA, SST, BASRAT), hold Chartered Scientist status (CSci),
and regularly make contributions as members of the organising committees of national and
international conferences, as well as contribute to expert statements. Academic and disciplinary
development is especially pertinent to HE collaborations, and UoA staff are regularly involved in
higher degree external examinations; recent PhD examiner appointments at Durham, Cardiff,
Leeds Beckett, Liverpool John Moores, exemplify this. The international reach of staffs work within
the UoA has also led to invitations to examine PhDs in other countries including Spain (Murcia
University, University of the Basque County, Elche University); Czech Republic (Palacky
University); Singapore (Nanyang Technological University); Denmark (Aalborg University); Belgium
(Ghent University); Australia, and Turkey (Middle East Technical University). At a broader
consultancy level with national organisations, Hughes has worked with the Great Britain Ice
Hockey Association, and Italian Lacrosse; De Ste Croix with English and Welsh FAs, the England
and Wales Cricket Board, Czech and Spanish Football Federations, Czech handball and volleyball
federations; Roberts and De Ste Croix have worked with UK Coaching, Sport England; Bissas
and Cronin with World Athletics have carry out the biggest biomechanics research project ever
conducted in athletics during the IAAF World Championships London 2017.

Strategic dissemination of research within the UoA is central to the reach of the work and staff
have presented their research at International conferences around the world. Over 700 conference
presentations from staff and students in the UoA during this REF cycle have contributed towards
the research reach and significance. Importantly in recognition of the research reputation of staff,
over 55 invited keynotes have been delivered by submitted staff in the UoA.

Ryalls work has developed strong links with Sports Resolutions which has enabled the
organisation to thoroughly review their cases and led to the provision of a public repository of
cases. This repository is available in three other languages and therefore can be utilised in other
countries to improve their sports governance. This research has led to the development of
resources across Europe via the Erasmus funded project ‘Teaching Awareness of Ethical
Governance in Sport (TAGS)’ in that a compendium of case studies relating to ethical governance
in sport, to be used in educational settings, is now being used in 5 European countries. Ryalls
Internationally recognised research has also led to her being appointed onto UK Athletics new
Standards, Ethics and Rules Committee. Ryalls work has also led to her being invited onto a
working group as part of Sport England’s evaluation of their guidance on transgender issues in
sport, and she has been part of a working group for UK Coaching reviewing their framework for
safeguarding children. Alongside this the research of Bullingham on homophobia in sport has led
to her appearing on the BBC and Radio 5 Live. This research area has been identified as a
potential impact case study for REF2027, given its wide-reaching impact on people, practice and
policy.

Theis research into children’s disability has led to her becoming Head of Research and
development for the Chamwell Centre Charity. Both Theis and Campbell sit on the board of
Trustees for the charity. The Chamwell centre is a newly built £5.1 million facility in Gloucester,
funded by numerous disability charities, for both children and adults with varying disabilities. Theis
and Campbell’s research helped to design the facility to allow for research to be conducted

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through a range of organisations including muscular dystrophy UK, cerebral palsy UK.
Gloucestershire NHS are already using the facility and conducting research on quality of life based
on the research of Theis. Theis’s research into race running (funded by Action medical research
for children) has directly led to an upsurge in race running clubs around the country and increased
the number of participants in race running.

Hughes research expertise has led to him being a founding member of the UKSCA research grant
awarding board. This national governing body allocates research funding to a number of strength
and conditioning projects yearly across the UK. Hughes research expertise in paediatric strength
and conditioning has led to him consulting with a number of sports teams, leading to funded
scholarships from Bristol City Football Club and Bristol Bears rugby. Based on his research he
has been invited as the academic lead for Wales Women’s Rugby Union Research group.
Locally Hughes has developed and managed the Kings school (Gloucester) Gifted & Talented
Programme.

De Ste Croix’s research into injury risk and management in youth sport, alongside talent
development research, has led to invitations to contribute to expert statements, national media
events, delivering at CPD events for national organisations and steering groups for women’s
football, coaching children and talent development. Based on his talent development research De
Ste Croix was invited by the FA to be part of a working group, tasked to develop the FA Level 3
Talent Identification course. De Ste Croix now delivers his research on growth and maturation in
elite soccer on that course as an FA tutor. Based on his work into women’s football De Ste Croix
was also invited as a founding member of the Research in Women’s football group, formed by the
FA in 2019. He was invited to act on a steering group for UK Coaching exploring developing an
operational plan and framework for coaching children.

Fryers world leading research into rock climbing led to him becoming the founder member of the
International Rock Climbing Research Association. In 2018 he was an invited keynote speaker at
the International Mountain and Outdoor Sports Conference in the Czech Republic and the
International Rock Climbing Research Association Congress hosted by the International Olympic
Committee in France. Fryers Internationally recognised work on vascular flow and health has led
to him being invited onto the European Network for the Promotion of Health-Enhancing Physical
Activity (HEPA) who report to the World Health Organisation (WHO)

Based on his Internationally recognised research Roberts is the research lead and vice-chair of
the International Society for physical literacy. His research has led to working as an Expert Advisor
on Pedagogical Approaches to Academy Coaching for Southampton football club and
Manchester United football club. This work based on his research into constraints coaching and
physical literacy and play has impacted the philosophy of the types of training and direct practice
that coaches have adopted by these world leading football academies. Roberts research impact
within communities is evident in the commissioned evaluation of two projects: ‘Engaging hard to
reach young people through sport: a 5-year evaluation’ (commissioned by The Berkeley Trust) and
‘Street Elite’ (commissioned by The Berkeley Trust and the Change Foundation).

Garners research on coach-athlete interactions has resulted in him being invited as a performance
consultant for England Lacrosse. GB Rowing have conducted a full review of their coach
education systems and processes based on Garners research on coaches learning in social
spaces. Garner also consults for the British Association of Snowsport Instructors (BASI) and

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
his research has informed the training and assessment syllabus across four levels of qualification,
including the highest level which is internationally recognised and aligned with other European
nations.

Cotes world leading research on youth athlete development has resulted in numerous invited
positions and consultancy including the International Olympic Committee (IOC) consensus group
on Youth Athlete Development. His research on transformational coaching has been disseminated
to organisations around the world including: World Rowing Coaches, Italian Olympic Committee,
Swedish Sport Federation, Canadian Sport Institute, Singapore Youth Sport Institute, Canada
Soccer Association, Swedish Hockey Federation, and Norway Soccer Association.




                                                                                           Page 14
