Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: University of Central Lancashire

 Unit of Assessment 24: Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Introduction to UoA24 at UCLan
UoA24 at the University of Central Lancashire (UCLan) is evolving to meet the current local and
global challenges of working in a dynamic and complex world, which is constantly changing. Under
the guidance of a supportive team of senior academics, a vibrant community of academics and
researchers is emerging to produce accessible knowledge and information, across the domain of
Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism.
This environment statement provides examples of the high-quality outputs, impact and collaboration
driven by members of UoA24 to produce a vibrant and sustainable research culture. UoA24 weaves
together interdisciplinary knowledge from multiple subject domains to produce an active, innovative
community of researchers and academics. In order to respond to the demands across society, we
actively support the development of skills and capabilities of individuals and teams, supporting
national and international initiatives. The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Researchers. This statement will illustrate a journey of development and
evidence to demonstrate that UoA24 has a global reach, informing and supporting solutions to real
world problems. Shaped by the University of Central Lancashire Strategy 2015-2020 and the
subsequent Research Strategy (2018-2020), the journey for UoA24 has being steadily building over
the REF2021 cycle, with a notable step-change since 2018 in high-quality and sustainable research
outputs and impact. Examples demonstrate that UoA24 recognises not only the financial currency
to support the development of research knowledge and impact, but also the social currency, where
investing in people, communities and businesses provides a sustainable research legacy.

1.2 Contextualising UoA24: Institutionally and externally (addressing local, national,
    international agendas)
Since REF2014, UCLan has reshaped its research environment, establishing a new research
ecosystem, facilitating contributions to international research excellence. Figure 1 illustrates the
positioning of UoA24 in the context of the two Research Institutes and twelve Research Centres
within UCLan’s research environment. The emphasis of the new research structure was to address
six global challenges through establishment of institutional research themes - People, Places &
Environment; Lifelong Health & Wellbeing; Transformation; Sustainable Business; Arts;
Culture & Heritage and Citizenship - which address the complexity of the modern world, and
recognise the role that the University plays in providing ‘real-world’ solutions to enhance people’s
lives, support organisations and impact on society at a local, national and international level. As a
microcosm of UCLan’s strategic vision, UoA24 embraces the six institutional research themes in a
bespoke manner, supporting collaboration in creating new knowledge and exchanging information
with emphasis on driving a positive change to enhance individuals’ lives, policy, society, the
environment and the economy. As outlined in REF document 5a, UCLan’s objective is to continue
to grow a reputation as a place of excellence for research with a regional, national and international
impact. The evolution of the Research Centre in Applied Sport, Physical Activity and Performance
and the Research Centre for Business, Management and Enterprise forms part of the research
excellence associated with Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 1: Schematic illustration of UoA24 in context of UCLan institutional research collaborative network.




                                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UCLan’s Research Strategy (2018-2020) outlines five strategic research objectives (see section ii
‘Strategy’, REF 5a) with the ambition to develop an ENVIRONMENT which facilitates the production
of OUTPUTS and IMPACTS which are relevant to society. UoA24 integrates these internal strategic
documents with key external policies such as ‘Industrial Strategy: Building a Britain fit for the Future’
(2017), which focuses on the five foundations of people, place, infrastructure, ideas and the business
environment.
The UoA actively engages with Government policy/agendas which are driving sport at a national
level. Policy from key organisations such as Sport England, English Institute of Sport, UKCoaching
combined with Local Authorities are influencing and shaping the key strategic drivers which are
embedded in UoA24. UoA24 recognises the importance of sport and leisure in driving business and
the leisure industry, and contributing to the physiological, sociological and psychological health and
wellbeing of the population; and the increasing recognition of the role it plays within integration of
specific groups within society (children, elderly and disadvantaged etc). Support for such statements
are clearly evidenced in Sport England (Sports Plan: Creating a lifelong sporting habit, 2015) and
the more recently developed Government strategy for developing a "Sporting Future", which clearly
sets out a strategy which engages all aspects of society (children, elderly, minority groups, women)
and is strongly linked to the Sport England Coaching Plan (2017).
Table 1 illustrates how UoA24 at UCLan is responding to Government policy through its
interdisciplinary research and how it contributes to solving societal issues through the lens of sport.
Further, our contribution to solving societal issues extends beyond national policies and examples
are provided from international projects in the report, which include the Silver Cyclists project and
the Sport in Action programme in Zambia (section 1.4) and letters from Lesvos (section 4.2).

1.3 Structure of UoA24 at UCLan
The following sections focus on the structure/mechanism of UoA24 at UCLan and how the unit
‘speaks’ to the University’s key strategic themes. The unit has undertaken a transformational journey
from REF2014 (UoA26) into the current REF 2021 cycle. Early in this REF cycle, the research groups
highlighted in REF2014 continued to grow under the leadership of the Professoriate but were re-
aligned to a new school structure to expand capacity, provide targeted support and develop trans-
disciplinary capability. This reorganisation enabled research and impact within the unit to grow and
diversify. Membership of UoA24 has increased from 24 (2014) to 43 (2021). A notable step-change
occurred in 2018 as plans were implemented for the development of the new research centres at
UCLan. The structure is designed to be agile and adaptable which has enabled existing research
teams to address challenges in harnessing sport and activities for social good, enhancing success,
performance, health and wellbeing within short time frames. The current status of the UoA24 is
reflected in a vibrant, enthusiastic community of researchers who are externally facing, recognising
global issues and challenges. Figure 2 presents the current structure of UoA24 at the end of the
REF2021 cycle, illustrating how research groups from REF2014 have been incorporated into a new
research community.




                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table 1: Examples of UoA24 interdisciplinary responsiveness to solving societal issues
 (local and national level)
                                  UoA24 Responsiveness to societal issues
          Local Examples                                     National Examples
 Reeves has supported the development and roll-      Birkett has investigated exercise ‘dose’ in
 out of an arts-based mental health initiative in    cardiac rehabilitation training programmes
 collaboration with State of Mind Sport. This        in the United Kingdom (UK), currently too
 activity has seen over 1,000 school children        low to improve cardiovascular health.
 across Preston and Lancashire access the            Establishing a beneficial exercise ‘dose’ is
 initiative.                                         improving clinical outcomes for these
                                                     patients.
 Palmer is supporting researchers in midwifery       Adams was a contributing historian for the
 working with a stakeholder team of Midwifery        ‘Football Remembers’ project. One of the
 managers from 6 hospitals in the North West         outputs from the project was an education
 (each manger co-ordinating up to 70 midwife         pack that was distributed to 30,000 British
 coaches at each hospital) to evaluate the impact    Schools to teach a new generation the
 of a new coaching model to support increasing       positive messages of the Christmas Truce
 capacity of midwifery training on the wards.        using the valuable association with modern
                                                     football.
 Melling worked with Lancashire Football             Guiver has investigated the processes
 Association, the Freire Institute, and Burnley      involved in successful projects to provide
 Football Club, on the ‘Barrier Football’ project to alternatives to car travel in three UK
 create a programme that utilises coaching skills to National Parks. The findings uncover why
 generate conversations with young people from       and how change occurs in partnerships and
 backgrounds currently under-represented in          offers guidance on understanding and
 further and higher education in Pennine             implementing change processes.
 Lancashire.



1.4 Reviewing (REF2014) and Operationalising UoA24: Strategic goals, mechanisms and
impact.
The research ambitions of the unit of assessment, documented in our REF2014 environment
statement, and integrated with the University’s strategic research objectives and Government
agendas have evolved to meet contemporary demands and are reflected in the following statement
for UoA24:
    ‘UoA24 seeks to enhance academic knowledge in relevant subject areas, to contribute to
   economic and social development regionally, nationally and internationally, and to contribute
   to policy making and professional practice and the enhancement of the professional reputation
   of the University. Overall, its vision is to enhance its international reputation for excellence in
   research and impact.’
UoA24 integrates a ‘vertical’ (mentoring) and ‘lateral’ (peer to peer learning) staff development talent
pathway, where staff are mentored and supported by experienced researchers within UoA24 (UCLan
Strategic Research Objective 1) which is expanded upon in Section 2.
With regards to collaboration, a high level of co-operation, internally and externally, results in UoA24
weaving a rich network of inter-, multi- and trans-disciplinary research (UCLan Strategic Research
Objective 2), see Figure 3 as an example. An objective of REF2014 was to develop key research

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 2: Management structure of UoA24 (as of the end of the REF 2021 cycle)




                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
strands and to drive world class research collaborations. The Professoriate continues to support and
develop UoA24 strands, ensuring continuity from REF2014. Additionally, the level of collaborations
is rapidly increasing. For example, documentation from a ‘Future Vision’ performance review of the
Institute of Coaching and Performance (ICaP), highlighted over 50 national and international
collaborative partnerships (see section 4.2), which exemplifies collaboration within UoA24. Further
examples of international collaborations are highlighted throughout the document.
Our contributions to solving ‘real-life’ challenges raises the profile of UoA24 at a local, national and
international level (UCLan Strategic Research Objective 3 & 4) while simultaneously building on the
key aims of increased collaboration (see Section 4) and world class research as presented in
REF2014. For example, Hobbs’ research outputs submitted to REF2021 all include collaborations
with international veterinary researchers on high quality, real-world projects. Impact is embedded in
all aspects of research in UoA24, which is shown by the increase in number and diversity (spanning
the range of research areas within the unit) of projects that have ‘real world’ benefits. In the facilitation
of an externally facing research culture the UoA24 research team has created knowledge and
information which is influencing policy and changing practice (UCLan Strategic Research Objective
5 and supporting the continuation of REF2014 objectives). For example, the Institute for Transport
and Tourism (ITT) are a partner in ‘The Silver Cyclists’ project, which officially launched in September
2015, aiming at increasing the number of seniors undertaking cycling holidays both domestically and
in Europe. This project includes partners from Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Spain and Latvia and
is supported by the European Cyclists Federation and Eurovelo and was co-funded by the EU
COSME programme. In 2016 the ‘Charter of Silver Cyclists’ was developed from the project to
provide guidelines and promote opportunities for the tourism industry and wider society to engage
with senior European cyclists.
Within REF2014 we highlighted the connection between the teaching curriculum and research.
UCLan is proud of its vision of learning for all and actively encourages its undergraduate (UG)
community to engage with research. Building on the foundation established in REF2014, we have
furthered our support for the transition of individuals from UG to PG. This is supported through the
TEF documentation which shows all UG programmes having access to PG progression routes and
opportunities to engage in research through research informed teaching and undergraduate
internships. A case study example (Sinclair) is provided in Section 2.
UoA24 at UCLan has been operationalised through the implementation of the six pillars of success
as outlined in UCLan’s Research strategy (2018-2020): structure, information, impact and influence,
collaboration, communications and engagements, and integrity. The overarching aim has been to
facilitate improvements in coordinated research activities across the University, and to enhance
opportunities for research active staff to develop meaningful working relationships and
interdisciplinary research with colleagues located in other faculties, as well as externally. For
example, since 2015, J.Richards and Chohan in the Allied Health Research unit (AHRu) have directly
assisted Engineering on the ERDF funded “Innovation Clinic” project (£3.66m). This includes testing
‘new to firm’ and ‘new to market’ products for 39 SME’s between 2016 and 2020, and work with
Silentnight led to the development of a unique innovative algorithm to determine the ‘Ideal Sleep
Solution’ for individuals of different body types through an Innovate UK funded Knowledge Transfer
Partnership (£122K). From an international perspective, DJO Inc. fund the AHRu annually (£20K
PA) to investigate interventions that may have a positive effect on Pain, Alignment, Strength and
Stability in patients. One direct benefit is that 20,000 South Korean ankle fracture patients per year
are now been treated using Orthotic Walkers, which have been shown to provide a faster and more
effective recovery than Plaster of Paris.


                                                                                                     Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The evolution of UCLan’s research structure (Figure 1) enables the development and expansion of
the research foundations from REF2014 and has increased co-operation across faculties,
stakeholders and external partners (see Sections 2 to 4). The new structure of UoA24 (Figure 3) is
a hive of interdisciplinary activity which is inclusive of all staff/researchers regardless of expertise
and experience and evidences the growing research community within the unit and beyond. For
example, at a postgraduate level, cross-faculty supervision is resulting in multi-disciplinary
collaboration and providing a vibrant and innovative postgraduate culture. The impact of this
mechanism has extended collaborative interdisciplinary research-related activities, such as co-
authored publications and project work. For example, as a physiologist involved in cycling research,
Hurst collaborated with stroke researchers from the LIFE institute on an electric bike project which
aimed to support mobility and independence amongst stroke survivors. Whilst the research activities
of staff submitted to UoA24 fall distinctively within the fields of sport, exercise, leisure and tourism,
the application of knowledge is transferable across multiple domains and disciplines.


Figure 3: Schematic illustration of the bi-directional link between UCLan Research Institutes
and Centres, UCLan Themes and UoA24 integration. Note: the insert illustrates the interaction
of AHRu staff on the Innovation Clinic project.




                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In another example, doctorial supervision (n=8) and external project work in the area of team
decision-making established by UoA24 is resulting in knowledge and information being transferred
to military and fire service settings to inform policy/practice and development at national/international
level. This demonstrates a high level of collaboration across the University, in addition to working
with external stakeholders and partners globally. UoA24 is therefore uniquely positioned as a unit
of assessment, in that it makes a valuable contribution to all six of the University’s strategic themes
(see Table 2). Staff and PGRs are encouraged to engage in the research environment through the
activities of the Research Institutes and Centres and through membership of early career researcher
(ECR), mid-career researcher (MCR), and Professors and Readers discussion forums, which
support a vibrant community of innovative researchers and academics working across multiple
disciplinary boundaries.

1.5 Vitality and Sustainability: UoA24 approach to ‘impact’
UoA24 recognises the importance of the impact of research for the benefit of all stakeholders locally,
nationally and internationally. As such, UoA24 research leads work with all staff to identify, plan and
develop impact stemming from new research and to aid in the expansion of existing Impact Case
Studies. In addition, several mechanisms are used to support the development, vitality and
sustainability of impact. These include interdisciplinary collaboration and internal funding
opportunities such as the Catalyst Funding Scheme. This scheme funded projects to examine the
challenges faced by fire fighters in complex technical rope rescues that involve flowing water, to
purchase two handheld dynamometers to facilitate data collection of two clinical trials in Malaysia
and to conduct a survey to evidence the impact of research on equine hooves. Central support from
Research Services helps to align staff to support projects, and vertical learning mechanisms, such
as individual and group support from the Professoriate and Readers Forums, workshops,
presentations and group activities are used to develop and discuss projects, impact and evidence.
Potential Impact Case Studies are identified and supported, based on 1) their link to UCLan and
UoA24 strategic aims, 2) their ability to contribute to an innovative sustainable solution and/or
address an important societal issue, 3) their capacity to facilitate interdisciplinary collaboration of
researchers, stakeholders and industrial expertise.
An example of impact planning is illustrated well by a case study from International Football Institute
(IFI). At the start of this REF period, staff in IFI made a strategic decision to focus on research topics
with pertinence to national events. Historical research undertaken by Adams (a specialist, WWI
military history) and supported by the research of Hughson (war-related football art) uncovered the
truths around Britain’s collective memory of ‘the Christmas day football match in 1914’ which
enhanced events, activities and learning during the 100-year anniversary of WWI from 2014-2018.
This work forms part of the Impact Case Study ‘Football and War’.
In UoA24, identifying potential reach and significance of real-world impact is an important driver to
support research development. For example, research conducted for ‘Sustainable Transport
Systems’ on issues of mobility in contemporary society is supported by UoA24 as it directly impacts
tourist travel patterns within the UK and Europe. Additionally, this research aims to improve the
sustainability of tourist travel practices by reducing the environmental impact of leisure travel, while
increasing the benefits for travellers and destinations. ‘Improvements in non-surgical treatments of
orthopaedic conditions of the lower limbs’ describes innovative work carried out by the AHRu, which
includes the creation of a Health App class 1 medical device that allows clinicians to subgroup
patients with Patellofemoral Pain. By subgrouping patients, it is possible to provide them with
targeted treatments, facilitating improved outcomes and assistance in clinical decision making,
demonstrating improvements in clinical practice. Since 2014 the AHRu’s work on non-surgical

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
treatments for knee pain has helped over 50,000 patients across Southeast Asia and changed
prescription guidelines in New Zealand. This demonstrates a notable increase in reach since 2014.
The impact of ‘Mega sports volunteerism and transforming lives through student peer leadership and
mentoring’ is also far reaching. An example of this work includes the Sport in Action programme in
Zambia, which is a case study on the UN SDG Platform, where since 2014 over 100 student
volunteers have delivered life skills programmes in Kwabe and Lusaka impacting on the lives of over
3500 young people. Both UoA leads and Research Services have assisted the case study authors
in exploring and refining the extensive impact evidence. Further benefits from this work are included
in Sections 2 and 3.
Internal funding support for impact that has the potential to make a difference, particularly in areas
where funding opportunities are scarce, is an important driver for UoA24. The Impact Case Study
‘Improving horse health, welfare and performance’ was internally supported in the previous REF
cycle which has transformed global equine surface awareness from subjective to objective since the
publication of the Equine Surfaces White Paper in 2014 (see Section 3). UoA24 recently supported
the technical rope rescues project (discussed above), which is part of a potential future ‘Decision
Making’ Impact Case Study. This project was funded to investigate the conflicting protocols used in
water rescues and the results are informing the decision-making processes in still versus flowing
water rescues in the future, which can be life threatening.
Figure 4 outlines both the current Impact Case Studies and potential future impact as UoA24
transitions into REF2027.
Impacts continue to expand across multiple REF cycles (2014, 2021, 2027). Progression is
demonstrated in both the increased impact of the case studies presented by UoA24 and their impact
at world level. The introduction of the two new research areas of ‘Talent Development’ and ‘The
contribution of physical activity to the health and wellbeing of visually impaired young people’ within
UoA24 are already laying strong foundations for Impact Case Studies for REF2027.

1.6 UoA24: Towards an Open Research Environment
UoA24’s strategy fully supports UCLan’s research policy, ‘Open Access’ and ‘Data Sharing’, the
three REF elements, Deposit requirements, Discovery requirements and Access requirements
(REF2021). Staff outputs are stored on the University’s internal repository, Central Lancashire online
Knowledge (CLoK) within three months of journal acceptance. Staff are responsible for ensuring
their own compliance; however, the University Open Access team and the Faculty Research Support
Enquiries Team support this process by promoting awareness, registering new outputs, uploading
author accepted manuscripts and monitoring compliance. With regards to ‘discovery’ requirements
of open access, search engines effectively guide the user to locating open access material which is
bibliographically presented on CLoK. With regard to the criterion of ‘access’, material is presented
which enables download, readability and access to text and adheres to the Creative Commons
Attributions Non-Commercial Non-Derivative (CC-BY-NC-ND) licence.
UoA24 expands the open access remit outlined by REF and provides increased open access ‘reach’,
making the information and knowledge obtained from outputs from UoA24 more accessible through
a range of dissemination mechanisms. For example, J.Richards’ shared access to a kinematic paper
on 29 April 2018 for 100 free downloads through social media. Work shared by Kiely on Twitter, who
has 12,700 followers, engages an international community of practitioners/researchers, facilitating
the exchange of knowledge. Palmer and Sprake wrote ‘Physical Education is just as important as




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Figure 4: Schematic illustration of current (REF 2021) Impact Case Studies and impact pipeline




                                                                                                  Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
any other school subject’ for The Conversation, which was translated into Indonesian and has had
322,103 views to date.
In collaboration with organisations, information and knowledge is disseminated through other virtual
mechanisms such as webinars and YouTube videos. For example, P.Richards has delivered
webinars for UKCoaching to a world audience supporting coaching delivery across the performance
spectrum. J.Richards has delivered over 200 invited talks to clinical groups, sports clubs, companies
and academic groups in over 30 different countries, across six continents since 2014, and produced
a series of YouTube videos with DJO Inc. on non-surgical treatments for orthopaedic conditions,
which have been viewed over 15,000 times. Further examples of broad dissemination are provided
in Section 4.
UoA24 also promotes access to data sharing, which is supported through UCLan’s data repository.
One example being ‘An exploration of the influence of diagonal dissociation and moderate changes
in speed on locomotor parameters in trotting horses’ which has recorded 39 downloads of the
complete dataset since 2016. For open access journals, such as PLOS One and PeerJ, raw data is
made available as supplementary information where possible. In addition, new methods are being
made available openly on platforms such as protocols.io, an example being ‘Multi-dimensional, time
continuous ground reaction force vector analysis’ (dx.doi.org/10.17504/protocols.io.r3dd8i6), which
has had 44 views and 17 downloads of the methods since 2018, and a protocol published in BMJ
Open on the ‘Targeted interventions for patellofemoral pain syndrome (TIPPS): classification of
clinical subgroups’ (doi:10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003795) which has been cited 40 times since 2013.
Finally, in context of the three REF principles of Equity, Equality and Transparency, UoA24
demonstrates a culture which promotes inclusion, addresses inequalities, values diversity and
demonstrates research integrity through adherence to the University’s policy and procedures, as
outlined in document 5a and evidence presented within this document. The research culture of
UoA24 supports the Athena Swan Charter and principles, ‘The Concordat for Research Integrity’
(2019) and the attainment of high ethical standards as per the Global Code of Conduct for Research.
It achieves this through vertical learning, demonstrated by supervision of PG students, mentoring of
researchers at all levels, and active engagement of staff in equality and diversity and ethics and
integrity training.


 2. People


2.1 People, Strategy and Staff Development
UoA24 has a culture which is staff-centred, focusing on both the vertical and lateral integration of
experience and collaboration to develop its members, at all levels of the research continuum from
ECR to Professorial level. Empowering staff to contribute to both the research journey of the
University and specifically UoA24, in conjunction with them steering their own personal development,
has produced a culture that breeds innovation and visionary ideas. Table 2 presents the integration
of strategies (institutional and UoA24) and mechanisms, using UoA24 examples to illustrate our
approach to developing staff careers.




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Table 2: Integration of Institutional strategy, UoA24 objectives, mechanism in context of evidence.

                                                                UoA24 Development Mechanisms
   Strategy: UCLan Strategic          Strategy: UoA24
                                                              Note: UCLan Mechanisms*2 described
    objectives (2018-2020):              objectives:                                                                   Selected Example
                                                             below are also used to achieve strategic
          (Section 1.2)                 (Section 1.4)
                                                                             objectives
 1. To support academics &         enhance the              Internal Peer Review/ mentoring/ hours for     Bentley: UG & PG student, appointed in
 research students in their        development of           research & scholarly activity/ PhD & DProf     2012 as demonstrator, promoted to
 research relevant to their career individuals              Staff support scheme/ appraisal/ reviews/      Lecturer 2013, PhD awarded 2020,
 stage                                                      probation support/ identification of training/ currently ECR status.
                                                            research potential (recruitment)
 2. Deploy resources to support    enhance academic         Centre strategic planning & development/       St George: ECR, supported to develop
 research & encourage              knowledge in relevant    identify & secure external funds/ bid review/ collaborative bids with Utrecht/Delsys
 collaboration                     subject areas and        source collaborative staff & external          Inc. in equine sEMG research following
                                   individuals              partners/ provide multi-disciplinary internal  PhD completion (2017).
                                                            workshops & conferences/ networking
 3. Increase UCLan’s external      enhance the              PGR support & guidance/ engage in e-           MacBeth/Palmer: Lead RDTs, Created
 profile as a research provider    professional reputation ethics & research governance training &         PG online Teams community and
 and place of research for         of the University        committees/ keynote & international            information source (2017) and organise
 academics and students                                     presentations/ promote ‘open’ research         annual PG Research Seminar Series.
 4. Build successful               contribute to economic   Expand external networks & collaborations/ Sharpley: Collaboration with Wakayama
 collaborations                    and social development secure Distinguished Collaborator funding/       University and presented to the Japan
                                   regionally, nationally   develop external professional associations,    Tourism Agency, in Tokyo (2019).
                                   and internationally      memberships & links/ assist SMEs/ provide
                                                            volunteer support
 5. Provide a leading contribution to contribute to policy  Collaboration with practitioners, clinicians,  J.Richards: Leading MedTech Solutions,
 to developments in policy,        making and               NGB’s, professional & governing bodies/        collaborating with Engineering, designers
 practice, technology and          professional practice    DProf & MProf routes/ access to P-T PGR        and companies, currently testing the next
 services as an anchor institution                          programmes                                     generation of PPE.
 6. Support the development of     enhance its              Internal review process for outputs & impact Weedon/L.Collins: Internal review of
 excellence                        international reputation case studies/ focussed workshops/ internal     outputs and bids and funding support for
                                   for excellence in        funding/ support for internal funding          fire service & technical rescue research
                                   research and impact      applications                                   project.
                       2
UCLan Mechanisms* , include Research Services / Juno /HR Excellence in Research scheme, Research Development Unit (RDU), Grants and
Funding Unit (GFU), UCLan Knowledge database, Scholarly Communication Unit (SCU), Research Governance Unit (RGU), Distinguish
Collaborators Programme (DCP), Research Excellence Unit (REU).


                                                                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.2 Staff
UCLan staffing policy is implemented by Heads of School with input from research leads. All
submitted staff in UoA24 have a permanent employment contract. Five staff have HESA 2 contracts
and the majority have HESA 3 contracts. Four staff have professorial roles (Hughson, Melling,
J.Richards, Sharpley), supported by four readers (Hobbs, Sinclair, Reeves, Gammon). Eight staff
are currently ECR’s, either studying towards or recently graduated from postgraduate research
programmes.
UoA24 has a transparent and equitable recruitment policy. Staff appointments during this REF cycle
have been targeted towards enhancing discipline-specific areas of research strands (See Figure 1).
For example, Reeves was appointed to lead the research area of Physical Activity & Health and
P.Richards was appointed to replace Collins and lead Expertise Development. From a sociocultural
perspective, the appointment of Rookwood in Sport Studies in 2017 has significantly added to the
research strength and capacity in football. Such appointments support the current UoA24 research
strategy and add further support for the development of future research and impact, as illustrated in
Figure 5.
In addition to full-time (FT) appointments staff are also recruited on a part-time (PT) basis. Within
this REF submission 4 staff are PT. The appointment of PT staff supports the needs of individual
staff members within the University. In some cases, the appointment of PT staff is providing a hybrid
link between industry and academia/research. For example, Cruikshank is employed PT to support
doctorial students within ICaP but is seconded to British Judo to support preparation for the Tokyo
Olympic Games. This example illustrates support for PT staff secondments to develop the
individual’s career and to link to industry at world-class level. Such support continues to grow the
PGR experience and world-class research.
All staff within the submission are supported with research and scholarly activity hours at a minimum
level of 42.5 days a year (320 hours). Staff with a larger number of research responsibilities are
provided with more research hours bespoke to their role, which is identified and agreed through the
appraisal process. To facilitate staff development to doctorial level, up to 320 hours are provided to
study for a DProf or PhD part-time. For staff with significant responsibility for research, research
objectives are defined based on UoA24 research goals and their career aspirations. Progress is
monitored through mentoring and appraisals. This enables a transparent and equitable culture for
all staff to engage in at all levels. This system allows personalised support of individual members in
UoA24, empowering staff to engage with research in a manner which addresses their bespoke
needs. This approach enables staff research development to be maximised. It is estimated that every
staff member has a minimum of £10K (320 hours x £32) for research time annually. For UoA24, this
equates to the University investing over £400K in staff time for UoA24 annually.
In addition to support for time, staff are also supported through other mechanisms, as outlined in
Table 2. The integration of ‘vertical’ and ‘lateral’ mentoring systems enables staff to be supported
by peers (‘laterally’) but also be guided by experience (‘vertically’). For example, Sinclair is an
example of effective mentoring and developmental support. Having graduated with BSc (Hons) in
Sports Science (2009), he went on to complete a PhD (2013), progressed his specialist area of
research in musculoskeletal modelling whilst on a teaching and research contract and was promoted
to Reader (2019) transitioning from ECR, to MCR onto Reader in six years. He has an outstanding
research profile, some of which is highlighted in Section 4. Other internal research promotions during
this REF cycle include St George (promoted to Research Associate), Hobbs and Gammon (both



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
promoted to Reader) and J.Richards (promoted to level 2 Professor) and a number of teaching and
research contract promotions.
The majority of staff in the submission are engaged as members of doctoral supervisory teams. In
addition to facilitating a growing PGR community, as outlined below, engagement in doctorial
supervisory teams by UoA24 members promotes interdisciplinary working across University
departments. For example, Wilson (student) who is studying professional dance is supervised by
P.Richards, supported by an interdisciplinary team from performance, sports therapy (Alexander)
and coaching (Stoszkowski), providing a rich diversity of knowledge and skills support for the
student. UoA24 promotes active engagement of its staff in the supervision process with the support
of the University’s training programme on research degree supervision.

2.3 Students
Building on REF2014, UoA24 continues to sustain and develop its PGR community with a buoyant
number of current PGR doctoral enrolments (REF2014, n=115; REF2021, n=116) and an increase
in completions (see Table 3). The profile of PGR enrolments continues to include a high number of
part-time students (89%) engaged in relevant areas of professional practice. The majority of PGR
students are self-funded, although 26 staff have received support to study from UCLan during this
REF cycle and UoA24 have gained several funded studentships.
Table 3: No. of doctoral completions for PhDs and Professional Doctorates (DProf)
                                                   Academic Period
  Doctoral         2013      2014/      2015/       2016/     2017/     2018/       2019/      Total
 Programme        /2014      2015       2016        2017      2018      2019        2020
      PhD         11.25      10.75      10.50       6.75      7.00      13.25       9.50         69
     DProf         1.75      2.00          0        2.25      1.50       5.00       7.50         20
     Total        13.00      12.75      10.50       9.00      8.50      18.25       17.00        89
Part completions represent joint supervision across more than one UoA

UCLan UGs benefit from a 20% reduction in postgraduate fees, and this has encouraged outstanding
students to continue their lifelong learning journey at UCLan and progress onto postgraduate study.
UoA24 also supports external scholarships. For example, the IFI (Hughson) drew upon its
established experience within the museum sector to target external funding. This resulted in two PhD
studentships fully funded by the Arts and Humanities Research Council in the Collaborative Doctoral
Partnership Scheme. Hobbs directed two Myerscough College funded PhD studentships in
equestrian research, part of ongoing research work with Federation Equestre International (FEI) and
British Eventing. Another example is provided from a Royal Navy funded DProf, exploring the future
physiological capability of Navy personnel under the supervision of P.Richards and Sinclair.
Investing in the future generation of practitioners, UCLan has funded two PhD studentships in
football in this cycle. The first ‘Women’s Football as Work’ was successfully completed by Culvin
(2019). The second stems from an internal collaboration of UoA24 with staff in the LIFE Institute and
has resulted in a successful studentship on ‘An Exploration of Mental Health and Wellbeing in
Women’s Football’ which commenced in January 2020.
The recruitment pattern of PGRs in UoA24 indicates a growing, healthy community of researchers.
Our strategy is based on building the reputation which we have developed over recent REF cycles,
providing quality student supervision by expert staff, driving research informed practice, resulting in
an excellent student experience. The dedicated approach of UCLan’s admission team, combined

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with the expertise and external profile of staff, guides the student through their PG journey from
admission onto doctoral submission and graduation. The journey is bespoke to the individual
enabling all students, including those with protected characteristics, to be integrated into UoA24
research community and have their individual needs met throughout their studies.
Beyond the doctoral PGR community, UoA24 also aims to inspire this, and the next, generation of
research professionals from within and outside of the University by providing learning opportunities
for staff, students and practitioners to engage in our research. For example, the reputation of the
AHRu has attracted over 50 funded staff and student visitors since 2014 to work with research staff
and to use the research facilities. This includes staff and students from Czech Republic (n=10),
Germany (n=8), Spain (n=6), Italy (n=5), Turkey (n=5), Brazil (n=4), Thailand (n=4), Belgium (n=3),
Taiwan (n=2), Canada (n=2), and South Korea (n=1), USA (n=1), and New Zealand (n=1). ICaP
currently supports 43 MPhil/MProf students, primarily practitioners, that are engaged developing
applied research designed to enhance practice. Doctoral students from other universities have been
supported by UoA24 staff in a supervisory capacity, such as PGR students from the Swedish
University of Agricultural Sciences and the University of Antwerp (also see section 4.3).
Undergraduate students are also given opportunities to engage research projects annually under
the supervision of UoA24 staff through the Undergraduate Research Internship Project scheme.

2.4: Examples of key stages of the student’s journey
All full-time students are required to attend a compulsory Graduate Research Skills programme, at
the outset of their study. Part-time students are required to complete courses within the Epigeum
online programme to develop core research skills. The early stages support the student in planning
their research journey in the context of their career aspiration and personal/professional interests.
For example, in some cases students will explore an action plan for development while in other case
students may write a letter to their ‘future self’ highlighting what they hope their journey will
accomplish.
During their study, PGRs are encouraged to attend training courses offered by the University free of
charge and engage with other students and the extended research community. Research seminars,
informal events and conferences for postgraduate students are held across the University. For
example, since 2014 the University has run an annual ‘Three Minute Thesis’ competition with the
winner going through to the Vitae Three Minute Thesis UK competition. At a more discipline-specific
level, one of many examples is ‘the Qualitative Bazaar’ in 2019 successfully hosted by Palmer who
holds a UKCGE Award and who has hosted over 20 events over the last four years for School,
Faculty and cross University PGRs.
Student progress is monitored through the formal Annual Assessment of Progress to ensure that
appropriate progress is maintained throughout their studies. In conjunction with formal process,
students receive support at an informal micro level, enabling additional/ extended skills to be
obtained. This includes developing reflective skills for working in research and applied settings. For
example, Quinn (student) has been integrated into a multidisciplinary research group focusing on
‘physiological demands and performance in Rugby League’. This supports the student engaging/
reflecting on their own personal and professional practice with other experts/ practitioners/
researchers (internal and external) on a parallel journey to their thesis. Furthermore, students are
encouraged to develop additional research skills (networking at conferences and publications). For
example, Butters (student) co-authored a publication with Sinclair investigating the start position in
the snatch Olympic lift, McCarthy (student) co-authored publications with Collins on talent
identification frameworks in sport, and Brown (student) was lead author on ‘From headliners to
hangovers: Digital media communication in the British rock music festival experience’ published in

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2020 with Sharpley as co-author. All of these examples illustrate a link to skill sets which inform and
support future career progression.

2.5: Supporting individuals with protected characteristics
UoA24 is supportive of the REF principles of Equity, Equality and transparency for all staff and
students regardless of the stage of their development journey. In support of Athena Swan Charter
and principles, institutional research policy and the Concordat, UoA24 endeavours to promote
equality and diversity in its research and employment practices in a range of ways. This includes,
where appropriate, providing support and adjustments to enable those with protected characteristics
(including disabled people, women, LGBTQ+ and BAME communities) to thrive in the research
environment. Examples of this support include providing flexible working patterns with chosen
workdays and pre-school facilities for staff returning from maternity leave. Securing sabbatical time,
vertical mentoring, PGR opportunities and/or internal funding to progress has also resulted in
promotion and support for career paths of staff with protected characteristics. Staff promotions from
this group include those identified previously , a promotion from SL to PL and three staff gaining
permanent contracts in this REF cycle.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income
In line with our philosophy outlined in sections 1 and 2, UoA24 recognises dual benefits from
academic research and impact, supporting the development of both a financial and socially
sustainable economic research environment. In line with traditional finance metrics, UoA24
evidences its contribution to income generation through research bids and scholarly engagement. In
addition, UoA24 recognises the impact of the social economy (people and volunteering), as outlined
by the Bank of England’s Chief Economist (2014) who stated that the social currency of ‘Social Value
of Volunteering’ (SVV) is big business. Expanding on this further, Haldane (Join In, 2014) stated,
SVV as a social currency is a ‘hidden jewel’, the social value of which is rarely subject to public
valuation. In the ‘Join In’ report it is estimated that this new economy is worth £53 billion in sports
volunteering alone (Sport England, 2014). Given the challenges of austerity, UoA24 has actively
driven a strategy of facilitating social income (SVV) generation through the activities of the Centre
for Volunteering and Community Leadership (CVCL). This innovative approach, together with
income generation through research bids, addresses the aims from REF2014 of increasing and
maximising research income, promoting sustainability and vitality of UoA24, as the unit progresses
into the next REF cycle.

Financial Income Generation:
During the REF2021 cycle the enhanced infrastructure (see Section 3.2) has resulted in significant
income generation for UoA24. Trend analysis demonstrates an increase in the value of bids applied
for (either as principal investigator or co-investigator) from £2,235K (2015/16) to £5,050K (2019/20).
This is reflected in the values of successful awards which increased from £199K (2015/16) to £967K
(2019/20). Specifically, income generation from BEIS (Industrial Strategy, 2017) and EU bodies has
increased significantly, with more funding being secured at national and international levels (Figure
5). The increase in income generation is supported by multiple infrastructures, at an institution level
(e.g. Grants & Funding Unit) and at a UoA24 level (e.g. peer support/mentoring and bid writing) both
supporting staff through the grant submission process (see Section 2, for staff development, Table
2 for institutional/UoA24 infrastructure connectivity and Section 3.2 for specific examples).

                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
During the REF2021 cycle, external funding has significantly increased from £820K (REF2014) to
£1,571K (REF2021). Notable examples of research income that UoA24 (AHRu) has led or supported
include the involvement of 20 staff contributing to the successful £3.6m Innovation Clinic European
Regional Development Fund (ERDF) project, bringing in £557K against staff costs; the successful
completion of two Knowledge Transfer Partnerships (KTPs) worth £250K, which were rated as
outstanding by Innovate UK, resulting in significant growth in two companies, with an estimated
increase in revenue of £5m to date. The AHRu actively engages with industry partners and has
secured over £200K from direct funding from medium and large national and international companies
since 2014.

Figure 5: UoA24 Top Five Funding Sources for REF2021 comparison with REF 2014

                                                                                       Figure 5.1 - REF Comparision Final
               £700,000
                                                                                                Research Income

                                                                                     £1,800,000
               £600,000                                                              £1,600,000
                                                                                     £1,400,000
                                                                                     £1,200,000




                                                                          £ Income
                                                                                     £1,000,000
                                                                                      £800,000
               £500,000                                                               £600,000
                                                                                      £400,000
                                                                                      £200,000
    £ Income




                                                                                             £0
                                                                                                     REF         REF
               £400,000                                                                             2014        2021
                                                                                                     INC         INC
                                                                                                    OME         OME
                                                                               REF Cycle Totals    £819,746   £1,571,333
               £300,000


               £200,000


               £100,000


                    £0
                          EU government    BIS Research                                 UK-based              Non-EU
                                                            UK industry
                              bodies         Councils                                   charities             industry
      REF 2014 INCOME       £190,203         £97,299          £126,874                   £62,666              £47,111
      REF 2021 INCOME       £664,002        £297,254          £254,324                  £102,724              £85,637

                                UoA 24 Top Five Funding Sources for REF2021 comparions with REF 2014


Key: 1- EU Government Bodies; 2-BIS Research Councils, Royal Society, British Academy & Royal
Society of Edinburgh; 3-UK industry, commerce and public corporations; 4-UK-based charities (open
competitive); 5-Non-EU industry, commerce/public corporations
Other examples include:
   1) J.Richards is currently the theme leader for “Facilitating the Next Generation of Leaders in
      OA Tech” within the £1.18m EPSRC funded OATech+ project led by Cardiff University
   2) Hobbs was invited to bid for FEI funding to evidence the Para-Dressage classification system,
      securing £107K income
   3) Horne received £41K from the AHRC to document the London 2012 knowledge legacy

                                                                                                                 Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   4) As part of the ITT, Weston has secured over £250K for projects in sustainable transport, most
      recently £108K of ERDF funding for his work related to the promotion of cycling
   5) Sinclair is currently providing statistical support for several bids including a £2m BBSRC grant
      for C4Global on investigating wheat biofortification in Pakistan and also leads a £27K project
      to investigate tart cherry supplementation for PFP patients.
This range of income generation highlights world-wide research and impact, and distribution of
income generation across all four centre themes. This includes securing income for historically lower
funded disciplines, supporting the diversity and specialisms of staff across UoA24.
In the context of austerity, the increase in growth provides compelling evidence that UoA24 continues
to develop and grow in challenging times, owing to the sustainable strategies, infrastructure and staff
development which is in place.

Social Income Generation (SVV):
In addition to the growing success highlighted above in financial income generation, UoA24 has also
innovatively driven the SVV as outlined in paragraph one. This is a key part of the UoA24 strategy
for driving a sustainable income through the development of a sustainable workforce, which in turns
enables sustainable projects to enhance society. The capturing of SVV is challenging owing to the
breadth of projects engaged with across the University, and the mechanism to capture this data is a
feature of the next REF 2027 cycle. However, Melling’s Impact Case Study on ‘Student Volunteerism’
provides an example from this REF cycle of the value and impact of SVV evidence.
The Impact Case Study outlines how, since 1999, this research has been successful in securing
£3m in external grants. However, what is more impressive is the SVV currency calculated as part of
this work. During this REF2021 cycle, 5,140 students have been supported to engage in 64,130
hours of volunteer Knowledge Exchange, working with 500 National Government Organisations. In
context of Haldane (Bank of England, 2014), this equates to approximately £800K SVV income. It
could also be argued that this figure is an underestimation, with the SVV being calculated for the
duration of the project only, and it excludes the currency related to the continuation of work beyond
the end of the project. Figure 6 provides an example of one project relating to this case study and
the SVV which has been generated.

Figure 6 Case Study Example of ‘Social Value of Volunteering’ (SVV) Currency:
Project Title: Letters from Lesvos (shortlisted for Times Higher Education Awards 2020)
Overview: Based in Greece and Italy, the project worked in collaboration with ‘Save the Children,
Médecins Sans Frontières, Metadrasi, United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR)
and the Red Cross, engaging with 400 unaccompanied children. The aim of the project was to
develop social capital, self-advocacy, and transferable skills so young people can help themselves
and support others moving forwards.
Delivery of Project: Student volunteers ran arts and activity-based projects exploring leadership
and identity with the unaccompanied minors who were refugees or asylum seekers.
Impact: In terms of SVV currency calculation, this project engaged 39 students for 100 hours
each, producing a value of 3,900 hour of engagement. When translated this produces a value of
£48,750 SVV for this one project alone.




                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
3.2 Infrastructure
It is recognised that key characteristics are attributed to world-class research units (HEFCE/RAND,
2015). Using these attributes as guiding principles for the development of world-class research units,
UoA24 supports the integration of these attributes, through numerous University support services
(see REF 5a) and internal mechanisms, as outlined in Table 2, Section 2. In addition to the main
support structures, UoA24 has benefitted from targeted support offered by the Research Support
Team located in the LIFE Institute. For example, systematic review expertise (Reed) was provided
to support the development of ‘A scoping review of determinants of performance in dressage’. QR
funding allocated to centres and institutes has also supported research projects. An example of QR
funding for a project is captured from the socio-cultural discipline (LIFE funding stream), where
Macbeth secured ‘Sparkes’ funding to host a visual impairment, sport and physical activity workshop
(2019). The workshop involved collaboration of multi- and interdisciplinary groups of researchers
(UCLan) and external stakeholders, enhancing subject knowledge of UoA24.
As outlined in Section 1, the creation of Research Centres (Figure 1) contributes and enhances the
existing infrastructure developed in REF2014. The new centres provide an infrastructure which
integrates process, people, resources and systems in an interdisciplinary manner, facilitating a
community based on staff support, collaboration and the development of excellence. At a systems
level, UoA24 facilitates the successful identification and development of external research income
submissions. Discipline leads mentor staff within their area of research reviewing and supporting bid
preparation. For example, the AHRu has actively developed ECRs and MCRs within its successful
bid writing activities (Alexander, Chohan, Chapman, May) to further increase capabilities and
capacity. Similarly, Hobbs has supported ECRs and MCRs in bid writing and review for CASES
(Sinclair, Hurst, Allan, St George, Graydon), which has resulted in an increase in bid submissions
and successful bids (as principal investigator or co-investigator) from one submission (which was
successful) by REF2014 to over forty bids (nine successful) during this cycle.
Staff from UoA24 also support research infrastructures through engagement on institutional
committees 1) Ethics committee (Chohan, Hurst), 2) Pro-vice Chancellor’s Research Strategy Group
Meeting (J.Richards), 3) the development of University wide ECR, MCR and Professors and Readers
discussion Fora (J.Richards), 4) Research Degrees Board (Sharpley, Hughson), 5) Academic Board
(Sinclair). At an operational level specialist staff are employed to technician and research assistant
roles to support laboratory work and provide research support. In addition, strand leads meet
quarterly and feedback to the Pro-vice Chancellor’s Research Strategy Group to inform strategic
decisions. Further examples of research support infrastructure are presented in Section 2, staff
development.

3.3 Facilities
The Movement Analysis Laboratory within the AHRu offers world-class facilities with the highest
standards and latest equipment for the assessment of movement, from an investment of
approximately £400,000. This includes advanced motion analysis, force measurement,
electromyography, inertial measurement unit systems, pressure measurement, muscle and strength
assessment, tissue oxygenation monitoring, thermal imaging, and state of the art sensors for
electromyography decomposition. As a result, the AHRu has attracted more than 50 international
visitors since 2014 from across 5 continents. The Movement Analysis Laboratory also contains
offices for visiting researchers and currently supports 10 PhD students and staff projects from across
the University.



                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UCLan has complementary sports science facilities that include physiology, sports biomechanics,
and nutritional assessment laboratories as well as a strength and conditioning suite. These
laboratories are used for teaching, research and consultancy and are British Association of Sport
and Exercise Sciences (BASES) accredited for anthropometry, heart rate, respiratory gas and lactate
analysis. UCLan has also invested in field testing equipment including equestrian surface testing
tools, as well as a mobile motion analysis system. This array of mobile equipment has been used in
countless studies including the assessment of equine locomotion and downhill mountain biking.
For field-based research, students/staff can access Sir Tom Finney Sports Centre, a multi-million
pound, state-of-the-art, purpose built indoor facility on the main University Campus. Fifteen Pacific
countries completed their preparations ahead of the London 2012 Olympics using these facilities.
Recently, this facility was used to support COVID19 in the format of a ‘Nightingale’ hospital. Outside
of the main Preston campus UCLan also has a Sports Arena which offers a variety of high-quality
facilities. These include grass football and rugby pitches, a 3G football pitch, an eight-lane
international standard athletics track, tennis and netball courts, a cricket pitch, a 1.5 km cycle circuit,
and all-weather grids and pitches.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Support for Collaboration
This section highlights the extensive network of interdisciplinary collaboration and parallel support
systems, which empower staff to engage in collaborative scholarly activity. The ‘research
development ecosystem’ presented in section 2 (Table 2), with its positive supportive research
culture, is the catalyst for stimulating external collaboration with industrial partners and stakeholders,
supporting the cyclical link between theory and practice.
Senior management within UoA24 actively support the development of collaborative networks,
enabling staff to facilitate a dynamic link between innovative interdisciplinary research projects and
external stakeholders and partners/ networks. For example, J.Richards was supported to conduct a
two-month secondment to attend Mahidol University (Thailand). This collaboration supported the
development of 15 papers and three grant submissions to develop clinical subgrouping and
intervention development for neuromuscular and musculoskeletal conditions. The secondment
included knowledge exchange through the delivery of workshops/ seminars in partnership with
Mahidol University and industrial partners DJO Global.
UoA24 staff are also supported to attend networking events. For example, in collaboration with
industry, P.Richards was supported to attend a Ministry of Defence (MOD) event by invitation.
Attendance at this event led to collaboration with seven defence suppliers, three external UK
universities and a partnership with national organisations, including MOD, Dstl and BAE Systems.
BAE Systems have now adopted UCLan’s logo as part of Human Social Science Research
Capability (HSSRC) Framework. This engagement has resulted in the submission of five MOD
project bids.
The operationalisation of the ‘research ecosystem’ (Section 1 and 2), demonstrates both institution
and external collaboration. Our mentoring and support networks (Section 2) enable staff to be placed
in contact with each other, facilitating the development of ideas. For example, contact made between
strand leads and Research Centre members has resulted in the development of a special interest
group relating to the ‘Health, Performance and Medicine of Dance’. Through this internal
collaboration, PGR and staff networks have instigated collaboration with universities (Northumbria

                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
University; St Mary’s University), and links to several Professional Dance Schools in the UK and
internationally (Straat Ballett, Berlin). This provides an example of the connectivity of UoA24
‘research ecosystem’ facilitating collaboration internally, externally and with industry, resulting in the
initiation of collaborative bids and building towards REF2027.
ECRs are integrated into research/ applied projects to develop collaborative skills within all projects.
Allan has recently developed international collaborative links with Aspire and Aspetar, (Doha) to
extend his mechanistic cellular and molecular research, working towards a greater understanding of
recovery methodologies. St George is working with Delsys, (USA), a world-leading manufacturer of
wireless electromyography hardware and software, and Utrecht University on standard methods of
processing and analysing equine muscle activity signals for lameness assessment. Locally, Birkett
has developed links with Heart Beat to continue his research on exercise prescription in cardiac
patients.

4.2 Interdisciplinary research, partnerships and networks
Staff from UoA24 are engaged in international and national research collaborations that span the
range of research disciplines. For example, an international research collaboration between UCLan,
the University of Kentucky, the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences and Nottingham Trent
University, initiated the development and implementation of standards for testing equestrian
surfaces. A collaborative partnership with Moscow City Government on their volunteering and social
action programme, supported the preparation for FIFA 2018 World Cup from a sociological
perspective. Diverse communities research emanating from the CVCL has, for example, 1)
supported refugees and asylum seekers (Letters from Lesvos, Figure 6), 2) explored the
conceptualisation of gender-based oppression in Zambia and 3) helped to deliver key life-skills and
health messages to orphans in Morocco, amongst other projects.
Examples from tourism include collaboration between Sharpley and Wakayama University (Japan),
exploring research into heritage interpretation at dark tourism sites. Additional work by Gammon in
collaboration with Clemson University, South Carolina, and University of California (Berkeley) in
sport tourism and heritage has resulted in collaborative research/ publications. Gammon also
actively collaborates with universities in Poland, Hungary and Italy, exploring entrepreneurial
practices in the industry. Stone is working with the University of Pittsburgh on projects exploring
young people’s experiences of dark tourism sites. Weston collaborates with numerous European
partners on European funded projects focusing on tourism, and sustainable cycle routes. Finally,
Jarratt has worked with UK partners, including Salford University, and on a collaborative project with
an artist on seaside nostalgia.
The ICaP research community demonstrates world-class collaboration and applied work which is
influencing, informing and changing practice at elite, world-class level both within sport and related
domains. The ICaP community has national and international networks which support research and
applied work with Olympic pathway sports (Cruickshank, Judo; Richards, Cycling, Gymnastics,
Pentathlon, Judo and the English Institute of Sport). Some of ICaP’s collaborators include Everton
FC, Burnley FC, Salford FC (Rhodes); Saracens, WASPs, Leicester Tigers, Manchester City,
Manchester United and Chelsea FC (Kiely); cricket (Grecic); Paralympic sport of canoeing
(P.Richards, Taylor); elite rugby (UK and France, Grecic, Cruickshank, P.Richards); and the English
FA Coach Development and UKCoaching (P.Richards). In addition to working across the
performance pathway in elite sport, ICaP collaborates with and provides transferable knowledge to
inform the development of expertise development in related domains. These include Fire Service
and complex, technical water rescue (P.Richards); Police (Cruickshank, P.Richards); UK Army
(P.Richards); Norwegian Army (Rhodes); and UK Navy (P.Richards & Sinclair).

                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.3 Global Research Community: Contribution and Recognition
Staff are engaged in editorial roles, peer review, and publication processes for a wide range of
journals, including:
   •   J.Richards is Associate Editor for The Knee, Frontiers in Sports and Active Living and the
       International Journal on Multidisciplinary Approaches on Innovation.
   •   Sinclair is also Associate Editor for The Knee.
   •   Palmer is Editor in Chief for the Journal of Qualitative Research in Sports Studies, an open
       access journal published by UCLan.
Other editorial positions include, Frontiers in Applied Mathematics and Statistics, and Quantitative
Psychology and Measurement (Filho), The Journal of Sport and Tourism (Gammon) and co-editor
for Tourism Planning & Development (Sharpley). Majumdar is the executive academic editor of
Soccer & Society, and Hughson is deputy academic editor of Sport in Society and Soccer & Society.
Staff are also members of editorial boards. For example, Jarratt, for the Journal of Tourism &
Hospitality Research, Hobbs for Animals, J.Richards for Trends in Rehabilitation Sciences, Filho for
the International Journal of Sport and Exercise Psychology and the Journal of Clinical Sport
Psychology, Hughson for Cultural Sociology and Ethnography, Gammon for Theories & Application,
the International Edition (TAIE), and Sharpley for the International Journal of Tourism Research,
Tourism Recreation Research, Tourist Studies, and Advances in Hospitality and Tourism Research.
Staff engagement with Committees, positional chairs and grant committees includes:
   •   J.Richards reviewing grants for MRC, EPSRC, BBSRC; sat on the (NIHR) North West RfPB
       committee; and is an Executive board member of the Motor Control Technical Group within
       the International Society of Biomechanics.
   •   Hobbs is a Research Assessor for the Carnegie Trust, reviewing grants on an annual basis.


UoA24 staff have Visiting Professor roles, including:
   •   J.Richards at: Sports and Exercise Medicine Research and Education Group, University of
       Malaya, Malaysia; SEGi University Malaysia; Hospital University Kebangsaan Malaysia;
       Faculties of Medicine and Physical Therapy, Mahidol University, Thailand; Palacky University
       Olomouc, Czech Republic; Universidad de Granada, Spain; Sports Science, Universidad
       Católica de Valencia, Spain; University of Porto, Portugal; Coimbra University, Portugal and
       is a visiting collaborator in the School of Mechanical & Aerospace Engineering, Singapore
       Polytechnic, Singapore, and is a Research Advisor to the Nan Yang Academy of Sciences,
       Singapore
   •   Sharpley is a Visiting Professor at Wakayama University, Japan
   •   Palmer is Visiting Professor at Hunan Normal University, China
   •   Reeves is a Visiting Research Fellow at University of Granada, Spain
   •   Sinclair is a Visiting Research Fellow at Staffordshire University
   •   P.Richards is a Visiting Research Fellow at Glyndwr University.




                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
International committees have UoA24 staff representation:
   •   J.Richards joined the Executive Board of the International Society of Biomechanics’ (ISB)
       Motor Control Technical Group in 2016. This international collaboration facilitates the sharing
       of professional practice and advanced the understanding/application of Motor Control, with
       J.Richards leading the clinical rehabilitation focus within this group.
   •   J.Richards also holds an Honorary Fellowship at Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS
       Foundation Trust and Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS Trust.
   •   Hobbs is a scientific member of the FEI Footing Committee and a member of the ASTM
       International Committee F08 on Sports Equipment, Playing Surfaces, and Facilities.


National and international keynotes, and invited presentations are delivered by UoA24
members:
   •   Allan (ECR) was invited to speak at the International Conference of Environmental
       Ergonomics (ICEE, Amsterdam, 2019).
   •   Invited talks from J.Richards include: International Society of Arthroscopy, Knee Surgery and
       Orthopaedic Sports Medicine 2019; British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences 2018;
       Malaysian Orthopaedic Association 2018; Italian Society of the Knee, Arthroscopy, Sports
       Traumatology, Cartilage and Orthopaedic Technology 2018; American College of Sport
       Medicine 2016, and the International Society of Electrophysiology and Kinesiology 2016.
   •   Hughson’s research relating to 1966 World Cup resulted in a number of keynote/ invited
       presentations at academic and related institutions (University of Oxford; University of
       Warsaw; The British Library; Senate House Library; National Football Museum).
   •   Hurst delivered an invited talk on head accelerations and concussion risks in mountain biking
       at the Cycling Science Annual Conference (France, 2018).
   •   Hobbs delivered a number of invited presentations on equine topics (Horse in Motion
       Workshop, Helsinki 2019; International Hoof Care Summit, Cincinnati, 2017).
   •   Melling is leading an international webinar (2020) and conference (2021) titled ‘A Field of
       Dreams’.
   •   Gammon presented keynotes on Sports Tourism (Instituto Politécnico de Coimbra, 2014;
       IRNIST Sport Tourism Conference, 2018).
   •   Sharpley delivered keynotes at Belgrade International Tourism Conference (2014), the
       Spiritual Tourism Conference, Tehran (2016); Sustainable Tourism Congress, Acapulco
       (2016), 15th Annual Tourism and Hospitality Research (2019) and the 2nd Critical Tourism
       Asia-Pacific Conference (2020).
   •   Gammon has presented Managing Seasonality (Cyprus, 2015) and on Sustainable
       Management of Tourism Growth to the Japan Tourism Agency, (Tokyo, 2019).


Policy contribution is demonstrated through world-leading research and engagement:
   •   Hobbs was lead author on the FEI commissioned Equine Surfaces White Paper (2014), that
       drove the development of standards for 5* show jumping competition surfaces.
   •   ITT staff (Weston and Jarratt) co-authored the ‘European tourism: recent developments and
       future challenges’ research report (2019) requested by the TRAN committee of the European

                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Parliament to provide an overview of the current state of affairs in European tourism that
       supports the sustainable development of the sector.


Public and media engagement has been extensive in UoA24, for example:
   •   Adams’ research informed exhibitions by the National Football Museum and several public
       educational forums including the BBC ‘All was quiet on the Western Front when the
       kickabouts started’.
   •   Melling's work provided the socio-political context underpinning the Channel 4 documentary
       presented by Clare Balding, ‘When Football Banned Women’.
   •   Gammon was interviewed by BBC 1 and Radio 4, in relation to seaside nostalgia.
   •   Stone contributes to debates on dark tourism, internationally on including for the BBC,
       Huffington Post and CNN, radio and newspaper articles.
   •   Jarratt has appeared on Breakfast TV and numerous BBC radio stations, presenting his
       research on tourism and seaside experiences.


Collaboration in PGR training is supported by J.Richards with the Faculty of Physical Therapy,
Mahidol University, Thailand; University of Porto, Portugal; Universidad Católica de Valencia, Spain;
Universidad de Granada, Spain; and Palacky University Olomouc, Czech Republic.


Concluding thoughts
In this UoA24 Environment Statement we have demonstrated the development of a growing
interdisciplinary community of researchers. In addition to a growing portfolio of world-leading
research using the criteria of REF as a proxy for ‘world class’ research we have evidenced the quality
of outputs and impact and the increased financial profile of the UoA24.
UoA24 is built on a thriving community of interdisciplinary academics, researchers, practitioners and
PGRs working collectively to solve ‘real world’ problems. This multinational community has facilitated
the sharing of information and knowledge exchange in a transparent and ethical manner to enhance
the lives of people, organisation and society as a whole, both within the UK and internationally. Such
interaction has not only benefited individuals but has, in addition, informed and shaped policies and
professional practices on an international scale.
UoA24 clearly demonstrates world leading research and impact. It does, however, recognise the
challenges ahead with not only maintaining our research quality, but in extending existing research
areas, while remaining adaptable to the new global challenges that we face. Our solid foundations
are based on strong strategic leadership from senior management, combined with the desire and
passion of researchers, staff and external partners, all collaboratively working together to be part of
the solution for future challenges. This places UoA24 in a strong position to continue to perform the
role as a world leading research community. UoA24 is equipped to transition into the next REF
cycle, recognising its role in producing world leading research to enhance the lives of individuals,
organisation and communities.




                                                                                              Page 24
