Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Teesside University

 Unit of Assessment: 20

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Overview
Our Social Policy unit is located in the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) in the School of Social
Sciences, Humanities and Law. The unit comprises 36 (34.7 FTE) staff, ten research associates
and assistants, six graduate tutors and 37 PhD students. Through research, the CSI aims to
address current societal challenges that create risk and vulnerability and threaten the physical and
emotional security of individuals, communities and societies.
The centre’s research is organised under five research themes:
Theme 1: Crime, Social Exclusion and Extremism (led by Antonopoulos)
Collaborative work with a range of local, national and international partners working with
vulnerable, marginalised and victimised groups to understand and address the harms engendered
by crime, social exclusion and extremism. Research partners include Office on Drugs and Crime,
Centre for Evidence on Security Threats, Public Health South Tees and Middlesbrough Council.
Notable projects include: Financial Aspects of Trade in Counterfeit Products (Antonopoulos,
ES/P001327/1); Developing Expertise Against the Online Trade of Fake Medicines by Producing
and Disseminating Knowledge, Counterstrategies And Tools Across the EU (FAKECARE)
(Antonopoulos, EU DG Home Affairs, 4000002221); Hatespeech Tool for Monitoring, Analyzing
and Tackling Anti-Muslin Hatred (Antonopoulos, EU DG Justice and Consumers, 764583) Dialogue
About Radicalization and Equality (Copsey, EU Horizon 2020, 725349); Understanding Twenty-
First Century Militant Anti-Fascism: An Analytical Framework and Matrix (Copsey, Centre for
Research and Evidence on Security Threats (CREST), ESRC IRL 7014 XS04) and Challenging
Youth Racism in the North East (Copsey, Big Lottery Fund).
Theme 2: Communities, Education and Health (led by Newbury-Birch)
This theme works to address the acute social, educational and health challenges facing post-
industrial urban and peri-urban communities in the Tees Valley and beyond. Research is co-
produced from design through to delivery, dissemination and capacity building with partner
organisations. Research partners include Public Health England (PHE), Middlesbrough Council,
Durham County Council, Durham Prison and Tees Valley Education Trust. Notable projects
include: Developing a Local Authority Research System (Newbury-Birch et al, NIHR,
NIHR131912); Public Health England evaluations (Newbury-Birch and Connor) and 'New Normal'
or continued 'Social Distancing'? Preschool and Poverty in Post-Pandemic England and the USA
(Simpson, British Academy, SRG20\200451).
Theme 3: Social Justice, Inclusion and Place (led by Aiston and Cotton)
This emergent theme is committed to socially sustainable development outcomes in local, national
and global contexts. It explores conceptions of equity, justice and democracy and their intersection
with the emergence of new technologies, policies and practices, in the fields of energy, gender,
economies, public health and place. Notable partners include the Association of Pacific Rim
Universities, World Agroforestry (ICRAF, Nairobi), and the Centre for Research on Governance
and Development in CPGD in Maputo. Notable projects include: A Political-Economic Analysis of
Electricity Grid Access Histories and Futures In Mozambique (Cotton, POLARIZE, funded by
FCDO); Harvesting the Sun Twice: Enhancing Livelihoods In East African Agricultural
Communities Through Innovations In Solar Energy (Cotton, ESRC GCRF); What is in a Meter?

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Working Towards Efficient, Socially Inclusive and Environmentally Sensitive Energy and Water
Infrastructures in the Global South (Crosbie and Newbury-Birch, British Academy GCRF Urban
Infrastructures Well-Being Programme, UWB190097).

Research and impact strategy
This submission represents an increased diversity of social policy research within the CSI. The
development of focused themes recognises our ambition post-2014 to broaden the UoA to cultivate
and support interdisciplinary approaches, enhance public engagement and address the most
pressing societal challenges, while maintaining established areas of strength, such as Criminology.
Since REF2014, a renewed institutional-level research strategy (REF5a, p.3) has enabled a wider
university research community to engage with niche areas of expertise and build research
capability. Social policy research within the CSI is closely aligned to the university’s research grand
challenge Creating Vibrant and Cohesive Societies, which is led on behalf of the university by
Lloyd.
Research strategy
The development of a research strategy for the CSI has enabled the unit to demonstrate progress
against the future aims stated in REF 2014 to: raise research quality; increase grant funding;
maximise non-academic impact; build on core areas of strength; and support a thriving and
sustainable research culture.
Since 2014, the unit has enhanced the quality of social policy research through: robust governance
processes; additional research allocations to support publication; collaborative working; and the
coaching and mentoring of CSI members. Every member of the CSI has been assigned a mentor
(a professor or reader) to guide and support their research aspirations. This has been combined
with the tailored management of research projects to ensure they are sufficiently planned and
resourced.
The benefits of these processes are reflected in the growing volume of outputs published in peer-
reviewed journals with established reputations, long-text publications such as monographs, and
high-quality research collaborations. Articles published since 2014 are in either specialised journals
(e.g. British Journal of Criminology; Crime Media, Culture; European Journal of Criminal Policy and
Research; Critical Criminology; Alcohol and Alcoholism; Journal of Public Health, Health, Risk and
Society and Medical Law Review), or broad social policy journals (e.g. International Journal of
Sociology and Social Policy). In addition, substantial outputs, including monographs, have been
published over the census period, such as The Harms of Work (Lloyd, 2018), recognised as an
“important and timely” reference point for scholars of the sociology of work (Ellis, 2020).
Researchers have developed relationships with high-quality collaborators and international
partners, including the Vienna-based think-tank of the Party of the European Left, Transform! the
Rosa Luxenbourg Stiftung, and the Nicos Poulantzas Institute (Papanicolaou). In addition,
Papanicolaou’s British Academy-funded project (on the Italian administration of the interwar
Dodecanese resulted in publications contributing significantly to a historical sociology of illegal
markets (Papanicolaou, 2017).
In the area of gender and victimisation, the unit has generated influential research, including
Wattis’s analysis of sex workers as victims, undertaken in collaboration with the North East Sex
Work Forum. As a result, Wattis has been invited to review articles for the journals, Violence
against Women, and Criminology and Criminal Justice Research. In 2015, Wattis organised and
hosted the Women, Narrative and Crime Conference (funded by the British Academy), which gave
rise to the single-authored volume Re-visiting the Yorkshire Ripper (2018): a book described by
Feminist Review (2019) as an ”outstanding” piece of feminist scholarship.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The delivery of projects that secured external funding from the EU, such as Financing Organised
Crime Activities (FINOCA) (DG Home Affairs, 4000002566), Dialogue about Radicalisation and
Equality (DARE) has enhanced our research by furnishing extensive international collaboration
with established institutions working in a variety of disciplines (Criminology, Sociology, History,
Computing, and Engineering) and national and international stakeholders. FINOCA (led by
Antonopoulos et al) was delivered in collaboration with research institutions in Italy and Bulgaria,
as well as researchers based in 10 countries of the EU and stakeholders [ICS 1]. Arising from this
research on emerging problems in social policy and criminal policy, such as the online trade in
counterfeit medicines and the finances of organised crime, Antonopoulos has generated outputs
(Hall & Antonopoulos, 2016, Antonopoulos Hall, Large and Shen, 2020) based on research data
and collaboration with authorities and public officials ([text removed for publication], National
Trading Standards). Among these is his book (with Hall) Fake Meds Online, which was nominated
for the 2017 International Association for the Study of Organised Crime (IASOC) Publication Award
and the 2018 Division of International Criminology of the American Society of Criminology
Distinguished Book Award. DARE (led by University of Manchester, and Copsey for Teesside)
brings together academic and civil society organisations from nine EU and four non-EU countries.
DARE has significantly increased understanding of why and how young people become
radicalised. A member of the National Stakeholder Group, Copsey also contributed to the
publication of country reports examining the dynamics of ‘cumulative extremism’ and a new
counter-radicalisation integrity toolkit developed by the German Institute on Radicalisation and De-
radicalisation Studies (Copsey, 2019).
The broadening of the unit’s focus to include new themes around co-production, public policy and
public health has enhanced research through growing stakeholder involvement in the research
process [ICS 3]. This has generated NIHR-funded research projects around alcohol and brief
interventions in the criminal justice system that have generated collaborative outputs. For example,
Co-creating and Co-producing Research Evidence: A Guide for Practitioners and Academics in
Health, Social Care and Education Settings (Newbury Birch and Allan, editors, 2019), contains a
number of works based on practitioner collaboration and has been acknowledged by PHE as a
leading research text on co-production research for academics and practitioners.
Since 2014, the unit’s research environment has been enhanced through our participation in
national doctoral training consortia. Our ESRC-funded PhD NINE DTP student (Telford) completed
his PhD in 2020, publishing in a range of widely read journals including The International Journal of
Sociology and Social policy (Telford, 2020). Core research strengths continue to enhance our
doctoral training, especially within the DTP, with doctoral completions (Temple, Telford) and new
recruits in 2020 (Armstrong, Diba) working on projects with a criminology focus. Our research has
also benefitted from the unit’s leadership of the Social Policy DTA (University Alliance), with a
growing number of researchers co-publishing with doctoral students in the field of applied social
policy (e.g. Logar Zamar and Leese 2020).
Flagship conferences, international networks and informal research groups, and wider activities
have enriched the unit’s environment over the period. Since 2014, researchers in the unit have co-
organised the annual Cross-Border Crime Colloquium (with the University of Sarajevo, the Centre
of Criminology and Social Prevention of the Czech Republic, Northumbria University, the University
of Bratislava, the Ukrainian National University of Internal Affairs, and Utrecht University). This
colloquium, and the international network to which it gave rise, has generated a series of edited
collections (such as Van Duyne PC, Siegel, Antonopoulos, Harvey, Von Lampe, 2020). Local
research events have been equally important in supporting early career researchers (ECRs), PhD
students and established academics across the unit to present their research findings and receive
peer feedback. Since 2014, the school has hosted a monthly interdisciplinary Wednesday research


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
seminar with presentations from researchers in the unit covering subject areas including Law,
Education, Criminology and the Humanities. The series included external visiting speakers
(supported with travel bursaries) from institutions including Liverpool John Moores University,
Newcastle University and the University of Manchester.
The aim to grow research underpinned by external funding is a key priority for researchers in the
unit. With the introduction of a formal process for allocation of research time, research plans
(including funding plans) have been reviewed as part of the university-level Professional
Development Plan and Review (PDPR) process, encouraging individuals to grow in confidence,
focus and ambition in grant-generating activity.
Research income has been maintained over the period through an increased diversification of
income sources, reflecting the growing importance of work with government and public bodies.
Research in the unit is now funded by research organisations and charities including the ESRC,
National Institute for Health Research, Public Health England (PHE), Big Lottery, local and regional
government. This represents a move away from an earlier predominance of EU-funded grants, to a
diversified and sustainable income stream. Researchers in the unit have been supported through
the appointment of a team of research fellows and associates (led by Moore), dedicated to
supporting work with external partners, including the local and combined authorities, police, HM
Prison Service (HMPS) and public health providers, to consolidate collaborative and contract
research opportunities.
Impact strategy
Our social policy research is socially responsible and engaged. To ensure our research is of use to
policymakers, charities and NGOs, as well as local communities, we work closely with
stakeholders, ensuring research questions and outcomes are relevant and accessible to
stakeholders.
Since 2014, our ambition to seek greater impact for academic research has been facilitated by:
joint research positions (with local authorities in Middlesbrough and Durham); regular engagement
and planning meetings with the Tees Valley Combined Authority (TVCA); a dedicated knowledge-
exchange team to support research consultancy and contract research (3 FTE); the introduction of
new themes around co-production, public policy leading to practitioner-focused outputs (Newbury-
Birch) and CPD for practitioners (Teesside Policing Clinic).
In addition to publishing monographs and journal articles, the knowledge-exchange team ensures
research is communicated in an accessible and engaging manner through the writing of reports,
(Jarvis and Mountain; Antonopoulos), evaluations (Newbury-Birch and Connor), development of
toolkits (International Migration Data Toolkit) and digital tools (FAKECARE), as well as the delivery
of, and participation in, public and policy engagement events and activities (Copsey;
Antonopoulos). These outputs have benefitted key local (Middlesbrough Council, TVCA, Cleveland
Police, and regional police and crime commissioners), national (PHE, What Works Scotland,
Nursery World, Ministry of Justice, HMPS) and international stakeholders (Bulgarian National
Security Committee, [text removed for publication]). For instance, research into the online trade in
illicit medicines (Antonopoulos) has enhanced the knowledge of policymakers and law enforcement
agencies (LEAs) supporting them to combat this dangerous and rapidly increasing international
crime. [Text removed for publication]. Research quantifying and mapping illicit markets
(Antonopoulos) has played a crucial role in helping policymakers (Ministry of Interior of Bulgaria,
OECD, European Parliament) and law enforcement officials (EUROPOL) to be more flexible and
agile in devising effective enforcement actions to address these threats. In the UK, from 2015 to
2020 the Cabinet Office’s National Security Risk Assessment drew upon this research and
expertise to the prioritisation of risks to the country’s defences, including threats such as


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
cybercrime (ICS2). Research on coproduction, evaluation, and public health undertaken (Newbury-
Birch) has led to a transformation in the working practices and policies of Durham County Council.
The research has subsequent informed council policy on mental health and suicide and led to both
maintained and enhanced support and provision for the local community (ICS3).
Collaborations with stakeholders have been consolidated through memoranda of understanding
and research collaborative agreements that have been developed as a way of directing research
for the benefit of these communities (including with the TVCA, Tees Valley Education Trust,
Thirteen Housing Group and Middlesbrough Council). Engagement with the regional authority
(TVCA) has been further supported by the university’s QR Strategic Priorities Fund, which invested
in secondments for three of TVCA’s policy staff to work with our research fellows (Moore and
Moss) to identify social policy research that would help TVCA better understand (and anticipate
future) regional challenges. This collaboration informed the university’s submission of evidence in
response to the UK2070 Commission call addressing the key issues facing the region, with
contributions from social policy researchers on migration (Lloyd and Devanney), health inequalities
(Newbury-Birch) and environmental policy (Cotton).
Two impact and public-engagement champions (Antonopoulos, Counihan) oversee the impact
strategy for the unit: supporting CIS researchers to develop impact pathways and offering support,
training and guidance to ensure research is relevant, timely and accessible. Researchers have
been given dedicated research time in support of the development of an impact plan. Individual
plans have drawn on the university’s support structures, including a dedicated team in Research
and Innovation Services (RIS), Corporate Communications, and the Department of Academic
Enterprise (DAE) to work in collaboration with the school-level associate dean research and
innovation, to make and maintain relationships with public and private-sector organisations and to
develop impact. This infrastructure has helped to direct the delivery of a range of research projects,
ensuring our social policy research benefits a range of local, national and international
stakeholders.
Local stakeholders have benefited from research arising from the government-commissioned
Controlling Migration Fund (Antonopoulos, Devanney, Lloyd, Wattis and Bell). This created outputs
(including data) that fed into decision-making, planning, commissioning and the delivery of local
migration support services. The project stakeholders included the local authority, the regional
police force and the Police and Crime Commissioner’s Office, local PHE representatives, and the
Regional Migration Partnership. The toolkit arising from this project is publicly available. The
project employed an embedded researcher seconded to Middlesbrough Council (Devanney); a role
created to embed the knowledge exchange and public engagement arising from the project within
academic research and teaching.
The embedded-researcher role was also a core element in the delivery of the Evidence-based
Policing Clinic. Developed in collaboration with Cleveland Police (Papanicolaou), the project
employed a researcher to work with a wider team of academics, professional practitioners, and
police officers, to generate knowledge exchange and to increase accessibility of research outputs
to police practitioners. The clinic delivered a range of CPD courses, mainly targeted at supervisors
and front-line personnel. Meanwhile, work with NGOs and local charities, such as Middlesbrough
and Stockton MIND, to deliver the Evening Loneliness project led to outputs (Jarvis, 2020) and
reports (Jarvis, 2019) that provided recommendations to the local Ageing Better Programme on
interventions to prevent isolation and loneliness among older people in the Middlesbrough and
Stockton area.
The value of social policy research to local and regional stakeholders has increased during the
Covid pandemic. In March 2020, Chamberlain independently examined the use of Covid-19
emergency powers by Cleveland Police. This work was undertaken by request from the Police and

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Crime Commissioner in conjunction with an Independent Advisory Group on Police Use of
Temporary Powers. Data sharing from the project led to the publication of the first quantitative
comparative study of the police use of emergency powers (Chamberlain et al, 2020). This work has
been shared in policy and practice repositories, such as the evidenced-based practice map of The
College of Policing. In addition, researchers involved in co-production methodologies (Newbury-
Birch et al) have worked alongside Middlesbrough Council to develop a co-production community
Covid response (Newbury-Birch, 2020), leading to a community-led development and enactment of
public-health support services for vulnerable groups.
Education and law researchers in the unit (Simpson, Howard) have engaged with national
stakeholders (What Works Scotland; Nursery World, Ministry of Justice, Law Commission) on
research to help them work more effectively to represent the interests of vulnerable groups in
education and legal frameworks. Simpson’s research on mitigating the effect of poverty on
educational outcomes (Simpson, 2014) has been used to support the development of child local
action plans in Scotland. Howard’s research on (un)fitness to plead (Howard, 2014), engaged
national stakeholders within the Ministry of Justice, with whom she collaborated by invitation on a
working party on law reform. This work is continuing with local stakeholders, including magistrates,
the police, adults’ charities, and NHS liaison and diversion teams. Howard was supported with
research time as well as travel bursaries for engagement and networking with national
stakeholders including barristers and other legal practitioners. In 2019, Copsey and Temple were
supported to host the final event of the Tackling Youth Racism Project, funded by the Big Lottery
Fund. This enabled participation in the event from key stakeholders, including the Home Office
Lead Commissioner on Countering Extremism and representatives from a range of national
organisations such as Hope not Hate, EqualiTeach and Show Racism the Red Card.
This infrastructure of support and emphasis upon research with stakeholder engagement has
enabled researchers (Antonopoulos and Newbury-Birch) to develop the plans that informed the
development of unit’s current and future impact case studies (ICS1, ICS2, ICS3). Each ICS author
has been supported with a bespoke training package, including being assigned a mentor, tailored
to their impact plan. In addition to enhancing impact skills, the school – through the associate dean
research and innovation – has supported the UoA and ICS leads to identify and resource events
that enhance stakeholder engagement.
The local support for ICS authors included the provision of seed funding for research activities
where there were clear impact plans in place. Antonopoulos received funding for follow-on
stakeholder engagement across a range of projects, including: support for travel to Bulgaria in
2017 to present research on the role of the internet in human trafficking to the Bulgarian National
Council of Ministers; travel to participate (by invitation) in the Cabinet Office's National Security
Risk Assessment: and travel for work with the Medical and Health Products Regulatory Agency
and for visiting the counterfeiting unit of EUROPOL in the Hague (ICS2). The continuing benefits of
social policy research to international stakeholders working towards the eradication of social harm
can be seen in the recent appointment of Antonopoulos as expert for the core working group 1.2,
UN Network on Migration (UNNM) and membership of the UN Delta 8.7 Policy Guides Working
Group dedicated to the eradication of modern slavery and human trafficking.
Newbury-Birch received focused support to develop a range of stakeholder engagement activities.
For instance, in 2017 the university hosted an Alcohol and Criminal Justice Conference attended
by a range of national stakeholders including local authority leaders for community safety, the
police and representatives from third-sector agencies. Match-funding was provided for
engagement with young people via a number of workshops held at the university, including the
ESRC Festival of Social Sciences Event Animation: Participate in Social Science Research,
attended by 54 young people. In addition, funding and support (including for six iPads), was

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
provided for work with young people at Norham High School, North Shields, where the Co-creating
and Co-producing Research project was launched, by Teesside University’s vice-chancellor. Local
support for this work has allowed publications and other outputs to be co-produced with key
stakeholders, ensuring that social policy research is of use to policymakers, charities and NGOs,
as well as local communities (ICS3).

Open research
Open research lies at the heart of the CSI, which works to ensure that datasets and outputs are
made available to a wide audience. This has ensured that key outputs developed in conjunction
with external collaborators, such as the Controlling Migration Fund toolkit, are available to a wide
range of existing and future stakeholders. In addition, arising from the ERSC-funded project
Financial Aspects of Trade in Counterfeit Products (2016-17), interview data and transcripts are
available via the UK Data Service. These have been used by a range of researchers, including
from the University of Edinburgh. Research datasets (Newbury-Birch, 2016-20) are all accessible
via TeesRep.
University-level support for ECRs now includes bespoke training on increasing the visibility of
research on other platforms, such as ORCID and ResearchGate. As part of the commitment to
support the research environment across the unit, the CIS has introduced a series of seminars on
research reproducibility and using social media platforms for research and researchers in the unit
have supported publication in open-access (OA) journals through research-grant-funded projects
(Newbury-Birch).
With the broadening of stakeholder engagement in social policy, researchers have worked to
ensure that our research is accessible and visible to a wide audience. All our researchers use the
university’s OA repository TeesRep.

Research integrity
Our research is shaped by involving vulnerable adults and young people as well as by the use of
co-production methodologies with adults and young people with complex needs. Researchers have
developed significant expertise in working with these groups and in adopting coproduction methods
(Newbury-Birch, 2019). Newbury-Birch has delivered training on these topics through the MSc in
Social Research Methods, open to all researchers and postgraduates across the school.
Our social policy and public-health-focused research with health-service partners and local
authorities is governed in line with the UK Policy Framework for Health and Social Care Research.
Through our local induction and seminar series we ensure that staff are familiar with the
framework, other relevant legislation such as the Mental Health Capacity Act (2005), and the
university’s Policy, Procedures and Guidelines for Research Ethics and information security
requirements (REF 5a, p.4).
Ethics and integrity across social policy research is governed by school-level research ethics sub-
committees that report to the University Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee (UREISC).
The school committee meets twice termly and also maintains contact with the research community
via the School Research and Innovation Sub-Committee, on which all research centre and UoA
leads are represented. Staff and postgraduate students are encouraged to attend research
integrity and ethics training programmes and new staff are made aware of the university’s
principles and procedures set out in the Framework and Code of Practice for Ensuring Research
Integrity, through their induction programme. Our researchers are actively involved in supporting a
culture of research integrity. Lodge, Howard and Cotton have all been members of the school
committee, and Lodge was formerly the committee’s deputy chair.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Interdisciplinary research
The unit’s support for interdisciplinary research reflects the university’s commitment to
interdisciplinary dialogue and collaboration, led through the strategic development of its three
research grand challenges (REF5a, p.2). The grand challenge themes have provided a forum for
collaborations involving various disciplines across the university that have led to externally funded
projects such as the British Academy project, What is in a Meter? Led by Crosbie in collaboration
with Newbury-Birch, this project combines research across the CSI and the Centre for Sustainable
Engineering, and is informing implementation and use of metering in the global south in ways that
engender social inclusion and environmentally sensitive consumption patterns and reduce health
inequalities.
The unit promotes and encourages interdisciplinary research with tangible benefits for external
stakeholders. For instance, Antonopoulos work with psychologist Collins (UoA 4) on the Registered
Intermediaries and Child Witnesses of Crime has been used and cited by Baroness Newlove, the
Victims’ Commissioner for England and Wales, in her Review into the Provision of Registered
Intermediaries for Children and Vulnerable Victims and Witnesses. In addition, through its
participation in the ESRC NINE Doctoral Training Partnership (2017-27), social policy provides a
focus for researchers working in fields as varied as Criminology, Education, Psychology, Sociology
and Sports Science. The unit has successfully recruited PhD students to the Consortia’s Children,
Youth and Families doctoral training pathway, where an emphasis on collaboration with external
stakeholders and interdisciplinary approaches has yielded innovative projects with supervision
teams spanning Law, Education and Criminology.

Future research strategy
In 2020, the university published its corporate strategy to 2025, Ambition Delivered Today (REF
5a, p.2), which focuses on making a difference to the lives of people and driving forward the
success of businesses and the economy. Our unit strategy is aligned to the priorities of the
university and school. The growth of our applied research arising out of our impact strategy,
combined with our experience of working with our partners in government, civil society and
industry, puts us in a strong position to address the challenges faced by these partners and the
wider community.
Our future strategy will address global, national and regional concerns to maximise the economic
and social benefits of research. We will deliver research that serves the UN SDGs in support of
inclusive societies while responding to national concerns around ‘levelling up’, place sensitive
growth and the decentralisation of public funding for R&D (BEIS, 2020). Through our research
centre we will prioritise societal challenges aligned to TVCA’s roadmap for inclusive growth,
community development and social and educational mobility.
We have five strategic priorities for 2020-25. We will expand the social policy research base
drawing on existing strengths as well as new and complementary research directions (Cotton,
Aiston and Chamberlain) in the areas of climate change (and its implications for, inter alia, human
health and well-being), gender (and its intersections with conceptions of equity, justice and
democracy), place-making (and its implications for post-industrial regions like the Tees Valley) and
new technologies (with implications for long standing social policy concerns with poverty, access to
welfare, educational provision, discriminatory-driven victimisation and access to justice). Aligned to
the ESRC’s priorities around ‘global development, environment and society’, this will demand new
skills and ways of working; capabilities we will extend and develop through a still more ambitious
approach to interdisciplinary collaboration. This will see us encourage and nurture new
collaborative relationships with colleagues in the science and engineering fields (e.g. primary
health care and obesogenic environments), as well as those in the arts and humanities.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We will build staffing capacity through investment and promotion and by increasing the proportion
of research active staff across the next census period. The intention is to achieve a 25 per cent
increase in the number of research active staff by 2025, taking the total to 45 FTE. This includes
an increase in the proportion of professors and readers from eight to twelve by 2025, achieved
through career progression and investment in new posts, including a professor of Public Policy and
Education.
We will enhance research quality in the unit through co-production with external collaborators,
investment in new postgraduate portfolio, secondment opportunities and novel approaches to
generating knowledge exchange. In 2021 we will launch a new Professional Doctoral in Social
Policy developed in collaboration with TVCA and supported by the investment of QR Strategic
Priorities Fund (SPF). Extending our experience with embedded researchers we will build the
research and innovation capacity of regional policymakers (especially education and health)
through further (SPF-funded) secondment opportunities and research placements.
Our commitment to developing research in collaboration with our stakeholders will be realised
through the launch of a series of mobile Community Labs. These will appear across the region as
adaptable spaces both physical (including re-purposing disused commercial premises) and virtual,
that will co-locate researchers and stakeholders with a shared interest in addressing the region’s
social challenges through research. The Labs will be distinguished by a deep commitment to
identifying and valorising alternative sources of knowledge and insight. Through these labs we will
build trust, provide professional development for community members, and develop a community-
engaged research agenda that will effect real change in the Tees Valley. Supported with QR
funding to resource community-led citizen science projects, these Labs will allow in-community
research to break down barriers to engagement and participation.
The unit will extend its income portfolio through a continued diversification of its funding streams.
This will include a continued focus on demand-led collaboration with our external partners (e.g.
PHE, local and regional government), which is often short-term but highly impactful. We will also
look to bring our applied expertise to larger-scale and longer-duration collaborative projects,
replicating the success of our professors (Antonopoulos, Copsey, Newbury-Birch). In addition, we
will focus on joining larger consortia that are contributing to government policy priorities funded by
UKRI, government departments, local authorities and prestigious charities.

 2. People
Staffing and staff development strategy
Post REF2014 our ambition was to: increase and diversify our staff base to improve succession
planning and the future sustainability of the unit; adopt an inclusive approach and embed the
research of the unit within the school to enhance the school’s research environment, underpin its
impact activities with research, and develop its academic staff base; and enhance the inter-
disciplinary ambitions of the new centre across public, health and education policy, and equality,
diversity and inclusion, while retaining established strengths in Criminology.
Since 2014, four new professors (Aiston, Chamberlain, Cotton, and Newbury-Birch) joined the unit,
and one colleague (Lloyd) was promoted to reader/associate professor to lead the new research
themes. The work of the CSI is supported by a number of academic partnerships with national and
international visiting academics and honorary professors including Edward Kunonga (Tees Esk
and Wear Valley NHS Foundation Trust), Jeremy Bray (University of North Carolina) and Peter
Neyroud (University of Cambridge).
In 2017, Leese, formerly professional lead for Criminology at Leeds Becket University, was
appointed as senior lecturer, staffing and resources. She was subsequently promoted to head of

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the newly formed Department of Humanities and Social Sciences. Leese’s leadership is key to
sustaining research quality: in addition to managing all aspects of the department, she is deputy
thematic lead of the Co-producing Social Policy and Public Health team and leads a number of
projects centred around her expertise in vulnerable groups in the criminal justice system, including
several funded by the National Crime Agency and Cleveland Police.
The unit has diversified its range of expertise and provided a sustainable base for research in the
future. In REF2014, the unit was characterised by a concentration of senior researchers: 65 per
cent of the submission was represented by professors, readers or senior management; 35 per cent
by senior lecturers. The profile of the unit at the end of this period reflects how we have evolved
while retaining our core research strengths. Following on from 10.8 FTE submitted in 2014, for
example, 58 per cent of the current submission are staff that have remained in post, of whom the
majority are in senior research roles (as defined above). This reflects the continued ambition to
support core strengths in Criminology where these academics provide research leadership.
However, an additional 23.9FTE are being submitted in REF2021, reflecting the success of plans
to support research capacity growth across the unit. This has diversified the staff base, reflecting
the realisation of a more inclusive and synergistic approach to research across the unit.
While there has been retention of staff, 41.8 per cent of the total staff submitted in 2021 were
appointed post-2014. As a result, the unit is now characterised by a greater diversity of staff at
different career stages. In 2014, the proportion of professors, readers and senior management was
65%. This has reduced to 34% in 2021 and the unit now includes ECRs (Bennett, Counihan,
Elonga Mboyo, Lampkin and Singh), research fellows and lecturers, and has seen a significant
growth in the proportion of senior lecturers (from 3.8 FTE to 16.2 FTE). The increase in the
proportion of senior lecturers supports the unit’s ambition to improve succession planning,
especially into senior research roles (professor and reader) through retention and career
development, as well as through recruitment. Since 2017, the addition of four new professors to
provide leadership for the new research themes supports the ambition to generate a more multi-
faceted and interdisciplinary approach to the unit’s research.
The school’s mentoring system helps to ensure that research careers are supported, by providing
close advice on best practice in research. All of our ECRs have been assigned a mentor through
the school’s mentoring scheme. Career development at all stages has supported retention across
the census period. Since 2014, six FTE within the unit have been promoted, including to senior
research and leadership roles. This includes principal lecturer (Leese, Bell, Gillen), reader (Lloyd)
head of department (Leese) and dean (Crawshaw), which reflects the centrality of research to the
wider academic portfolio of the school. Staff in these leadership roles have been supported to
develop their research careers alongside wider responsibilities through a dedicated allocation of
research time over and above their leadership role. An important element within our succession
planning is proactive work with staff at senior-lecturer level to support promotion to reader and
subsequently professor. This informed the support for Lloyd, through mentoring, training and the
allocation of targeted research time that assisted his progression to reader and has ensured
continued leadership of Criminology within the CIS.
Research career development in the unit is supported through training offered by the University’s
Researcher Development Programme (RDP, REF 5a, p.8). Researchers that have recently moved
into research leadership roles (Lloyd) and those who are preparing for readership (Wattis, Leese)
have been nominated to participate in senior research leadership training. The benefit of these
programmes is seen through developments such as Lloyd’s appointment as ESRC NINE lead in
2018 and Leese’s recent appointment as university grand challenge lead.
In addition to formal training, support for career development at all levels is provided via the
allocation of dedicated time for research activities. This is managed by associate deans, R&I,

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supported by principal lecturers, R&I, who review individual plans against unit and school research
priorities and approve allocations within the academic workload model. Individuals receive
feedback on annual research plans via associate deans as well as through RIS, and research
centre leads. The Research, Enterprise and Business Engagement (RIEBE) application and
approval takes place ahead of the PDPR, where an approved plan is included to ensure that the
research allocation and associated duties are supported in relation to other duties.

Research students
Our recruitment of doctoral students has been supported by investment from studentship schemes
to fund 31 full-time PhD students (12 scholarships, six graduate tutors, four University Alliance
(UA) scholarships, three ESRC/AHRC scholarships, five DTA H2020 Co-Fund fellows). This
represented a total investment (internal and external) during the period of £1,962,567. Our doctoral
recruitment seeks to support progression to academic careers of BAME students. This is currently
championed by Aiston, who is developing research to improve access and participation for BAME
groups in postgraduate research, as part of a collaborative response to the current Office for
Students funding call.
We work in collaboration with a number of other UK universities on the recruitment and support of
postgraduate research students, including the University Alliance Doctoral Training Alliance
(REF5a, p.7 and the ESRC Northern Ireland & North East Doctoral Training Partnership (ESRC
NINE DTP). Researchers from the unit (Ingleby, Lloyd, Antonopoulos) are represented on the DTP
Committee, the DTP Training Group, and the DTP ESRC conferences. As part of our membership
of the university’s Doctoral Training Alliance, we are also a recipient of the DTA3 COFUND
scheme, funded by the EU’s Marie Curie Sklodowska COFUND Fellowship Scheme (Grant
Agreement 801604). This new model of doctoral training is delivered through three distinct themes
of Social Policy, Energy and Applied Biosciences.
Support for doctoral students is provided at school level, as well as through unit level supervision
teams. This includes a research training offer and support for important aspects of research
practice from induction through to examination (REF5a, p6). Within social policy, postgraduate
students are supported by a postgraduate tutor (Ingleby) who works with the school postgraduate
community to monitor progress, offer support and help students to access RIS information or
university support structures where necessary. Within the unit, efforts have been made to increase
the pool of eligible research supervisors by building teams of experienced and less-experienced
staff, as well as ensuring that members engage with the university’s Research Supervisory
Training programme. As a result, 64 per cent per cent of unit members are now part of supervisory
teams. Students meet regularly (at least monthly) with supervisory teams and the supervision logs
are recorded on our e-Vision platform. Over the course of the census period, the unit has
successfully supervised 15 students to completion, which represents an average of 0.77 degrees
awarded per FTE in this unit.
To prepare doctoral students for their future careers, our researchers lead the enrichment
programme, delivering bespoke training on: co-production, collaborative working models,
systematic reviews; qualitative research methods; visual methods; good practice during PhD vivas;
NVivo 10; and research ethics. Our researchers have also led training to support future career
development. For example, in 2018 Teesside hosted the summer school for the Social Policy
stream of the University Alliance DTA (led by Crawshaw) bringing together criminologists,
sociologists, social care and Social Policy experts, to deliver a range of sessions designed to
enhance researcher skills in areas such as networking and applied research and enterprise. Local
training and enrichment are complemented by a centrally organised, comprehensive, multi-stage
programme of training (REF5a, p.6).


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our doctoral students are supported to undertake teaching duties for their own career
development. In addition, the unit includes a professional doctorate programme (Doctorate in
Education) that provides a structured and supported route to a research degree. Wilford was the
first student to complete the doctorate in 2019, leading to publication in a peer-reviewed academic
journal on the uses of digital technology in HE (Teaching With Technology and Higher Education:
A Brave New World?, Ingleby, Wilford and Hedges, 2019) and a conference paper at the 2016
Annual Conference of the International Professional Development Association (2016). Our second
successful completion was Noble in 2020, and there are now a further three students at viva and
nine others at the thesis-finalisation stage. Students on the course receive individual research
training but are integrated into school-wide activities, taking an active role in attending and
presenting their research to other postgraduates and staff.
PhD students in the unit are supported to present their work to local, national and international
conferences. For instance, in 2017 Ferguson, together with ECR Waller, were supported to travel
to New York to attend INEBRIA, and Dougan and Ferguson presented research to the Stockholm
Criminological Symposium in 2019. In addition, students engage in the development and delivery
of the annual university postgraduate student conference, which facilitates an on-going discussion
about their PhD research and provides them with formative opportunities for talking about their
PhD research ahead of formal viva examinations. Students are also supported to attend and
organise monthly postgraduate research seminars combining both presentations and group
discussions. The school PhD student body has an elected student representative who, as well as
serving on the school’s Research and Innovation Committee, is the principal coordinator of the
conference and seminar series.

Equality, diversity and inclusion
Our researchers contribute to equality, diversity and inclusion work institutionally and nationally as
well as through their research. The appointment of two female professors has allowed progress to
be made in addressing gender imbalances at senior level in the unit. These appointments have
created important role models for women aspiring to move into senior and leadership roles. In
addition, Aiston’s research expertise on the underrepresentation of women as academic leaders is
a key asset to national bodies including Advance HE. Aiston is also leading work on behalf of the
university to develop interventions to support the recruitment, retention and advancement of BAME
students (OFS call).
Researchers in the unit have recently launched WiRe (Women in Research network). Led by
Leese and Wattis, and open to all researchers in the school, WiRe aims to offer women a space
where they can gain support in a non-judgemental, collegiate environment and foster an increased
sense of a research community across our disciplines. WiRe pursues this aim through a
combination of approaches including collaborative writing, writing facilitation groups, informal
mentoring and CPD. In recognition of the value of this work, the WiRE project has been taken
forward for implementation and support by the university’s Athena Swan Implementation Group.
The presence of this group has helped to highlight the main facilitators and barriers to engagement
in research, including gender.
The university Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) does indicate areas of concern for our unit. For
instance, the proportion of women who have been identified as having SRfR is lower than the
proportion of eligible staff. However, across other areas, low disclosure rates – such as the number
of staff who disclosed a disability or sexual orientation – have limited the conclusions that can be
drawn from the unit’s EIA. A range of actions has, nevertheless, been developed in response to
areas of concern, both for the unit and the university. The lower proportion of women with SRfR
highlights the need for actions, including under the auspices of the Athena Swan Charter. The
university achieved an Athena Swan Bronze Institution Award in 2018. In 2019, researchers in

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
social policy, including PhD students and ECRs, joined the school’s Athena Swan Departmental
Self-Assessment Team (Elongo-Mboyo; Lodge). This group was established to work towards a
submission for a departmental award in April 2021. To this end, the team developed a Culture
Survey and online focus group aimed at understanding the effects of gender (and its intersections
with other relations of power) on career progression. The findings from this exercise informed the
implementation of a local action plan that seeks to enhance gender equality in the research career
and promotion pathways across social policy and beyond.
The introduction of a formal system to allocate research in 2016, open to all researchers in the
school, has addressed some of the EDI issues, including the gender imbalance of researchers in
the unit prior to 2014.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income
In keeping with our commitment to research with clear potential for impact on policy and practice,
most of our grant income has derived from government departments, executive agencies, and non-
departmental bodies, particularly those involved in crime and policing and health and social care.
Rather than being ends in themselves, however, projects funded through these routes have had an
energising effect on wider bidding activity. Projects undertaken with Cleveland Police and the
National Crime Agency, for example, were foundational to Antonopoulos’ ESRC-funded project on
the transnational trade in counterfeit goods, as well as subsequent EU-funded projects. Other
projects funded through these routes have paved the way for programmes and initiatives with
prominent advocacy and empowerment aspects. Jarvis’ and Copsey’s Big Lottery Fund sponsored
projects on chronic loneliness and youth racism, respectively, are exemplars in this regard, building
as they did on existing collaborative relations with local and regional third sector organisations.
Research income has been generated by joining larger research consortia (e.g. Horizon 2020
projects), joint bidding with other universities (PHE projects; ESRC/CREST), gaining honorary
contracts and bidding to opportunities that require this contract status (PHE projects), joint bidding
with non-academic institutions (NIHR/Middlesbrough Council) and joint bidding with other
disciplines within the university to research programmes (such as Newbury-Birch and Crosbie,
What’s In a Meter).
Our research and innovation grant funding over the period is £1,992,688 (average annual income
of £284,670 and average annual income per FTE of £8,204). The figure per FTE reflects the
characteristics of the unit over the census period. 41.8 per cent of the total staff submitted in 2021
have been appointed post-2014 with a significant growth in the proportion of senior lecturers (from
3.8 FTE to 16.2 FTE) that are mid-career lecturers new to research. Staff development is
supporting research career development among this cohort (see section 2 people) to enable grant
funding to be consolidated after 2021.
In line with the focus on local regional social policy and wellbeing, and expansion of social policy to
include new disciplines of public health, most of the income (40 per cent) came from government
bodies, local authorities and health providers. For instance, Lloyd, Bell and Wattis were awarded
£160,000 from Middlesbrough Council for research into understanding the impact of migration on
the settled community in Middlesbrough; Newbury-Birch was awarded £100,000 from the National
Institute for Health Research for an APPRAISE feasibility random control trial; Papanicolaou was
awarded £170,855 by Cleveland Police for a project on evidence-based practice in Cleveland
Police. The focus on community and stakeholder engagement is also reflected in the proportion of
income awarded from UK charities (29 per cent). For instance, Jarvis won an award of £173,930
for the project Ageing Better Middlesbrough, which aimed to reduce the isolation and loneliness of


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
older people in Middlesbrough and Copsey et al £160,104 from Big Lottery Fund for a project on
tackling youth racism.
A total of £381,895 (19 per cent) was secured from the European Commission and reflects the
focus on larger consortia that supported the international work of more established criminology
groups. For instance, Antonopoulos was awarded £90,583 from the European Commission (a
project which was part of a larger European consortium) for a project on monitoring and dealing
with anti-Muslim hatred online (HATEMETER, 764583).
A total of £222,513 (11 per cent) from UKRI reflects the high-quality work of established areas
such as criminology as well as emerging strengths in extremism and anti-fascism. For instance,
Copsey was awarded £107,000 from CREST for a comparative study of contemporary militant anti-
fascism in the US. Supported by a range of measures to enhance research infrastructure across
the unit, these projects have had a galvanising effect on unit members’ ability to address societal
challenges relating to crime, inequalities and extremism.

Infrastructure and governance
To provide additional support for researchers within the school QR investment facilitated the
appointment of a team of research fellows and associates, led by Moore, dedicated to supporting
our research work with external partners. In addition, infrastructure for researchers in the unit
includes dedicated research rooms for use by staff and postgraduate researchers, including five
interview rooms and a mock courtroom and police station. Other resources for research include
specialist software for (qualitative and quantitative) data collection and analysis, digital recorders
and transcription kits (40), loanable laptops (12), two breathalysers, a fingerprint scanner, a
smokealyser and a 3D television. Researchers in the unit also benefit from access to a number of
special collections relevant to social policy that are held in the university library, including the
Fascism Literature Collection.
Projects that have routinely used facilities including interview rooms, Nvivo and SPSS include,
FAKECARE, FINOCA, HATEMETER (Antonoplous), Ageing Better Middlesbrough (Jarvis);
Understanding the Impact of Migration on a Settled Community (Lloyd, Bell, Wattis, Devanney). In
addition, the mock courtroom was used by Antonopoulos in collaboration with Collins on
Registered Intermediaries and Child Witnesses of Crime (funded by returned to UoA4). The
Teesside Policing Clinic used the interview rooms, police station and digital resources supporting
data collection for research with police staff and students working on Clinic projects. The Fascism
Literature Collection has been used to support Teesside University doctoral student projects (x3)
relating to British fascism/far-right extremism and Copsey uses the British fascist newspapers in
the FLC for analysing fascist responses to anti-fascist protest (e.g. Copsey, Anti-Fascism in Britain
monograph).
Governance of research is supported by RIS and the school, including regular networking and
training events. The school, alongside the university’s Student and Library Services, has
developed the institutional repository of research, Pure. Members of staff locate all research
outputs as well as other evidence (of impact, funding, esteem indicators, business engagement,
media presence, and so on) with Pure. The system evidences the university’s commitment to
providing OA to our knowledge and data. This not only benefits the academic community but also
helps to ensure the wider impact and exploitation of our research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
Our research includes national and international collaborations with key partners that address the
priorities of our public sector. Cemented through a number of memoranda of understanding (MOU)
and research agreements, these collaborations involve TVCA, South Tees Public Health, Thirteen

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Housing Group, Middlesbrough Local Authority and Tees Valley Education Trust, the National
Nursing and Midwifery Council, Durham County Council and other local and national partners.
In addition, our researchers have consolidated international research collaborations through MOU
and research partnerships with key partners including with: North Carolina University, US; the
Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay; the University of Oslo, Norway; and the Centre for the
Study of Democracy, Bulgaria. These networks and collaborations also include governmental
research bodies including the Swedish National Council for Crime Prevention (Swedish Ministry of
Justice) and the French National Institute for Advanced Studies in Security and Justice (French
Ministry of Interior).
Researchers in the unit have made significant contributions to international associations, research
and policy networks. For instance, Aiston's research on the underrepresentation of women as
academic leaders in East Asia led to the University of Hong Kong signing the UN HeForShe
agreement (as documented in UN Women, 2016). Aiston is a committee member of an
international network of world leading universities, the Association of Pacific Rim Universities,
dedicated to developing research initiatives to tackle the lack of senior women in HE. Aiston has
also collaborated with colleagues internationally on research-council-funded projects (GRF, Prof
Wing-Wah Law, HKU) and impact projects (ESRC Impact Acceleration Fund, Centre for Gender
Research, CHUK). Meanwhile, in 2018, Ike was winner of the British International Studies
Association African Affairs Postgraduate Paper prize.
Cotton has acted as institutional lead for the Euratom Histories of Nuclear Energy and Society
(HoNESt) project across 13 European countries, the GCRF-ESRC Harvesting the Sun Twice
project, with partnerships with World Agriforestry – ICRAF, Nairobi, and the Centre for Research in
Energy and Energy Conservation, Makerere; and the Political-Economic Analysis Of Electricity
Grid Access Histories And Futures In Mozambique project with partners in the Centre on
Governance and Development, Observatorio do Meio Rural and Universidade Eduardo Mondlane,
Maputo. He is also a visiting fellow at the Centre of the American West at the University of
Colorado, Boulder.
Papanicolaou has long standing interchange and collaborations with critical police and security
experts in Europe, particularly through the European Group of the Study of Deviance and Social
Control as well as the Anti-security Group. Copsey’s contribution to a pan-European understanding
of radicalisation and extremism can be seen through a number of activities, including his role as
editor-in-chief of the journal Fascism and his membership of the Executive Committee of
International Association of Comparative Fascist Studies.
Our researchers have been recognised for their disciplinary contributions to national policy
organisations. For instance, in recognition of co-production work with PHE and Durham County
Council, Newbury-Birch has been the invited topic expert on the National Institute for Health and
Care Excellence group for alcohol interventions in the school setting, as well as a member of the
coordinating committee for the International Network for Alcohol and other drugs (INEBRIA). In
2016, she was nominated for the prestigious Stockholm Criminology Prize for her work around
alcohol, crime and criminal justice. Antonopoulos has served as consultant or expert to HM
Revenue and Customs, the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, Police-
organised crime units, the Cabinet Office, and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.
He was conferred into the Academy of Social Sciences in 2019, partly in recognition of his work
with research users such as law enforcement agencies and policymakers nationally and
internationally. In 2020, Kotze was nominated for the 2020 Social Sciences Young Investigator
Award.



                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Researchers in the unit have contributed to national disciplinary bodies for social policy including
the British Society of Criminology by, for example, organising networks such as the Critical
Criminology and Women, Crime and Justice Research Network. Lloyd has also engaged in
regional research and practice networks including the Regional Refugee Forum, and Wattis is a
member of the North East Race Crime and Justice research Network. Antonopoulos has chaired
the NE branch of the British Society of Criminology (2010-14) and has been the executive director
of the International Association for the Study of Organised Crime (2014-15). Cotton is associate
editor of the journal Energy and Environment and was recently an invited assessment panel
member for the £20m UKRI-GCRF: Reducing the Impacts of Plastic Waste in Developing
Countries programme.
In addition to standard conference papers, our researchers have been invited to give keynote and
plenary lectures at international conferences in the UK and overseas. Colleagues have also held
international and national visiting professorships at the universities of Loughborough, Ghent, and
North Carolina, and externally examined PhDs nationally and internationally (e.g. Birkbeck
University, Cardiff University, King’s College London, London School of Economics, Newcastle
University, Open University, Oxford Brookes University, University of Essex, University of
Huddersfield, University of Kent and the Catholic University of Milan, Murdoch University, Panteion
University of Athens, University of Karachi, University of Milan, and University of Trento).
In 2019, two honorary professors were appointed to support the public engagement and social
impact work of the centre: Kunonga (director of public health for South Tees) and Bray (professor
of Health Economics, Greensborough University, New York).
Our researchers regularly organise conferences that help to develop the discipline and its fields.
We organised the National Deviancy Conference in Middlesbrough in 2014 (attracting
approximately 250 delegates from the UK and overseas). A year later, in 2015, we co-organised
the Finances of Organised Crime conference in The Hague with the Research and Documentation
Centre of the Dutch Ministry of Justice. This brought together academics, law enforcement agents,
members of the judiciary and policymakers from all over the EU. With financial support from the
school, we co-organised the highly influential Cross-border Crime Colloquium in 2016 (UK, with
Northumbria University), 2018 (Ukraine, with the National University of Internal Affairs) and 2019
(The Netherlands, with Utrecht University). The colloquium brings together primarily (although not
exclusively) European experts on organised crime. Each of the colloquia has been heavily
oversubscribed and has led to peer-reviewed edited collections as well as opportunities for
research bidding.
We have also organised various workshops with law enforcement agents, policymakers and other
practitioners on topics such as counterfeiting, human smuggling, sex trafficking, and evidence-
based policing. Our staff have been members of the programme and organising committees of
international conferences, including the 2016 and 2020 South Asian Society of Criminology and
Victimology conference (India), the 2015, 2016 and 2019 annual conferences of the European
Group for the Study of Deviance and Social Control (in Estonia, Portugal and Spain, respectively),
the 2016 conference of the Greek Society for the Study of Crime and Social Control, and the 2018
European Society of Criminology conference (Bosnia).
Our unit hosts the influential journal of organised crime studies (on the basis of its IF), Trends in
Organized Crime (published by Springer). In addition, staff serve on the editorial boards of journals
including BMC Public Health, Alternate Routes, the British Journal of Criminology, Global Crime,
International Journal of Cyber Criminology, Journal of Financial Crime, Journal of Money
Laundering Control, and the newly established journal of the International Division of the American
Society of Criminology, International Criminology (first issue in 2021).


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Finally, we have contributed to the discipline by peer reviewing proposals and end-of-award reports
for funders. Staff have worked with the following UK funding bodies: AHRC; Alcohol Research UK;
British Academy; CREST; ESRC; Leverhulme Trust; National Institute for Health; MRC; PHE; and
the Wolfson Institute. Similarly, staff have worked with the following overseas organisations:
Brazilian National Council for Scientific and Technological Development; Croatian Science
Foundation; European Commission; Greek Ministry of Economy and Development; Italian Ministry
of Education, Universities and Research; Netherlands’ Organisation for Scientific Research;
Slovenian Research Agency; and the US Department of Justice.




                                                                                          Page 17
