Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institutions: UCL (University College London) and Birkbeck, University of London (joint
 submission)
 Unit of Assessment: 7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1 Structure and Context

1.1a. Strategic vision
Our ethos is to carry out world-leading interdisciplinary research that enhances our understanding
of the Earth system, life, and planetary evolution, using quantitative science combining theoretical
and methodological advances with data collected via field, laboratory and remote sensing
observations. A key goal is to transform our findings into societally beneficial outcomes, especially
regarding prediction and mitigation of natural hazards, safeguarding Earth resources, working with
industry to develop new materials, and bringing science to bear on policy. Our research strategy
and wider ambitions look beyond the UoA to leverage collaborative opportunities at the Faculty,
University, National, and International levels, and to provide the fundamental data and scientific
interpretation required by the public, governments and industry to make informed decisions. We
take full advantage of the wider strengths of our host Universities through engagement with inter-
disciplinary research centres, including the Institute for Origins via our leadership of the Centre for
Planetary Science, and the UCL Grand Challenges in Global Health and Sustainable Cities.

1.1b. Structure
This submission returns 37 staff from the Dept. Earth Sciences, UCL (ESUCL), nine from Dept.
Earth and Planetary Sciences, Birkbeck (ESBBK) and eight from elsewhere in UCL (Institute for
Risk and Disaster Reduction [IRDR], Dept. Science and Technology Studies [STS], and Mullard
Space Science Laboratory [MSSL]) (Fig.1). ESUCL and ESBBK form the Institute for Earth and
Planetary Science (IEPS), a joint Research School integrated at all levels by: a management group
comprising the two HoDs and their deputies; shared PhD students and labs (e.g., the London
Geochronology Centre managed by Carter [ESBBK] and Vermeesch [ESUCL]); joint appointments;
and abundant collaboration. A Strategic Planning Group determines future research priorities,
composition and trajectory of research clusters, and infrastructure investments and appointments.
Staff and student surveys also inform our working practice and strategic planning. The IEPS has
close links with the IRDR (e.g., joint appointments, shared teaching, and the IRDR Governing
Board includes the ESUCL HoD). The close working relationships across the UoA are illustrated by
the >70 papers co-authored by members from at least two Departments, two jointly organised
conferences, and three joint major grants (Leverhulme, NERC Facilities, ERC), since 2014.

ESUCL staff were spread across four separate buildings during the previous REF, but have been
co-located (with key ESBBK staff) in the Kathleen Lonsdale Building (KLB) since 2018. The KLB
received a £28M refurbishment, and has state-of-the-art facilities (5b.3). ESBBK has also received
investment in new labs. New IEPS teaching labs accommodate 160 students, and include
workstations linked to a microprobe/SEM, enabling real-time demonstration of research techniques
and data interpretation. The IRDR became a separate department in 2020 after a £580K
refurbishment (5b.3). The UoA collectively houses 45 postdoctoral researchers and >60 PhD
students. In 2019/20 the UoA had a turnover of £11.92m with a research-grant expenditure of
£3.29M.

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Figure 1. Structure of the IEPS and its relationships with other units and cross-departmental
centres.

1.1c. Research interests and themes
Research is carried out via three inter-dependent routes:

•   Fieldwork and remote sensing, ranging from geological field-based techniques, ground truthing
    model predictions to drone and satellite monitoring of sea ice and volcanic emissions.

•   Laboratory measurements and experimentation, such as thin-section studies, isotopic
    analyses, and rock and ice physics experiments that mimic earthquakes and other Earth
    processes.

•   Modelling, statistical and other numerical approaches, ranging from mineral interactions and
    processes in the deep Earth to new methods for assessing sampling failure in the fossil record.

Our diverse research interests (geology, climate, geochemistry, geophysics, mineral physics,
materials science, modelling, palaeobiology, policy) are grouped into five broad themes:

Earth Resources and Sustainability (Burgess, Edwards, Irvine, Jones, McArthur, Meredith,
Mitchell, Oelkers, Osborn, Pogge Von Strandmann)—This encompasses environmental processes
governing resources and development constraints, including climate implications, mitigation and
geo-engineering, groundwater, sub-surface energy, and minerals.

Polar Science and Climate Change (Irvine, Osborne, Rapley, Sammonds, Stroeve, Tsamados)—
This includes the Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling (CPOM), using satellite-based
observation (e.g., Cryosat-2) and climate models to monitor and understand the effects of climate
change at high latitude.

Paleoclimate, Palaeobiology, and Palaeoenvironments (Bown, Boudagher-Fadel, Bristow,
Carter, Hopley, Homann, Mannion, McArthur, Oelkers, Papineau, Pickering, Pogge von
Strandmann, Shields, Underwood, Upchurch, Wade)—This reconstructs past environments and
biological evolution from the Quaternary to the Archean

Geophysical and Environmental Hazards (Ahmed, Brantut, Bristow, Burgess, Carter, Edwards,
Faure Walker, Fearnley, Ferreira, Fox, Hammond, Kilburn, Liu, McArthur, Meredith, Mitchell,

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Oelkers, Roberts, Sammonds, Saunders, Stavrianaki, Song,Vermeesch)—This encompasses the
origins and impacts of earthquakes, volcanoes, landscape change, environmental pollution, and
tropical storms. There are particularly strong links between this theme and ‘Polar Science and
Climate Change’ and ‘Earth Resources and Sustainability’.

Evolution and Dynamics of Earth and Planets (Alfè, Ballmer, Brantut, Brodholt, Crawford,
Dobson, Downes, El Maarry, Ferreira, Fox, Hammond, Jennings, Jones, Meredith, Mitchell, Price,
Song, Thomson, Vočadlo, Wood)—This combines experimental and theoretical mineral and rock
physics, seismology, geodynamics, and observations of extra-terrestrial material to understand the
evolution of Earth, planets and meteorites.

1.2. Research Objectives and Strategy

1.2a. Meeting REF2014 objectives
We aim to maintain a balance between our various strengths and to promote an open and
collaborative research environment. This is underpinned by recent major investments in our
infrastructure and new hires.

Key REF2014 strategic objectives were:

Breadth—While acknowledging that the ‘centre of gravity’ of our work would remain in the ‘solid
Earth’ (where we have strength in depth e.g., 192 papers by 10 staff since 2014), a key goal was to
maintain the breadth of our research. We emphasised the intimate inter-connectivity between the
atmosphere, cryosphere, hydrosphere, biosphere and solid earth, which combine to shape
environments over human and geological time scales. Engagement with all components of the
Earth system, and with other planets was viewed as essential for addressing the challenges of
understanding Earth’s origins and habitability.

Bridges—Our REF2014 strategy recognised the importance of leveraging ‘breadth’; by building
programs in areas that naturally forge links among existing strengths, specifically:

• Seismology, linking Earth’s interior, crustal dynamics, and natural hazards.

• Environmental isotope geochemistry, linking palaeoenvironments, modern environmental
  change, and hazard.

• Polar observation and modelling, linking rock and ice physics, meteorology,
  palaeoenvironments, and other planets (e.g., via leadership in space missions).

• IRDR, linking natural hazards, climate and sustainable resources to the causes of conflict,
  humanitarian relief and policy.

Benefit—Our REF2014 submission emphasised our commitment to fields that directly address key
societal needs in the areas of resources (e.g., groundwater), environmental hazards, and climate
change.

Building on the 5 new hires made prior to 2014, the IEPS and IRDR have made a further 14 new
hires in: Earth’s interior and crustal dynamics (Ballmer, Fox, Thomson, Jennings), hazards
(Ahmed, Hammond, Liu, Stavrianaki, plus increased FTE for Edwards), isotope geochemistry
(Little), climates/Earth observation (Irvine, Tsamados), planetary evolution (El Maarry) and

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Palaeobiology (Homann, Mannion). Aside from maintaining our strengths, this has enabled
expansion into new fields (e.g., Liu’s use of drones for geophysical hazards monitoring, Irvine’s
solar engineering work, and Mannion’s links with conservation palaeobiology). Our Breadth and
Benefit agendas mesh well with UKRI strategic themes in Adapting to Environmental Change,
Resilience to Hazards, and Securing Natural Resources, all areas in which the UoA has growing
strength. Moreover, the expansion of the IRDR in terms of new staff, an enlarged and refurbished
accommodation, the creation of a BSc in Humanitarian Studies, and transformation into a full
Department, provide a major new avenue for enhancing the reach of current impact and forging
links with new stakeholders.

A key problem for ESUCL, in 2014, was that its staff were spread across four separate buildings,
hampering efficient working and collaborations. Teaching rooms and several labs were also
outdated. However, the £28M refurbishment of the KLB, formally reopened by Sir David
Attenborough in 2018, has revitalised the Department. This has enabled the co-location of all
ESUCL staff and key ESBBK collaborators/joint appointments, expansion and renovation of labs
(including new equipment), new teaching rooms seating 97 students, social hub spaces to
enhance interactions, and increased office space to house our growth in PDRAs and Research
Fellows.

These strategies and investments have led to a highly productive environment, resulting in world-
leading research outputs. Since 2014, the UoA has grown substantially (e.g., +26% total FTE,
+39% in research income, +41% in research outputs). We have produced 1175 research outputs,
with 3.4% being in the top 1% for citations. Our REF output submission includes 45 papers in
Nature Group journals and Science (+55% compared to REF2014).

1.2b. Research highlights
Shrinking sea ice and polar oceanography—Satellite data produced the iconic documentation of
shrinking Arctic sea ice with a growing melt season (Stroeve et al., GRL, 2014; ERL, 2018),
increasing melt pond cover (Schroeder et al., Nature CC, 2014), younger and smoother ice cover
(Petty et al., JGR, 2017), and accelerating sea ice drift (Tsamados et al., JPO, 2014). Satellite
observations revealed the spinning-up of the Beaufort (Armitage et al., Cryosphere, 2017), and
Ross and Weddell (Dotto et al., GRL, 2018; Naveiro Garabato et al., GRL, 2019) Gyres. Together
with ‘Atlantification’ (Hwang et al., MCCIP Sci. Rev., 2019), such responses to climate change
couple with warming of the polar regions and sea ice retreat, accelerate polar glacier, ice cap and
ice shelf instabilities (Dotto et al., JPO, 2019).

 Past life and environments—New isotopic data and geochemical modelling highlighted the role of
the sulphur cycle in oxygenation events and related biological radiations (He et al., Nature Geo.,
2019; Shields et al., Nature Geo., 2019). Carter et al. (EPSL, 2017) provided new insights into the
early glaciation of the Antarctic continent by detecting widespread glacier calving in eastern
Antarctica at least 2.5 Myrs before the prominent oxygen isotope event at 34–33.5 Ma. Dodd et al.
(Nature, 2017) announced the discovery of the Earth’s oldest fossils (4.2-3.7Gyr) (Altmetric =3763,
>99 centile for 2017 articles, >95 centile for all articles published).

Hazards—We showed that bends in faults are vital for earthquake triggering (Mildon et al., Nature
Comms, 2019). Schellenberg and Liu (J. Field Robotics, 2019) developed new inter-disciplinary
drone-based strategies for quantifying volcanic gas emissions and monitoring high-risk volcanic



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
systems, and revealed previously unrecognised periodicity in volcanic outgassing with applications
in forecasting (Liu, G-Cubed, 2019).

Solid Earth—Ballmer et al. (Nature Geo., 2017) showed that early crystallisation of bridgmanite in a
magma ocean can result in rheologically strong mantle domains which remain unmixed for more
than the age of the Earth, potentially explaining many geochemical observations of the mantle. We
showed that the Earth’s outer core almost certainly has some oxygen to explain its properties
(Badro et al., PNAS, 2014). Moreover, the properties of the inner core cannot be explained by a
single light element but must contain a cocktail of elements (Li et al., EPSL, 2018).

1.2c. Future strategic goals
• Strengthen and expand our interdisciplinary research, especially fields of key importance to
   society (e.g., climate change, sustainable resource exploitation, hydrology, hazard monitoring
   and mitigation). We will be hiring three new lecturers in these areas during 2021-2022.

•   Continue to promote a working environment that meets the highest standards for Equity,
    Diversity and Inclusion, via our hiring strategy and procedures, rewards for excellence, staff
    training, and transparent and fair working practices (5b.2).

•   Continue to foster collaborations and strengthen the research environment to grow and extend
    interdisciplinary collaborations both within the UK and elsewhere. We encourage and support
    research seminars and journal clubs, networks, joint appointments and studentships, cross-HEI
    Centres/institutes, and multi-institutional grant bids.

•   Ensure a healthy research environment by maintaining a diverse portfolio of grant funding
    (NERC, EPSRC, STFC, ERC, charities, and industry). The IEPS won three ERC grants worth
    euro5.4M (Brantut, Ferreira, Pogge Von Strandmann). Since 2014, EU funding more than
    tripled, and EPSRC and STFC funding increased. We support staff to take advantage of
    strategic research calls, and also set and lead the agenda of such calls by proposing their
    remits. We have a strong track record of ‘agenda setting’ such as the NERC’s Biosphere,
    Evolution, Transitions and Resilience thematic call (Shields), and Deep Volatiles Programme
    (Brodholt). The number and range of available funding opportunities has been substantially
    increased by the expansion of the IRDR, which has already won major grants (5b.3).

•   A key driver of our research strategy is the ongoing transformation of the field by discoveries
    made possible by the impact of technology. Our new hires and refurbished facilities mean we
    are well placed to take advantage of technological developments. Examples include:
    o Our leadership in the exploitation of high-performance computing to simulate complex
        interactions at the atomic and continuum scales, with wide application to understanding
        thermodynamic and dynamic processes.
    o We have ensured a position at the forefront of Earth and planetary observation, via new
        hires active in the design of space missions and use of satellite data (El-Maarry, Irvine,
        Jennings, Tsamados).
    o We play a key role in enhancing the impact of powerful particle sources (including
        synchrotrons) on laboratory-based investigations of Earth processes. The IEPS is the
        second-largest UCL user of the ISIS neutron facility, and is in an excellent position to
        maintain leadership at ISIS as well as in the development of new capabilities at Diamond
        with new hires (Thomson) and promotion (Wood).

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   o   New hires and facilities place the IEPS at the forefront of discoveries generated by
       increasingly powerful means of characterizing natural samples, including advances in mass
       spectrometry and nano-scale imaging. This has included nano-characterization of the
       earliest fossil evidence for life (Papineau), and the use of non-traditional stable isotopes to
       characterize palaeoenvironmental change (Oelkers, Pogge von Strandmann). Our state-of-
       the-art clean labs, refurbished BEIF lab and investments in new equipment (5b.3) mean
       that we can respond rapidly to changing research needs in isotopic studies and
       Geochemistry.

1.3. Impact Strategy

1.3a. Supporting impact and developing new streams
Our impact enhancement strategy involves multiple mutually reinforcing strands: research-led
teaching; hiring policy; staff support; and knowledge exchange and engagement.

Research-led teaching—Our UG, PGT and PhD teaching are fully aligned to UCL’s Connected
Curriculum (5a). This places cutting-edge research and impact at the heart of our syllabus, with a
strong emphasis on independent projects (ranging across field mapping, lab experiments, and
computational modelling), internships, and industrial placements. For example, Geophysics field
courses have collected Ground Penetrating Radar data used by English Heritage. Collaborative
PhD studentships (e.g., CASE, and ‘Impact studentships’ funded 50-50 by Departments and
industry) generate productive relationships within and beyond industry. These approaches mean
that our students enter academia, industry or other workplaces (e.g., the media) with a full
appreciation of the ways the Earth sciences produce impact, and with the skills to engage with
non-academic stakeholders and develop their own impact-related activities.

Hiring and staff development—We have introduced ‘Impact’ as one of the selection criteria when
hiring. Annual staff appraisals, and Promotion criteria, also list ‘Enterprise and Engagement’ as a
key indicator of achievement, in order to recognise such activities and reward appropriately.

Support for impact—The time required for impact-related activities is included in Workload Models
(WLMs). We have a reward scheme that means that staff receive a payment into their discretionary
accounts for their impact-related activities (see 2.1f).

Engagement and communications–We engage with governments, policy-makers, industry,
business and the public at all levels (5b.4). Activities include; press releases and social media;
public lectures; consultancy for policy and commercial products; formulating protocols for
predicting and mitigating natural disasters; working with researchers, NGOs and governments to
monitor and mitigate environmental hazards; and building publicly accessible datasets used in
education and industry (e.g., the Nanotax database in the Bown/Wade Impact Case Study). UoA
staff gave >300 public lectures and were involved with >100 consultancies during the REF period
(5b.4). Much of this work is supported by grants (e.g., NERC Knowledge Exchange), industrial
grants, PhD projects part-funded by industry (5b.4). IEPS and IRDR seminar series provide weekly
opportunities for staff and students to engage with academics, people from industry, policy bodies,
NGOs and alumni. We also promote impact by hosting meetings that connect academics and non-
academic organisations. For example, in order to facilitate knowledge exchange and develop
impact relating to our work on groundwater quality, Burgess co-convened meetings in Bangladesh
in 2014, 2017 and 2020, and the IEPS hosted a workshop in 2019. These were attended by

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
academics, government engineers and policy makers, from the UK, Bangladesh, India and
Vietnam.

1.3b. Impact highlights
Sustainable groundwater—Models of groundwater fluctuation in south Asian aquifers provided a
new basis for sustainable management, adopted by Bangladesh government (Burgess ICS). A
new understanding of arsenic groundwater pollution, affecting tens of millions of consumers in
Pakistan/northern India (Ghosal et al., Groundwater, 2015; MacDonald et al., Nature Geo., 2018),
have provided a sound scientific basis for aquifer development and remediation.

Carbon Sequestration—We lead, with partners in Iceland, the science and management of the
World’s only industrial-scale project on CO2 capture and subsurface storage (CarbFix: Oelkers
ICS). Field experiments and isotope geochemistry quantified the long-term carbon cycle, enabling
development of new methods to capture and immobilise greenhouse gases in the sub-surface,
while maintaining permeability (Matter et al., Science, 2016; Pogge Von Strandmann et al., Nature
Comms, 2019). This led to the first industrial negative emissions scheme by subsurface injection of
atmospheric CO2 (Climeworks collaboration).

Resilience modelling—IRDR research revealed the potential for humanitarian disaster for
Rohingya refugees (Ahmed et al., Lancet Global Health, 2018). A new approach was developed for
increasing resilience in conflict zones (Sammonds, IJDRR, 2019). The UCL-Lancet Commission on
Migration and Health established impacts on migration of climate change and disasters
(Sammonds Lancet, 2018). Emergency planning and management for cascading disasters was
operationalised (Pescaroli and Alexander Natural Hazards, 2016), contributing to the UNSDR 2017
Guidelines on National Risk Assessment and integrating with the UNDRR 2019 Global
Assessment Report.

1.4. Interdisciplinary Research Strategy

We support and participate in a wide range of institutes and centres across UCL and BBK (Fig.1),
and facilitate links with other HEIs and industry (5b.4). Joint appointments, and the existence of the
IEPS itself, play a key role in promoting interdisciplinary activities. The Centre for Planetary
Science links the IEPS, UCL’s Dept. Physics and Astronomy and MSSL, and is led by us (Director
Papineau). A joint appointment also links the IEPS with Physics via the London Centre for
Nanotechnology. IRDR grew out of ESUCL, and represents a strategic initiative to bridge the gaps
between environmental hazards, disaster resilience, health, and humanitarian relief. Several UoA
staff (Crawford, Little, Shields, Wade) participate in the Centre for Life’s Origins and Evolution
(CLOE, created 2017) and/or have taken a leading role in the London Geochemistry and Isotopic
Centre (LOGIC, launched 2015).

1.5. Open Research

The importance of Open Research is emphasised at staff meetings and via email reminders. A
member of staff is tasked with monitoring Open Access (OA) compliance. Staff have received
training and information regarding how to use online repositories. UCL and BBK provide reports on
compliance and distribute funds for OA (5a) with additional financial support from Depts. For the
UoA, 97% of all articles and conference papers (accepted from 1 April 2016) have been deposited



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
in UCL Discovery, are gold OA, or qualify for exceptions; 91% comply with or have exceptions to
the REF OA policy.

1.6. Research Integrity

Staff are expected to uphold the highest standards of rigour and integrity in all aspects of research.
A Research Ethics Officer sits on institutional Ethics Committees, and both HEIs publish annual
statements on research integrity as recommended by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity.
The Concordat on Researcher Development is circulated to staff, and we adhere to its standards.
PDRA’s and PhD students are provided formal research ethics and integrity training. All
researchers are aware of procedures to raise concerns regarding research practices, which would
go to HODs initially and be referred to the Research Integrity Unit within the Office for the Vice-
Provost Research if necessary. No ethical issues have been identified during the REF period.


 2. People

2.1. Staffing Strategy and Development

2.1a. Overview
Our academic staff has been rejuvenated and strengthened since 2014 by planned strategic
growth. A significant increase in HESA2 researchers and 14 new permanent posts (2 IRDR, 3
ESBBK, 9 ESUCL), increase FTE by 26.3%. 13 appointments were at lecturer level (including six
ECR). Since 2014, five lecturers have been promoted to Associate Professor, and seven of the
latter to full Professor. Consequently, we are well placed to continue building on our
accomplishments beyond REF2021.

2.1b. Staff Development
The development of ECRs is a priority for the UoA, and underpinned by our commitment to the
Concordat on Researcher Development and Athena-Swan values (see also 5a for UCL’s HR
excellence in Research Award by the European Commission).

New hires negotiate start-ups (£30-40k), have priority for award of a PhD student, and are
assigned a senior academic mentor. Mentors assist new staff to identify training needs and help
develop their research objectives and strategy, which later feed into the first appraisal after
probation ends. A ‘New Staff Welcome Pack’ provides an overview of how Departments work, key
goals and deadlines, how to access resources, etc.

Probation and appraisals follow UCL/BBK policies (e.g., all staff are appraised annually, and line
managers must undertake the appropriate training prior to giving appraisals [5a]). Promotion
procedures are transparent and recognize excellent performance across all aspects of research,
teaching, enterprise and institutional citizenship (as laid out, for example, in UCL’s Academic
Careers Framework). The UoA’s success rate with departmentally supported promotion
applications is 100%.

UCL and BBK provide a wide array of training, ranging from management and leadership to
technical skills relating to online systems (5a). We also arrange training for staff within
departments, such as: ‘Where Do You Draw The Line’ training on harassment and bullying);
unconscious bias awareness; Plan S open access; UCL Environment Domain; ethical use of
bibliometrics in research.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.1c. Staff Recruitment
Implementation of our research strategy required an increase in the number of IEPS/IRDR staff
through hiring campaigns to attract world-class intellectual leaders with an appetite for cross-
disciplinary research of significant impact. This was supported by investment to provide incentives,
including competitive salaries, start-ups, infrastructure, students, and support staff. This expansion
is fully aligned with UCL/BBK Estates’ strategy (5b.3). Our commitment to excellence demanded
an international outlook: 7/14 of our new hires were recruited from overseas.

Our hiring program has placed the IEPS and IRDR in strong positions for the long-term. Staff
losses are more than compensated for by new hires, with a net growth in REF-submitted FTE from
43 in 2014 to 50.35 now (+17.1%). Retention has been excellent: we lost only four Professors
(including a husband and wife) to a major US competitor, and two lecturers to UK institutions.
There have also been a low number of losses as a result of retirement/flexible working, one full and
three partial retirements, plus two reduced FTE (one reverting to 100% in 2023).

Investment has enabled us to restructure our staff profile to ensure long-term sustainability. In
particular, the UoA was becoming ‘top heavy’ with a large number of professors above the age of
50 and relatively few lecturers/ECRs. However, our 14 new hires mean that the staffing profile now
comprises: 13 lecturers (including 6 ECRs), 11 Associate Professors, and 30 full professors.
Changes to retirement rules, and a flexible working policy, have brought benefits in terms of
retention and sustainability. Seven full professors (who would previously have retired fully) are at
0.6 FTE, allowing retention of expertise and leadership, and providing mentoring for ECRs.

In line with institutional policy (5a) and Athena Swan standards, all hiring has been undertaken
using equal opportunities procedures. As a result of this proactive approach, we have increased
the representation of REF-eligible women from 8 in 2013 to 13 now (despite losses through
retirements and head-hunting by other institutions) and achieved a substantial increase in the
proportion of HESA2 staff who are women (from 20.2% to 29.2%). Nevertheless, we note a very
slight decrease in the percentage representation of female HESA3 staff, and the overall proportion
of women remains low at 21%. It is hoped that our strong track record regarding female PhD
students (see below) and HESA2 staff, will facilitate recruitment of more women in the near future.
We will use informal routes (such as personalised contacts by staff to potential applicants) to
encourage world class female researchers to apply for our new positions. We are also currently
putting procedures in place in order to achieve Athena Swan Silver during the next three years.

There has been a marked increase in the proportion of BAME staff (5.9% in 2013 to 12.7% now),
although this is largely driven by increases in HESA2 staff. As with female staff, we clearly need to
do more to increase the representation of HESA3 BAME staff. We have made a pledge to
Proactively target BAME scientists in future recruitment rounds by advertising the post through
sites such as The International Association for Geoscience Diversity and the Geoscientists of
Colour network. We will invite a Fair Recruitment Specialist onto the selection Panel to guide us
through this process.

2.1d. Supporting ECRs/PDRAs
We host seven UKRI/Royal Society/Marie Curie Fellows, and 45 PDRAs. ECRs such as Research
Fellows are valued: in the current REF census period two NERC Fellows in IEPS won permanent
academic positions in open competition (Fox, Thomson).

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


PDRAs/ECRs are supported via:

•   An induction (backed up by our Welcome Pack and wiki/FAQ) that covers safety, compulsory
    training in Diversity and Unconscious bias awareness.

•   Information on training, secondments and careers disseminated via emails, staff meetings,
    mentors and appraisals. New lecturers undertake training to become fellows of the Higher
    Education Academy, and in PGR supervision. We provide help with grant writing (e.g., formal
    training, and feedback provided by our Head of Research [Brodholt] and the UCL Environment
    Domain).

•   Reduced teaching and administrative workloads during probation.

•   We run a highly successful and popular informal social event called ‘Meet the staff’, where
    anyone from a PDRA to senior professor is invited to give a brief informal talk about their
    professional and personal interests, followed by refreshments. This encourages interactions
    between staff at different career stages and across research fields, fostering collaborations and
    informal mentoring.

•   ESUCL ran two ERC career development events in 2020 in response to covid19 – this will
    become a twice-yearly IEPS event.

2.1e. Staff exchanges/secondments
Long-term relationships between staff and external bodies are facilitated through hiring staff with
relevant expertise and contacts (e.g., Rapley, Osborn, Edwards). Staff regularly access funding
from the UCL Grand Challenges and Global Engagement schemes. For example, the relationship
between Edwards, mining companies and the Chilean government, is viewed as strategically
important and has been strengthened by a doubling in FTE and support from the UCL Provost’s
Global Engagement Fund.

The UoA supports close ties with industry by funding Impact and Case PhD studentships (2.2).
Moreover, as demonstrated in 5b.4, we strongly encourage and support staff to take up
consultancy roles working for an array of businesses ranging from publishers to sports stadium
builders and mining companies. Approved external links are factored into Workload Models
(WLMs).

2.1f. Research impact/sabbatical leave
We adhere to UCL/Birkbeck policy on leave (5a). Staff are encouraged to discuss their
requirements with HoDs. Leave required to transform research into impact is routinely granted,
with the timetabling of teaching and administration adjusted via WLMs. Departmental and Faculty
funds support travel to develop links with external agencies who use research in the context of
Impact. Impact, as part of wider knowledge exchange, is recognised in appraisals and represents a
key criterion when assessing promotions. UCL Faculties provides support in the form of Impact
Coordinators who help staff develop and evidence their links with industry and other end-
uses/stakeholders. ESBBK provides seed funding for impact related research and workshops at
departmental level, with an emphasis on supporting ECR’s.



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


2.2. Research Students

2.2a. Overview
We have been very successful in recruiting high quality PhD students, hosting 60-70 at any given
time. The current cohort is typical in being funded from a variety of sources including: NERC (17),
NERC and EPSRC CASE Industrial partnership (6), STFC (8), UCL Impact awards (10), Charities
(1), ERC, industry, UCL Graduate School competition and self-funding (26). In addition, the UoA
maintains a cohort of 75-100 MSc students across three programmes, and 25 MSci students, each
of whom completes a research project as part of their training. Approximately one-third of these M-
level students go on to PhDs, and another third go into Earth Sciences-related industries.

2.2b. PGR recruitment
Students are recruited via open application processes that are widely advertised. Details of
recruitment vary with funding scheme. UCL and BBK both receive allocated STFC PhD
studentships and since 2014, the IEPS/IRDR have been part of the cross-disciplinary NERC
London DTP, which also includes other UCL Departments, Royal Holloway, The Natural History
Museum, Queen Mary, Kings and Brunel. The DTP operates a centralised recruitment process
with a selection and interview panel comprising representatives from the various constituent
departments. Criteria for selecting students are clearly laid out and have been approved by NERC.
To encourage widening participation Birkbeck BAME PhD students can apply for the award of a
stipend and fees.

The UoA’s approach to PGR training is equitable: all students, including those studying part-time,
have equal access to space, facilities and Conference Funding. PGRs can take unpaid study and
parental leave.

2.2c. Quality of training
PGR training needs are considered at admissions and confirmed at arrival by supervisor and
student. Training involves both generic skills and more specific needs based on the individual’s
preparedness and project. The DTP also has a 6-month training programme during which students
spend a week in each potential host department, learn generic research and statistical skills,
participate in fieldtrips, and develop the finer details of their project in collaboration with their
supervisors.

Each student is assigned two supervisors from within the IEPS/IRDR, and may have a third, often
from another UK or international HEI or industry. Training in PGR supervision is compulsory for
supervisors (5a), and new lecturers/ECRs supervising their first PhD student are paired with a
more experienced secondary supervisor. PGR training needs are assessed annually and progress
is monitored via an on-line Research Log and annual reports, feeding into the formal process for
upgrading from MPhil to PhD. These processes are managed by graduate tutors (2 ESUCL, 1
IRDR, 1 ESBBK), who also provide advice to both students and supervisors, and oversee pastoral
care and welfare.

We consider conference presentations a vital part of training: PGRs have given >100 presentations
at international conferences since 2014, including at the Gordon Research Conference, Lunar and
Planetary Science Conference, and meetings of GSA, Goldschmidt, and the Society of Vertebrate
Paleontology. DTP students are allocated a research fund for equipment, travel and consumables,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
with Departmental ‘top ups’ where needed. To mitigate against disadvantaging non-DTP students,
Departments and a private Birkbeck benefactor fund research trips and conference attendance
outside London.

UCL and BBK Graduate Schools, and Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network, provide skills and
career development programmes. Examples include scientific writing and paper production, thesis
writing, teaching skills, programming, foreign languages etc. PGRs are fully integrated into the
UoA’s research environment through their participation in weekly Research Seminars, social
events with staff, and thematic research conferences in which they are required to make
presentations.

The quality of our PGR students and their training is demonstrated by the success of our graduates
in terms of their outputs, thesis submission rates, and career prospects. The average completion
time (from start to degree award) for a full-time PhD is 4.6 years. During the REF period, PhD
students have produced 150 papers (median = 2/student). Careers data indicate that 40% go into
academia, 30% into Earth Sciences-related industries, and 30% into other professional-level
employment (100% overall employment rate for postgraduate-level careers, average 2018 starting
salary =£35K). Exemplar post-PhD destinations for recent graduates include: space industry
(NASA, iSPACE); The Natural History Museum; Lectureships (Plymouth, UCL); and Research
Fellowships (e.g., NERC FLF).

2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)

2.3a. Overview
The UOA is a place where a diverse community of researchers is actively promoted and thrives.
Our commitment to equal opportunities is emphasized by: ESUCL’s completion of the Bronze level
Athena Swan Charter (renewed 2020); Birkbeck’s membership of the Mindful Employer’s Charter
and status as a Stonewall Diversity Champion; and Birkbeck’s annual Pay Audits to measure the
impact of EDI initiatives. Of 71 REF eligible and ineligible research staff, 30% are women, 43% are
non-UK citizens, and the age profile is relatively flat (21% 25-34, 30% 35-44, 15% 45-54, 20% 55-
64, 14% 65+). >60% of the current PhD cohort are women.

2.3b. Management and training
Our EDI Officer (Vocadlo) is a senior academic and Chairs our EDI/Athena Swan Committee. The
ESUCL HoD (Upchurch) has a registered disability and works to promote progress on EDI issues
both within the UoA and externally (e.g., he sits on The Royal Society’s Diversity Committee). Staff
with management responsibilities (e.g., Upchurch, Vocadlo) have undertaken training, such as
‘Leading on Diversity’ (5a) and this has been taken up by other staff in preparation for future roles
(e.g., Ballmer, Mitchell).

2.3c. Creating an inclusive environment
The following policies and initiatives promote a diverse inclusive environment:

•   It is policy to achieve a 50-50 gender balance in invited seminar speakers.

•   HoDs use WLMs to monitor allocation of administrative and other tasks. These take account of
    factors such as career stage and maternity leave (e.g., it is policy to have reduced teaching
    loads during probation). WLMs are reviewed annually by HoDs and Departmental- EDI

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Committees, and conform to Athena-Swan guidelines.

•   We ensure diverse representation on committees, using WLMs to achieve affair distribution of
    tasks. We have exceeded our HEIs’ requirement of minimum 25% representation of women on
    hiring committees (typically 40-50%); 43% of the ESUCL Management committee are women;
    three of our six other committees are chaired by women.

•   ESUCL has created LGBTQ and BAME Networks to support students and staff. In 2021, a
    Disability Network will be added, and these networks will be expanded to encompass the entire
    IEPS.

2.3d. Supporting staff
Resources—We have developed a wiki/FAQ section on our intranet that lists resources relating to
wellbeing, including the Employee Assistance Programme, Report Support anti-harassment
system, Occupational Health etc. (see 5a). There are Departmental wellbeing Champions who
liaise with relevant staff at Faculty level and above. As well as examining the results of the biennial
UCL Staff Survey, we carry out surveys at Departmental level in order to assess views on an array
of issues (ranging from workloads to space allocation). Results are discussed at Staff Meetings
and via emails etc. in order to formulate new working practises.

Leave—We follow institutional policy (5a) with regard to leave for professional or personal reasons.
Staff have applied successfully for support for extended leave in order to focus on research (e.g.,
Shields obtained a Leverhulme Fellowship for this purpose). The term of PhDs are extended to
compensate for absence due to ill-health, with financial support from Departments where needed.
We actively promote the use of the post maternity leave sabbatical scheme, and reduce workloads
for a designated period for those returning from parental leave. We encourage and support the use
of ‘Keeping in Touch’ days during maternity leave. ‘Recent return to work after extended leave’ is
factored into WLMs in line with Athena-Swan recommendations.

In response to additional workload and stress resulting from the impact of Covid19, our HEIs
introduced additional closure days at Christmas and Easter, and we have allowed unused holiday
allocations to be rolled over from one year to the next.

Flexible working—Given the necessity for travel and absences inherent in earth sciences research
(e.g., fieldwork) we apply a particularly flexible approach, with remote working allowed provided
staff inform HoDs regarding locations/dates and arrange suitable cover for teaching/administrative
duties. To ensure Departmental cohesion and efficient working, we ask staff to be present during
core hours in term time unless they have valid reasons for absence. Meetings and seminars are
scheduled for core hours. Our practice has been transformed by the constraints imposed by
Covid19: use of Teams, Zoom etc. is now routine, and we anticipate that the benefits of remote
working will be exploited widely post-Covid.

Protected characteristics—Staff and PGRs are encouraged to raise any disabilities, health issues,
or other personal circumstances that have hindered their ability to achieve their objectives. Those
with disabilities are supported through several funding sources beyond those provided by The
State and UKRI: institutional and departmental funds are available for assistive technology and
other support. For example, when Upchurch became ESUCL HoD, he was provided with a



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PDRA/personal assistant to aid with everyday tasks and support research. Staff requests for
standing desks, kneeling chairs etc are routinely granted.

We inform staff of funding available for additional costs due to caring responsibilities, ill health,
disability etc. incurred during conference or fieldwork travel. For example, staff are helped to build
child care costs into UKRI grant applications as part of our internal grant review process. The UCL
MAPS Faculty operates a ‘Carers’ Fund, and additional resources have been provided during
Covid19’. Staff with disabilities are supported in their applications to the Access To Work scheme.
These examples illustrate the types of information in our wiki/FAQ re wellbeing and our ‘New Hires
Welcome Pack’.

Wellbeing—We implement a multifaceted approach to promoting wellbeing, drawing on the
resources provided by our HEIs (5a). We have two wellbeing champions, a wellbeing wiki/FAQ
online, discussions at staff meetings, and training. Managers offer opportunities to discuss issues
such as stress and other personal circumstances during appraisals, and Departmental Managers
refer staff and students to Occupational Health support or the Employee Assistance Programme as
required. These efforts are supported by Faculty-level initiatives, such as the MAPS ‘2018 away
day’ which provided training and resources.

During Covid19, staff and PGR morale and stress levels have been surveyed regularly. Online
‘coffee mornings’ and other events have been organised to maintain mutual support and
interactions. We have provided additional resources to improve home working conditions (e.g.,
tablets, monitors, office chairs).

2.3e. EDI and REF submission
The REF process was explained to staff in advance via meetings and emails, covering:
reassurance that this was a group effort and completely divorced from issues such as promotions;
criteria used by REF panels; specific rules pertaining to ECRS, part-time staff, those with
disabilities etc.; composition of our REF Output Selection Committee; and progress with scoring
and selection. We carried out one-to-one conversations with staff to understand the strengths and
weaknesses of particular papers. The finalised list of selected outputs was circulated to all staff.

We deployed the following procedure in order to identify our best outputs that reflect the breadth of
our research, while mitigating against bias:

•   Diverse Committee—Our REF Committee comprised 4 men and one woman (in line with the
    current sex ratio of staff in our UoA). One of the five committee members has a registered
    disability. Committee members covered two career stages – Associate Professor and full
    Professor, with four from UCL and one from Birkbeck. The main criterion for membership was
    provision of the required breadth of expertise across the diverse fields in our UoA.

•   Review and calibration—Staff identified their best outputs, with author scores and a brief
    commentary on the significance, originality and rigour of each. Outputs were scored
    independently by the five REF committee members. Scores were then compared, with
    discussion of cases where reviewers differed markedly in their assessments (though this was
    very rare). 170 of the highest quality outputs were then sent to four external reviewers for
    comment and scoring.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•     EDI checks—The distribution of outputs relative to the proportions of staff with various
      protected characteristics were checked, and suggests that our submission represents a fair
      selection for gender, age, grade, ethnicity and disability, the number of selected outputs is
      approximately in line with that expected given the FTE, with under-represented groups often
      slightly or moderately ‘over-contributing’. It is not possible to assess how outputs relate to staff
      with other protected characteristics (e.g., sexual orientation, religion) because sample sizes are
      too small (70-75% of staff did not provide the required data).

    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1. Research Funding

3.1a. Funding sources and amounts
18 submitted staff have 28 active UKRI or European Commission grants/fellowships, including
large consortia and prestigious grants such as core funding in support of CPOM; NERC Large
Grants (Ferreira, Shields), and three ERC grants (Brantut, Ferreira, Pogge Von Strandmann.
IEPS/IRDR have also won 20 research grants from UK and international industry (e.g., USAF
Research, BG Group, Cornish Lithium, De Beers, Exxon Mobil, Hess Corporation, Petrobras,
Radioactive Waste Management, UK Sport) and from third-stream sources (e.g., US Department
of State, Richard Lounsbery Foundation, Alfred P. Sloan Foundation, CAFOD, Royal Academy of
Engineering) (see 5b.4 for more examples). External funds received through sources not reported
in HESA returns include: time on US particle beam facilities: NSLS, APS, and ALS (Dobson,
Wood); and INCITE grants from the US Department of Energy for supercomputer time at a total
value of £5M (HECToR-equivalent, Alfè).

The UoA's grant income during the REF period was £25.2M (60% from UKRI and 40% from
charities, industry etc.), with an estimated additional £26.2M in the form of benefit-in-kind income
(an average of c. £7.3M/year).

3.1b. Strategies for generating grant income
Grant income is generated by staff as individual PI’s or as part of larger collaborations across our
HEIs, the UK, and internationally. All staff are asked to prepare at least one UKRI proposal per
year. We maximise income by:

•     Rigorous in-house review of proposals prior to submission. This helps maintain our success
      rate at NERC and ERC at 25-30%, among the highest in the UK, and well above the 20%
      Demand Management cut-off required by NERC.

•     Appointment of a senior staff member (Brodholt) as research coordinator to assist the
      development of successful grant applications and balance income across a healthy diversity of
      funding sources. Part of this role is to identify existing and new funding sources and
      disseminate relevant information.

•     UoA staff make full use of expertise and dedicated support in sourcing and managing external
      income, provided by Faculties, UCL Office of Vice-Provost (Research), the Finance Division
      and the European Office for guidance on ERC grant applications. Trends in funding are
      brought to the attention of HoDs at Faculty Leadership Team meetings. During the current REF


                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    period, UCL created its ‘Environment Domain’, which includes staff who provide training and
    feedback on grant proposal writing (5a).

3.2. Infrastructure, Major Investments and Research Clusters

3.2a. Refurbishments/upgrades/expansions
There is strong institutional commitment to the discipline as shown by the support for expansion
within both the UCL and Birkbeck components of the UoA. A key strategic goal of our REF2014
submission was to bring all ESUCL and key ESBBK staff together into a single renovated building
with completely updated facilities. This was achieved via the £28M refurbishment of the KLB,
completed in April 2018. The KLB has state-of-the-art teaching and research labs, social hub
spaces, and new staff offices. An additional £650k has been invested in new petrological and
binocular microscopes and other new lab equipment (see below).

While maintaining strong links to the natural hazards component of Earth sciences, the IRDR is
expanding to include humanitarian and other societal aspects of disaster mitigation and relief, and
thus represents a major plank of our strategy to bridge the gap between scientific research and
societal benefits. In 2018, the IRDR was re-housed in refurbished and expanded accommodation
on the main UCL campus (a £580K investment).

ESBBK has benefitted from £1.5M investment in new research infrastructure including: dedicated
space for postgraduate students; a clean room for geochemistry in support of a joint appointment
with ESUCL; an upgraded electron microprobe facility and new ICPMS for the joint IEPS London
geochronology Centre.

These substantial investments transform our research, support more competitive major grant
applications, and facilitate staff retention and recruitment.

3.2b. Facilities/technical support
We have world-class infrastructure comprising; laboratory facilities; geophysical and other field
equipment; an excellent library with extensive e-holdings; computer suites; nine different mass
spectrometers; and rock-analysis facilities (thin-section preparation, SEM, WDX electron-probe, X-
ray diffraction). We are supported by 6 full-time laboratory technicians, and 2 other technical staff.
Staff and PGRs can commission bespoke mechanical and electronic equipment built in-house.
Laboratories such as the BEIF, London Geochronology Centre, and Geochemistry Laboratory,
form the hub of many of our inter-disciplinary and inter-institutional research networks, and are
pivotal for delivering impact.

Departments were closed during the first Covid19 Lock Down. However, we introduced new safety
protocols in June 2020 which have allowed us to re-open, and keep open laboratories and
teaching spaces.

Facilities, and the activities they support (Fig. 1) include:

•   The Environmental Sedimentology Facility houses an XRF core-scanner and multi-sensor core-
    logger which measures elemental abundance and magnetic-susceptibility/gamma-ray density
    in sedimentary cores for high-resolution reconstructions of climate-induced changes in



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    sediment supply. LC/MS allows measurements of biomarker-based palaeotemperatures from
    marine and terrestrial organic matter.

•   The Micropalaeontology Laboratories (including a light microscopy lab added since 2014)
    enable imaging and quantifying microfossil assemblages via optical and scanning-electron
    microscopy, and geochemical analyses, underpinning palaeontological and
    palaeoceanographical research. They feature clean, controlled environments to
    prepare calcareous, siliceous, and organic-walled, microfossils, and perform taxon-specific
    morphometric and geochemical analyses.

•   The London Geochronology Centre uses and develops geochronology and thermochronometry
    to understand continental deformation and links to the surface environment. An international
    reputation for innovative methodological advances and leading research is reflected by over
    130 publications and co-authors in 38 countries from 106 institutions (in the REF period).
    Developments since REF2014 include: upgrades to research infrastructure (laser-oblation
    ICPMS, laser and digital microscope); and expanded membership (Fox).

•   The Mineral Physics and Haskel Laboratories support measurements of the physical and
    chemical properties of potential constituent minerals of the interiors of Earth, the telluric planets
    and icy moons. Measurements can be performed at elevated pressure and variable
    temperature in the deformation multi-anvil press and diamond anvil cell combined with X-ray
    powder diffraction, X-ray imaging, Raman and FTIR spectroscopy. Several of these globally
    unique facilities were developed in house, and support our activities at international
    synchrotron and neutron diffraction facilities. During the REF period, the laboratories provided
    core support for £6.8M of RCUK/Royal Society/European research grants, involving 2 RCUK
    fellows, 8 post-docs and 11 PGRs.

•   Rock and Ice Physics Laboratories support measurements of the evolution of physical and
    mechanical properties under cryospheric and crustal conditions. Recent developments include:
    a new polyaxial and tomography cell for deforming EPICA-borehole ice samples to formulate
    anisotropic flow laws for the Antarctic ice sheet; triaxial-deformation ensemble with
    permeability, wave velocity, electrical and 3-D microseismicity measurements to formulate a
    chemo-thermo-hydro-mechanical model of crustal dynamics; and environmental SEM with
    high/low temperature and deformation stages to study the micromechanics of ice/rock
    deformation.

•   Liu has created a ‘flight lab’ for the storage and maintenance of drones used in remote sensing
    of volcanic emissions. This supports the activities of other staff (e.g., Mitchell) who use drones
    to acquire field observations.

•   Geochemical analysis of Earth materials underpins environmental research, supported by a
    suite of 6 new laboratories and seven spectrometers, five acquired since the 2014 REF. The
    BEIF is a cross-faculty stable-isotope laboratory with four spectrometers hosted by ESUCL.
    Two continuous flow ThermoFischer Delta V IRMS analyse a range of stable isotopes in solid
    carbonate and other materials. H & O isotopes in water samples are measured using a Picarro
    L-2103-i CRDspectrometer. Ultrahigh precision and sensitivity analyses, e.g. clumped isotopes
    and very small samples, are measured on a Nu Perspective IS. Sample preparation
    facilities include a diamond-coated wire saw, micromill, microbalance, stereomicroscope


                                                                                                Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      and drill. The cross-faculty ICP facility measures major and trace elements in solution using two
      ICP-MS, ICP-OES, ion chromatograph and a Leco C/S analyser. New since REF2014, the
      metal isotope facility comprises two (UCL and BBK) metal-free Class 10,000 laboratories
      containing Class 100 laminar flow hoods for sample purification. The suite hosts a Nu Plasma 3
      multi-collector ICP mass spectrometer. Any metal cations can be analysed for isotope ratios,
      and the facility currently focuses on Li, B, Mg, Mo, Cu, Zn and Sr isotopes. Other UCL
      departments and universities are frequent users. Since its inception in 2017, it has led to over
      40 publications, and 20 international collaborations, including with industry and carbon
      sequestration.

3.3. Funding, infrastructure and EDI

KLB and IRDR refurbishment make our facilities fully wheel-chair accessible. Staff with protected
characteristics are supported re grant applications via: WLMs; appraisals/mentoring; adjustments
to internal review deadlines; sabbaticals (5b.2).

3.4. Facilities Outside the UoA/Benefits In Kind/Sponsorships

UoA researchers are highly successful in obtaining access to facilities outside their HEIs. They are
supported in these efforts by institutional resources (e.g., Legal Services checks the wording of
Non-Profit Agreements). 17 UoA staff have been involved with 22 major projects with in-kind
benefits, spread across the UK and 10 other countries and amounting to an equivalent value of c.
£23.4M. Exemplar highlights include:

•     High Performance Computing—The HECToR Mineral Physics Consortium is led by Brodholt
      and uses 8% of the total time on the machine, and 40% of the NERC allocation, (=£4M over
      the REF period. CPOM relies regularly on national capability computers (i.e. ARCHER,
      Jasmin), Alfe received £13.9M-worth of computing time from Oakridge facility, USA.

•     Synchrotron and Neutron beamtime at ESRF, Diamond Light Source, ISIS etc. (Thomson,
      Wood) worth £3.3M.

•     ICDP Trans-Amazon and Onshore Tanzania Projects (Wade, $2.5M).


    4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1. Collaborations, networks, partnerships

UoA staff have co-authored peer-reviewed manuscripts with scientists from >100 other national
and international HEIs, and 90% of submitted outputs are with external researchers. All academics
are involved in collaborations, projects, or networks with HEIs, industry, commerce, and/or third
sector, with 11.6% of our outputs including a non-HEI (e.g., industrial) co-author. Funded
collaborative projects have collectively involved >20 UK HEIs (and partners such as BAS, BGS)
and >100 HEIs in 33 other countries. During the REF period, 26% of UoA staff are (or have been)
PIs, Co-Is or key participants in 17 research collaborations funded by major (i.e., £1M+) grants
involving multiple institutions and/or industrial partners. Exemplar activities include:

•     Leadership in:

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    o   The Thomas Young Centre in the area of materials modelling, bringing together 100
        research groups from four London HEIs (https://www.thomasyoungcentre.org). This uses
        UCL high performance computers (Grace, Myriad, Kathleen), supported by £1.5M/year
        institutional investment.
    o   The UCL-QMUL-Southampton-Oxford-Imperial-Queen’s (Belfast)- Kent Tier 2 regional HPC
        centre Thomas (upgraded to Thomas2), supported by two £4M EPSRC grants (PI A.
        Michaelides, UCL), in addition to £2M running costs each.

•   The Centre for Polar Observation and Modelling (CPOM), is a NERC funded collaboration
    involving UCL, Reading, Leeds, and Bristol, and is part of the National Centre for Earth
    Observation. CPOM is built around the launch of the ESA mission Cryosat-2 (led by UCL) and
    processing of satellite data (supported by £0.5M/year in NERC national capability funding, and
    leveraged three-fold in grant income).

•   The UCL Hazards Centre works closely with end-users on geophysical and meteorological
    hazards with UK government departments, international humanitarian agencies and global
    financial institutions.

•   Engagement with UCL Grand Challenges, as exemplified by the IRDR under the directorship
    of Sammonds and championed by 24 academics from the IRDR, IEPS, Statistical Science,
    Space & Climate Physics, Civil Engineering and Institute for Global Health, and invested in by
    UCL with six new academic staff since 2014 taking the total to 10. The expansion of the IRDR
    is a MAPS Faculty strategic priority. IRDR led the successful UKRI bid for the £5.1M Network
    Plus on Gender Responsive Resilience and Intersectionality in Policy and Practice and the
    Belmont ‘Climate, Environment and Health’ Forum with a €1.3M project on 'Community
    collective action to respond to climate change influencing the environment-health nexus'.
    These activities led to influence on policy (e.g., The policy brief from the 2nd International
    Conference on the Rohingya Crisis in Comparative Perspective, 2020, was taken up by UK
    and Bangladesh Governments).

•   Leadership in a number of multi-department laboratory facilities including BEIF and the Cross-
    Faculty ICP Facility (5b.3). Our research on groundwater resources and pollution is organized
    around the Cross-Faculty ICP Facility and in-situ field measurements. We emphasise
    Knowledge Exchange through workshops co-convened with collaborating scientists and stake-
    holders (e.g., ‘Aquifer poroelasticity in Bangladesh: observations, modelling and implications
    for groundwater resources monitoring’, Dhaka, 2017). We work closely with IIISWBM (Kolkata),
    Universities of Karachi, Dhaka and Rajshahi, and with public-sector bodies (Bangladesh Water
    Development Board, National Institute of Hydrology [India], National Center for Water
    Resources Planning and Investigation [Vietnam], and the British Geological Survey), supported
    by Commonwealth, Tempus, UNESCO, and Schlumberger Scholarships and Fellowships.

•   Hammond leads the UK-DPRK-US-China Mt. Paektu group of scientists who are working to
    understand the eruption history and present state of the volcano to identify hazards and risks of
    future activity (supported by the Royal Society, NERC, Lounsbery Foundation, and US
    Government, £753k).

•   Boudagher-Fadel leads an international UN-funded project on the geological and
    hydrogeological mapping of Lebanon, involving local students and international scientists.

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•   Participation in the Integrated Ocean Discovery Program (Bown, Wade, Pickering) leading to
    multiple papers by multinational science party (e.g., Hull et al., Science,: 36 authors from UK,
    USA, Japan, South Korea, France, Germany, Spain and Denmark).

•   Participation in the International Continental Scientific Drilling Programme (ICDP): PI Homann
    (with 9 other researchers from South Africa, Germany, France, Switzerland, Belgium, USA,
    Japan, Australia, and Netherlands); And Liu/Pogge Von Strandmann, ‘Volcanic Forcing and
    Paleogene Climate Change (PVOLC).

•   Brodholt is the Lead for the Deep Volatiles Programme funded by NERC (£8M), involving 10
    UK institutions.

•   Liu leads ‘Aerial-based Observations of Volcanic Emissions (ABOVE)’ funded by the Alfred P.
    Sloan Foundation. Collaborators: Chalmers Univ. (Sweden); Universities of New Mexico,
    Palermo, Mainz, Costa Rica, Bristol, Cambridge; and Rabaul Volcanological Observatory
    (Papua New Guinea).

•   Science 4 Clean Energy (S4CE,) Horizon 2020 project, involving Jones, Mitchell and Oelkers,
    plus 22 other institutions (€9.8M in total, €1.6M to UCL).

•   Shields was the Science Coordinator for the NERC programme: Long-term Co-evolution of Life
    and the Planet (2011-2016) (£1.6M) and NERC-NSFC UK-China strategic response research
    programme: Biosphere Evolution, Transitions and Resilience (BETR) (2017-2021) (>£2M).
    Shields also played a key role in initiating these thematic NERC calls.

4.2. Wider contributions to economy and society

4.2a. Consultancy, Economy and Environment
Our research culture embeds engagement with end-user communities to promote, communicate,
share and transfer specialist knowledge and expertise, with industry, governments, NGOs and
media organisations. Impact and knowledge exchange (IKE) are a mandatory element within IEPS
staff appraisal and fostering sustainable relationships with industry partners is a vital strand of our
approach to delivering environmental benefits both in the UK and abroad. Our reach is
international and wide ranging: UoA staff have been involved with approximately 118 such
interactions during the REF period, including organisations from the UK and 23 other countries. We
estimate that consultancy and licensing fees, grants, other financial assistance (e.g., contributions
to PhD studentships) and support in kind (e.g., logistics during fieldwork) amount to c. £26M,
though some has been shared with other collaborating institutions. Exemplar IKE highlights
include:

•   Work for the Portuguese, Greek and Italian seismic monitoring agencies (Ferreira, Roberts),
    Panama Canal Authority (Carter), and Geological Surveys of Hong Kong and Cyprus (Carter,
    Boudagher-Fadel).

•   Expert advice to policy- and other decision-making bodies: House of Lords Report on Arctic
    Sea Ice Decline (2014), House of Commons Science and Technology Committee Report on
    Communicating Climate Science (2014) (Rapley); UK Climate Change Risk Assessment,

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Evidence Report, UK Government Statutory Risk Assessment (2017) (Osborn); Royal Society
    JISC and CRAC reports on disability in STEM (2020) (Upchurch); IPCC SROCC report
    (Stroeve).

•   Research licensing (e.g., Saunders, with eight industrial companies worldwide).

•   The IRDR and UCL Hazards Centre provide direct pathways to transmit our research in areas
    such as hazard, pollution, environmental and climate change to key users in the insurance
    industry, governmental bodies and international humanitarian and development agencies.
    Examples include: The Ministry of Disaster Management and Relief, Bangladesh (Ahmed);
    CAFOD, Ministry of Mining, Chile, Department for International Trade, UK, Aon Benfield, UN
    Environment Programme (Edwards); World Bank remediation of arsenic pollution in the Bengal
    Basin (McArthur); and Risk management standards for Solvency II EU Directive (Roberts,
    Sammonds).

•   Energy sector engagement activities include major oil companies (Petrobras, Total, Haliburton,
    BG, Nexen, Aramco,Statoil Hydro, Chevron) and other energy providers (Reykjavik Energy,
    Mitchell, Oelkers) and related industries (Radioactive Waste Management Ltd, Meredith,
    Mitchell) and Carbfix (Oelkers).

4.2b. Engagement with diverse communities and public
All staff participate in outreach and engagement with non-academic audiences, including public
lectures, community teaching projects, media interviews, social media, websites, and
performances. We have given 248 (UK) and 61 (overseas) public talks (more than double the
number in the previous REF period). Blogs, online interviews and YouTube are widely used to
publicise research (e.g., ESUCL YouTube Channel, FAULT2SHA channel managed by IRDR’s
Faure Walker). Our twitter feeds have >7000 followers, our new Instagram account (started mid-
2020) reached 1000 followers in its first six months, and we have presences on LinkedIn and
Facebook. Staff achieve wide exposure via media engagement in their roles as commentators,
advisors to, or participants in, radio and television news, science, and documentary programmes.
Since 2014, they have made >320 such contributions, for example: CBC/BBC, ‘Day in the life of
Earth’, 2018, (Bristow), Netflix, ‘Into the Inferno’, 2016, (Hammond); BBC, Royal Institution
Christmas Lectures, 2020 (Shields, Wade); BBC, The One Show (Liu). Other highlights include:

•   Tsamados/Stroeve: UK sea ice workshop and public event (UCL, 2016)—A public forum
    where leading sea ice scientists reflected on rapidly declining Arctic sea ice cover in the
    context of long-term climate change.

•   Brodholt/Vocadlo: NERC-funded Geobus—Provides Earth Sciences activities related to our
    research and careers talks to primary and secondary schools. This reaches an audience of c.
    20,000 pupils/year. Activities have been successfully transferred to remote learning during
    Covid19.

•   Dobson: secondment at The Slade School of Fine Art—Developed a new blue pigment, leading
    to popular science articles in New Scientist and Science.

•   Liu: Photographic exhibition on field research, sponsored by L’Oreal-UNESCO (currently on
    display in the Carnegie Institute, Washington DC) and via a YouTube documentary.

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


•     Dodd et al. ‘Oldest fossils’ (Nature, 2017)—Total accumulated monthly audience figure for
      public outreach was >2.2 billion people worldwide.

•     Each year, IEPS hosts the ‘Festival of Geology’, sponsored by the Geologists’ Association.
      This includes talks and hands-on activities for a lay audience, and attracted >1000 online
      visitors in 2020.

4.3. Indicators of wider influence

4.3a. Highly cited researchers
Fifteen (28%) of current members of the UoA (Alfe, Atkinson, Bristow, Carter, Downes, Mannion,
McArthur, Oelkers, Pogge Von Strandmann, Roberts, Shields, Stroeve, Upchurch, Vermeesch,
Wade) and two category B staff (Lithgow-Bertelloni and Stixrude, present 2014-2018) are listed in
the PLoS databases of the 100,000 most cited researchers representing the top 1.5% of 6.9M
publishing scholars. (https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000384)

4.3b. Elected Fellowships
UoA staff elected as fellows of learned societies include (*= election since 2014): Brodholt, Price,
Stixrude, Vočadlo (Mineralogical Society of America); Crawford (Royal Astronomical Society);
Pickering (GSA); Price, Rapley* (Academia Europaea); Price (AGU, Mineralogical Society of Great
Britain and Ireland); Upchurch (Linnean Society of London); Wade* (The Paleontological Society).

4.3c. Awards and prizes
Twenty (37%) of UoA staff have received awards in recognition of outstanding achievements, since
2014 ranging from ‘best paper awards’ through to prestigious medals and honorary memberships.
A total of 28 awards have been presented by organisations based in the UK and 11 other
countries. Highlight exemplars below:

    Staff              Award
    Atkinson           Honorary Life Member, National Speleological Society of America (2016)
    Brantut            International Mineral and Rock Physics Early Career Award, AGU (2015)
    Bristow            Thesiger-Oman international Fellowship (2017)
    Brodholt           Price Medal of the Royal Astronomical Society (2015)
    Carter             Dodson prize for thermochronometry research (2018)
    Dobson             Friedrich Wilhelm Bessel Research Award, Alexander von Humboldt
                       Stiftung (2014)
    Liu                L’Oreal-UNESCO, Women in Science Award [2018]
    Meredith           Louis Neel Medal 2016, EGU
    Mitchell           Bullerwell Lecturer (2018)
    Oelkers            Urey Medal for contributions to Geochemistry over a lifetime (2019)
                       Schlumberger Medal, Mineralogical Society (announced Dec. 2020)
    Papineau           WITec’s Paper Award 2019 Silver
    Pogge Von          Max Hey Medal, Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland (2016)
    Strandmann
    Shields            Leverhulme Professorial Research Fellowship (2019)
    Stroeve            Julia and Johannes Weertman Medal, EUG
    Vermeesch          2018 Best Paper Award, Geoscience Frontiers

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Wade                Bigsby Medal. Geological Society (2020)

4.3d. Journal reviews/Editorships
Staff have provided reviews for 279 Earth/Environmental science journals. 26 staff have held
handling/associate editor positions for 30 journals during the REF period. 26 staff serve(d) on the
editorial boards of 25 journals, including sector-leads such as EPSL (Brodholt), Tectonics (Carter)
and Palaeontology (Upchurch), and wide-readership journals such as Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A
(Kilburn, Sammonds). Shields is Chief Editor, Journal of the Geological Society (London), and
Carter held this post from 2016-2019. Osborn is Founding Editor-in-Chief and Editorial Board Chair
of UCL Open: Environment. Price is a member of the College of Expert Reviewers.

4.3e. Service on Strategy Boards and governmental agencies
54% of UoA staff sit on a total of 95 (52% international) advisory groups and committees for
governments, NGOs, scientific working groups etc. Highlight exemplars below:

 Staff                           Organisation
 Atkinson                        Scottish Environmental Protection Agency (2010-present)
                                 UK Department of Health (2011-2017)
 Bown                            Secretary-General, International Commission on Stratigraphy
                                 (2014-2016)
                                 Geological Society Stratigraphy Commission (2014-Present)
 Bristow, Crawford, El-Maarry,   NASA and/or ESA
 Jennings, Rapley, Stroeve,
 Tsamados
 Brodholt                        Hong Kong 2014 RAE Physical Sciences Panel
 Edwards                         Founding member, Mine Tailings Working Group, Chile (2015-
                                 2016)
 Fearnley                        Co-founder, workgroup, World Organisation of Volcano
                                 Observatories
                                 Secretary, Cities and Volcanoes Commission, International
                                 Association of Volcanology and Chemistry of the Earth's Interior
 Ferreira                        RESIF (French Natl. Geophys. Infrastructure)
                                 GEOSCOPE (French global seismic network)
                                 Irish Centre Research Appl. Geosc.
 Hammond                         UK representative, International Association of Seismology and
                                 Physics of the Earth’s Interior
 Jones                           Executive Committee, Deep Carbon Observatory (2010-2019)
 Kilburn                         INGV-Dip.to di Protezione Civile, Task Force on volcanic alert
                                 levels, Italy
                                 UK Higher Education Mission to Turkey
 Mannion                         Executive committee, paleobiology database
 Meredith                        Convenor, International Review Panel, Earth System Science
                                 Program, Chinese University of Hong Kong (2018)
 Price                           UUK-ICo Working Group on the use of personal data in research
                                 Chair, REF 2021 Panel B
                                 Chair, UK Forum for responsible Research Metrics
                                 Chair, ERU Research Policy Committee
                                 Advisor, STEM REF Review

                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rapley                         Advisory Board, Science Museum (2019)
                                Advisory Board, Carbon Limiting Technologies; (2016)
                                Chair, ESF, Space Science Committee
                                Chair, London Climate Change Partnership (2013-2019)
                                International Review Team, Korean Polar Research Institute
                                (2015)
                                ESRC Centre for Climate Change Economics & Policy project
                                (2014-2015)
 Sammonds                       UK Alliance for Disaster Research Committee
 Shields                        Chair, International Subcommission on Cryogenian Stratigraphy
                                Chair, UK Earth System Science group
 Stroeve                        Sea ice advisory role, GCOM/COOS/WCRP Ocean
                                Observations Panel for Climate
                                AAAS Arctic Observing Network
                                ENVISAT AATSR LST validation team
 Wade                           UK representative, (Science Support and Advisory Committee of
                                the Europe Consortium for Ocean Research Drilling) (2012-
                                2015)
                                North American Commission on Stratigraphic Nomenclature,
                                GSA (2014)
 Wood                           ISIS Facility Access Panel 1: Diffraction (2014)

4.3f. UK and overseas Research grant awarding bodies: reviews and panels
Collectively, 83% of UoA staff have conducted hundreds of reviews for 62 grant awarding bodies in
the UK and 32 other countries. Exemplar organisations include: Australian Research Council;
Dept. Energy (USA); Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft (Germany); EPSRC; ERC; European
Space Agency; ESRC; Leverhulme; MRC; NASA; NERC; National Science Foundation (USA); The
Royal Society; STFC; UNESCO.

63% of UoA Staff are or have been members of NERC, STFC and/or EPSRC peer review colleges
and/or Royal Society panels since 2014. Currently, 19 staff serve on peer review committees at
NERC (13), STFC (2) UK Space Agency (2), EPSRC (1), and Royal Society (1), including a NERC
panel chair (Brodholt), CIAF panel (Roberts) and deputy-Chair NERC Geophysical Equipment
Facility Steering Committee (Hammond). Price is a council member of STFC, and Brodholt was a
member of the NERC Science Board (previously SISB) (2014 -2018). Other examples in table
below:

 Staff        Panel
 Alfe         ARCHER embedded Computational Science and Engineering support (eCSE), UK
              DFG
              European Science Foundation
 Bristow      NASA Mars Data Analysis Program 2015,
              NASA Solar System Workings panel 2019
 Brodholt     NERC HPC Strategy Committee (2018-present)
              NERC HPC Steering Committee (2014-present)
              Research Council of Norway Expert Committee (2016, 2017)
 Burgess      NERC Advanced Training Short Courses Assessment Panel, (2017)


                                                                                         Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Carter    Evaluation committee (SPARK), Swiss National Science Foundation (2018-
           present)
           Panel Chair: Research Council of Norway (2017)
 Crawford  ESA Human Spaceflight and Exploration Science Advisory Committee (HESAC);
           (2014–2018)
           Chair, Committee on Space Research (COSPAR) Sub-Commission B3: The Moon
           (2017–)
 El Maarry NASA New Frontiers Mission Selection and NASA-ROSES programs
 Ferreira  steering committees - NERC’s Geophysics & Geodesy Facilities, and ANR (French
           research funding agency);
 Jennings  NASA Solar System Workings Program
 Pickering ECORD Science Evaluation Panel
 Rapley    Chair, NERC, Royal Society, Royal Society of Arts, Wellcome Trust Initiative on
           Climate science communication” (2016)
           Chair, The European Space Sciences Committee, Expert Committee on Space
           Sciences of the European Science Foundation, 2020-
 Sammonds Strategic Advisor, NERC-ESRC Increasing Resilience to Natural Hazards
           Programme
           Chair, Natural Hazards Advisory Group, NERC
           European Science Foundation, MicroDICE network Steering Committee
 Stroeve   NSDGeosciences Advisory Committee Member
 Vermeesch National Environmental Isotope Facility (NEIF) steering committee

4.3g. Society Leadership—Staff service on learned society councils and committees includes:

 Staff               Role/Body
 Brodholt            British Geophysical Association (2014)
 Crawford            Vice President, Royal Astronomical Society (2018-2019)
 Carter              The Geological Society Awards Committee and the Publications and
                     Information Committee (2016-19)
 Downes              President, Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland (2016-2018)
 Hammond             Treasurer, British Geophysical Association
 Jennings            EGU science committee, GMPV section
 Little, Pogge Von   Geochemistry Group committee, Mineralogical Society and Geological
 Strandmann          Society
 Meredith            Chair, EGU Louis Neel Medal Award Committee (2019-2022)
 Mitchell            Physical Properties of Earth Materials group, Mineral and Rock Physics
                     committee, AGU
 Oelkers             Goldschmidt Officer, European Association of Geochemistry (2013-2016)
 Pogge Von           Vice President, Mineralogical Society of Great Britain and Ireland
 Strandmann
 Stroeve             Vice President, International Glaciological Society
 Tsamados            Science officer, cryosphere/sea ice division, EGU
 Upchurch            Diversity Committee, Royal Society
                     Programme and Diversity Committees, Society of Vertebrate Paleontology
 Wade                Paleontological Society's Schuchert Award Committee (2016-2019)
                     Geological Society, Awards Committee (2020-present)

                                                                                          Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


4.3h. PhD examiner roles
40 staff have served as external examiners for 115 (UK) and 98 (29 other countries) PhDs.

4.3i. Research-focused training
25 UoA staff have delivered 73 training courses aimed at PhD students/ECRs, and CPD for non-
academic professionals. These have taken place in the UK and 26 other countries. Highlight
examples include: multiple NERC-funded micropalaeontology short courses (UK, 2016-2018,
Bown/Wade); 2 CPD courses, Ministry of Health (Oman, Fearnley); GCRF funded workshop,
disaster risk reduction (North Korea, 2019, Hammond); GCRF drone monitoring workshop for
Papua New Guinea regional disaster coordinators (2019, Liu).

4.3j. Conference Leadership
Staff have led or been on the advisory boards and organising committees of 76 international
conferences and workshops including: UNESCO Paris climate change meeting (Stroeve), Royal
Society Theo Murphy international scientific discussion meeting, 2016 (Mitchell). 55% (up from
35% in the last REF) of staff have convened conference sessions (n=97) at major international
meetings including AGU, EGU, GSA.

4.3k. Invited Presentations
Staff have given 361 (UK) and 486 (>40 other countries) invited presentations, approximately 40%
being plenary/keynote lectures, representing a threefold increase since REF2014. In addition to
AGU, EGU, GSA, and Goldschmidt, the breadth of our reach includes: Key note speaker in the
International Conference on Earth and Environmental Sciences & Technology for Sustainable
Development, Dhaka University, with the President of Bangladesh (Sammonds); The World
Economic Forum, The United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, 2017,
(Stroeve), Science Diplomacy, Washington DC, 2015 and South Korea National Assembly, 2019
(Hammond), 12th International Symposium on Antarctic Earth Science, India, 2015 (Upchurch),
Thermo 2016, Brazil (Vermeesch).




                                                                                            Page 26
