Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Institution: Swansea University
  Unit of Assessment: 20 Social work and social policy
  Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

  Social work and social policy is a dynamic and supportive research community of 24 (22.1FTE)
  Category A eligible staff. The unit encompasses diverse policy areas such as health, education,
  housing, poverty and the family. The unit encompasses the University’s established strengths
  in ageing and support for an ageing population, and social and health care (which were the
  focus of our REF2014 submission).

  More than ever before in its post devolution history, Wales and the wider education community
  need a University Education Department of national and international excellence. Building on
  the University’s historic reputation in Education and with support and funding from Welsh
  Government, a re-established Swansea University School of Education (SUSE) opened in 2017
  to fill this deficit in Wales, with the aim of becoming a School of international quality, with a focus
  on practice driven and critically reflective research to lead education thinking in Wales and
  beyond.

  The Unit’s research is therefore focussed on three central themes: Social and Health Care
  (Category A staff 9/8.7FTE), Innovative Ageing (Category A staff 6/4.4 FTE) and
  Educational Policy and Practice (Category A staff 9/ 9FTE).

  Research in this Unit is undertaken by staff in the College of Human and Health Sciences (CHHS)
  and the College of Arts and Humanities (CoAH) as shown below:

   College of Human & Health                           College of Arts & Humanities
   Sciences
   15 Category A eligible staff (13.1                  9 Category A eligible staff (9.0 FTE)
   FTE)
   Social and Health Care and                          Educational Policy and Practice staff
   Innovating Ageing staff


  Aims

  The Unit aims to:

  1. Contribute to driving economic growth, productivity, education and prosperity in the region,
     Wales, the UK and internationally (REF5a).

  2. Create and enhance global and local research partnerships that deliver benefits for
     research students, staff, the wider community and the economy.

  3. Promote and facilitate international collaboration between researchers, policy makers and
     practitioners.

  4. Improve public awareness, practice and policy, while transferring and translating knowledge
     from research findings into real-world impact through working closely with those delivering
     policies, interventions, services and products.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  We built on our previous strengths, as shown in table 1:


   GOALS 2014-2020                      EVIDENCE OF ACHIEVEMENT

   To sustain an interdisciplinary      Our collegiate environment and approach to
   research      environment   that     collaborative, impactful research have delivered
   continues to attract and develop     significant successes in the census period, including a
   talented staff and PGR students;     42% increase in research income (REF4b) since
                                        REF2014.

                                        A substantial increase in grant capture, with more
                                        than 100 successful grants totalling over £11.5m. Since
                                        2017, our newest Department, Swansea University
                                        School of Education (SUSE), has secured awards
                                        totalling approximately, £500,000.

                                        A substantial increase in the number of PhDs
                                        Awarded (REF4a) since REF2014 (583%).
                                        We have expanded funded opportunities for new PhD
                                        studies and have continued the successful mentorship
                                        and development of early career researchers. We have
                                        developed a Professional Doctorate in Education and a
                                        research informed National MA in Education (Wales).

                                        During the census period, there has been a 70%
                                        increase in the proportion of UoA staff who are
                                        female.

   To build on collaborative links      Members of the UoA have collaborated widely with
   with other world-leading centres     academics from other institutions, governmental,
   of excellence, with the public and   industry and third-sector organisations. A wide range of
   voluntary sectors, and with          international partnerships have led to international
   industry and business;               initiatives, impactful research, and grant capture (see
                                        Section 4).

   To foster stronger collaborative Our impact case studies show strong links with research
   links with research users;       users, such as housing associations, Local Authorities
                                    (UK and France), those who live and work in care homes,
                                    and school leaders and staff.

   To further increase the quality      The successful impact of our research on policy and
   and quantity of original and         practice at both national and international levels, has
   rigorous applied research that       resulted in sustained and significant recognition for the
   has international reach and          Unit. As noted in Section 4, the scholarly outputs from
   significance                         the UoA increased by 3% during this census period.
                                        Moreover, the citation impact factor for work from
                                        members of the UoA is twice the global average for the
                                        field.


  Table 1: Achievements Since 2014




                                                                                          Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Social work and social policy is a challenge-led interdisciplinary research priority, spanning two
  Colleges, and three research centres. Our structure enables cross communication between
  groupings and supports staff to respond quickly to emergent needs in policy and practice. Figure
  1 provides an overview of our structure, setting out our three central research groups:




  Figure 1: Research Centres

  The Health and Social Care Research Swansea (SHCG) group supports interdisciplinary
  networks that deliver impactful, policy relevant social and health care research (Unit aims 1, 2, 3
  and 4). The College of Human & Health Science houses the Centre for Global Burn Injury
  Policy and Research which provides global leadership in the field of applied burns research,
  with a particular focus on resource-poor settings. The centre exemplifies our core principles which
  we share with Swansea University overall in its approach to building the research capacity of key
  partners and embedding an implementation science approach, closing the gap between
  knowledge and action.
  SHCG is also home to the Wales School for Social Care Research (WSSCR), which is part of
  the Health and Care Research Wales infrastructure. WSSCR benefits social care practitioners
  and the social care sector by supporting their research and evidence-based practice aspirations.
  It helps research providers engage with the social care sector to deliver research that makes a
  sustained and tangible difference to both carers and care recipients. The School has an explicit
  focus on building social care research capacity to strengthen and support research mindedness
  in individual practitioners, and the organisations with which they work. The School’s work informs
  improvements in the delivery of quality social care for children, young people and adults as


                                                                                           Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  outlined in the Social Services and Well-being (Wales) Act 2014, in line with the University
  commitment to this goal. Through this work, the Centre has implemented the Developing
  Evidence Enriched Practice (DEEP) programme, which is detailed in one of our case studies.

  Staff in the Wales School for Social Care Research collaborate with the Centre for Innovative
  Ageing on the ENRICH Cymru project, providing synergies between research and social care
  practice. A further example of the interaction between the two areas is the My Home Life Cymru
  programme, which aims to improve the quality of life for those who work in care homes and other
  health and social care settings. This programme has since developed into an international social
  movement promoting quality of life for residents and workers in care homes for older people,
  facilitating positive culture change and enabling care homes to professionalise and articulate the
  expertise of their staff.

  The Centre for Innovative Ageing (CIA) is recognised internationally for its work in social
  gerontology and biopsychosocial research into ageing and dementia. Acknowledged as a
  collaborating centre of excellence and a global leader in research by the International Association
  of Gerontology and Geriatrics, (UoA Aim 2) CIA is multidisciplinary and highly collaborative (UoA
  Aim 3). The Centre is committed to co-production of evidence-based, transformative research
  with users to ensure that issues of care, well-being and quality of life are underpinned by the
  most current research in the field.

  The CIA leads The Awen Institute, a £3.5m project joint funded by the European Commission,
  Swansea University, University of South Wales and University of Wales Trinity Saint David. The
  Institute is creating a state of the art facility to bring together older people, experts in ageing
  research and a wide variety of industries, to pioneer of breakthroughs designed to help us live
  fulfilling, happy lives. The aim of the partnership is to develop The Awen Institute and Wales as
  an internationally centre of excellence in developing products, services and environments for
  ageing societies.

  The Centre leads the Welsh Government-funded (Health and Care Research Wales) Centre for
  Ageing and Dementia Research (CADR), a national, multi-faceted organisation. In partnership
  with Bangor University, CADR takes a holistic approach to addressing the opportunities posed
  by longevity, and aims to:
  • develop an understanding of ageing and dementia in several disciplines (UoA Aim 4);
  • provide an infrastructure to enable leading researchers in ageing and dementia to develop
      collaborative, internationally recognised, interdisciplinary research (UoA Aims 2 and 3);
  • build research capacity to support an increase in grant capture;
  • provide support for PhD students and early career researchers; and
  • apply research knowledge to improve the lives of older people.

  CADR co-hosts (with the Wales School for Social Care Research, see below) the ENRICH
  Cymru network, which aims to improve the lives of residents and staff in care homes across
  Wales by developing and facilitating a network of ‘research ready’ homes.

  The Swansea University School of Education (SUSE) works to supports the National Strategy
  for Educational Research and Enquiry in Wales, as well as the University’s commitment to
  productive relationships with public sector organisations (REF5a; UoA Aims 1, 2 and 4). Our work
  is embedded within schools and via school staff, to enhance the sustainability and impact of our
  research, ensuring considerable national reach and driving practice. SUSE’s research strengths
  encompass four themes, underpinned by a strong thread of excellence in research and founded
  on a collective commitment to social justice:




                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Figure 2: SUSE Themes

  SUSE’s Research Into Practice Centre (RPC), formed in 2020, is a flagship research unit within
  the School of Education, the University and ERW (Education Regional Working Commission, an
  alliance of six Welsh local authorities delivering school improvement services). The Centre
  focuses on researching education and building research capacity (UoA Aims 2 and 4) and
  includes all of the research-active members of SUSE as well as postgraduate research students,
  and local, national and international collaborators (UoA Aim 3).

  The Education Policy and Practice (EPP) group brings together and supports research on
  educational policy and its implementation in practice (UoA Aims 2 and 3). Projects include a two-
  year Welsh Government funded (£50,000) initiative focussed on Schools as Learning
  Organisations, which is a Welsh Government policy priority.

  SUSE also houses the Children’s Rights in Early Years (CREY) research network. CREY
  operates as a national umbrella for organisations working with young children; it is the only
  network in Wales that draws together academics, governance, third-sector actors and
  practitioners to focus on current research, knowledge development and sharing best practice for
  young children and education (UoA Aims 2 and 4). CREY facilitates research and projects
  between practitioners and others on Young Children’s Rights and how these rights can be
  enacted in practice.

  UoA Research Strategy

  Our strategy for research is aligned to the overall aims of the UoA and is in line with Swansea
  University’s commitment to interdisciplinarity, international relevance and the integration of
  impact into research development, practice and infrastructures (REF5a). Our research priorities
  are to:

  •   Initiate and conduct research to provide evidence-based insight and solutions to real-world
      problems, engaging with and informing governmental bodies, communities, the charitable
      and private sectors, academia and the NHS, to the benefit of local, national and international
      groups, using research outcomes to inform policy and practice (see Section 4) (UoA Aims 1,2
      and 3);
  •   Work across boundaries, engaging with other disciplines to produce innovative research
      and meet global challenges (UoA Aims 1, 2 and 3); and



                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  •   Invest in staff to build a concentration of internationally acclaimed researchers, providing the
      facilities and activities they require to enhance the research environment for all, including
      early career researchers (ECRs) and postgraduate research students (see Section 2 and
      UoA Aim 4).

  We have invested in senior research staff to support social work and social care research-
  capacity building following successful research bids to Health and Care Research Wales (HCRW)
  and National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) respectively, and have appointed senior staff
  with international reputations for research excellence in the School of Education (one full time
  professor, one professorial appointment shared with another UoA and two associate professors).
  The strategic aim of these appointments has been to build and develop an internationally
  acclaimed concentration of researchers, meeting one of the central aims set out in our 2014
  submission.

  Interdisciplinary Research and Impact (UoA Aims 1-4)

  The Unit’s structure reflects the interdisciplinarity and scope of policy and practice orientated
  research. Our work has an orientation to Wales, working closely with (and advising) members of
  the Welsh Government (WG) across all three research groups. We also forge international
  connections, to produce high-quality, evidence-based, internationally significant, impactful
  research that makes a positive difference to the lives of people, communities and societies, and
  which influences policy and legislation (see figure 3).




  Figure 3: International Collaborations in Blue


  For example, CIA works closely with the Older People’s Commissioner for Wales and gives
  research leadership to the Ageing Well in Wales initiative, a unique approach to ageing policy
  and practice. Staff regularly serve as members of groups and give evidence to government
  inquiries (e.g. oral evidence to the WG’s loneliness and isolation strategy and WG’s Expert Group
  on Housing an Ageing Population).

  Centre for Ageing and Dementia Research (CADR) pursues interdisciplinary research across
  three disciplines relating to ageing, bringing our social gerontology research to work closely with
  biological aspects of ageing at Cardiff University and arts and humanities research at Bangor
  University. This facilitates translational research, moving from multi-disciplinary to
  interdisciplinary projects, and allows our social science researchers to work closely with Cardiff’s


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Dementia Research Institute and with the ESRC-NIHR Dementia Research Initiative at Bangor
  University. CADR has become a test bed for national standards in involvement and
  engagement and has developed a strategy aligned with the UoA to ensure participation of older
  people and stakeholders.

  We have also worked with colleagues in the College of Engineering on the SUNRISE project
  to develop housing solutions for older people in India, and work with a wide range of academics
  and officials in relation to housing in the UK and France, as detailed in one of our impact case
  studies.

  We have made a joint appointment at professorial level between Swansea University School of
  Education (SUSE) and the Department of Computer Science to support research at the
  intersection of research/public policy with a focus on STEM/digital education, curriculum reform,
  science and innovation policy.

  A core principle of our strategy is to integrate impact into all aspects of research design and
  practice through co-produced research with users and the close engagement of partners. The
  Developing Evidence Enriched Practice (DEEP) project is an excellent example of the
  success of this strategy, represented through one of our impact case studies. DEEP is now
  embedded in three national social policies, in a growing number of local authorities, a health
  board, ten social care providers and third sector organisations across Wales, providing a legacy
  of research informed practice in health and social care provision.

  The Wales School for Social Care Research (WHSSCR) works to build social care research
  capacity, through research-led approaches to practice. In partnership with Health and Care
  Research Wales and Social Care Wales, members of WHSSCR worked to support
  organisational change within social care settings, holding over a thousand research and
  development sessions and have played a key role in the development of a social care research
  and development strategy for Wales.

  Both the Wales School for Social Care and SUSE deliver impact through assisting practitioners
  to take forward their own research and evidence-based practice, and ensuring integration of
  social work, social care and education policy research into practice; for example, SUSE led the
  implementation of the ‘Professional Learning Communities’ programme throughout Welsh
  schools.

  Open Scholarship and Research Integrity

  The University’s Open Access policy requires researchers to make the full text of their research
  publications available on its publicly accessible research repository, Cronfa, (REF5a) which
  is indexed by Google Scholar and other search engines. All staff are required to register for an
  ORCID identifier. PhD students are also encouraged to make their theses accessible via Cronfa.
  The University is working towards a culture of open research and where possible the data
  underpinning research should be as available to as wide an audience as possible. The ESRC-
  funded project, the New Dynamics of Aging, for example, has made its data available through
  the UK Data Archive.

  The University has negotiated gold open access agreements with established publishers,
  enabling staff to publish research in high-quality, peer-reviewed research journals. Researchers
  are supported with an annual fund for gold open access publication via an application procedure
  and peer review.

  The UoA has clear research ethics procedures, provided by Swansea University’s Research
  Integrity: A Policy Framework on Research Ethics & Governance document (2015),
  developed in accordance with UKRIO’s Code of Practice and the UK Policy Framework for Health
  & Social Care Research (REF5a). This framework is monitored by our Research Ethics &


                                                                                         Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Governance Sub-Committee chaired by the Academic Dean for Research Integrity. The
  University is a signatory to the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) which ensures
  via our regularly circulated Statement of Intent that journal impact factors are not used to assess
  outputs for this UoA and that it is the academic merit of published outputs that is of chief concern
  in the assessment exercises.

  Our staff are highly knowledgeable in ethical procedures, with many being members of key
  learned societies including the British Sociological Association, the British Psychology Society,
  the British Educational Research Association and the British Association of Social Workers, all
  of which have long established ethical guidelines. Staff within the UoA have considerable
  experience of NHS ethics panels for research involving NHS settings, staff or patients. In addition,
  we comply with the Wellcome Trust guidance on the implementation of responsible and fair
  approaches for research assessment.

  The University is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and our Vice-
  Chancellor chairs UUK’s UK Research Integrity Forum. Research integrity training (via OUP’s
  Epigeum) has been mandatory for all academic staff and research students since 2016.

  Future Plans

  The Unit will build on its current strengths, focus and expertise over the next census period. In
  line with the aims of the UoA as listed above, we will:

  •   Increase our interdisciplinary work, engaging closely with other disciplines (e.g. Computer
      Science, Law, Engineering and Medicine) to foster new perspectives on our work and to grow
      new areas of interest. SUSE will soon move into the new Faculty of Humanities and Social
      Sciences, which will support work with other research groupings and provide opportunities
      for multidisciplinary collaboration.

  •   Strengthen our capacity for impact through building upon current successful projects and
      new research projects and increasing the range of partners and service users with whom we
      engage and work nationally and internationally, and through training and support for staff.

  •   Extend our range of funders and partners through developing inter-sectoral working and
      developing and delivering research with different partners. Collaborations with other higher
      education institutions will also be augmented, through regional partnerships with the
      University of Wales Trinity St David and Cardiff Metropolitan Universities, and collaborative
      projects supported by Welsh Government.

  •   Increase our grant capture through work with these extended networks and partners.

  •   Increase our population of postgraduate research students through PhD studentships
      and growing our PGR cohorts in each research groupings, for example Swansea University
      School of Education (SUSE) will launch a Professional Doctorate in Education.

  •   Grow SUSE’s scale and reach with the goal of submitting the School to UoA23: Education
      in the next REF (or equivalent) cycle.

  •   Support our researchers at all levels to excel by continuing to provide research-support
      resources and seeking feedback from staff and PGRs to identity gaps in this provision.

  •   Recruit and retain excellent staff, by offering appropriate support and training for staff and
      students, in a collegiate, collaborative working atmosphere, with an emphasis on supporting
      early career researchers and staff with protected characteristics.




                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  2. People

  We pride ourselves on having a collegiate, inclusive, supportive, and stimulating research
  community, culture and environment. All 24 Category A eligible academic staff (22.1 FTE)
  have been submitted to REF2021. The UoA comprises 22 full-time staff and 2 part-time staff
  (0.2 and 0.7FTE) on research-based contracts and an increasing number of research students.
  We seek to support our staff by providing permanent contracts; this not only offers our
  researchers security but helps us retain talent. All of our Category A staff are employed on
  permanent contracts.

  The career demographic of Category A eligible staff (headcount) at the census date is shown
  below:




  Staffing strategy

  Our strategy in relation to staff takes into account:
     • retain and recruit talented researchers to augment and sustain established and nascent
         areas of research strength;
     • ongoing support and continued professional development of established and early
         career researchers;
     • expansion of our postgraduate research community, and support for PhD students;
         and
     • a commitment to equality and diversity across all elements of the UoA.

  Within the UoA, we enjoy a vibrant research culture and environment, which benefits from a range
  of measures and processes designed to support career progression, wellbeing and
  productive research. This is based on the University-wide strategy to recruit and retain highly
  qualified staff (REF5a).

  We provide an enabling and growth-based environment for early career researchers (ECRs) and
  postgraduate Research Students (PGRs), with a system of mentoring and shadowing to allow
  junior and senior staff to work together as a matter of course and to co-produce research grants,
  publications and reports. This is demonstrated by the leadership roles early career researchers
  have in some of the research groupings, e.g., Tyrie leading Children’s Rights in Early Years
  (CREY).

  This UoA has a clear strategy for supporting its research culture through investment in staff at all
  levels. Our strategy seeks to maintain and extend diversity across disciplines, consolidate
  research strengths and grow strategic collaborative areas. As Swansea University School of
  Education is a recent introduction to the University, there has been a period of rapid recruitment,
  increasing total staff numbers from four at its inception in 2017, to the current complement of 18
  (of whom 9 are Category A staff).

  As described in Section 1, the CHHS has also invested in senior research staff to head the Welsh
  School of Social Care Research and The Centre for Global Burn Injury Policy and Research,
  following successful research bids. These appointments have strengthened the UoA’s reputation




                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  through the concentration of internationally recognised researchers and provide strong support
  and mentorship for early career researchers and postgraduate students.

  Staff development and support

  Staff development is supported at University (see REF5a), College and UoA level and is aligned
  to the 2008 Concordat to support researchers’ career development. Swansea University holds
  the European HR Excellence in Research badge, which was renewed in 2019 (REF5a).

  Training courses for staff and PGR students are mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development
  Framework and include Research Integrity & Ethics (compulsory) and Diversity & Unconscious
  Bias Training (compulsory for staff involved in recruitment or REF management) as well as
  continuing professional development courses on leadership, supervision skills, project
  management and other research-related areas. Staff have benefitted from University-wide
  schemes promoting interdisciplinarity and innovation through collegial events, funding sandpits,
  mentoring, and project seed funding.

  In line with the University’s Code of Practice and our unit Statement of Intent, the team making
  the decisions on the final selection of outputs all received mandatory unconscious bias training
  as well as targeted REF specific training on the fair and transparent selection of outputs for
  inclusion in the submission. The submission comprises the one best-quality output from each
  Category A submitted staff member with the balance made up of the best-quality outputs from
  the available pool of eligible outputs that includes outputs of former eligible colleagues.

  Staff applying for promotion received mentoring and guidance on their applications and have
  access to an archive of previously successful promotion applications and workshops tailored to
  promotions preparation. Promotions data are scrutinized according to gender and ethnicity.

  Staff are also supported through biannual Professional Development Reviews where key
  performance indicators include publications and impact studies, grant applications and PGR
  supervision. All staff are supported in their research and impact activities.

  Senior researchers have responsibility for mentoring and supporting staff in process of
  developing and translating research ideas into research grant bids. Their work has been
  supplemented since 2016 by the ‘Blue Sky’ scheme, which has provided one-to-one coaching to
  assist in researcher development, and leading in many cases to the support of research grant
  applications.

  All staff on the enhanced research career pathway are eligible to apply for sabbatical leave to
  initiate or complete projects, prepare grant applications, and to plan and develop impact.
  Sabbaticals are normally for one teaching block, though in exceptional cases applications can be
  made for two teaching blocks of leave.

  Within Health and Social Care Research Swansea, staff can draw upon professional services
  support from a Practice Development Officer, a Research Development Officer, a
  Communication and Administration officer and a Senior Project Officer. CIA holds monthly
  research meetings for all staff and students and fosters national and international research
  collaborations. In SUSE, there is a structure of professorial leadership with a strong research
  infrastructure including an active research committee.

  Research students

  There has been a steady increase in the number of postgraduate research (PGR) students in the
  UoA since 2014. There are currently 33 PGRs in the unit, with 20.5 students successfully
  completing their PhDs (REF4a) in the period (compared to 3 completions reported in REF2014,
  an increase of 583%). A Professional Doctorate in Education (EdD), will recruit for the first


                                                                                       Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  time in the summer of 2021. We are proud to have a thriving female community, of the 20.5
  students awarded PhD’s in this period, 73% were female, this is partly through gender balanced
  recruitment panels, unconscious-bias training and recruitment policies sensitive to protected
  characteristics and neurodiversity. Please note that no disaggregated figures are provided as we
  have not awarded any research-based professional doctorates in this census period

  This growth in PGR numbers has in part been achieved through our participation in the ESRC
  Wales Doctoral Training Centre pathway for Social Work and Social Policy (2010-2017). Since
  2014, seven PGR students have been funded through the DTC (two have completed, four are
  still enrolled and one withdrew). Other sources of PGR funding have included the College,
  University and Wales School for Social Care Research (which has awarded five Social Care PhD
  Studentships, all with a strong public involvement element and responding to social care issues),
  as well as private sponsors such as the Healthcare Management Trust and match funding from
  a charity (The Dollywood Imagination Library), and BRACE-Alzheimer’s Research.

  Swansea University restructured support for all PGR students during this census period (REF5a);
  we now have a strong emphasis on ensuring the vitality, sustainability and excellence of our PGR
  community. The Postgraduate Research Office has a University wide remit, supported by a Dean
  for Postgraduate Research. Both colleges within the UoA have Directors of Postgraduate
  Research Students, who each convene a PGR committee, with representation from students as
  a strong element. PGR students benefit from a wide range of training opportunities and support
  for employment after their studies. All PGR students benefit from at least two, sometimes three,
  supervisors. Supervision is supported by robust mechanisms to track and monitor progress via
  the eVision supervision portal (with monthly updates), which allows scrutiny of progress by the
  University Research Degrees committee.

  Students in CHHS become members of the CHHS Postgraduate Research Academy and have
  a host of training opportunities and dedicated administrative support. PGR students in SUSE
  benefit from COAH’s College Graduate Research Centre (GRC), which is led by a Director of
  Postgraduate Research, and staffed by a full-time administrator. The GRC also oversees a
  collaborative PhD programme with the University of Central Oklahoma, including student
  and local mentor staff visits to Swansea, and the funding of Swansea supervisor visits to
  Oklahoma. SUSE currently has three doctoral students as a part of this programme, providing
  another international link for students and staff. The Academy and GRC oversee Induction,
  Supervision and Progression arrangements and ensure that all research students are made
  aware of appropriate University courses, generic and transferable skills training, employability
  training and inter-disciplinary methods training.

  Students with disabilities or chronic health conditions are served by dedicated Disability
  Officers at College and University level.

  Full-time PGR students have their own dedicated spaces and equipment. PGR students have
  access to College and University-wide research skills development training programmes, which
  are mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. PGR students have an elected
  representative who sits on College Research Committees to ensure that PGR matters feature on
  the agenda and in discussions. Students are strongly encouraged to make the most of external
  opportunities and they have taken part in extended training opportunities such as Vitae, the
  Welsh Crucible, presenting at conferences and working with interdisciplinary teams across
  universities.

  Students are an integral part of the UoA and are involved in College meetings, serve on College
  research boards and contribute to research group strategy and policy. PGR students are integral
  members of research centres and groups and actively take part in seminars, workshops and
  support teaching and supervision of undergraduates and M-level students where appropriate.
  They are provided with a research allowance to fund conference presentation and research trips.



                                                                                        Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Equality and diversity

  In line with its institutional Silver Athena SWAN Charter award, Swansea University is committed
  to equality of opportunity, with family- and carer-friendly policies to promote flexible employment,
  improve the working environment and encourage diversity within the workplace. Within the UoA,
  the core principles of inclusivity, transparency, collegiality, equality and efficacy inform all
  our activities.

  The gender split in the UoA has moved from being 39% male and 61% female in 2013/4 to 32%
  male and 68% female in 2019/20. Female membership of the UoA has increased
  significantly during the census period. We seek to support and retain staff, with all Category-
  A staff in the UoA on open ended/permanent contracts, and 95% of this staff grouping are on
  full-time contracts. Most staff in CHHS are female, with an increasing proportion at Professorial
  level (in 2012 30% of professors were female, rising to 47% in 2016). The professoriate in SUSE
  comprises 1 female (1.0FTE) and 1 male (0.5FTE). 9% of members of eligible staff in the UoA
  have a declared disability.

  Since 2015, CHHS has funded 15 academic staff on the Aurora leadership programme, which
  specifically supports women to progress in their careers as part of the University’s strategy for
  closing the gender pay gap. Swansea’s Mary Williams Award also supports the career
  development of colleagues and/or students with a particular focus on removing barriers that
  prevent development. Swansea University provides online Marshall training in Equality and
  Diversity and CHHS has the highest uptake for this training across the university.

  Aligned to the University policies on inclusion and diversity, CHHS achieved its own Athena
  Swan Silver Award in April 2017 and has made wide scale improvements to equality in the
  workplace, supporting research and teaching within the UoA. SUSE, as part of COAH, is
  supporting preparations for a College bronze submission.

  The University has child-care nursery facilities, a childcare voucher scheme and offers flexible
  and job- share opportunities. CHHS has pioneered the development of a carers’ passport, to
  generate support mechanisms for relevant staff, a program being adopted as best practice
  across the University. In addition, regular social events and activities are provided to boost
  mental wellbeing for staff and create supportive cohesive teams that are inclusive and
  accessible.

  The University’s promotions policy and PDR processes take into account career breaks and
  extended periods of absence and enable colleagues to adapt their working patterns according
  to individual needs. We paid close attention to issues of equity and diversity in preparing our
  REF submission; our procedures were informed by the University’s Code of Practice, which is
  based on the three principals of transparency, consistency and accountability. To ensure this
  process, the Statement of Intent was circulated and available to all staff, and all outputs have
  been assessed in a consistent manner by appropriately qualified and experienced personnel.

  Our staff also benefit from the University's LGBT+ Staff Network, which holds social events and
  training, and offers confidential support and advice to all staff, not just those identifying as
  LGBT+. These and other practices sustain the University's place in the top 50 of
  Stonewall's Workplace Equality Index and its membership of Stonewall’s Diversity Champions
  programme.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

  The UoA has attracted research grants of £11.5m during the census period. The annual
  Research Income (REF4b) is £974,312. SUSE is already making a strong contribution to
  research income, with over £500,000 in grants awarded to date, and with clear capacity for
  growth. Our continued success in securing grant awards has been supported by structures both
  within the UoA and the University more widely.




  Research strategy and income

  The Research strategy within the UoA has been outlined above and conforms to that of Swansea
  University (REF5a), which is focused on supporting staff to produce world-class research; this is
  also embedded in our teaching and the experiences of students studying with us. Our strategy
  aligns with key external priorities, including those from the Welsh Government, toward a
  research-informed teaching work-force, and supporting the Wellbeing of future generations Act
  (Wales) and the Welsh Government’s desire for HEIs to deliver on issues of social justice.

  In 2015 the University’s Department of Research Engagement and Innovation Services (REIS)
  established College-based Research Hubs to support researchers in applying for competitive
  grant funding. Each Hub comprises a Hub Manager, Research Development Officer, Research
  Support Advisor, Bid Writer, and Impact and Engagement Officer. The Hubs support researchers
  to achieve their research income targets and assist them in developing and implementing impact
  activities. This support also forms part of the UoA’s commitment to supporting the transition of
  ECRs to independent researchers.

  The Research Hubs provide support for research income generation and impact. They run
  regular information and training sessions for staff and deliver briefing events for specific funding
  opportunities. A one-to-one 'Blue Sky' mentoring programme has supplemented this support with
  personalised advice to staff, from individuals' research strategies to specific applications. The


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Hubs also promote the take-up of University pump priming funding opportunities provided by
  the Swansea University Research Generator Excellence (SURGE) fund; the institutional EPSRC
  Impact Acceleration Account, HEFCW GCRF funding for international development-related
  projects, and the Florence Mockeridge Fellowship Network. The Hubs also promote awareness
  of the University’s EPSRC CHERISH Digital Economy funding for research projects with
  computational content, and of the Strategic Partnerships funding for collaborative research
  with colleagues in partner universities in Texas and Grenoble.

  Additionally, staff in SUSE benefit from the College of Arts and Humanities’ Research
  Environment Fund (which provides centres and groups up to £1500 per annum to develop
  events and activities) and Research Impact Fund (which provides resources to support research
  impact platforms, case studies and emerging research impact).

  As a result of the enhanced support available to researchers, the UoA has received research
  grants from a wide range of funders, both national (e.g., Welsh Government, Health and Care
  Research Wales, the National Institute for Health Research) and international (e.g., Erasmus,
  European Regional Development Fund), as well as from third-sector organisations such as
  BRACE-Alzheimer’s Research and the NHS.

  Notable successes include:

     •   The Research into Practice centre consolidates research from across the School of
         Education and holds within it over £190,000 of grants, funded through Welsh Government
         and the Education Regional Working Consortium (ERW). Larger grants in this Centre
         include £50,000 for work on All-Age schools in Wales, which is complimented by an
         Erasmus grant for research in All-Age school in Wales, Murcia and Iceland, and the
         National Professional Enquiry Project (£73,000, funded by Welsh Government).
         Educational Policy and Practice (EPP) has, in the space of less than three years,
         acquired research funding of £75,000, through three main projects: ‘Teacher Training
         Incentives’ in Wales (International Policy Context), an Education Workforce Council grant
         of £25,000, and a Welsh Government funded study of the impact of the COVID-19
         pandemic on the future provision of initial teacher education in relation to parental
         engagement (£50,000).

     •   The Centre for Ageing and Dementia Research (CADR) is a £3m, Health and Care
         Research Wales-funded Centre. During the period, the UoA secured a further five years
         of funding (to 2025) to support new multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary research
         initiatives.

     •   Part-funded by the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF) through the Welsh
         Government (£4.5m), The Arwen Institute brings researchers together with older people
         and the creative industries to co-produce products, services and environments for an
         ageing population through research and development.

     •   In 2016, Health and Social Care Research Swansea secured £3m from Health and Care
         Research Wales to establish the Wales School for Social Care Research, and a further
         £2m from the National Institute of Health Research for a three-year programme to
         establish a Global Health Research Group on Burn Trauma in partnership with
         Interburns, the world’s leading global organisation for burn care and prevention. It is the
         only such Centre in the world that focuses on global burn injury.

     •   Funding (£27k) from the New Zealand Ministry of Business Innovation and Employment
         (MBIE) brings together expert researchers in ageing from the UK, Canada, and New
         Zealand and Swansea University to investigate the housing needs of older people,
         particularly in regard to the ways in which housing contributes to social participation and
         social engagement.


                                                                                         Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Infrastructure and facilities

  The Unit benefits from access to significant infrastructure investments made by the University in
  the period (see REF5a), including:

     •   The Computational Foundry, a £32m investment supporting research, innovation and
         teaching in computational sciences, and home to the interdisciplinary EPSRC CHERISH
         Digital Economy Centre. Work with the Foundry directly supports work in relation to the
         digital skills and STEM curriculum reform, as well as wider digital society, culture and
         economy focused public policy work.
     •   The Active Building project, including the UK’s first energy-positive Active Classroom
         and Active Office on the University’s Bay Campus. CIA is involved with the project to
         examine the impact of active buildings on older people with the aim of understanding how
         active building environments can influence and modify older people’s energy behaviours
         and their day-to-day practices.
     •   The University's Great Hall (Bay Campus) and the dynamic and inclusive exhibition and
         public space at Taliesin Create (Singleton Campus), which facilitate the dissemination of
         our research and public engagement.




  Photograph: Computational Foundry
  Through Swansea’s leadership of the WEFO-funded The Arwen Institute, we are creating a
  state-of-the-art, custom-built Living Lab on our Singleton campus. This research facility places
  older people at the centre of innovation. In the next census period, it will provide:

     •   a highly flexible space to develop products in different simulated environments, such as
         a home, workplace, shop, health and social care environments, and public places;
     •   a virtual reality (VR) facility, which will develop opportunities with the creative industries
         to build and experiment in virtual environments, explore new possibilities in the world of
         VR gaming, and create VR content that is desirable, suitable and accessible to older
         people; and
     •   a café lab, which offers a relaxed environment for co-creation between diverse
         stakeholders including older people, carers, designers, commercial and non-commercial
         organisations and researchers.

  The Living Lab will support the development of marketable new technologies that have ecological
  validity because they have been developed in ‘real-life’ environments. The lab will provide a
  cutting-edge collaboration space that will be an exemplar of how to engage a diverse range of
  stakeholders in research development, from the creative industries to members of the public.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  Research within the UoA is interwoven with collaborations with national and international groups
  of academics, service users, policy makers and other stakeholders.

  Academic collaborations, networks and partnerships

  Our researchers collaborate with international groups, including the World Health Organisation,
  the International Association of Gerontology and Geriatrics (IAGG), the Alzheimer’s Society’s
  Scientific Board and its Biomedical Grant Board, BRACE-Alzheimer’s Research Scientific Board,
  The International Working Group on Social Exclusion, the International Network on Rural Aging,
  Save the Children, Welsh Government, First Minister (Scotland), and the Gerontological Society
  of America.

  The research expertise of our staff is recognised through their involvement in influential UK and
  international committees, and as collaborators, consultants and advisors for projects across
  the world. For example, the Centre for Innovation Ageing (CIA) is part of the UK Centres of
  Ageing Network and is designated as a Centre of Excellence for both teaching and research
  under the IAGG’s Global Ageing Research Network Scheme. In addition to the world-leading
  research of the CIA, the centre is engaged with the development of networks in Wales, the wider
  UK and globally. This allows for the impact of the research conducted in the centre to be far
  reaching and positively affect the lives of older adults beyond the traditional scope of an academic
  research centre.

  We have generated new (and consolidated existing) collaborative links with other world-leading
  centres of excellence such as the World Health Organisation, the European Regional
  Development Fund and the International Working Group on Social Exclusion, with the public and
  voluntary sectors, and with industry and business. As an example, the Erasmus funded project
  developed within SUSE has investigated the provision of ‘All Age’ schools in three countries with
  academic partners in Spain and Iceland.

  Centre for Ageing and Dementia Research (CADR) works to support the care needs of an ageing
  population. It Involves and engages the public to ensure that our research addresses the needs
  of older people, people living with dementia and carers, and assists the transfer of research
  findings into clinical and social care practice in Wales. This work involves and engages policy
  makers, businesses, clinicians and other practitioners to improve services for older people
  in Wales.

  CIA collaborated with 30 other partner countries in the Cost Action Reducing Old-Age Social
  Exclusion: Collaborations in Research and Policy (ROSEnet). ROSEnet was funded by the
  European Commission for 4 years from April 2016. The project engaged with researchers and
  policy stakeholders to develop shared understandings and to direct the development of new
  policy and practice interventions that can be practically and effectively implemented, for
  reducing exclusion in diverse European ageing societies. Members of the Unit are also members
  of the European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (EIPAHA).

  The Centre for Global Burn Injury Policy and Research has delivered projects in Nepal, Palestine,
  Ethiopia, Sierra Leone and Afghanistan, focussing on capacity building and quality improvement,
  burn prevention and burns in conflict, and mass casualty burns.

  Staff in SUSE have a special interest in supporting school and other learning-centred
  practitioners. Jones leads the consortium of all Welsh universities that will be delivering the new,
  joint master’s programme in Education in 2021 (the first master’s degree to bring all HEIs in a
  country together to jointly deliver one programme). Staff also work closely with Welsh
  Government to support schools: Crick has been leading on the integration of IT across the new
  curriculum and is an expert panel member to the Review of Digital Innovation and the Future of


                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Work in Wales. He is also a commissioner for the National Infrastructure Commission for Wales,
  and chairs the Science, Technology and Curriculum Reform group for Welsh Government.

  The two-year Leading Collaborative Learning project in SUSE, funded by Welsh Government
  and sponsoring a PhD student, examines the way in which teachers’ professional learning is
  changed or enhanced through the use of different instructional strategies. SUSE is also leading
  on a major two-year study of all age schools which will culminate in a report to Welsh Government
  in 2021 as well as leading on a Welsh Government collaborative project to examine the impact
  of COVID-19 on the integration of concepts of parental engagement in learning into initial teacher
  training.

  Members of the UoA have served on advisory boards for Welsh Government, the First Minister
  of Scotland, as well as advising governmental, charitable and industrial bodies worldwide.

  Staff in the UoA are involved in several consultancy-based projects that aid research, working
  with bodies such as Care and Repair Cymru, Great Western Railway, Health Services Executive
  Ireland, , the Biomedical grant board and Scientific committee for the Alzheimer’s Society and
  BRACE-Alzheimer’s Research charities, Mercedes Benz and the Greater Manchester Ageing
  Partnership.

  In all cases these relationships build a foundation for research informed practice and the learning
  that comes from consultancy work is translated into research communities through seminars and
  workshops.

  Contributing to the sustainability of the disciplines

  Members of the UoA have published widely during the Census period, and to good effect, as
  shown in the Scival data below:

  The first figure shows the level of international collaborations in our outputs, which is very high
  for the sector. The second figure shows the overall research performance. We have improved
  our performance over the census period. Moreover, this second figure gives an indication of the
  impact of our work, as it shows that work from members of the UoA is highly cited.




  As shown in Section 2, the groups within the UoA act to support researchers at all stages of their
  careers, from PGR students at the beginning of their studies through to the continuation of an
  emeritus professoriate. The contribution to the disciplines within the UoA is varied, and includes:




                                                                                          Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




  Learned Societies

  Members of the UoA hold leadership positions in national and international groups, including:


   LEADERSHIP          OF        FELLOWSHIPS          AND              MEMBERSHIP
   LEARNED SOCIETIES             SENIOR FELLOWSHIPS
   Applied Philosophy Society    The Royal Society of Arts             Alberta Association on
                                                                       Gerontology
   Association for Social and    The British Psychological Society     Animals and Society
   Political Philosophy
   Early Career Researchers      The Gerontological Society of         Association for
   in Ageing                     America                               Language Learning
   Scientific Advisory Group,    International Sociological            Association for Social
   International Crisis          Association                           and Political Philosophy
   Response Network of
   Psychologists
   Children’s Rights in Early    The Academy of Social Sciences        British Education,
   Years network                                                       Leadership and
                                                                       Management
                                                                       Association
   Global Social Issues on       The Learned Society of Wales          British Psychological
   Ageing, International                                               Society
   Association of Gerontology
   and Geriatrics
   International Congress of     The Chartered College of Teachers British Society for
   School Effectiveness and                                        Research not Learning
   Improvement                                                     Mathematics
   Waikato Ethnomethodology      The Higher Education Association  British Society of
   and Conversation Analysis                                       Educational Studies
   Group
   British Society of                                                  British Society of
   Gerontology                                                         Gerontology
   New Zealand and Iranian                                             British Sociological
   Longitudinal studies in                                             Association
   Ageing Science
   Welsh Government                                                    Canadian Academy of
   Technology Curriculum                                               Health Sciences
   Reform Group
                                                                       Co-Operative Action Lab
                                                                       at UCLA
                                                                       Gender and Education
                                                                       Association



                                                                                        Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                                          Gender and Education
                                                                          Association
                                                                          International Association
                                                                          of Gerontology and
                                                                          Geriatrics
                                                                          International
                                                                          Professional
                                                                          Development
                                                                          Association
                                                                          International
                                                                          Sociological Association
                                                                          Social Policy
                                                                          Association
                                                                          Society for Applied
                                                                          Philosophy

  Additional accolades in the UoA Include a National Teaching Fellowship, BAS Science and Media
  Fellow, RSA Centenary Young Fellow, and Winston Churchill Memorial Trust Fellow.

  Peer review for grant awarding bodies

  Members of the UoA offer their expertise as peer reviewers for a wide range of national and
  international grant awarding bodies. This not only supports the sustainability of the disciplines, it
  allows staff to keep abreast of the most current research in their fields. Inclusion as referees for
  a wide range of international bodies points to the standing of members of the UoA, both nationally
  and internationally. Members of the UoA have acted as referees for agencies and groups
  including:




  Staff have also acted as peer reviewers for a wide range of national and international journals,
  and support PGR students to act as reviewers alongside staff and in their own right.




                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Service on Editorial Boards

  Members of the UoA serve on the Editorial Boards of a range of publications, including:

     •   Ageing & Society
     •   International Journal of Aging and Later life
     •   International Journal of Social Research
     •   Journal of Transport and Health
     •   Methodologies
     •   Quality in Ageing and Older Adults
     •   Research on Children and Social Interaction
     •   Research in Transportation Business & Management
     •   School Leadership and Management (which is housed within the UoA)
     •   Social Research Methodology
     •   Social Theory and Health
     •   Welsh Journal of Education


  Additionally, Crick is Editor-in-Chief of The Computer Journal, Musselwhite is Editor-in-Chief
  of Journal of Transport & Health, and Harris and Jones are the editors of School Leadership and
  Management.




  Keynotes and invited papers

  Staff frequently provide keynotes and invited papers, locally, nationally and internationally.
  During the REF period, these have included papers throughout the UK, Ireland, Australia,
  Europe, Taiwan and Qatar.

  Other activities

  We engage with users outside academia through a range of approaches, including seminar
  series, using social and electronic media to disseminate findings and collaborate with users,
  and interacting with groups as diverse as service users for housing associations in France, and
  the UK House of Lords (see our impact case studies). Members of the UoA have also provided
  evidence, briefings, advice and training to the First Minister of Scotland, Save the Children,
  the Education Endowment Fund, Welsh Government, and the Sutton Trust.

  The UoA facilitates staff to provide plain English summaries or blogs surrounding research
  progress and research outputs, including contributions by a SUSE PhD student to a
  methodological blog for the British Educational Research Association. Our social media reach
  extends to c.420,000 followers. Public engagement is further bolstered by the University’s
  partnership with The Conversation, where our staff are encouraged to contribute articles about
  their research: Calder, Musselwhite, Goodall and Ward have written 11 articles between them,



                                                                                       Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  reaching a readership of more than 51,000 people. Making our research open fulfils our public
  mission in the sharing of knowledge and will generate opportunities for collaboration and impact.

  Staff acted as external PhD examiners for 20 UK and nine international universities, and as
  programme examiners for six programmes at other universities during the census period.

  The Unit hosts a number of seminar series. CADR hosts a monthly seminar series on topics of
  ageing, which has attracted international speakers, and a wide variety of audiences including
  older people themselves, along with those from businesses, policy and practice and researchers
  at a variety of different levels across the UoA and wider university. The Centre for Innovative
  Ageing (CIA) and the Psychology department host the Dementia Research Group which provides
  multi-disciplinary training in research and ethics and produces public seminars and scientific
  conferences.

  The Society, Policy and Practice seminar series, within the Health and Social Care Research
  Swansea with a reputation for quality international speakers from a range of disciplines speaking
  to a diversity of policy relevant topics. SUSE staff have also given more than 25 invited
  talks/keynotes since 2017, including work nationally and abroad (Australia, Sweden, Qatar, and
  the United States).

  COVID-19

  Within the UoA, staff have mainly worked at home throughout the COVID-19 crisis, following
  guidelines from NHS Wales and Swansea University. The University has instituted extra support
  for PGR students during this time, and supervisory staff have added meetings to the usual
  schedule to ensure that students are supported and continue to be engaged in their studies.

  UoA members have been at the forefront of the public and academic response to the COVID-19
  crisis, particularly in relation to the impact on schools and education more generally. Harris
  served as one of four experts on the review panel for Welsh Government’s Independent Review
  of the award of grades for summer 2020. Staff members in SUSE, working with colleagues from
  Bristol University, have authored a series of articles and conference papers examining the impact
  of the move to online provision for the HE sector. Research on the impact of the pandemic on
  initial teacher training and the experience of staff, parents and children in the early years, is
  ongoing.




                                                                                        Page 21
