Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Manchester Metropolitan University

 Unit of Assessment: B7 Earth Systems and Environmental Science

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Environmental Science at Manchester Metropolitan University has seen a sizeable
 increase in the quality, depth and volume of research and knowledge exchange.

 Who we are: UoA7 research is based within the Ecology and Environment Research Centre
 (EERC). EERC brings together our expertise in physical and biological environmental research
 and comprises 43 academic research staff, three academic KE staff, and 12 post-doctoral
 fellows, and is supported by 28 technical staff. The centre provides a dynamic and supportive
 environment that empowers early career researchers and provides training for 70-80 PGR
 students to understand critical environmental issues more fully. Excellent global research
 networks exist with conservation organisations, government and policy bodies, charities,
 companies and academic institutions. These ensure our ability to undertake international
 research with wide impact.

 Located within the Department of Natural Sciences, EERC is one of fourteen new centres
 established by Manchester Metropolitan University in 2017. As highlighted in the Institutional
 narrative, this recent establishment of new research centres has been accompanied by a
 refocusing on our core strengths and strategic investment in key facilities.

 Distinctive features: EERC’s research is both proudly Mancunian and purposefully
 international. We have a strong heritage in applied research, addressing society’s ‘grand
 challenges’ of climate change and biodiversity loss. Sixty per cent of our PhD studentships are
 co-funded or co-supervised by external partner organisations from our global networks (e.g.
 Chester Zoo, the James Hutton Institute, the RSPCA, Moors for the Future, Natural England,
 WWF, INVEMAR (Colombia), Kenya Wildlife Service and the Smithsonian Institution).

 Key Accomplishments since 2014:
      Internationally-recognised discoveries reported in high profile journals (Nature, Science,
        PNAS).
      £2.6M investment in facilities, including genomics, environmental chemistry and earth
        observation.
      Transformational investment in new staff (22 new appointments including nine ECRs).
      £6.9m in external research funding including all major UKRI councils, European and
        International bodies.
      Impactful outreach and industrial partnerships (e.g. BBC, DEFRA, DfT).

 1a. Organisation and Structure: The research of EERC is focused on two major themes:

 The Ecology and Conservation research theme brings together 31 staff and encompasses
 applied biological and environmental conservation, animal behaviour and welfare, landscape
 ecology and environmental microbiology.

 The Global Environmental Change theme is home to 12 staff and encompasses physical
 environmental change, urban environments, low carbon and sustainable futures, and aviation
 impacts.

 Each theme is structured into research sub-groups, comprising researchers with affiliated
 interests (Conservation Ecology and Evolutionary Biology; Environmental Change;
 Environmental Microbiology; Low Carbon and Sustainable Futures; and Urban Environments).
 Considerable overlap among the sub-groups facilitates multi-disciplinary projects and promotes
 cross-disciplinary supervision of PhD students, essential to our goal of providing solutions to
 current environmental issues. The Centre is managed by a leadership team composed of a

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 director, two assistant directors, five sub-group leads, a post-graduate liaison officer and a
 research and knowledge exchange manager.

 1b. Research and impact strategy

 The strategic vision of EERC is to promote and develop world-class, applied ecological and
 environmental research that prevents further decline in ecosystems and creates solutions that
 mitigate existing environmental pressures.

 In 2014, we set ourselves ambitious strategic goals. Through substantive investment in research
 staff and reimagining of research groupings, our aspirations have been met during the REF
 period.

 Our aim: ‘to ensure the sustainability of Environmental Science research through
 developing and retaining outstanding staff and attracting new world-leading researchers’
 has been met.

 This strategic goal was achieved through re-focusing of the Research Centre structure, strategic
 appointments, and the retention and promotion of excellent staff.

 Our Research Centre was re-focused to establish groups around key areas of research
 excellence and provide better alignment with Environmental Science. We have made 22
 strategic appointments from ECR to Professor to extend the expertise and to ensure
 sustainability. Professor Julia Fa and 11 other PIs have been appointed to develop Ecology and
 Conservation, and Professor Walter Leal and nine PIs have joined to support Global
 Environmental Change. Professors Malcolm Press (Vice-Chancellor – not included in the
 submission) and Jenny Watling are senior staff within the university. Both are experienced
 ecologists and actively involved in Research Centre activities, providing a wealth of leadership
 experience. Professor Richard Preziosi joined in 2016 from the University of Manchester with a
 group of 12 ECRs and assumed leadership of the Research Centre.

 The sustainability of the research environment is evidenced by the retention, and current
 submission, of the majority of staff who were returned to REF 2014 (85% of staff returned in
 REF 2014, although two are returned to B12, and four have retired during this period). Focused
 staff development activity for ECRs (e.g. £70K research priming funding) has ensured retention
 and promotion of all five ECRs, returned in REF 2014. Development of our more experienced
 staff is evidenced by promotion of Professors Marsden and Caporn.

 Our second objective: ‘to further extend internationally excellent research activity in
 Environmental Science’ has been successfully achieved.

 This strategic goal was met through increased support for research publications and grant
 applications.

 The number of research outputs has increased substantially since REF 2014, with over 700 peer
 review publications since January 2014 (23% in the top 10% most cited papers, 53% in the top
 10% of journals (Scival)). This has been achieved through peer mentoring, research writing
 retreats, and publication incentivisation schemes (e.g. best paper awards and seed funding),
 and through the appointment of new researchers.

 Income has increased to £6.9M, with current awards during this REF period of £8.9M to support
 a continued increase of future income. We have increased bidding active staff (from 24 to 39)
 and diversified funding streams to all UKRI Councils (£1m), charities (£350K), government and
 industry (£3.25M), and European and international sources (£2.2M), ensuring reliability and
 sustainability of awards. To support this, we have significantly expanded our dedicated support
 staff (Research Development Managers and Business Engagement team). We have established
 robust peer review that has substantially improved grant success rates, and we have targeted

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhanced support for ECRs in the areas of publication and citation strategies. We have
 increased our engagement with funders and have arranged visits from both small charity
 funders, e.g. People’s Trust for Endangered Species (PTES) and UKRI panels, e.g. NERC. Our
 monthly Centre meetings stimulate a supportive environment where staff are able to identify
 internal collaborators and share bid preparation strategies.

 Our third major goal: ‘to develop and lead research programmes with international
 impact’ has been delivered.

 This strategic goal was achieved through the expansion of our global research networks and the
 organisation of international conferences.

 We have continued to build on the success of the Centre for Aviation, Transport and the
 Environment (CATE), which now forms the core of the Low Carbon and Sustainable Futures
 group. This group continues to receive international recognition for work, which feeds directly
 into the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), and works with the airline industry
 and DfT to inform policy and reduce emissions from transport. We have several international
 projects investigating aircraft noise (e.g. ANIMA, £700K EU), emissions (e.g. AVIATOR, £500K,
 RAPTOR £104K) and air quality (e.g. Airbus £51K), and these are featured in two of our impact
 case studies. We are leading fundamental research into climate change and the global
 importance of UK bog habitats (Interreg £307K). We are working closely with international
 conservation authorities to protect our natural resources, including conserving wildlife in Africa
 with the Kenyan Wildlife Service, supported by The Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF),
 protecting and restoring tropical forests with the Brazilian government, e.g. BNP Paribas Climate
 and Biodiversity Initiative, BIOCLIMATE project, and protecting fisheries in Ecuador, Colombia,
 Belize and The Bahamas, e.g. Newton-Caldas Pescando para la Vida project. We have also
 focused effort on organising outreach events and hosting high profile international research
 conferences, e.g. Royal Society Chemistry, Society for Environmental Geochemistry and Health,
 Amphibian Conservation Research Symposium.

 Our final aspiration: ‘to improve engagement and influence with policy-makers,
 practitioners and the public’, has been exceeded.

 This strategic goal was achieved via the provision of increased support for policy, practice and
 public engagement.

 We have created strategic job roles with local and national organisations, e.g. Greater
 Manchester Combined Authority, joined policy-relevant networks (IUCN, Transport Systems
 Catapult, Heathrow Advisory Group and COP26 Universities), undertaken placements and
 fellowships with nationally-recognised bodies, e.g. DEFRA, Natural England and the British
 Ecological Society, and joined international panels advising on global issues, e.g. IPCC, the
 Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (IPBES) and
 The International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). This has enabled us to influence
 policy, practitioners and the public at the local, national and international levels.

 We take our responsibility as a Greater Manchester Research Centre seriously. We value our
 engagement with local policy-makers and practitioners, and our research is deeply rooted in our
 community. To leverage local opportunities better, a member of the Manchester Metropolitan
 Professional Support staff was appointed to work jointly at Transport for Greater Manchester.
 This greatly enhanced knowledge exchange and we are now leading a group of universities
 (University of Manchester and Salford University) and public bodies, e.g. the NHS, schools and
 churches, implementing the largest global, real time air-monitoring network to inform transport
 policy better. EERC staff are active board members of local policy committees, including the
 Manchester Green and Blue Infrastructure Strategy Group (Cavan; successfully winning a
 National CIEEM Chartered Institute of Ecology and Environmental Management Award for
 Knowledge Exchange in 2018), Manchester Climate Change Committee (Dunk), and Chair of
 the Greater Manchester Wetlands Partnership and Technical Steering Group (Field). We have

                                                                                             Page 3
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   secured NERC public engagement funding to run national school and public engagement
   events.

   We have undertaken funded fellowships and placements with government bodies (DEFRA and
   Natural England) and the media (BBC) to enable the transfer of knowledge between our
   research, policy-makers and the public. Cavan is a Steering Committee member of the DEFRA
   Urban Pioneer Strategy Group, delivering the UK Government’s 25-year Environment Plan.
   EERC is leading delivery on Greater Manchester’s climate change strategy by improving the
   carbon literacy of residents and businesses, training over 1,000 community members and 56
   carbon literacy trainers, who have subsequently trained >2,000 people nationally. Our award-
   winning Carbon Literacy for Students (CL4S) programme has trained 32 trainers and >1,000
   students, and was recognised by the national 2019 Green Gown awards.

   We have been informing policy and practitioners on a global scale through positions on policy
   boards, including the British Standards Institution and International Organization for
   Standardization (Megson). Our staff also lead the International Civil Aviation Organisation’s
   Impacts and Science Group (Lee), and Emissions Technical Working Group (Owen).

   1c. Strategic aims (2021-2028)
   We aim to build on our strengths and encourage interdisciplinary research that enables us to
   lead projects with international relevance, especially in the areas of climate change and
   biodiversity loss. We have set out the following three aims to improve our outputs, impact and
   environment:

   1) To enhance the quality and influence of our research outputs by drawing upon our
      established international collaborations and further developing interdisciplinary research
      networks.
   2) To extend the reach and significance of our research impact by ensuring benefits to the
      environment, society and economy, through a focus on the UN Sustainable Development
      Goals.
   3) To develop the vitality, sustainability and inclusivity of our research environment through
      investment in our staff and research infrastructure.

   Delivering on the strategic aims

a) Support of our research staff to ensure their development, retention and promotion.

   2014-2020 has been a period of significant expansion for EERC, particularly in the hiring of
   ECRs. The sustainability of the Centre will be ensured through continuous development and
   promotion of our colleagues in line with the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
   Researchers. We will retain the core management structure of EERC, supported by an external
   advisory board. We will continue to make strategic appointments to strengthen our core research
   areas, whilst also providing support for existing staff to retain our internationally-excellent ECRs.

   Internal funding will support ECRs and those returning from career breaks, whilst also providing
   seed funding for larger research grant applications, enhanced business engagement and the
   development of wider impacts. We will continue to offer match-funded PhDs to leverage
   opportunities to collaborate with industrial partners, provide funding for writing retreats and
   workshops, and support networking events and weekly research seminars. We will ensure ECRs
   meet the Director on a quarterly basis to review progress, discuss plans and identify any
   additional support. ECRs will be included on the supervisory team of all new PhD students to
   provide leadership opportunities.

   EERC is committed to creating a positive environment where all staff are treated fairly and with
   dignity and respect. We will strive to maintain gender equality, and ensure equal opportunities
   for career progression and appointments for people from diverse backgrounds. We will make all
   researchers feel welcome and supported. This ethos will be embedded into our culture and

                                                                                                 Page 4
  Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   supported by targeted training and mentorship opportunities.

b) Investment in our research facilities

   We are embarking upon the construction of a new £150M Science and Engineering building,
   including ocean acidification facilities, an ex situ Amphibian Research Facility, bespoke cold
   rooms for glacial core analysis, and new areas for microscopy, environmental chemistry and
   ecological genetics and genomics. The provision of these facilities will enhance our ability to
   conduct world-class environmental research, attract new international collaborations and support
   the retention of excellent staff.

c) Creation of a professional engagement network to connect better with policy-makers,
   practitioners and public stakeholders.

   EERC excels in initiating truly collaborative links with national and international partners. We are
   an established partner of choice, especially for development efforts in less advantaged
   countries. We are currently one of the preferred research partners for Kenya Wildlife Service;
   have developed links with the Danube Delta Research Institute as part of the DANUBIUS
   programme; and support bird conservation research efforts in South East Asia.

   Our professional networks will be expanded by inviting high profile leaders from NGOs,
   government and industry, to deliver presentations and discuss how EERC can provide research
   to meet their needs. Specific strategies will include:
        Improving our KTP success by organising events to demonstrate our equipment, facilities
          and expertise to potential partners: this includes a dedicated demonstration lab in our
          new science building plans.
        A dedicated marketing campaign to promote our research achievements and capabilities.
        Encouraging and facilitating staff to take on policy placements and fellowships.

   Enabling Impact

   Dedicated support staff promote the impact of our research at research centre-, faculty- and
   university-levels, including a media communications centre. ‘Impact Generator’ funding (~£10k)
   is available for the development of high-quality research impact. For example, Marsden received
   travel funds to engage with the Peruvian Service for Natural Protected Areas, resulting in the
   incorporation of EERC research into the 5-year management plan of protected regions in Peru.
   Mossman received funds to improve salt marsh restoration outcomes by engaging engineering
   consultancies and conservation NGOs. This cemented relationships with WWT and resulted in a
   DEFRA Green Recovery Challenges Fund grant. Two EERC staff members (Mossman and
   Adamson) have won ‘Science Communication Champion’ awards during the current REF period.

   1d. Open Access and Data Management
   Tackling the environmental grand challenges requires the generation, storage and sharing of
   high-quality data and analysis tools, and the marshalling of global data. In EERC, we ensure all
   staff members have access to the tools and services necessary to manage complex and
   heterogeneous environmental and ecological datasets.

   Our research is fully compliant with the REF Open Access policy and the Concordat for Open
   Research Data. We incorporate Research Data Management (RDM) to ensure high standards of
   research integrity, and improve transparency and reproducibility. Our Research Data
   Management Policy (2017) states that we ‘firmly believe that good research data management is
   the foundation of good research, since it allows for the verification of findings and supports
   digital preservation’.

   Support for RDM/OA is provided by the University Library and we have substantial resources to
   ensure that our outputs are accessible via green or gold routes. Since 2016, EERC members
   have received ~£70k for article processing charges and we have targeted this towards high-

                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 profile, externally-funded research.

 Research data deposited in the Institutional Data Repository (e-space) are securely archived for
 a minimum of ten years, or the minimum period stipulated by legal, contractual, ethical or
 regulatory requirements, whichever is longer. Data are accompanied by a metadata record
 indicating method of collection, creation or acquisition, and whether the data are to be made
 openly available, to assess re-use potential. Back-up data storage is provided through our
 Research Data Storage (RDS) platform, which facilitates storage of large datasets (e.g. images,
 videos, 3D-models and genomic data).

 1e. Research Integrity
 EERC researchers abide by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. All staff and PGRs are
 required to obtain ethical approval for all research projects. Our online system for conducting
 ethical reviews (EthOS) focuses on the ethical conduct of research and data protection, legal
 requirements, insurance, and research communication. Each application undergoes academic
 review before approval by the Faculty Research Ethics and Governance Committee. EERC has
 taken a leading role to ensure that the wider University is aware of, and compliant with,
 international research agendas relevant to environmental science. For example, in 2019 we
 became a UK CITES Registered Scientific Institute and have developed robust procedures for
 Nagoya Protocol compliance. EERC has ensured that ethical reviews include non-ASPA animal
 research and field-based data collection.

 Our Contracts team provides specialist support including reviewing, drafting and negotiating
 agreements (i.e. non-disclosure agreements, collaboration agreements, consortium agreements,
 contracts for services, funder terms and conditions, contract research agreements and material
 transfer agreements), ensuring compliance with relevant legal standards. Research involving
 personal data of living individuals, including staff, students, contractors, research subjects and
 customers, is regulated by the Data Protection Act 2018 (DPA) and the General Data Protection
 Regulation (GDPR). All staff must comply with the DPA and the GDPR whenever processing
 personal data held by the University or on behalf of the University. An Essential Data Protection
 Training Module is undertaken by all staff.

 In line with the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA), we have revised
 our policies and practices for recruitment, promotion and internal funding decisions to avoid the
 problematic use of journal impact factors and h-indices as a means of evaluation. Instead, we
 promote responsible metrics and alternative tools that enable consistency and transparency in
 decision-making, including an appreciation of all outputs (code, software, datasets, etc.) and the
 inclusion of qualitative metrics of research impact, e.g. influencing policy and practice. We
 encourage EERC members to prioritise the publication of papers and data in venues most
 readily accessible to their target audience, including zoos, conservation charities and NGOs.

 1f. Interdisciplinarity
 EERC actively encourages interdisciplinarity as core to addressing environmental ‘Grand
 Challenges’, but also as a means of promoting research integrity through the exposure of
 researchers to other disciplinary norms and standards. We consider interdisciplinarity when
 evaluating individuals for hiring and promotion, especially where such work does not conform to
 ‘traditional’ metrics.

 EERC staff also belong to Manchester Metropolitan’s Centre for Place Writing and its Research
 Centre for Social Sciences. In collaboration with Manchester Metropolitan’s Applied Image
 Engineering (AIE) group, EERC members (Brassey; Grant; Pedley and Lees) have each
 received three months funded software developer support enabling efficient coding in the fields
 of computer vision and deep learning. Additional internal collaborations exist with healthcare
 (reproductive physiology; neuroscience and cognition; and microbiology); sports science
 (biomimetics and biomechanics); engineering (biorobotics; additive manufacturing; advanced
 functional materials and catalysis; and environmental monitoring); business (economies of
 disease; place management; and KTP development); and education (civic engagement). Three

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EERC members have also partnered with composers at the neighbouring Royal Northern
 College of Music in the ‘8 Cubed’ project, to create new musical pieces inspired by our research,
 and performed during the British Science Week 2018. These interdisciplinary links are essential
 in our mission to address major issues, such as climate change and biodiversity loss, and to
 communicate our work broadly.

 Securing funding for interdisciplinary research has historically been a challenge, yet EERC
 researchers have had considerable success collaborating with other disciplines. Grant was
 awarded an EPSRC grant with mathematicians and roboticists to model the mechanics of animal
 whiskers. Brassey secured a Royal Society Apex Award for remote damage assessment of built
 heritage in conflict zones, in association with archaeology and heritage conservation experts
 from the University of the West England, the University of Newcastle, and Menoufiya University,
 Egypt. Megson was awarded ~£500k of in-kind industry funding (AirSensa) in collaboration with
 infrastructure engineers to combine big data and environmental monitoring, establishing one of
 the world’s largest real time, air quality monitoring networks in Manchester.

 2. People

 Introduction

 The current assessment period has seen an unprecedented expansion in the number of our staff
 with a significant responsibility for research. Excellent researchers are at the heart of EERC and,
 in line with the Researcher Development Concordat (RDC), our policies and practices are
 explicitly designed to ensure that researchers achieve their full potential. Manchester
 Metropolitan is committed to the principles of the RDC and received the EU’s HR Excellence in
 Research Award in 2013.

 Section 2a. People: Recruitment strategy

 Our recruitment strategy has been to target experienced researchers from research-intensive
 backgrounds alongside ECRs with excellent potential. We require new academic appointments,
 including PDRAs and ECRs, to have a proven track record of high-quality outputs and
 competitive funding awards. When considering candidates we are sensitive to the diverse career
 pathways travelled by applicants, including career breaks and time spent outside academia.
 Academic interviews are chaired, either by the Vice Chancellor (Professorial level), or the
 Faculty Pro-Vice Chancellors (all other academic appointments). The Faculty Head of Research
 and Knowledge Exchange sits on all interview panels for new academic appointments to
 evaluate alignment to the Research Centre priorities. All members of interview panels undergo
 unconscious bias, and equality and diversity training.

 As a direct consequence of our recruitment strategy, the number of research staff returned has
 increased from 24 in 2014 to 43 in 2021. These strategic appointments range from ECR to
 Professor and have reinforced the sustainability of our Centre. EERC has attracted and retained
 high-quality candidates at every stage of their academic career, as reflected in the staff contract
 level of our REF2021 submission.

  Professor                Principal Lecturer       Senior Lecturer         Lecturer, Research
                           and Reader                                       Fellow
  15%                      4%                       55%                     26%

 The high number of ECRs (23%) highlights our commitment to searching for talented staff at the
 beginning of their research careers. EERC has also hosted three H2020 Marie Sklodowska-
 Curie Postdoctoral Research Fellowships (Kelly; Symeonakis; Arnau-Rosalén) and a BBSRC
 Future Leader Fellowship (Brassey) in this time frame, an additional marker of our growing
 reputation as a research centre.

 At the professorial level, Preziosi joined us in 2016 from the University of Manchester and

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 additional professorial appointments (Fa and Leal) have proven fundamental in the shaping of
 research clusters. The alignment of Professors Press (Vice-Chancellor) and Watling (Pro-Vice-
 Chancellor International) as both experienced ecologists, and senior university leaders has
 afforded EERC a unique opportunity to benefit from their wealth of experience.

 To minimise job insecurity and to support long-term staff development, we avoid the use of
 short, fixed-term contracts (we have no staff on these contracts and only one member of staff on
 a fixed-term contract >two years), and have phased out associate lectureship positions. New
 staff undertake induction programmes, providing a valuable overview of processes and support
 available at University-, faculty- and Centre-level, and providing key information on research
 conduct, integrity, ethics, and equality and diversity policies. Tailored inductions are provided for
 relevant research and laboratory areas, i.e. health and safety, procurement and grant
 management. Our Graduate School provides mandatory training for research staff taking on
 postgraduate supervision and examination responsibilities.

 Section 2b. People: Development strategy

 Membership in all research centres is based on characteristics set out in a university charter that
 was widely consulted upon. Staff considered to be full members of EERC are allocated a
 minimum of 20% (up to a maximum of 50%) of their workload to research. EERC members are
 supported to produce high-quality outputs, submit funding applications, supervise postgraduate
 students, and engage in impact generation or knowledge exchange. The extent to which staff
 achieve these expectations is monitored by the EERC leadership team and the Head of
 Department via the Performance Development Review (PDR) process (see below). Since its
 establishment, EERC leadership has worked hard to identify and mentor those colleagues who
 were initially unable to meet membership requirements and were not previously returned to the
 REF2014. By combining the PDR process with targeted mentoring, five individuals have
 subsequently produced quality research outputs, and are now core EERC members and
 included in our REF return.

 We encourage colleagues to engage in at least ten days of Continuing Professional
 Development (CPD) per year. We run writing retreats and grant-writing workshops, and a
 member of our leadership team (Rowntree) has undergone bespoke Retreat Facilitator training.
 We provide sessions on postgraduate supervision, budget management, knowledge exchange
 and impact generation through our monthly research group meetings, and additional funding is
 made available for staff to attend external workshops and conferences.

 Our policy of recruiting research-active academics has resulted in a large proportion of Early
 Career Researchers within the Centre (within five years of their first permanent employment).
 ECRs need additional support to transition successfully to being independent investigators, and
 EERC provides this in several ways. Importantly, our EERC leadership team includes academics
 actively involved in ECR funding and policy development decisions across UKRI research
 councils. Associate Director, Brassey, is a current member of the BBSRC ECR sub-group of the
 Careers Strategy Advisory Panel and is the EERC lead for ECR development. Rowntree is a
 member of the EERC leadership team and has recently joined the NERC IRF panel.

 Several internal funding opportunities are primarily aimed at ECRs. The Research Accelerator
 Grant (£5k) provides funding to pump prime larger external applications. The Research
 Development Fellowship (three months, £5k) provides an opportunity to undertake research
 within another academic sector or with non-academic organisations. The International
 Collaborative Fund allows ECRs to host meetings in the UK or internationally around a specific
 theme that aligns to external funding opportunities. For example, ECR Rivett was awarded an
 Accelerator Grant to establish his research, which has resulted in his securing additional
 external funding from the Microbiology Society. ECR Megson was awarded an Accelerator Grant
 for match-funding equipment that resulted in a new industrial collaboration with Waters to create
 a trace-level organic mass spectrometry facility.


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postdoctoral fellows are highly-valued members of our research community and are considered
 full members of EERC. Our 12 current postdoctoral researchers are funded from internal and
 external awards. Postdoctoral fellows are provided with the same opportunities and support as
 full-time permanent staff, and are mentored to develop their skills in grant-writing, analysis and
 PhD supervision. In accordance with the RDC, postdoctoral fellows are encouraged to engage in
 ten days of CPD per year.

 Research leadership development is provided through Manchester Metropolitan’s Future RKE
 Leaders Programme, which is designed to advance the academic development of candidates
 and enhance their leadership skills. The programme is aligned with the Vitae Researcher
 Development Framework and is delivered to small, interdisciplinary cohorts; it encourages
 collaboration and peer support. Progress is supported through mentoring and a £5k funding
 allowance for bespoke development activities. Seven EERC members have taken part in this
 scheme during the census period.

 Mentoring is core to staff development in EERC. Every staff member has regular meetings with
 the directors to discuss their plans for research, and to provide two-way feedback between the
 leadership team and group members. Staff are also encouraged to take part in the faculty
 mentoring scheme.

 The Professional Development Review (PDR) process is central to the monitoring of staff
 performance. We ensure PDRs are constructive, and provide staff with an opportunity to reflect
 on their performance and identify development needs. In PDRs, staff reflect on recent research
 achievements and present five-year research plans including potential grant applications,
 planned PhDs, and KE activities. These inform EERC membership and significant research
 responsibility in line with Manchester Metropolitan’s Institutional Code of Practice for Research.
 PDRs offer the opportunity to recognise the outstanding achievements of staff formally, and to
 further their career development by providing motivation and direction.

 Excellence in research is primarily recognised through our promotions system. Clear and
 consistent promotion criteria are openly available to staff to assess their own progression and
 inform development. Potential applicants are encouraged to discuss their research profile,
 including their external funding success and evidence of research impact, with the Centre
 Director. Manchester Metropolitan’s dedicated Professor and Reader Promotion Process
 (PRPP) comprises two distinct strands and recognises outstanding contributions to research and
 education/pedagogy. The PRPP is overseen by the Pro-Vice Chancellors for RKE, and for
 Education, with mentoring provided by the EERC leadership team. Information sessions
 supporting BAME and female colleagues are designed to encourage the pursuit of leadership
 roles. Twenty-one members of EERC have been promoted during the current census period,
 including one colleague to Reader and two colleagues to Professor.

 Sabbatical opportunities are supported when they closely align with the strategies and goals of
 research centres. There are no restrictions concerning who may apply and various funding
 routes exist, including central strategic opportunities and Faculty and Department budgets.
 Engagement and exchange between other HEIs, business, industry and public sector bodies is a
 strategic priority. EERC encourages exchanges with business, industry or public sector bodies
 through sabbaticals and Business Engagement Seed Funds (£5k) designed to identify
 collaborative opportunities. The Innovation and Industrial Engagement Fund provides matched
 funding of up to £40k to foster long-term industrial partnerships. For example, Megson has been
 awarded £4.5k to pursue an opportunity with the British Geological Survey and >£250k in
 matched funding of analytical equipment with Waters Corporation.

 Staff have undertaken fellowships and placements with government bodies and the media to
 enable knowledge transfer with policy-makers and the public. Mossman won the British
 Ecological Society Policy Fellowship and worked in DEFRA’s Environmental Land Management
 & Wildlife Evidence Team (Whitehall) for seven months. Megson spent a six-month placement at
 the Ontario Ministry of the Environment, Canada, developing methods for the Ministry to monitor

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emerging pollutants. Two EERC staff (Lees and Brassey) were awarded British Science
 Association Media Fellowships and undertook one-month placements at the BBC science desk,
 contributing to live television pieces and online news articles. Exchanges have also taken place
 between EERC and other HEIs. Clarke engaged in reciprocal visits with senior researchers at
 the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences in 2020 (funded by the NERC Arctic
 Office UK-Russia Arctic Bursary) and Symeonakis was seconded to Wageningen University and
 Research, Netherlands and the Humboldt University of Berlin, Germany.

 Section 2c. People: Post Graduate Students

 We have a large and diverse community of PGRs including international, mature and part-time
 students. Forty-five EERC PGRs have completed their PhDs within the current REF census
 period. Our PGRs publish high-quality research, valuable policy documents, book chapters and
 software. Many have subsequently taken up positions in other HEIs, as PDRAs (University of
 Pretoria, CRNS France, University of Freiburg, University of Manchester, University of French
 Guiana, and Kansas State University); and faculty members (University of Durham, Umm Al-
 Qura University Saudi Arabia, Visayas State University Philippines, and the Federal University of
 Technology Nigeria). Others have moved into research organisations (British Geological Survey,
 Tyndall Centre for Climate Change Research, and the National Research Council of Canada);
 business and innovation (Blue Prism Software Development, and Aldi Energy and
 Environmental Strategy); conservation and education (Kew Gardens, Blackpool Zoo, and PAMS
 foundation Africa) and local government (Liverpool City Combined Regional Authority).

 Studentships from major funding bodies
 In the current census period the majority of our doctoral funding stems from charities and
 external organisations; however, some support has come from major funders, such as NERC
 and the Leverhulme Trust. Full studentships have been awarded by the Commonwealth PhD
 Scholarship fund, the Newton Fund and National Geographic, and funders including CBS (Saudi
 Arabia), COLCIENCIAS (Colombia), CONACyT (Mexico), Guatefuturo (Guatemala) and PTDF
 (Nigeria). EERC hosts many match-funded (> 50% external funding) studentships with partners
 including research organisations (James Hutton Institute; and the French Agricultural Research
 Centre for International Development); conservation charities (the Marine Megafauna
 Foundation; and World Animal Protection); zoos (Blackpool Zoo; and Knowsley Safari Park);
 regional councils (Lancaster City Council) and software developers (Noldus Information
 Technology). Chester Zoo is a major strategic partner supporting nine PGRs who are
 Conservation Scholars at Chester Zoo, and were funded partly or entirely by the zoo. Through
 these, EERC has contributed to the conservation management of a diverse array of taxa, from
 salamanders to African elephants.

 Recruitment of doctoral research students including those with protected characteristics
 EERC leadership is heavily involved in the recruitment and appointment of PGRs. All interview
 panel members undergo unconscious bias training, and interviews are always conducted by a
 mixed gender panel. Interviews are considered two-way conversations, and applicants are
 encouraged to ask questions regarding the supervisory arrangements, access to facilities and to
 identify any specific training needs. Interviews also provide an opportunity to discuss reasonable
 adjustments that may be required. We work hard to ensure our PhDs are accessible to the
 widest range of students, including those often excluded from postgraduate study. During the
 current REF census period, 24% of our PhD students were from a BAME background, compared
 to ~15% nationally (HESA 2017/18 ‘Natural Sciences’). We offer flexible PhD pathways,
 including part-time learning, breaks to support caring commitments, distance learning and PhDs
 by publication.

 Monitoring and support linked to evidence of progress and successful completions
 Each PGR has a supervisory team consisting of a principal supervisor and at least one other
 internal supervisor. The supervisory team must have a minimum of three PhD completions
 between them, ensuring PhD candidates benefit from an excellent supervisory experience.
 PGRs have a two-day induction event that includes a range of talks, workshops and social

                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 events. Topics include: ‘The Student Journey’, ‘Science Communication’, ‘Links between
 Research and Business Development’, ‘Research Ethics & Governance’ and ‘Health and
 Safety’. The social elements include lunch with supervisors and a social, where all students,
 existing and new, are invited to attend.

 PGRs each have their own desk and university-provided laptop to enable flexible and remote
 working. EERC encourages interdisciplinarity and PGR offices contain mixed discipline groups.
 Progression is monitored via the online platform ‘SkillsForge’, where detailed records of student-
 supervisor meetings and annual reviews are kept. The PhD journey comprises a project
 proposal and an ethical and risk assessment in the first three months, followed by a formal
 project progress report and viva at the end of Year 1, designed to prepare PGRs for their final
 viva examination. Progression is dependent upon ethical approval for their project and
 completion of an online module establishing awareness of the Concordat for Research Integrity.
 Annual reviews provide pastoral support, and identify training and support needs. Monthly
 supervisory meetings are documented and agreed by all parties, ensuring continued high-quality
 student support. All students are expected to submit their thesis within four years (pro-rata). All
 PGRs have access to University Wellbeing and Disability Services. Internally-funded students
 are entitled to receive Maternity, Paternity and Adoption funding in line with UKRI-funded
 students.

 Skills development provided to research students
 On arrival, PGRs work with their supervisor to complete a training needs analysis (based on
 Vitae’s Research Development Framework), and identify any support they require and further
 development opportunities. Within EERC, we also support our PGRs through the development
 of individual Career Development Plans, similar to staff PDRs. PGRs automatically become full
 members of the research centre to which their supervisor belongs and are invited to participate
 in centre activities. EERC has a PGR-led weekly seminar series where internal and external
 researchers are invited to speak. These seminars ensure exposure to the full range of research
 carried out within the Centre, and integrate PGRs into EERC’s culture and mission.

 Faculty and University PGR conferences are organised annually. Students are also encouraged
 to attend external conferences and training courses, and are supported through a Conference
 and Training Fund. PGRs are also encouraged to host their own conferences. For example, the
 2018 Progressive Palaeontology conference (sponsored by the Palaeontological Association)
 was hosted at Manchester Metropolitan by an EERC PGR and attracted 90 PGR delegates from
 20 HEIs, including international students. Likewise, a group of EERC PGRs organised the 2019
 Royal Geographical Society PGR conference, attended by 56 delegates from 31 institutions.
 EERC PGRs have organised sessions on remote sensing at the 2016 international EGU
 conference, convened ‘science storytelling’ workshops at EGU2018 and 2019, organised and
 chaired sessions in the UC Davis Aviation Noise and Emissions Symposium in 2020 and 2021,
 and developed interdisciplinary field courses between UK and Russian ECRs working on Arctic
 natural and social sciences as part of the UK Polar Network.

 PGRs are encouraged to publish their work, and financial support is available to facilitate
 this. We provide writing retreats and guidance in research methods, statistics and
 transferable skills through dedicated training sessions. Excellence in science communication
 is encouraged through our annual ‘Peer Reviewed Publication’ and ‘Images of
 Research’ competitions. Public engagement training is provided for PhD students with little
 experience, and our PGRs attend externally-organised training courses, such as the Media
 and Engagement course run by SciConnect. PGRs have taken responsibility for organising
 events for the Manchester Science Festival, Earth Day and European Researchers
 Night, and the monthly SciBar Manchester events.

 Section 2d. People: Equality and Diversity

 EERC is committed to providing a collegiate research environment, in which all staff and
 students are treated with dignity and respect. Manchester Metropolitan’s commitment to Equality

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Diversity is recognised by an Athena Swan Bronze award, and our membership of the Race
 Equality Charter. Our commitment to equal opportunities is set out in our Equality and Diversity
 policy. The University is a Disability Confident Leader, and in 2017 we became the first
 university to receive the highest rating of Gold for the Business Disability Forum’s Disability
 Standard. We are proud of our support of LGBTA+ staff and students, and rank second in the
 English education sector for the Stonewall Workplace Equality Index.

 All shortlisting and interview panels are gender-balanced and disability access aware, as are any
 associated campus tours, lunches or staff meetings. We are a Disability Confident employer,
 which ensures that any disabled candidate who meets the essential criteria for a vacancy will be
 guaranteed an interview. EERC is committed to addressing gender inequality and increasing
 diversity at management and policy-making levels. Roles within the leadership team are three-
 year fixed terms, and EERC members are recruited to these positions through a transparent
 application and interview process. ECRs and staff with protected characteristics are particularly
 encouraged to apply. Several EERC leadership positions are currently held by women (two
 Associate Directors, two Group Leads and a Postgraduate Lead) and the demographic profile of
 our submission is 40% female and 60% male. Three members of the EERC leadership team
 have taken parental leave during the current census period. Succession planning is achieved by
 nurturing internal talent, and by giving associate directors the opportunity to make key decisions
 and represent the Centre at high-level meetings, mentored by the director when necessary.
 EERC staff are encouraged to attend workshops to support female applicants for promotion to
 reader and professor, and the university has supported three EERC leadership staff (Rowntree,
 Cavan and Potgieter) through the Advance HE`s Aurora Leadership Development Initiative for
 women and those who identify as a woman.

 Internal funding calls are frequent and well-advertised, allowing colleagues to manage workloads
 and plan applications in advance. Manchester Metropolitan is moving towards continuous, rolling
 deadlines for internal awards to increase flexibility for applicants with diverse responsibilities.
 When internal peer reviews are sought for external grant submissions, we adopt a model of early
 intervention. EERC staff are asked to provide feedback to their colleagues far in advance of final
 deadlines, ensuring applications are given sufficient time to revise drafts whilst also balancing
 additional work and family commitments. Any internal triaging of grant applications is overseen
 by the Research Development team and EERC leadership, both of which attend frequent
 information days and briefing webinars to remain up-to-date with sponsors’ requirements and
 E&D initiatives. For staff with caring responsibilities, any internal funding distributed by EERC for
 conference attendance or other research-related travel may include a component for carer’s
 expenses to cover additional costs.

 Manchester Metropolitan has a clear and transparent ‘flexible working procedure’, which allows
 for temporary part-time working and career breaks. Staff may also be granted a ‘leave of
 absence’ to work remotely when pursuing specific research or CPD opportunities. For longer-
 term arrangements, staff may request contractual changes to accommodate their individual
 circumstances. Career pathways and research provision for part-time staff are equitable with
 those of full-time staff members, with all staff in EERC provided with equal access to
 opportunities for funding, training and mentorship. Our promotions scheme also ensures that
 colleagues are not penalised for taking career breaks. All EERC meetings and research
 seminars are held during core working hours. Staff and PGRs can take parental leave, and upon
 return to the university, can take advantage of our flexible working policy. We offer a generous
 provision of paid ‘keep in touch’ days to help staff in preparing for their return to university. On
 return to work, members are provided with dedicated support for reintegration into the Research
 Centre. Applications for internal EERC funding are particularly encouraged for those returning
 from career breaks, thus supporting reintegration into the Research Centre as mentioned above.
 EERC was also host to a Daphne Jackson Trust Research Fellowship for STEM research (Dr
 Raly Vellaniparambil; 2016 – 2017).

 The Research Centre supports members when they return from parental leave through a
 reduction in workload and ability to work flexibly or from home to support their partner.

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Representatives from Equality & Diversity and Human Resources have attended the EERC
 monthly meetings to allow for direct information-sharing and discussion. Wellbeing and social
 cohesion are promoted through monthly socials - financially supported by EERC - and weekly
 seminar and group meetings. The EERC promotes engagement with a number of wellbeing
 resources, such as Manchester Met Moves (activity programme) and HealthyU (nutrition and
 wellness programme).

 Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students
 We take a proactive approach to addressing the potential for bullying and harassment to occur
 within a research environment. PGRs are assigned pastoral, non-supervisory mentors, in order
 to maintain healthy power dynamics within supervisory relationships. Supervisors and line
 managers are required to provide access to professional development for postgraduate students
 and ECRs, who are also encouraged to engage in training and research outside of their core
 projects. We foster an atmosphere in which Centre members are comfortable in raising concerns
 or complaints by adhering to the ‘Dignity at Work’ policy, and mechanisms for complaint are
 made clear and transparent.

 Equality and diversity in the REF submission

 A Code of Practice governing the membership of research centres and the allocation of internal
 funding and research time has been developed by Manchester Metropolitan’s RKE team, in
 collaboration with Human Resources and UCU. The aim of the Code of Practice is to ensure fair
 and consistent decision-making regarding research resource allocation and REF submission
 across the university. Following this Code of Practice, EERC leadership aimed to be fair,
 transparent and inclusive in our preparation for REF2021.

 As dictated by Manchester Metropolitan’s Equality and Diversity Strategy Implementation Plan,
 staff in EERC, with a responsibility for research management, have undertaken mandatory
 training in a wide range of topics aligned with E&D policy. This includes all EERC staff involved
 in REF preparation, including the selection of outputs and impact case studies. Courses include:

 •      Unconscious Bias in Recruitment and Selection Panels
 •      Standalone Unconscious Bias Training
 •      Managing Diversity
 •      Equality and Diversity Essentials

 Outputs submitted to REF2021 were selected on the basis of quality, in line with DORA and the
 UK forum for Responsible Research metrics. Outputs were initially assessed by Centre
 members in an internal ‘preREF’ process, followed by consolidation by the EERC leadership
 team, where attention was given to ECR and gender balance. We have taken proactive steps to
 maximise equality and diversity in our submission.

 In line with the Code of Practice, staff were encouraged to register ‘personal circumstances’ they
 considered to have negatively impacted upon their research outputs. This process was handled
 confidentially by the HR directorate. Results were conveyed to EERC as an estimate of number
 of outputs ‘lost’. EERC leadership subsequently reviewed membership decisions ensuring staff
 were not excluded from EERC on the basis of personal circumstances. No staff were removed
 from our return.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income has increased (to £6.9M) with current awards during this REF period of £8.9M. This has
 been achieved through increasing the number of staff bidding for research funding (from 24 to
 39), improving the quality of bids, and strategic diversification of funding streams that covers the
 full range of UKRI Councils (£1m), charities (£350K), government and industry (£3.25M), and
 European and other international sources (£2.2M).

 Funding and strategy for research Income

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EERC has invested over £1M on strategic recruitment of researchers, and £250K to recruit
 postdocs to support ECRs. Within our faculty, 100% of QR funding is reinvested in research, and
 grant overheads are used for strategic research investment. Our growth in research awards and
 income is facilitated by increased internal investment into new appointments in priority areas,
 and a successful diversification of research income specifically targeting international funders.
 We have continued to attract UK government funding but have also improved our collaborations
 with industry and charities, and undertaken a more targeted approach to attract UKRI funds.

 Diversity of Income Sources

  Income          BEIS             UK Charities,   UK Govt,        European         Non-EU
  source          Research         Open            Industry &      Union
                  Councils         Competition &   other UK
                                   Other           Sources
  Income          15%              5%              47%             28%              5%
  percentage

 EERC received funding from UK government agencies (e.g. Darwin Initiative, British Academy,
 British Council, Newton Foundation, Foreign and Commonwealth Office, and Global Challenges
 Research Fund); UK and international charities (e.g. Chester Zoo, Scottish Forestry Trust,
 Leverhulme Trust, Loro Parque Fundacion, World Animal Protection, ZGAP Zoological Society),
 UKRI (including NERC, BBSRC, and EPSRC); learned societies (e.g. the Royal Society, and the
 Royal Society of Chemistry); international funding bodies (e.g. the European Commission), and
 industry (e.g. Interreg Europe, and Viridor). Other smaller but notable funders include National
 Geographic, the Peoples Trust for Endangered Species, the Rainforest Trust, and the Save our
 Seas Foundation.

 By diversifying our funding sources, we aim to ensure that income streams are reliable and
 sustainable. We have established a robust peer review system for grants that has substantially
 improved success rates, and we have targeted enhanced support for ECRs in developing
 publication and citation strategies. We have migrated our grant management system to the
 cloud-based Worktribe solution, which enables us to develop efficient workflows. We have
 increased our engagement with funders and have arranged visits from small charities (e.g.
 PTES) and major UKRI panels (e.g. NERC). Through our monthly research seminars we share
 recent publication and grant success, stimulating a supportive environment where staff can
 identify internal collaborators and share experiences of successful bid preparation. Manchester
 has a strong industrial heritage and we have partnered with the business growth hub to engage
 with industrial partners. This has proved successful, as we have obtained funding for scoping
 studies with BCR and DeWipe which have led to successful KTP applications.

 Major awards and links to high quality outputs and impact

 CATE leads several major international projects on aircraft noise (e.g. ANIMA, £700k EU),
 emissions (e.g. AVIATOR, £500k, RAPTOR £104k), and air quality (e.g. Airbus £51k). We are
 also leading fundamental research into climate change and better understanding of the
 importance of UK bog habitats from a global perspective (Interreg £307k). These projects are
 featured in three of our impact case studies.

 Infrastructure
 In 2017, a strategic decision was taken to change the organisational infrastructure to align and
 group our key areas of research excellence better. For REF 2021 we are returning this more-
 focused group with two major themes: Ecology and Conservation, and Global Environmental
 Change.

 Research Support Infrastructure: EERC is led by a director, two associate directors and a
 leadership team of six additional academics that lead research subgroups and support research
 staff across the Centre. EERC is supported by a team of dedicated RKE professionals to review

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and approve grants, including a Research Development Manager, an Impact and Public
 Engagement Manager, an RKE Delivery Team, an Ethics and Governance Manager, and a
 contracts team.

 The RKE Team provides pre- and post-award support, facilitates the peer review process prior
 to grant submission, and provides staff with information about funding opportunities. Manchester
 Metropolitan is subject to NERC demand management, and we operate an internal expression-
 of-interest procedure, which advertises and regulates submissions, ensuring that the strongest
 proposal is developed for each funding round. We have an Impact Team that supports the
 Centre through a dedicated officer, grants to help convert research to impact, and writing
 retreats to complete case studies. The Impact Team works with a dedicated member of the
 leadership team to manage and develop impact cases, and our media outreach is supported by
 a dedicated press officer, and a video broadcast facility.

 Collaborative research with industry is supported by our Business Support and KTP teams, who
 facilitate meetings, and industrial networking, and administer industrial grants. Successful
 programmes include KTPs and match-funded PhD studentships. Wider collaborations are
 supported through appointments of senior staff with links to large international consortia
 (Professors Leal and Fa) and forestry networks (e.g. Sullivan, Lees and Brearley). Our
 laboratory facilities are staffed by 25 technical colleagues to support research and maintain
 equipment.

 Facilities

 Since REF2014, EERC has seen significant investment in the creation of Core Research
 Facilities in: Genomics, Environmental Chemistry, Organismal Maintenance, Overseas
 Research Stations and Earth Observation GIS. This ~£2.6M investment provides the
 infrastructure to support world-class research and has led to the recruitment of internationally-
 outstanding academic staff and high-quality outputs.

 Genomic facility: The establishment of this facility has increased data generation and outputs.
 The facility includes Illumina MiSeq and NextSeq platforms and three Oxford Nanopore
 sequencers together with standard genetic laboratory appliances, including Bioanalyser, Biomek
 liquid handler, a range of thermocyclers for PCR and RT-PCR, Nanodrop Spectrophotometer,
 and Qubit Fluorometer. Researchers in this area also make extensive use of the NERC
 Biomolecular Analysis Facility (NBAF).

 Environmental Chemistry facility: In this facility we operate and maintain a wide range of
 instrumentation (ICP-MS, ICP-OES, IRMS, HPLC-HRqToF, SEM-EDX interfaced with micro-
 Raman spectroscopy (SEMSCA), GC-MS, GC-APCI-qqqMS and NMR). We also have
 partnerships with a variety of instrument manufacturers, which have resulted in instrument loans
 (e.g. thermal desorption GC unit) and donations (e.g. GC-APCI-qqqMS) to support our research.
 We have access to an extensive range of air-monitoring equipment, with 30 real time air-
 monitoring units installed on our campus, contributing to a network of ~100 units across Greater
 Manchester. We also have access to a testing lab for aircraft and engine emissions, and
 provision for catalysis emission testing.

 Organismal facility: Our suite of glasshouses (six, 9 m2 glasshouses) and growth cabinets are
 an essential component of this facility, and are used for research in our key focal areas (ecology,
 conservation biology, microbiology, and food security). We also have an Amphibian Research
 Facility (currently three environmentally-controlled amphibian pods) dedicated to our research in
 amphibian conservation and husbandry, and an aquarium facility for the study of ocean
 acidification and climate change. Additional facilities for animal behaviour and evolutionary
 morphology include high-speed video cameras, custom-built filming arenas, a structured light 3D
 scanner and a considerable investment in high performance computing for 3D imaging and
 visualisation. The Henry Royce Institute’s lab-based x-ray computed tomography facility is also
 frequently used by EERC members in this area, and is an official project partner on Brassey’s

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 BBSRC fellowship.

 Overseas Research Stations: The transfer (from The University of Manchester) of a well-
 established research station in Ecuador to EERC, and the longstanding relationship, and new
 joint MSc degree, with the Tanzanian African College of Wildlife Management provide
 outstanding overseas research links. Our rainforest research station in Ecuador: La Estación
 Científica Timburi Cocha (ECTC) is run in collaboration with Ecuadorian partners
 (La Universidad Estatal Amazónica (UEA) and the National Institute of Biodiversity, and an
 indigenous community (and was a successful REF 2014 impact case for the University of
 Manchester based on Preziosi’s research). Recently, we have established facilities in the offices
 of the Colombian National Marine Parks in the Caribbean.

 Earth Observation & GIS facility: Members of EERC have internationally-leading research using
 Earth Observation (EO) and GIS technologies. We integrate remote sensing techniques and GIS
 with interdisciplinary approaches to monitor and understand key environmental dynamics, and
 climate and disaster risks. We also use drone-collected reference data for model training and
 validation.

 Shared Use of Infrastructure: EERC has shared use of major research facilities in the UK and
 overseas, including extensive facilities in Kenya and Ecuador. We also maintain shared facilities
 with the University of Cartagena’s Ocean Acidification Lab and have access to the labs of the
 National Marine Research Institute of Colombia (INVEMAR).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Support and effectiveness of collaborations, networks and partnerships

 EERC staff publish with scientists and practitioners from over 60 countries, and research on all
 continents across the globe. Our research collaborators are from all four World Bank income
 groups. EERC staff have been awarded GCRF grants via QR funding to work with colleagues in
 Sierra Leone, Kenya, Tanzania, Iran, Jordan, India, China, Indonesia, Philippines, Ecuador and
 Colombia.

 Academic collaborations
 EERC staff have fostered a wide range of collaborations with academic partners in a multitude of
 UK and international HEIs, leading to impactful journal publications and successful grant
 applications. For example, the EC H2020 funded ANIMA (2017-2021; £707k; 22 partners; 11
 countries), and AVIATOR (2019-2022; £466k; 17 partners; six countries) projects are providing
 tools and guidance to reduce the impacts of aviation on airports (noise and air quality
 respectively); and involve academics from Roma Tre University, Cergy-Pontoise, University of
 Southampton, University of Manchester, University of Cardiff and University of Québec.
 Likewise, EERC staff are contributing to the BIO-PLASTICS EUROPE project (2019-2023;
 £483k; 21 partners; and 13 countries), providing sustainable solutions for bio-based plastics with
 partners including the Italian Institute of Technology, the University of Bologna, and Hamburg
 University of Technology. The EU-Interreg project Care-Peat (2019-2022; £185k; nine partners;
 five countries) focuses on restoring the carbon storage capacity of peatlands to address climate
 change, and involves EERC researchers working alongside academics from the National
 University of Ireland Galway and the Université d'Orléans.

 Collaborations beyond academia
 EERC staff collaborate in local, national and global networks with industrial partners, policy-
 makers, charities and practitioners. Examples of influential projects include:

       DfT funding (£3.7M) for world-leading research in aviation emissions and climate change
        mitigation.
       EC H2020 funding for airport impacts (ANIMA and AVIATOR; £1.2M) partners including
        Airbus, Rolls Royce, Iberia Airlines and Heathrow Airport.

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Long-term partnerships with conservation charities and zoos (>£400k total, including
        £100k from The Rainforest Trust) underpinning tropical bird conservation and IUCN
        species designations.
       Innovate UK KTP funding (>£200k) developing innovative construction materials to
        prevent weed growth.
       BBSRC Industrial Challenge Strategy Funding (£167k) to develop sphagnum farming for
        peat restoration with Micropropagation Services Ltd.
       UKRI-funded projects (>£90k) co-developed with local government and >10 third sector
        organisations informing urban green infrastructure policy development in Greater
        Manchester.
       Darwin Initiative funding (£302k) enabling the Baka people to attain food security, sustain
        health and secure biodiversity in Cameroon with the Center for Interdisciplinary Forestry
        Research, Indonesia.
       EERC staff are now leading a group of Universities (University of Manchester and
        Salford University) and public bodies (e.g. the NHS, schools and churches) implementing
        the largest global real time air-monitoring network to inform transport policy better.

 How staff engage with or developed relationships with key users, beneficiaries or
 audiences

 We have created strategic roles with local and national organisations (e.g. Greater Manchester
 Combined Authority), joined policy-relevant networks (IUCN, Transport Systems Catapult, and
 Heathrow Advisory Group); undertaken placements and fellowships with nationally-recognised
 bodies (e.g. DEFRA, Natural England, British Ecological Society); and are members of
 international panels advising on global issues (e.g. IPCC, IPBES, IUCN and SSCs). This has
 enabled us to influence policy, practitioners and the public at the local, national and international
 levels.

 EERC staff are active board members of local policy committees, including the Manchester
 Green and Blue Infrastructure Strategy Group (Cavan; successfully winning a National CIEEM
 Award for Knowledge Exchange, 2018), Manchester Climate Change Committee (Dunk), and
 Chair of the Greater Manchester Wetlands Partnership and Technical Steering Group (Field).

 On the national scale, staff have undertaken funded fellowships and placements with
 government bodies (DEFRA and Natural England) and the media (BBC) to enable knowledge
 transfer between our research, policy-makers and the public. For example, Cavan is a Steering
 Committee member of the DEFRA Urban Pioneer Strategy Group, a demonstration project for
 delivering the UK Government’s 25-year Environment Plan.

 Wider contributions to economy and society

 The commitment of EERC staff to engage with diverse communities has been recognised with
 two NERC public engagement awards: The Science of Steart (11 researchers; five institutions)
 hosted interactive local community events at WWT Steart Marshes in Somerset to promote
 understanding of the role of salt marshes in sea defences; Climate Explorers (11 researchers;
 three institutions; one storyboard expert, one educational psychologist, and one radio show);
 and worked in seven schools across the UK to produce ten short radio shows and
 accompanying web-based podcasts on climate and environmental change. Science
 communication activities on understanding climate science through the development of games
 and poetry has attracted substantial funding from multiple sources (>£200k; eight funding bodies
 including NERC, The Royal Society, and AHRC). News appearances by EERC members occur
 regularly (e.g. Lee, Panorama 2019). Leal is leading the production of the Encyclopaedia of the
 UN Sustainable Development Goals, which will contain contributions from over 3,000 global
 scientists.

 EERC is leading delivery on Greater Manchester’s climate change strategy by improving the
 carbon literacy of residents and businesses, by delivering carbon literacy training to over 1,000

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 community members and training 56 carbon literacy trainers, who have subsequently delivered
 training to >2,000 people nationally. Our award-winning internal training programme, Carbon
 Literacy for Students (CL4S), has trained 32 trainers and over 1,000 students to date, achieving
 recognition as ‘Future Employer’ by the national 2019 Green Gown awards. We have also
 secured NERC public engagement funding to run school outreach and public engagement
 events across the North West and South West of England.

 Contribution to sustainability of discipline

 Our international status for research excellence in Global Environment Change and Ecology and
 Conservation is demonstrated by our activity in academic citizenship incorporating:

 1) Journal editorial roles. Including Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B,
 Proceedings of the Royal Society B, Animal Behaviour, Remote Sensing, Journal of Glaciology,
 Frontiers in Behavioural Neuroscience, PLOS ONE, PLOS Computational Biology, Journal of
 Environmental Protection, Biotropica, Behavioural Ecology and Sociobiology, and Nature
 Scientific Data, Functional Ecology.

 2) Grant committee memberships. Including NERC, ESRC, Royal Society, NSF, EU H2020,
 Polish and Irish Science Foundations, and the British Ecological Society.

 3) UK and International grant reviewers. Including UKRI FLF, NERC, BBSRC, Royal Society,
 The Leverhulme Trust, H2020, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Action fellowships, Newton Fund, the
 US Department of Defence, the British Ecological Society and the Australian Research Council.

 4) Conference organisation. EERC staff have organised >20 international conferences
 between 2014-2020, including the Society for Ecological Restoration (SER) World Conference,
 2015 (>3,000 delegates); the World Symposium on Climate Change Communication, 2017 in
 collaboration with Hamburg University and the IPCC, and with funding from the EU-EDULINK
 programme; the International Measuring Behaviour conference, 2018 (350 delegates) promoting
 the latest innovations, prototypes and techniques in behavioural research; the 35th Society of
 Environmental Geochemistry and Health Conference, 2019 and the Amphibian Conservation
 Research Symposium, 2019 (>100 delegates) with funding from Chester Zoo and the Amphibian
 Survival Alliance. EERC staff have also held positions on the organisation committee of the
 International Union for Quaternary Research (INQUA) and have convened sessions at the
 European Geophysical Union (EGU) General Assembly.

 5) Invited keynotes, conferences talks and workshops. Impact of our research is evidenced
 by the many invited presentations and plenaries given by EERC staff at international
 conferences and collaborator institutes. Selected highlights include: the United Nations
 Convention to Combat Desertification COP12 (2015, Ankara); the European Federation for
 Primatology (2015, Rome); the Geological Society of America palaeontology short course (2016,
 Denver); IEEE International Geoscience and Remote Sensing conference (2016, Bejing); the
 XIV Mediterranean Ecology and XIII AEET meeting (2017, Seville), the European Space Agency
 Living Planet symposium (2019, Milan), and the Scripps Institute of Oceanography seminar
 series (2020, San Diego).

 6) Membership of prestigious committees, boards and working groups. EERC staff have
 held positions on panels such as the BBSRC People and Talent Strategy Advisory Panel Early
 Career subgroup and the board of the EPSRC National X-ray Computed Tomography National
 Research Facility. Staff sit on the DEFRA Urban Pioneer Steering Group, IUCN Species Survival
 Commission (Birds, Bryophytes) and two groups within the International Civil Aviation
 Organisation Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection. Additional memberships include
 ISO and British Standards Institution (BSO) working groups, the Manchester Green and Blue
 Infrastructure Strategy Group, the British Ornithologists’ Union Records Committee and the
 Sustainable Amazon steering committee. EERC colleagues have also been called upon as
 expert external reviewers for the IPCC and IPBES.

                                                                                          Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Additional indicators of influence

 Individuals and groups have been recognised for a range of awards including: Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie fellowships (2014, Symeonakis; 2015, Kelly); a BBSRC Future Leaders
 Fellowship (2016, Brassey) and a Daphne Jackson Fellowship (2016, Raly Vellaniparambil).
 Staff have also been the recipients of the British Science Association Media Fellowships (2017,
 Brassey & Lees), a fellowship from the Software Sustainability Institute (2014, Grant), and a
 British Ecological Society Policy Fellowship (2019, Mossman), supporting a secondment to
 DEFRA. Recognition of excellence is demonstrated by the presentation of British and Irish
 Association of Zoos and Aquaria Research Awards (2015 Bronze and Gold awards) and a
 national award for knowledge-sharing from The Chartered Institute of Ecology and
 Environmental Management (CIEEM) (2018, Cavan) for the development of Manchester’s Green
 and Blue Infrastructure Strategy, endorsing this as an example of best practice. EERC staff
 (Preziosi) are also responsible for the provision of Home Office Licensee Training to outside
 HEIs and hold positions as zoo ethics panel members and board positions for a number of
 charities.




                                                                                         Page 19
