Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Royal Veterinary College


 Unit of Assessment: 6


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
  In REF5a we defined our underpinning philosophy to encourage curiosity-driven research which
 benefits lives of humans and animals and set out our research and impact strategy to achieve this,
 by further developing our comparative, global, integrated and inter-disciplinary (One Health)
 approaches. Here, this strategy, as it relates to our main research programmes and groups, is
 described in detail.


 To facilitate our research strategy, we recognise the need to develop cross-cutting skills and
 capacity to handle different types of large data-sets, combine, model and analyse these to
 generate and test hypotheses. The massive increase in capacity to capture data from all areas
 means data analytics skills development is essential for One Health research. Our broad strategic
 approach, progress and future plans for this are outlined below within research group narratives.


  For all our research areas to have impact, we recognise the need to understand how our
 stakeholders will use the solutions we develop and whether these solutions will gain societal
 acceptance in the proposed context. Thus, involving stakeholders, policy makers, social scientists
 and ethicists at the appropriate stage is important for acceptable solutions to result. The
 partnerships and collaborations we have established to develop social science expertise, involving
 policy-makers and stakeholders are explained with examples within our research group narratives
 and in section 4.


 Research Management Structure: Research programmes and Groups
  RVC’s academic resource allocation and management structure is detailed in REF5a. The Vice
 Principal Research and Innovation (VPR-I) leads the research mission and chairs Research
 Strategy Committee (RSC), which reports to the Academic Board recommending strategic
 investments and policy changes to enhance the research environment. Membership of RSC is
 detailed in REF5a. The 2 research programmes (retained from REF2014) have provided a
 successful structure with flexibility in research groupings supporting evolving areas.


  Groups have overlapping interests and academics may be members of multiple groups. We have
 developed strength and capacity in disciplines that are applied to many research questions across
 our groups. Professional identity and discipline support networks are retained within academic
 departments. These include epidemiology, genetics and genomics, comparative pathology,
 immunology, animal welfare and ethics and veterinary education. Research specific to the latter


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 two areas is included in our return with each discipline as a group. The relationship between
 academic departments and the overlapping research programmes and their constituent groups is
 depicted in Figure 1:




 Figure 1: showing interaction between interdisciplinary research teams, Comparative Physiology
 and Clinical Sciences and Integrated Research into Livestock and Food Systems, and their
 relationship to academic departments and professional services.


 Quantitative Biology strategy:
  An important part of our research strategy that has progressed during REF2021, is to support
 and train our scientists in cutting-edge technologies to maximise use of their data. Our quantitative
 biology strategy encourages data scientists working across fields (from genome sequences (host,
 pathogen, microbiome) and metabolomics to population pharmacokinetics and complex
 simulation data modelling) to share new ways of working.


  Strategic appointments have been made during REF2021 to enhance critical mass and progress
 quantitative biology skills across both research programmes. Support for quantitative biology has
 been a priority, building on the foundation of veterinary epidemiology established under Dirk
 Pfeiffer’s leadership (1999-2016). Expansion of support beyond those trained in epidemiology
 occurred with Yu-Mei Chang’s appointment (2009), a chartered statistician, dedicated to support
 researchers and PGR students. Capacity has been further enhanced in REF2021 with
 appointments in bioinformatics, Dong Xia (2017; from Liverpool University), clinical genetics


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Androniki Psifidi (2017; from Roslin Institute) and mathematical modelling Martin Walker (2017
 from Imperial College). Clinical genetics research fellow, Marsha Wallace (2020, from Oxford)
 leads bioinformatics pipeline development for complex diseases.             During REF2021, our
 epidemiology capacity has been expanded and diversified by new appointments and a strategic
 partnership in genomic epidemiology with Oxford University (Zoology Department) providing
 expertise in pathogen genome evolution during disease outbreaks (Ecosystems Health Group).
 Expanded capacity to mine data acquired through Vetcompass™, RVC’s system for accessing
 real-time data from primary care practices, now involving 1800 practices, provides significant
 opportunities for big data analytics. Appointment of Dan O’Neill (from RVC post-doc; 2018),
 dedicated to further Vetcompass™ development facilitates its application across groups to ask
 questions directly applicable to veterinary practice and pedigree dog health (in partnership with
 the Kennel Club). Parallel infrastructure investments in quantitative biology are described in
 section 3.    Dr Chang leads this important strategic area and is a RSC member, ensuring
 investments continue to support researchers to maximise use of their data.


 Future goals: Strategic investments made in this field will support our future goals defined in
 REF5a and detailed below. New strategic developments in Quantitative Biology for REF2026 will
 facilitate researchers to:
 -apply artificial intelligence and machine learning to develop novel research and diagnostic tools
 (e.g. analysis of physical activity data in experimental dogs to detect treatment effects in muscular
 dystrophy);
 -develop and apply natural language processing skills to extract data from Vetcompass™ and
 undertake spatial analyses to identify environmental factors contributing to disease patterns.


 Research Programmes
 Comparative Physiology and Clinical Sciences (CPCS)
  CPCS is led by Dominic Wells, a translational scientist whose career has been dedicated to
 understanding the molecular basis of neuromuscular diseases and determining the appropriate
 models predictive of treatment success. His approach of integrating molecular, cell and
 developmental biology into whole animal physiology and pathology to understand the interaction
 between genotype and phenotype (including environment, diet and exercise) is one we strive to
 engender in CPCS researchers. The rationale for focusing on chronic diseases of modern lifestyle,
 where veterinary patients provide human disease models is explained in REF5a. Through Wells’s
 leadership, ethical appropriate model selection, reproducibility and openness of animal
 experimentation are all emphasised.


  Where appropriate veterinary patient use is part of our 3Rs strategy. VetCompass™ provides
 access to veterinary patient data at scale. Dedicated clinics, held within our referral hospitals,


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recruit patients of interest (drug resistant epileptics; hard to regulate diabetics) supported by
 industry collaborations. Collaborations with charities (e.g. PDSA) provide access to common
 problems where referral is unnecessary or where early stage disease is not recognised (e.g.
 chronic kidney disease). Tissue and DNA archives linked to clinical databases are supported by
 appropriate infrastructure facilitating our comparative genomics strategy.
  The 4 groups within CPCS have between 20-38 academics; combinations of basic scientists (cell
 and molecular biologists, whole animal physiologists), specialist clinicians and pathologists. Input
 from geneticists, epidemiologists and welfare scientists is obtained as appropriate. Common
 interests between groups are explored at the Programme Management Committee (PMC),
 ensuring synergistic expertise is exploited. Subgroups have emerged (in musculoskeletal biology)
 around shared facilities but retain pre-clinical–clinical connections and translational approaches.
 Clinical research outside the focus of these groups is supported within the programme.


 a. Musculoskeletal (MSK) biology
  Healthy ageing depends on identifying ways of sustaining pain-free mobility with adequate
 muscle strength into old age. Comparative locomotor biology of animals is fundamental to how we
 teach structure and function. We have sustained world-class MSK biology research over 35 years,
 founded on basic science of how the skeleton adapts to strain, what constrains muscle
 performance and how tendons contribute to athletic performance. As outlined in REF2014 future
 plans, application of mathematical and physical scientific principles to model and understand the
 MSK tissue interactions with each other and the environment, using ever-increasingly
 sophisticated measurement techniques, have underpinned advances made. Translational
 research is strong, with innovations being transferred to the clinic for lameness diagnosis,
 treatments (tendon cell therapy, electrical stimulation and novel surgery for laryngeal paralysis)
 with novel treatments for muscle disease (gene editing), osteoporosis (partnership with Haoma
 Medica) and imaging cartilage defects (Raman spectroscopy) in the pipeline. Bioinspired robotics
 is an important translational element of the Structure and Motion Lab’s (SML) work. The MSK
 Biology Group has 37 academics, with 8 to16 academics in subgroups described below.


  Structure and Motion Laboratory led by Alan Wilson FRS was established in 2004 and has
 trained 50 talented researchers who subsequently progressed into independent research
 positions. During REF2021, SML academics held five European Research Council grants, a
 Wellcome Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) and responsive mode grants from BBSRC. US Air
 Force and Defence Science Technology Laboratory (DSTL) fund their bioinspired unmanned
 autonomous vehicle research. Developing interest in animal flight control systems led to
 recruitment of Andrea Gaede (2020; from University of British Columbia). Within 3 months of
 finishing his ERC Starting Grant, Richards was awarded a Wellcome Investigator award (2019-
 2024). Innovation is encouraged with laboratory personnel building equipment. They have


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pioneered physiological measurement in free-moving animals in remote areas, using these
 measurements to undertake curiosity-driven research. Application of physiological principles
 constraining and controlling animal movement to robotic design is an overarching SML goal.


  Bone, Tendon and Joint Laboratory is led by Andy Pitsillides, who has refined Lance Lanyon’s
 bone-loading model to expose joints to increased strain, mimicking the wear-and-tear of over-use.
 His ability to combine molecular and cell biology, study cross-talk between skeletal tissues (bone,
 vasculature and cartilage), analyse histomorphometry and microCT data combined with in vivo
 measurements of strain and function (gait analysis) makes him a leader in bone biology. With
 collaborators he has developed a paradigm-shifting hypothesis that changes in bone shape
 predetermine age-related osteoarthritis onset. His partnership with Haoma Medica, built on
 intellectual interactions with CSO Stephen Hodges (RVC Honorary SRF) is yielding promising
 results around novel osteoporosis and osteoarthritis treatments (patent application filed).
 Mechanisms by which cartilage transitions to bone are poorly understood and this knowledge
 underpins bone repair and is relevant to joint regeneration. RVC is a partner in the CarBon Marie
 Sklodowska-Curie ITN, which addresses this knowledge gap.


  Bone pain and fracture repair are areas where basic science (led by Chenu) feeds into
 translational research. Partnership with Transpharmation, (Neuropharmacology SME) within a
 multi-institutional Marie Sklodowska-Curie ITN will ensure RVC becomes established in the bone
 pain field. RVC-trained orthopaedic specialist Richard Meeson pursued PhD training at UCL
 (MRC Fellowship), developing methods of mobilising endogenous stem cells to improve fracture
 repair. Meeson has returned to lead clinical orthopaedics and develop regenerative medicine
 translational research.


 Building on pioneering use of autologous stem cells for equine tendon injuries, a Stem Cell Centre
 (SCC; infrastructure funding from Hertfordshire LEP) has been established. The SCC, which has
 Veterinary Medicines Directorate approval, is led by Jay Dudhia, offers services for veterinary
 practices and undertakes clinical trials to provide the evidence-base for cell therapies. New
 appointee, Scott Roberts (UCB Pharma; 2019) adds capacity in fundamental science
 underpinning skeletal regenerative medicine.


  The quality environment created for MSK biology attracts externally-funded research fellows.
 Under Dudhia’s and Pitsillides’s mentorship, Chavaunne Thorpe (Versus Arthritis Fellow; 2016-
 2021; appointed to a lectureship 2020) studies the interaction between interfascicular matrix and
 tendon progenitor cells, novel basic biology underpinning tendon repair. This adds a new
 dimension to Roger Smith’s (Clinician Scientist) and Dudhia’s (Matrix biologist) work, who lead



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 this field. They are part of the Tendon Therapy Train consortium (EU Marie Sklodowska-Curie
 ITN) with partners in academia, industry and private practice.


  Neuromuscular biology: Dominic Wells established this sub-group in 2010. The development
 of Clinician Scientist Richard Piercy over this period has been remarkable. Building on Wells’s
 expertise of mouse Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) models and capitalising on his discovery
 of a canine patient with DMD (mutated splice site in dystrophin’s exon 50), with Wellcome funding
 Piercy has developed the E50 DMD dog model. This is being used to develop novel treatments
 (gene editing, exon skipping) funded by Human Pharma. He involves expertise from the SML,
 cardiologists and animal behaviourists to fully characterise the model’s phenotype, and uses
 activity monitoring to assess treatment effects. Clinical Research Fellow and neurology specialist
 Abbe Crawford has secured Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) funding to characterise the
 model’s brain phenotype with a view to assessing novel treatments.


  In studying another naturally-occurring disease, recurrent laryngeal nerve neuropathy, Piercy
 has teamed up with equine surgeon, Justin Perkins, medical devices company Med-el Ltd., and
 Cornell University to devise ways of encouraging muscle regeneration through electrical nerve
 stimulation. Recognition of their skills in peripheral nerve physiology has led to collaboration with
 David Holder (UCL, Medical Physics & Engineering) and Galvani Ltd., developing large animal
 models for bioelectronic medicine, initially working to optimise the autonomic nerves which have
 the greatest immunomodulatory effects. They work with immunologist Dirk Werling to understand
 the mechanism(s) underlying these remarkable responses.


  RVC’s growing reputation for translational regenerative medicine has attracted clinician scientist
 Nicolas Granger (Bristol, 2017) to lead an EPSRC-funded project (with UCL Medical Physics).
 Granger, a neurosurgeon, is devising pre-implantation treatments of oligodendrocytes, to improve
 efficacy in spinal cord injury treatment.


 Principal Achievements:
 -Described wing kinematics of mosquito flight, defining novel elements dependent on wing rotation
 not velocity
 -Modelled energetic efficiency of wildebeest muscle (from direct fibre measurements) to explain
 how they overcome thermoregulatory challenges in hot arid habitat
 -Devised synchrotron X-ray tomography combined with mechanical loading at nanometric
 precision for in situ imaging, enabling a detailed view of OA progression in different joint
 components as it evolves
 -Proposed mechanism of fascicle sliding and rotation to explain age-related tendonopathy
 -Defined the natural history of a new DMD dog model


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Future plans: Building on strong foundations of fundamental MSK science, during REF2027 we
 will continue to exploit that knowledge to benefit society. For example we aim to:
 -Use knowledge of insect flight physiology and navigation systems in unmanned aircraft design
 (US Airforce/dstl; 2019-2022) and to control insect disease vectors (RVC-Pirbright studentship;
 2021-2024)
 -Understand how age-related changes in muscle influence neuromuscular control of reaching
 (Wellcome; 2019-2024)
 -Explain how growth plate cartilage dynamics and joint biomechanical functionality are linked to
 provide new mechanistic understanding of joint health and pathology determinants
 -Test novel DMD therapies using the mdx mouse and delta-E50 MD dog model (Industry funding;
 2017-2022)


 b. Cardiovascular and Renal Biology:
  Caroline Wheeler-Jones, an expert in endothelial cell signalling and angiogenesis leads this
 group. There are strong links to other CPCS groups through shared interests in vascular
 calcification (with Bone Biologist Isabel Orriss), circulating endothelial progenitor cells (fracture
 repair cell therapy; Meeson/Roberts) and ischaemic neonatal brain damage (Brain Health &
 Behaviour; Thornton and Stolp). The core scientific research is built around Wheeler-Jones’s
 expertise. Recent recruits include Caroline Pellet-Many (from UCL, 2018) who focuses on
 neurophylins’ role in angiogenesis bringing expertise in zebrafish models of cardiovascular
 regeneration. BHF fellow, Christina Warboys (from UCL; 2019) will transition into a lectureship
 bringing expertise on flow patterns and endothelial cell signalling, relevant to atherosclerosis
 research, complementing Wheeler-Jones’s work on dietary lipids. Finally, Matthew Gage joined
 (from UCL in 2019) bringing expertise in atherogenesis and angiogenesis related to insulin
 dysregulation and diabetes, also relevant to the Comparative Genomics, Endocrinology and
 Reproduction group.


  Wheeler-Jones has a strong track-record of fostering collaboration across disciplines by working
 with clinicians. She currently co-mentors (with Piercy) HBLB Fellow (2019-2022) Liz Finding
 (RVC-trained) who is exploring the role of exosomes in exercise-induced muscle angiogenesis.
 Ischaemia is proposed as a major factor contributing to feline kidney damage. RVC is the leading
 veterinary institute undertaking feline chronic kidney disease (CKD) research. Wheeler-Jones’s
 cell biology expertise has been harnessed to establish feline tubular epithelial and cortical renal
 fibroblasts cell culture, allowing study of cell responses to hypoxia (collaboration with Veterinary
 Pharma).




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  The geriatric cat clinic, established by Elliott, recruits CKD cases through RVC’s primary care
 practice and the PDSA. This research has received 28 years of industry support and continues to
 generate novel insights and train high quality clinician scientists. The focus is on bone-mineral
 disturbances and hypertension. Rebecca Geddes, a graduate of this programme is a new recruit
 (2019). She won a Clinician Scientist Fellowship to focus on research in collaboration with the
 Wellcome Centre for Human Genetics (WCHG), Oxford University and secured AMS funding for
 urinary stone disease work. Rosanne Jepson’s research into genome influences on CKD
 progression and hypertension with QMUL BHF Professor, Patricia Munroe is yielding interesting
 results. The cat clinic’s research has supported commercialisation of drugs, diets, diagnostic tests
 and informed clinical guidelines (see Feline CKD impact case study (ICS)).


  RVC is renowned for clinical cardiology research. Adrian Boswood has used charity clinics to
 recruit degenerative mitral valve disease (DMVD) cases to longitudinal study, identifying predictors
 of progression in preclinical-stage patients to target treatment without specialist imaging.
 Continuous funding for 16 years has established a unique resource. Boswood has teamed up with
 Vetcompass™ to ensure his research generalises to primary care practice. His skills are sought
 after by industry. His design of the EPIC study is highly regarded and underpins our DMVD ICS.
 Boswood’s research could select patients for surgical valve repair, a procedure pioneered by
 Brockman (specialist cardiac surgeon) making RVC the first centre in Europe or the US offering
 this.


 Cardiologist David Connolly combines cell biology, supported by Dudhia (cell isolation and culture)
 and Werling (flow cytometry and immunology), and clinical research. He collaborates with
 Professor Terracciano at Imperial College using induced-pluripotent stem cells to investigate
 molecular mechanisms of feline hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (fHCM) and canine cardiospheres,
 hypoxia pre-conditioned, in a proof-of-concept trial as a novel treatment for dilated
 cardiomyopathy. His work aligns with RVC’s regenerative medicine strategy where veterinary
 patients benefit from proof-of-concept work for human medicine. His fHCM research is
 complemented by that of Luis-Fuentes, which has defined the prevalence and risk factors for
 progression of fHCM, changing clinical practice to use limited echocardiography and biomarkers
 to identifying high risk cases (see fHCM ICS).


 Principal achievements:
 -Defined the roles of neurophilins in cardiac regeneration
 -Determined that disturbed flow induces endothelial cell senescence via p53-p21-dependent
 pathway
 -Demonstrated the importance of LXRα phosphorylation at S196 in atherosclerotic plaque
 development


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -Identified plasma FGF23 and magnesium as novel survival and progression predictors in feline
 CKD
 -Devised an algorithm to accurately identify dogs in B2 stage of canine DMVD without the use of
 echocardiography
 Future plans: We will support the development of 3 ECR endothelial biologists into research
 leaders, facilitating application of their science to regenerative biology across systems of interest
 to CPCS. Using our developing canine and feline genomic pipelines to understand the genetics of
 complex diseases, such as CKD, DMVD and fHCM, we will exploit cell culture models,
 incorporating single cell transcriptomics and gene editing to explore pathophysiological
 mechanisms.


 c. Brain Health and Behaviour
  As one of our REF2014’s future plans, this group has developed to a critical mass of 20
 academics. Its evolution reflects a longstanding interest in canine epilepsy and recognition that
 canine idiopathic epileptics also exhibit behavioural abnormalities which improve on dietary
 medium chain triglyceride supplementation. This work, led by clinician scientist Holger Volk
 (Category C – promoted to Department Chair, Hanover) and animal behaviourist Rowena Packer
 (BBSRC Future Leaders Fellow; RVC-trained) underpins an ICS. Volk leaves a legacy of
 research-competent neurologists (Beltran, Crawford, Whittaker and Fenn).


  The basic science underpinning neuronal resilience heavily depends on the cells’ ability to
 remove ageing, malfunctioning mitochondria. Campanella (ERC Advanced Grant, 2019-24)
 studies mitophagy, asking how mitochondria and nuclei communicate. He works with
 developmental neurobiologist and group leader Claire Russell, who focuses on zebrafish
 lysosomal storage diseases models, exhibiting neurodegeneration and epilepsy.


  Three neuroscience recruits increase our capacity to understand healthy brain functioning and
 ageing. Claire Thornton (2018, from KCL) focuses on mitochondrial protein optic atrophy-1 in
 neuronal ischaemic damage. She works with Helen Stolp (2017, from KCL), a pharmacologist
 interested in perinatal brain ischaemia’s effect on neuronal development. Patrick Lewis was
 appointed to Neurosciences Chair (2020, from Reading), a new basic neurosciences leadership
 position complementing our clinical capacity. Lewis, a biochemist with expertise in mitochondrial
 protein-protein interaction, focuses on neurodegenerative pathways in Parkinson’s disease.


  In 2018, Merck established a group studying neuronal resilience in the London Biosciences
 Innovation Centre (LBIC), a step toward relocating R&D to London. RVC and Merck co-fund a
 post-doc (with Campanella) to establish collaborations. Arrangements have been made for shared
 equipment access.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Integrating animal behaviour science into major research projects undertaken by BHB scientists
 is a strategic goal. Maria Diez-Leon’s appointment (from Guelph, 2017), expert in early-life
 influences on behaviour, increases our capacity to achieve this. Diez-Leon is analysing DMD dog
 behaviour with Crawford. Experienced welfare scientist, Christine Nicol (from Bristol, 2017)
 provides mentorship to our early-career welfare scientists. Objective assessment of veterinary
 patient behaviour is critical in assessing subjective phenomena (e.g. pain and nausea), which are
 important clinical research goals supported by welfare scientists.


 Principal Achievements:
 -Defined sub-cellular pathways involved in mitochondrial quality control and mitophagy
 -Demonstrated that alterations in mitochondria-shaping proteins occur early in the pathogenesis
 of neonatal ischaemic brain injury
 -Identified behavioural abnormalities that accompany canine epilepsy and assessed their
 response to dietary therapy


 Future plans: We will encourage collaboration between basic scientists, animal behaviourists
 and clinical neurologists to use veterinary patients as human disease models. To support this we
 have funded the establishment of a companion animal brain bank and are co-funding the joint
 clinical and research Translational Medicine Centre to provide 3T-MRI facilities. Specific research
 goals are to:
 -Define the molecular signalling axis for communication between nuclei and mitochondria in health
 and disease (ERC, 2019-2024)
 -Determine whether protecting OPA1 integrity following hypoxia-ischaemia provides additional
 neuroprotection for infants where therapeutic hypothermia alone is inadequate (MRC; 2020-2023)
 -Define mechanistic impact of LRRK2 upon progression across Parkinsonian disorders (ASAP;
 2021-2024)
 -Define cellular and functional consequences of brain dystrophin deficiency and develop strategies
 to restore its expression


 d. Comparative Genomics, Endocrinology and Reproduction
  Upskilling researchers in genome data-analysis is an important institutional strategy impacting
 both research programmes. New appointments to support this quantitative biology strategy were
 discussed above. These build on Larkin’s appointment (REF2014) whose world-leading research
 into chromosome evolution has broad comparative genomics implications. To make full use of
 veterinary patients as human disease models, we have established systematic phenotype data
 capture processes coupled with DNA archives, enabling phenotype to genotype matching. To
 capitalise on this institutional strategy, we appointed Clinician Scientist, Lucy Davison (2017 from


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cambridge), a leader in this field, and established a strategic partnership with the WCHG (Oxford
 University). Within 6 months of her appointment, Davison won an MRC Clinician Scientist
 Fellowship (2018-2023). She studies the interaction between genes and environment in complex
 diseases and, in particular, the immunoregulatory dexi gene and the microbiome influence on
 mouse diabetes models and canine diabetic patients (publications delayed by Covid-19). Davison,
 group leader, is an internal medicine specialist who, supported by Psifidi, inspires clinicians to use
 cutting-edge functional genomics.


  Whilst there are some well characterised veterinary monogenetic disorders, the real challenge is
 to understand genomic influences in complex diseases, to inform prognosis and provide
 individualised treatment. Working with RVC research fellow Wallace, Davison has established
 data analysis and processing expertise, developing a pipeline for prioritising important disease-
 associated variants within whole genome sequences. This pipeline is being adapted for other
 diseases and species and will become a foundation for future clinical research within CPCS.
 Davison also pioneers the use of single-cell transcriptomics (10X Genomics).


  Endocrinology exemplifies the value of the comparative approach. Whilst dogs are most likely to
 develop type-1 diabetes, obese cats and ponies are insulin-resistant and cats develop type-2
 diabetes. Ruth Gostelow (RVC-trained; 2016) is a clinician scientist who works to advance
 insulin-resistant diabetic cat diagnosis and management. Rob Fowkes, an endocrine physiologist,
 studies somatotroph regulation and collaborates with clinicians studying comparative
 pathophysiology of growth hormone-producing tumours, a treatable cause of feline diabetes
 (discovered at RVC). Insulin dysregulation in ponies is strongly linked to laminitis risk. Clinician
 scientist Menzies-Gow leads work on endocrinopathic laminitis with nutritionists from Waltham.
 Their intriguing finding that reduced circulating concentrations of adiponectin (adipocyte-derived
 hormone) is a strong predictor of incident laminitis has led to a new prognostic test to assist in
 laminitis management.


  Genomic approaches are applied to reproduction, a long-standing RVC research strength under
 Claire Wathes’s (Category C, retired 2019) leadership. Her EU-funded work with Fouladi and
 Werling into genomic contributions to dairy cattle disease resistance and infertility is generating
 significant outputs that will influence breeding strategies globally. Similarly, DeMestre works with
 the thoroughbred breeding industry on genetic influences on early pregnancy losses.


 Principal Achievements:
 -Discovered that avian genomes show a high degree of evolutionary stasis, but that pan-avian
 genomic diversity co-varies with adaptations to different lifestyles and convergent evolution of
 traits


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 -Characterised the chromosomal rearrangements leading to evolution of ruminants
 -Demonstrated that disrupted dexi-expression speeds onset of diabetes in non-obese diabetic
 mouse model by changing the microbiome


 Future plans: We will build on Davison’s expertise to establish a leading centre for comparative
 genomics of complex diseases, where companion animals are used as human disease models.
 This will capitalise on our internal medicine expertise, collaboration with human medicine and
 application of whole genome sequencing data and subsequent follow-on genotyping technologies,
 such as Neogen array-based and TWIST sequence-based custom typing, adapted for disease
 and species. Fundamental understanding of chromosome evolution will continue to be exploited
 to inform livestock and poultry resilience to disease and climate change.


 Integrated Research into Livestock and Food Systems (IRLFS)
  The strategy underpinning IRLFS, and the global challenges it addresses are explained in
 REF5a.    Here we explain in-depth the partnerships we have formed, the rationale for new
 appointments and detail major externally-funded initiatives supporting our work for the next 5
 years.


  The IRLFS programme involves 65 academics. It is co-ordinated by new recruit Nicola Lewis
 (2018, from APHA/Cambridge Zoology), a veterinarian and virologist who studies influenza A virus
 ecology and evolution in multiple hosts, evaluating the public health risks these pose. Nicola
 replaces Fiona Tomley as programme lead. Tomley now focuses on leading the UKRI GCRF One-
 Health Poultry Hub.


 Success in tackling real-world challenges requires interdisciplinary approaches and strong
 academic and non-academic partnerships. UK academic partnerships were formalised, with the
 creation of the London International Development Centre (LIDC; 2007), funded by HEFCE. This
 partnership remains strong with 4 founding partners (RVC, LSHTM, SOAS, and UCL Institute for
 Education) and new associates, QMUL and City University adding breadth of disciplines and
 international networks. Leadership of LIDC is critical; providing strategic direction for
 interdisciplinary working. Claire Heffernan (2017, from Bristol) succeeded director Jeff Waage.
 Heffernan is Professor of International Development at RVC. A veterinarian with expertise in social
 sciences, she previously led interdisciplinary research centres addressing sustainable
 development goals at Reading and Bristol. Claire is a superb appointment for RVC/LIDC and
 combines this role with leading the UKRI GCRF Action Against Stunting Hub (2019-2024).


  As relationships develop between academics across different disciplines, areas of mutual interest
 emerge leading to institutional agreements facilitating wider working relationships. This is the case


                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with Oxford Zoology, through Oliver Pybus’s involvement in Influenza research; his skills in
 studying rapid pathogen evolution, particularly viruses, during disease outbreaks, complement
 other RVC Influenza researchers. RVC signed an agreement with Oxford Zoology for Pybus to
 hold a joint appointment (2018-2023) and exploit areas of mutual interest. Pybus’s appointment
 supports development of bioinformatics skills at RVC, establishing genomic epidemiology as an
 underpinning science for infectious disease research.


  Translation of research into policy is vital for successful implementation of solutions resulting
 from research. Pfeiffer’s international reputation and networks established important policy-maker
 partnerships. RVC became an FAO Veterinary Epidemiology Reference Centre (2012), a
 designation renewed until 2024. In 2015, RVC entered a 2-year agreement with APHA to provide
 leadership for Epidemiological Sciences; this was extended resulting in the award of a joint OIE
 Collaborating Centre in Risk Analysis and Modelling (2019-2024), recognition of RVC’s
 international reputation for risk analysis and its role in informing policy.


  Working for sustained periods with partners from low- to middle-income countries (LMIC) is vital
 to understand cultural and societal influences on livestock and food systems and to build the trust
 needed to deliver excellent science. External funding stimulates these partnerships which RVC
 has sustained over 10-15 years, particularly in South and South-East Asia and Africa. For
 example, a BBSRC International Partnering Award (2008) and BBSRC/DfID CIDLID programme
 (2010) funded a partnership with Madras Veterinary College, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal
 Sciences University, led by Fiona Tomley working on chicken coccidiosis. An extended network
 of partners and research into poultry gut health was further supported by the BBSRC/DBT FADH
 call (2013), partnerships which are now sustained through the RVC-led UKRI GCRF One-Health
 Poultry Hub (2019-2024). Similarly, three institutions in Bangladesh (CVASU, BLRI and IEDCR)
 were partners in the ZELS BALZAC project (2014-2019) and are now part of the Poultry Hub.
 Likewise, partnerships in Senegal with University Cheikh Anta Diop de Dakar, funded under ZELS
 (Schistosomiasis; PI Webster), have been sustained through the UKRI-GCRF Action Against
 Stunting Hub.


  Furthermore, OIE funded an RVC-Jordan University of Science and Technology (JUST)
 partnership to develop their veterinary sciences curriculum and facilitate exchange of masters
 students (2015-17). The relationships established with JUST scientists, facilitated the award of a
 MRC GCRF Foundation grant (2017-19) on MERS virus in camels followed by a 3-year
 programme grant (MRC, £2M; 2021-2024), which aims to develop acceptable public health
 interventions that reduce MERS risk.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Thus, the IRLFS programme fosters collaboration between academics working with populations
 and ecosystems (epidemiologists, public health, economics and wildlife experts), those studying
 at herd/individual animal and molecular level (clinicians, pathologists, immunologists,
 vaccinologists, reproduction and welfare scientists), and microbiologists focusing on key
 pathogens. Most projects are challenge rather than discipline-led and whilst we describe
 constituent parts under five groups, there is much cross-talk fostered by the PMC with most
 academics belonging to multiple groups.


 UKRI GCRF One-Health Poultry Hub is an excellent example which includes academics from all
 IRLFS’s groups. This interdisciplinary Hub will influence RVC’s research strategy for the next
 decade, with 8 researchers named as co-investigators and others making significant contributions.
 Hub UK partners are LSHTM, Oxford Zoology, IDS Sussex, Pirbright, Chatham House and APHA,
 with LMIC partners in India, Sri Lanka, Vietnam and Bangladesh. The real-world challenge for this
 Hub is: ‘To achieve sustainable global intensification of poultry meat and egg production whilst
 reducing risks to human and animal health and welfare’. Poultry products are the biggest global
 animal protein source for humans. A major challenge is to achieve sustainable expansion whilst
 reducing risk from: 1) epidemic Avian Influenza; 2) antimicrobial resistance; 3) foodborne
 zoonoses; 4) disruption of the chicken gut microbiome, leading to increased pathogen carriage.
 Significant reductions in human and animal health risks require holistic interventions (technical,
 behavioural and regulatory) designed for, and implemented across, all production system levels.
 By tracking microbe transmission at genomic level through well-mapped poultry production and
 distribution networks in 4 countries, each at differing stages of intensification, a deep
 understanding of epidemiological risk factors, including those that govern decision-making and
 human behaviours will result. This will identify the riskiest factors and behaviours for targeted
 intervention. By working with local and national stakeholders, we will test, monitor and evaluate
 interventions designed to reduce antimicrobial usage and pathogen transmission and increase
 productivity, food safety and security.


  The Hub exemplifies the IRLFS programme’s ethos, namely: to solve problems that limit livestock
 productivity, our research must provide tailored solutions that take account of geographical,
 population, ethnic and socio-economic conditions. Their implementation needs support through
 partnerships with stakeholders, government and industry. This ethos runs through the 5
 overlapping groups described below. The appointment of Tony Barnett (2020, from LSHTM), who
 leads the Hub’s social science work package, provides mentorship for ECRs.


 a. Pathogen flow in ecosystems
  This group studies factors driving pathogen evolution and flow between environments,
 transmission vectors/intermediate hosts, animals (wild/domesticated) and humans. Joanne


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Webster (2014, from Imperial College) leads the group. Her novel work on schistosomiasis, a
 neglected tropical disease of human and animal health importance, has demonstrated zoonotic
 human and animal schistosome hybrid formation and modified WHO future control strategies,
 taking account of livestock and wildlife’s roles in human schistosomiasis epidemiology and control
 (see Schistosomiasis ICS). Schistosomiasis afflicts 250,000,000 of the world’s poorest people.
 Martin Walker mathematically models transmission of neglected tropical (parasitic) diseases
 (NTDs), including schistosomiasis. Walker’s skills add a new dimension to our Quantitative
 Biology strategy. He also works on drug resistance in helminth NTDs through collaborations
 fostered by RVC’s membership of the London Centre for Neglected Tropical Diseases.


  Genetic evolution facilitating transmission between species is a feature of avian influenza (AI).
 RVC’s AI research was established by Pfeiffer following re-emergence of highly pathogenic AI
 (H5N1; 2003), and contributed to an FAO-funded international consortium, producing important
 statistical risk models informing control measures in SE Asia. This work, increasingly led by
 Guillaume Fournie (Pfeiffer protégé), has focused recently on poultry in Bangladesh (ZELS
 BALZAC project) and now in the One-Health Poultry Hub across Asia. Capacity in influenza
 research increased with the appointments of Lewis and Pybus (see above). Through an APHA
 strategic partnership, Lewis remains Deputy Director of OIE/FAO International Reference
 Laboratory (IRL) for AI, swine influenza and Newcastle Disease. Ian Brown (IRL Director, APHA)
 holds an RVC honorary post (2018-2021). Lewis and Pybus provide a new dimension of research
 leadership into emerging viruses of animal and human health significance. RVC is a base partner
 in one of only 3 NIH-funded Centres of Excellence in Influenza Research and Response, led by
 University of Pennsylvania (2021-2028), an indicator of its established international reputation in
 this important field.


  Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR) is another virus where wildlife play an epidemiological role.
 RVC has collaborated with the Pirbright Institute on PPR since 2004. Richard Kock leads wildlife
 PPR research, investigating their role in its spread from Africa into the Middle East and Asia, where
 its impact on small ruminants, upon which the livelihoods of pastoralists depend, is serious. Kock’s
 work, funded initially by an ERA-Net ANIHWA grant and subsequently by GCRF Foundation
 (2018-20) and Global Research Translation Awards (2019-21), is informing the FAO PPR Global
 Eradication Plan as proposed in REF2014 (Saiga ICS). Bryony Jones, an FAO veterinarian
 involved in Rinderpest eradication, joined Kock’s team (as researcher co-investigator) after
 completing her PhD on PPR. In 2019, Jones won an RVC strategic fellowship to lead PPR
 research in partnership with ILRI.


  Julian Drewe leads wildlife-livestock disease transmission research studying the social structure
 of meerkats and badgers, where TB persists. He also assesses wild boar reservoirs as disease


                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 risk for the UK pig population. Drewe’s first PhD student, Stuart Patterson (2018) has been
 appointed to a lectureship, increasing our wildlife health expertise.


 Principal Achievements:
 -Quantified swine influenza viruses antigenic diversity on an multi-continental scale
 -Demonstrated that hybrids originate in humans via zoonotic spill-over from livestock populations,
 where schistosomiasis is co-endemic, informing WHO Schistosomiasis control guidelines
 -Documented PPR as the cause of mass mortality of Mongolian Saiga, informing wildlife inclusion
 in National PPR strategies and FAO Global eradication plan


 Future goals: Having made strategic appointments with skills in pathogen genomic evolution, our
 long-term goal is to utilise this expertise and work with partners to develop tools and pipelines
 necessary for national/international surveillance, rapid detection/prediction of, and response to,
 disease threats to animals (wildlife, livestock and pets) and people (emerging zoonoses).
 Specifically, we plan to:
 -Lead a programme of research into zoonotic influenza surveillance, risk and response (NIH
 CEIRR funding 2021-2028)
 -Determine why children in communities adjacent to Lake Albert suffer high rates of schistosoma
 infections associated with peri-portal fibrosis despite good treatment compliance (EU funding,
 2018-2022)
 -[Text removed for publication].
 b. Food safety
  Food is a major route for disease transmission, with animal-derived products being responsible
 for most foodborne infections globally. Protecting public health through innovative, policy-relevant,
 multidisciplinary research that improves animal source foods’ (ASFs) safety is this group’s aim.
 RVC provides scientific evidence in support of actions to improve ASF safety preventing foodborne
 diseases. Javier Guitian leads this group. He has progressed from new lecturer (2002) to
 Veterinary Public Health Professor (2010). Working initially under Pfeiffer’s guidance, he is now a
 leading veterinary public health researcher, co-ordinating multiple international collaborative
 projects. Food safety research builds on RVC’s epidemiological strengths of risk assessment and
 probabilistic modelling pioneered by Pfeiffer and Guitian.


  This expertise has been strengthened by the APHA partnership and joint OIE collaborating centre
 (see above). Guitian and Emma Snary (APHA; RVC honorary professor) lead these initiatives and
 hold mutual joint appointments (RVC/APHA), which together provide a large group of scientists
 and PhD students (100 in total). ASF safety is inextricably linked to food production systems and
 their socio-political contexts; RVC's strengthening of its capacity for Agri-health and Food Systems
 research (see below) has facilitated its food safety research impact.


                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  RVC’s research to improve ASF safety includes studies aimed at modernising meat inspection,
 pathogen-specific studies of major foodborne pathogens (e.g. Campylobacter) and theoretical
 research combining genomic and epidemiological metadata for future food safety surveillance.
 New appointees, Ana Mateus (from post-doc; 2014) and Niko Dadios (from Industry; 2019), have
 increased food safety research capacity. Recently awarded grants will address the most pressing
 food safety issues in LMICs (see below).


  Our systematic meat inspection systems evaluation supports transition from conventional to risk-
 based approaches if data on the animals’ origin suggests they pose no public health risk. Partly
 through RVC research, EFSA has endorsed this novel risk-based approach and a revised Europe-
 wide pig inspection system is being applied unless export requirements prevent this (Meat
 Inspection ICS). Working closely with the poultry industry, our research has motivated adoption of
 on-farm biosecurity measures that contribute to reduce human foodborne disease incidence
 (Campylobacter ICS).


 Principal Achievements:
 -developed a robust food chain model to combine ‘big’ data sources, including both genetic and
 high-fidelity epidemiological metadata
 -modelled data from on-farm biosecurity measures quantifying their benefits in reducing
 campylobacter carcass contamination, informing industry practices changes
 -Modelled risk pathways for hepatitis E virus pig carcass contamination showing that human health
 protection measures should focus on reducing entry of highly viraemic pigs into the food chain


 Future plans:
 As increasing volumes of higher resolution data become available, we will develop food safety
 surveillance systems that integrate epidemiological metadata and genetic data to protect public
 health. We will build on our proof-of-concept for data integration associated with machine learning
 for that purpose which was cited by the US National Academy of Sciences “Science Breakthroughs
 to Advance Food and Agricultural Research by 2030”. Specifically, research on public health
 related to food safety in LMIC will:
 -enhance chicken and beef safety, determining how poor people access these meats and how
 their safety can be improved to increase healthy nutrition in Peru (MRC; 2020-2022);
 -devise ways of improving milk safety in Andhra Pradesh’s increasingly intensified dairy industry
 (BMGF; 2018-2021);
 -elucidate health and linear growth determinants in children with a focus on ASF and animal-
 related infections (UKRI Action Against Stunting Hub; 2019-2024).



                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. Sustainable Food Systems in changing social and political contexts
  Food safety cannot be guaranteed without understanding production systems. Thus, RVC
 research extends into Agri-health and Food Systems. Agricultural economics is a key discipline to
 integrate with knowledge of livestock systems in different cultures. Jonathan Rushton’s
 appointment (2009) provided such expertise. Although Rushton moved to Liverpool (2016),
 Barbara Häsler had already developed food systems leadership potential. Her continued
 development has been supported by Bhavani Shankar (SOAS secondment, 2016-17) and
 Heffernan. Häsler now leads this area supported by new appointees Pablo Alarcon (from APHA,
 2017) and Mehroosh Tak (from SOAS, 2019). Having three veterinarians (Häsler, Alarcon and
 Heffernan) with expertise in socioeconomic research puts RVC in a strong position to contribute
 to food security global challenges.


  RVC brings these skills to both UKRI GCRF Hubs. The Action Against Stunting Hub uses
 transdisciplinary approaches to identify how local markets and value chains can deliver ASFs
 sustainably, safely alleviating infant stunting in Senegal, India and Indonesia. By combining
 quantitative and qualitative approaches from economics, nutrition, social sciences, epidemiology
 and microbiology, inefficiencies, threats and opportunities to improve safe delivery of nutritious
 foods are identified. In the One-Health Poultry Hub, chicken production and distribution networks
 in 4 Asian countries are being investigated to understand how to transform these systems to
 deliver food to rapidly growing human populations in a safe, healthy, equitable and efficient way.
  Leverhulme Trust funding (2011-2016) established a network of LIDC-based Agri-Health
 researchers creating the Leverhulme Centre for Integrative Research in Agri-health (LCIRAH), an
 RVC, SOAS and LSHTM initiative. RVC contributes enthusiastically to LCIRAH activities, which
 funded both Häsler’s and Tak’s training. Centre funding continues through an LSHTM-led Our
 Planet Our Health Wellcome grant (2018-2022) ‘Sustainable and Healthy Food Systems’. Using
 system dynamic models and group model-building techniques, Häsler is investigating key drivers
 of the chicken meat system (commercial and indigenous birds) in South Africa and their
 environmental, food security and safety impact. These models identify system-based solutions
 benefiting society.


  This group has attracted MRC funding in collaboration with Liverpool University and ILRI. They
 have mapped livestock value-chains supplying Nairobi, using this to investigate the system’s food
 safety risk practices and critical control points. Our growing reputation in food systems
 socioeconomic research is evident from increased funding attracted from quality sources. Debate
 about how much animal protein should be included in our diets, and the environmental and health
 impact of producing and consuming ASFs is multifaceted and polarised. To support these
 discussions, RVC investigates complex trade-offs between economic, environmental, and social



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 sustainability, including concerns about animal welfare, food safety, malnutrition and livelihoods,
 using transdisciplinary systems-based approaches applied to multiple projects (examples above).
  Christine Nicol leads Animal Welfare contributions to this debate. Farm animals in Europe are
 increasingly group-housed where extreme physical restrictions (e.g. cages) are removed. Clear
 trends in this direction are apparent globally (USA, Canada, Australia and NZ). Animal welfare
 research has thus shifted focus from concern with effects of restriction to how animals can thrive
 in complex environments, and in their interactions with automated technologies. Good animal
 welfare will be facilitated by breeding and raising robust (adaptable to wide range of environments
 via innate regulatory pathways) and resilient farm animals (able to cope physically and emotionally
 with episodic challenges via learning and cognitive responses). To study this, we are collaborating
 with a global network of researchers to develop innovative measures of robustness and resilience,
 using novel automated technologies in poultry and cattle to record and validate movement, posture
 and behavioural structure as health and affective state indicators; investigating animal adaptation
 to automated technologies, (mobile monitoring robots); investigating early-life experience in
 generating robust and resilient phenotypes, including work on improving co-ordination, learning
 and navigation abilities of hens housed in >100,000 bird multi-tier systems, and nutritional and
 enrichment strategies to improve calf welfare. Humane slaughter of food producing animals is a
 major societal concern but a complex issue when incorporating cultural and religious beliefs.
 Gibson has sustained a research programme focusing on humane slaughter of poultry.


 Principal Achievements:
 -Completed laboratory-based comparison of performance and welfare of commercial fast- and
 slow-growing broiler chickens
 -Contributed technical solutions to improve humane slaughter methods in a range of species


 Future goals:      Work on novel analyses generating holistic evidence, based on systems
 approaches, will continue to contribute to discourse on a new type of food systems governance,
 founded on One Health principles that supports policy changes. For example, we aim to:
 -build a systems dynamic model of South Africa’s transitioning, complex and dualistic ASF system
 with maximal stakeholder engagement, clearly identifying relevant problems and defining socially
 acceptable interventions (Wellcome; 2018-2022);
 -develop a transdisciplinary food systems (TDFS) framework and methods for country-level
 analysis of changing food systems marred by long-term crisis (GCRF-AHRC: 2021-2023);
 -develop methods and apply new technologies to predict and alleviate farm animal welfare
 problems.


 d. Host pathogen response and vaccinology



                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Technical solutions to over-reliance on drugs in animal production require basic understanding
 of: (i) pathogens, (ii) host’s immune responses to those pathogens and (iii) livestock systems.
 Knowing how these factors interact facilitates design of applicable technical solutions.
  Damer Blake, leads this group which facilitates interactions between microbiologists,
 immunologists, geneticists, molecular biologists and bioinformaticians in a multi-disciplinary
 vaccinology team. Substantial capital investments supporting laboratory and animal-based
 research are underway (section 4) and new capacity-building and succession-planning
 appointments have been made. With particular focus on avian and porcine systems and intention
 to expand into aquatic species, the group aims to: (1) identify antigens that induce robust
 protective responses; (2) understand host-pathogen interactions at protein- and nucleic acid-level
 to identify optimal vaccine candidates; (3) develop flexible multi-species vaccine delivery
 platforms; (4) select farmed animal genotypes which respond most effectively to vaccination; (5)
 inform producer and consumer acceptance.


  RVC has notable strength in developing vaccines for parasites. Apicomplexan parasites are
 highly represented, including Eimeria, Cystoisospora, Toxoplasma and Cryptosporidium (Tomley,
 Blake and Webster) and Theileria (Werling). New appointees: Dong Xia adds apicomplexan
 proteomic bioinformatics skills; Ellen Knuepfer (Crick Institute; 2020) brings gene-editing
 expertise applied to zoonotic Plasmodium knowlesi and Babesia spp. Virginia Marugan-
 Hernandez (from RVC post-doc; 2017) builds capacity in Eimeria vaccinology and Androniki
 Psifidi adds poultry genetics (host resilience) expertise, building on Larkin’s fundamental avian
 chromosome evolution approaches; Laura Buggiotti (from CREA Agriculture Research Centre,
 Rome; 2016) adds further expertise in host genetics for resilience to infectious disease.


  Genetics and candidate gene-led approaches have identified promising antigens. ‘Omic’
 approaches are defining interactions between these antigens and host gene networks (Xia, Blake),
 with mapping and genome-wide association analyses optimising host responses and vaccine
 utility (Psifidi, Blake, Tomley). In response to demand from egg-layer industries, a series of ‘omics’
 technology-driven projects aimed at poultry red mite vaccine development are underway.


 For mass livestock dosing, flexible vaccine delivery technologies are key. Recombinant protein
 and DNA vaccine strategies have been supplemented with yeast expression systems suitable for
 mass oral delivery (Werling, Blake), as well as transgenic Eimeria parasites. Joint BBSRC/industry
 funding directly led to EU-H2020 funding to develop Eimeria as a novel vaccine vector, targeting
 veterinary and zoonotic pathogens. The ability to shuttle candidate antigens into various vector
 systems permits flexible responses to vaccine opportunities, directly targeting body systems and
 immune pathways.



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bacterial pathogens, particularly those infecting pig, cattle and dog respiratory tracts remain a
 significant interest. TRADIS (established through Rycroft’s BBSRC LoLa), used to identify vaccine
 candidates, has been extended by Kendall to M bovis through BBSRC’s Eradication of Bovine
 Tuberculosis initiative (LSHTM and APHA collaboration). Novel approaches to bacterial disease
 control beyond conventional antibiotics are discussed below (Antimicrobial Resistance Group).
  This area is complemented through studies of evolution, epidemiology, behaviour and control of
 human and animal helminth and protozoan parasites (Webster) and modelling of anti-parasitic
 drug usage (Walker). Broader consequences of vaccination are also being assessed. Disruption
 caused by live Eimeria vaccination within enteric microbiomes has been defined, impacting on
 competitive exclusion and probiotic microorganisms (Blake). Recognition that successful vaccines
 must be acceptable to producers, legislators and the public is particularly important.
 Understanding vaccination cost-effectiveness (Alarcon, Häsler) and other socio-ethnical
 constraints on vaccine implementation strategy within different cultures is important for success
 (see SFS group).


 Principal achievements:
 -Produced annotated genome sequences of all seven Eimeria species infecting domestic chickens
 which will underpin new anticoccidial drugs and vaccines development and longevity
 -Demonstrated importance of AMA in E tenella as a vaccine antigen candidate given the limited
 genetic and antigenic diversity observed and a conservative signature of selection
 -Proved feasibility of oral yeast-based pig vaccination, representing a new cheap option for mass
 livestock vaccination
 -Identified important mucosal antigen delivery pathways priming IgA and IgG responses


 Future aims:
 RVC’s new Vaccinology Centre (section 3) will offer approaches from in silico, through in vivo
 trials, to field-based registration studies, supported by RVC Business professional staff. Strong
 connections with animal pharma will maximise opportunities to translated our REF2021 scientific
 achievements into products. Specifically we will:
 -Use the One Poultry Hub platform and its flexible fund to work with industry developing yeast-
 based vaccines to improve poultry health and protect public health (UKRI-GCRF Hub; 2019-2024);
 -Develop aquatic animal vaccinology through strategic collaborations with Stirling University;
 -Identify new vaccine targets/antigens by combining glycomics and single-cell RNASeq, building
 on the C-lectin array success for cattle. By identification of targets recognised across species,
 develop carbohydrate-based vaccine platforms capable of combatting zoonotic diseases;
 -Determine whether chickens can be selectively bred for increased resistance to enteric parasites
 and gut dysbiosis (UKRI-GCRF Hub; 2019-2024).



                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 e. Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR)
  This group provides an interdisciplinary approach to the global challenge of AMR. Luca
 Guardabassi, recruited (2018) to a joint appointment with Copenhagen University provides
 collaborative strategic leadership. A veterinary public health specialist with microbiological
 expertise, he is ideally qualified. He focuses on discovery of innovative antimicrobial drugs and
 diagnostic tests development optimising their use. This is highly complementary to
 pharmacologist, Pelligand, who co-leads the group. Guardabassi and Pelligand are members of
 EU VETCAST, an EUCAST standing subcommittee dealing with all aspects of animal bacterial
 pathogen susceptibility testing, including those with zoonotic potential.


  RVC spinout, Tecrea Ltd., is developing novel technology identified by Liam Good which
 enhances antimicrobial entry into microbes, thus increasing existing drug efficacy and overcoming
 resistance. Tecrea Animal Health has been formed through a multi-million pound deal with a large
 Animal Health Company (see ICS). Pelligand is applying PK/PD principles and in vitro modelling
 techniques to determine optimal antimicrobial exposure profiles for problem pathogens and then
 translating this into optimal dosing regimens, through in vivo poultry studies. He is supported by
 Professor Toutain (Category C; honorary professor; 2017-2023). Good and Pelligand will work
 together on Alternatives to Veterinary Antimicrobial Drugs (AVANT), Guardabassi’s EU-H2020
 Innovation Action grant (2020-2024), which has a portfolio of non-antibiotic interventions targeting
 porcine diarrhoea. This builds on the polymer (nanoparticle) approach as an alternative for porcine
 enteric toxigenic E. coli treatment.


 Two new appointments strengthen AMR research.            Both are microbiologists with additional
 complementary skills developed during their post-doctoral training. Lucy Brunton (2017; from
 APHA), following post-graduate (RVC) veterinary epidemiology training, was appointed to
 strengthen AMR molecular epidemiology (focusing on extended spectrum beta-lactamase
 resistance). Ben Swift (2017; from Nottingham University), AMR strategic fellow, brings phage
 technology to bacterial diagnostics allowing AMR detection. These scientists add capacity to
 genome-based approaches to AMR epidemiology provided by Stuart Reid.


  AMR research is important for Food Safety and Sustainable Food Systems groups.
 Understanding the drivers for antibiotic usage by farmers is crucial with on-going projects in India
 and Kenya (Heffernan; ESRC), in the UK Dairy sector (APHA collaboration) and with ILRI in the
 Vietnamese aquaculture system (CGIAR funding). We are using BBSRC DTP funding with
 associate partner, Food Standards Agency, to investigate AMR bacterial contamination of seafood
 (Mateus), identified as a significant risk because most seafood products are imported from
 countries with poor antimicrobial drug regulation.



                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Principal Achievements:
 -Identified that polyhexamethylene biguanide’s antibacterial action is through nanoparticle
 formation with DNA condensation and that it kills intracellular bacteria and protozoa without
 harming host cells


 Future goals:
  Continue to develop an environment that brings together people with diverse skills and
 perspectives needed to tackle AMR, broadening our perspectives to consider environmental
 contamination created by livestock use of antibiotics and nurturing the leadership potential of
 REF2021 new appointees. Specifically we will:
 -model the comparative data on antimicrobial drug use, microbiome population dynamics and
 AMR gene prevalence to devise interventions that reduce AMR (UKRI-GCRF; 2019-2024);
 -use a systems dynamic modelling to devise interventions to reduce antimicrobial usage in
 Vietnamese aquaculture (RVC/ILRI; 2019-2022);
 -create a new AMR research platform to reduce livestock-sourced antimicrobial river
 contamination (GCRF Cluster programme – inception phase 2020-21).


 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
  REF5a presents high-level principles underpinning our staffing and development strategy,
 outlines key challenges we face around equality and diversity, attracting and developing clinician
 scientists for translational research and defines how we are tackling these. Here we define how
 our staff profile compares with REF2014 and reflect on turnover, retention and progression since
 2008.


  Our staffing strategy is supported by a Staff Development Manager with a research background
 dedicated to management and leadership development for early career researchers (ECRs),
 induction and training course design. RVC holds Athena SWAN Bronze (2018) and HR Excellence
 in Research (since 2012, last renewed in 2020) Awards. In 2020, we achieved the Association of
 University Administrators (AUA) Mark of Excellence award, recognising our commitment to
 professional service staff development. The behaviours framework underpinning this award has
 been adopted by academic departments and incorporated into new academic probation and
 promotion processes (APPP). This aligns perfectly with our commitment to the Research Integrity
 Concordat and membership of UK Reproducibility Network (UKRN).


  RVC offers a strongly supportive environment, with a policy of seeking to develop high-quality
 people from the outset, and encouraging their ongoing development. Turnover of REF-eligible
 staff and progression of ECRs suggests our environment fulfils that policy, enabling researchers


                                                                                           Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to achieve their potential. Of the 113 staff returned in REF2014, 71 (62.8%) remain in post. Of
 those classified as ECRs (18), 11 remain employed, 10 having achieved promotion. Of the 7 that
 left, two clinicians moved into private practice and 3 have secured permanent positions in
 academic institutions (Harvard, Surrey and Liverpool John Moores) from RVC fixed-term
 independent posts. The other two moved to permanent academic posts at Hong-Kong City U and
 Imperial College after passing their RVC probation.


  Seventy new appointments were made during REF2021, 35 of which are ECRs. Thus, we are
 investing in new talent but also appointing more experienced people to maintain this important
 balance. The rationale for many of the new appointments is presented above (section 1). Due to
 the change in REF criteria, the number of staff included in REF2021 has increased to 172 (52%).
 Of these, 31 people were in post in REF2014 but were not included. Twenty-three of these 31 are
 academics who provide clinical service and undertake research advancing clinical practice. Thus,
 REF2021 presents the breadth of our research. Equality diversity and inclusion data are shown in
 the Table below:


               Head      M:F                           Age                      Fixed-    BAME
               count                                 (years)                     term
                                                                               contract
                                 29-35    36-45       46-55    56-65   ≥66       (%)       (%)
  All           172    1.0:1.0     14       66         54       35      3        11.0     12.2
  New appts      70    1.0:1.8     14       37         14       4       1        24.3       5.7
  ECRs           35    1.0:2.5     12       17          4       2       0        28.5     11.4
  -REF2014       31    1.4:1.0     0        11         10       9       1         0       12.9
  +REF2014       71    1.5:1.0     0        18         30       23      2        2.8      17.8


 -REF2014 – staff in post but not included in REF2014; +REF2014 staff included in REF2014.
 Three of 172 people declared a disability (1.7%).


  Our strategy for developing researchers entering their first academic post is to provide
 individualised career pathway (ICP) goals for their 3-year probation. Their work balance between
 teaching, research and clinical service determines the research achievements expected to
 progress. Support for research development is provided through internal funding to generate pilot
 data or set up external collaborations to learn techniques. Prioritised access to PhD studentship
 funding is provided (co-supervision with an experienced researcher is required). Current budget
 supports 28 students (£720k p.a.). Mentorship in grant writing is provided through research groups
 where resource sharing enables ECRs to get started. Residents are post-graduate students of
 clinical academics funded through clinical income.

                                                                                           Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  We offer c.8 internally-funded PhD studentships per annum with stipends and fees for up to 3.5
 years. Our goal is to provide new staff on research-focused contracts with a RVC-funded PhD
 student within 3 years with start-up funding for running costs. Applications are reviewed by RSC
 and projects deemed suitable are advertised; feedback is always given to help with grant writing.
 We advertise more studentships than we can fund to ensure we appoint the best candidates to
 their preferred project. Careful choice of co-supervisors ensures new staff are supported and
 integrate well. Independent Researchers can apply for PhD studentships on commencing their
 fellowships provided their posts last the duration of the studentship.


  Since August 2013, 26 newly appointed staff (from REF2014 and REF2021) have been provided
 with PhD students from this source, showing we prioritise new appointees. Other priorities for
 Internal PhD funding is to provide students to staff recently awarded major grants, ensuring
 students enter supportive well-funded groups.


  Of the 35 ECR included in REF2021, 8 were appointed into REF-eligible positions following a
 period of RVC post-doctoral training; 11 undertook either clinical specialist post-graduate training
 and/or their PhD at RVC prior to moving into REF-eligible posts. Four of these had both RVC
 clinical specialist and PhD training being part of our long-term strategy to develop clinician
 scientists (see REF5a). Three ECR clinician scientists are on internally-funded fellowships,
 collaborating with medical schools (Oxford and Kings) to develop major translational research
 programmes. All have secured Academy of Medical Sciences (AMS) starter grants. RVC
 persuaded AMS to accept veterinary applications. The strength of RVC’s clinician scientist
 development programme is evidenced by appointment of RVC-trained clinician scientists to senior
 leadership roles elsewhere – 3 during REF2021, (Oliver Garden - Departmental Chair at University
 of Pennsylvania; Holger Volk – Departmental Chair, University of Veterinary Medicine Hannover;
 Karen Allenspach – Small Animal Medicine Professor, Iowa State University). Nevertheless, we
 recognise that we need to provide ICPs that play to individual strengths and for some specialist
 clinicians this will be clinical service combined with teaching. The clinician educator track (70%
 clinical service) is the role they fulfil. Academics on this track during their probation period do not
 take responsibility for research (see RVC’s Code of Practice). This gives them time to establish
 themselves as clinical specialists and develop teaching skills. Once through probation we expect
 applied research contributions which advance clinical practice. The change to REF rules for
 REF2021 means these outputs are included.


  The above data demonstrate we are creating opportunities for research assistants (RAs) and
 research-trained clinical specialists to progress, gain independence and access permanent
 positions. Progression to independence is facilitated by supporting RAs to be researcher co-


                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 investigators on grants, recognising their contributions to proposals, providing access to small
 internal grants to generate new data or access training with collaborators to support their ideas
 and travel grants to attend meetings. Post-docs can be named as PhD supervisors when merited
 and access modular teacher training which they use to build a P.G.Cert Vet Ed. We support their
 applications for external fellowships, providing constructive feedback and committing to
 permanent posts at the end of fellowships where appropriate. Sixteen academics in our return
 have transitioned from independent research fellow (11 externally funded) into an open-ended
 position. Four more are on track to do so within the next 3 years. These are some of our most
 successful researchers, establishing their research within our environment before taking on
 academic duties. However, we recognise many post-docs will move into non-academic positions
 and our development and mentorship schemes equip them for this, as emphasised in our HR
 Excellence in Research Action plan (2018-2020). We have had excellent engagement with
 officers of the Researcher Association (RA) over the renewal process for this award (confirmed
 12/2020).


  We recognise that structured career development for established academics should be
 improved, through an institution-wide programme providing time and funding to develop new
 research skills. At present we support secondment and sabbatical proposals on an ad hoc basis
 when duties can be covered or income is generated to support replacements. The new ICP
 appraisal system provides transparent and more standardised routes for academic progression
 with options to tailor to the individual’s circumstances (e.g. in terms of caring responsibilities) and
 strengths (use of optional goals) and is easily coupled to development requirements. Mentorship
 and coaching schemes support academic and non-academic staff. RSC has identified academic
 groups where leadership is required to facilitate mid-career researcher development and used
 secondments (Agricultural Economics), fixed-term part-time contracts (Animal Welfare) and
 honorary positions (Pharmacokinetics, Food Safety and Osteoarthritis) to provide (see Section 1).
  Academics are encouraged to undertake consultancy/secondment work for stakeholders
 enabling them to experience different working environments. In some cases this is on an individual
 basis whereas sometimes academic groups work together to deliver what is needed. Our strong
 relationships with FAO, OIE, WHO, APHA, FSA and PHE make these frequent customers,
 assisting academic understanding of policy-makers’ needs.


  Academics are expected to engage in knowledge exchange, a mandatory ICP element,
 contributing equally with research, teaching and clinical service to probation and promotion. The
 close working partnerships we have with Industry and policy makers are highlighted in our impact
 case studies. Academic engagement with users of their research is also facilitated by HEIF funding
 (Concept Development Partnership Fund (CDPF)), supported by dedicated professional staff who
 help identify partners. This has been a major success in REF2021, assisting mid-career


                                                                                                Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researcher-development with GBP1,152,000 awarded since 2014-15 to fund 26 proof-of-concept
 projects ranging in size from GBP10,000 to GBP150,000, often with matched industry funding. In
 addition, RVC has received 2 separate BBSRC Impact Acceleration Awards (2017 and 2018),
 funding 4 projects designed to transfer know-how and skills to researchers in LMICs.
 Research students:
  We provide a stimulating training environment for PhD students, who are embedded within active
 groups. We aim to develop students as independent, innovative and critical thinkers, and future
 research leaders. The training environment is overseen by our Graduate School which delivers a
 strong and diverse transferable skills training programme, structured around Vitae’s Researcher
 Development Framework. Skills development and research project progress are monitored
 through annual appraisal. Research students benefit from a wide range of support mechanisms,
 whether for academic matters or issues outside their immediate research environment. A
 mentoring scheme is provided for new starters who are also assigned an independent advisor. In
 2019, we invested in Haplo™ PGR Manager, to bring all PGR student experience factors together
 in one user-friendly online system. Students record their development activities and progress in
 an easy-to-use online format. The appraisal process, thesis submission and examination
 procedures are embedded in Haplo™, which will replace current paper-based processes.
 Graduate School progression monitoring is much easier meaning struggling students can be
 recognised earlier.


  We recognise the importance of partnering neighbouring institutions to broaden the experience
 and access to resources for our PGR students training to undertake research which goes across
 disciplines. Since 2007, RVC has been part of the Bloomsbury Studentship programme with
 Birkbeck, LSHTM, SOAS and UCL Institute of Education. During REF2021 the College has funded
 14 studentships under this scheme, in which the students benefit from supervisors in two Colleges.
 RVC also provided co-supervision for studentships registered at partner Colleges.


  Since 2012, RVC has been part of the BBSRC-funded UCL-led London Interdisciplinary Doctoral
 Programme (LIDo) with Birkbeck, LSHTM, King’s College, QMUL, National Resources Institute,
 Greenwich and Royal Holloway, attracting c.10% of students in the programme which has run
 throughout REF2021 (grant renewed; 2020-2029). LIDo focuses strongly on applying quantitative
 methods to answer important biological questions and provides in-depth formal systems biology
 and bioinformatics training to support effective interdisciplinary research, thus aligning with RVC’s
 strategic priority of training quantitative biologists (Section 1). LIDo’s quality has been recognised
 through contribution of part-funded studentships by major stakeholders, including APHA and Food
 Standards Agency (FSA). RVC is ideally placed to provide training in global issues relating to food
 safety and security and zoonotic diseases in a One Health context. We have increasingly attracted
 key partners for joint studentships in these areas, including APHA at national level and the


                                                                                               Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) internationally. We are one of the UK partners in
 the Africa-based SACIDS-PASET PhD programme, World Bank funded, providing student co-
 supervision and mentorship. Furthermore, RVC was the training lead in the ZELS PhD programme
 (2015-2019), hosting students conducting field studies in LMICs in collaboration with key
 stakeholders and policy makers. We are also a partner in 4 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Innovative
 Training networks (Bone Pain I&II, CarBon, and Tendon Train), all MSK Biology multi-institutional
 consortia involving industry partners.


  In 2020, RVC became a partner in the GBP5,000,000 programme entitled ‘Partnerships for
 Sustainable Food Future CDT’, led by the Natural Resources Institute, Greenwich and involving
 five other HEIs and two research institutes. The UK’s only Food Systems CDT, awarded
 competitively by BBSRC, its goal is to drive transformation of the UK food system, and ensure
 safe, healthy, sustainable, and affordable food for all. Barbara Häsler played a leading role in
 designing the CDT’s training programme.


  RVC has sustained its success in attracting industry partners for PhD training. Of 188 PhD
 studentships registered since August 2013 (average of 27 per annum), 47 involved industrial
 partners (25%); 41 (22%) were UKRI funded. We have awarded 181 (1.05/fte submitted staff)
 PhD degrees since August 2013, 81.5% of which were awarded within 5 years of registration (<7
 years if part-time) with 16/34 late completions having interruptions for maternity and/or medical
 reasons. Considering clinical academics train post-graduate clinical specialists (38% of RVC staff
 are practising clinical specialists) in their disciplines (including research training) with 129
 graduating (MVetMed) over REF2021, 1.80 PG students trained/fte is a more appropriate metric.


 Equality and Diversity
  The challenges we face, relating to gender equality, are significant and our institutional-level
 approach to encouraging women to take up leadership positions and to the issues raised by the
 Black Lives Matter campaign are outlined in REF5a. Since 2014, RVC has taken significant steps
 to ensure our environment caters for a diverse researcher population and treats them fairly. A
 dedicated HR Equality and Diversity Manager has been appointed and each department has
 Equality and Diversity Champions. The Equality and Diversity Committee (EDC) chair sits on the
 senior decision making committee, determining College policy and resource management. RVC
 achieved the Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2018 and is working towards the Silver award. We
 work hard to ensure staff are trained to minimise unconscious bias during recruitment, requiring
 all appointment board members to have undergone this training (refreshed triennially). Our new
 APPP process has improved transparency and objectivity in decision making. A professorial
 grading system has been introduced (2020). Professors were moved onto a new salary scale, the
 final modernising step to our APPP process. All academics are provided with ICPs with mandatory


                                                                                            Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 elements and are required to comply with our Behaviours Framework designed to foster a
 supportive and inclusive culture. In 2018, flexible working was promoted through workshops,
 resulting in increased Policy awareness and a 54% increase in flexible working requests (31 in
 2017-18 vs. 48 in 2018-19).
  Contract researchers are represented on our EDC and RSC and in the 2020 internal Researcher
 Association survey, 87% of 45 respondents felt RVC is a fair, caring and inclusive place to work.
 Nevertheless, we endeavour to continually improve the research culture, accepting that we need
 to build on the 2020 AUA Mark of Excellence Award and develop an active bystander culture,
 implement a ‘report and support’ system reinforcing the behaviours framework and ensuring
 inappropriate behaviours are called out whenever encountered.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
  Average research income per annum during REF2021 has grown by 23.3% relative to REF2014.
 REF5a explains the strategy to maintain a balanced funding portfolio. EU-Government funding
 has increased 2.6 fold because of a deliberate strategy of educating academics in the EU-funding
 landscape, building on the success of using consultancy to assist in bid preparation. These
 approaches have led to 25 awards running over the REF2021 period, including four ERC
 Investigators, five individual Marie Sklodowska-Curie fellowships and four ITNs. RVC academics
 were/are partners in 9 EU-consortium grants (3 are EDCTP programmes). We have invested in
 professional staff capable of supporting consortium-building activities and identifying additional
 large collaborative funding opportunities (see REF5a).


  ERC funding has enabled Alan Wilson to publish high quality innovative research culminating in
 his election to FRS (2020). His work is of major public interest, has featured on BBC Horizon (Cat
 Watch 2014: The Horizon Experiment), where technology developed for measuring performance
 of wild cheetah was applied to domestic cats in suburbia; a public interest cat behaviour
 experiment. Technology developed in his ERC award is being enhanced through two ERC Proof-
 of-Concept grants to ensure it has broader impact and application.


  The same outgoing collaborative approach leading to success in accessing EU funding has
 brought success in leading consortia involving LMICs in response to UKRI-GCRF Initiatives.
 GBP3,000,000 awarded to RVC has provided resources to overseas partners during REF2021
 (excluded from research income data). Support for interdisciplinary team development through
 LIDC is described in section 1. Many IRLFS researchers are highly motivated to positively impact
 the lives of the world’s poorest people. The UKRI Hub grants secured provide unrivalled platforms
 on which to build. Management of such large scale international projects is challenging. RVC has
 invested in project management support staff and now employs 3.2 fte whose salaries are



                                                                                           Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 recouped from grants where possible. We have also invested in a Research Information
 Management System, Worktribe™, providing sophisticated research management tools.


  To maximise impact from our GCRF activities, RVC leads a Connecting Capability Fund project
 (Research England), The Bloomsbury SET. This £5.6-million project, led by RVC’s Director of
 Research Administration (a new Professional Service appointment for REF2021), involves RVC,
 LSHTM, SOAS and London School of Economics. It focuses on development of diagnostics,
 vaccines and artificial intelligence applications to infectious disease modelling (stemming from
 IRLFS research; section 1). It supports three 2-year Innovation Fellowships for ECRs (2 at RVC,
 1 at LSHTM), and nine 2-year project grants with industry/user involvement through co-funding
 and joint supervision.


  The Bloomsbury SET’s Advisory Council is drawn from industry (mainly SMEs), government
 bodies (e.g. PHE) and NGOs. This provides advice and guidance to the Steering Committee,
 conducts peer review, and facilitates new connections with industry, state actors and public-private
 partnerships, such as transnational Product Development Partnerships that are developing new
 diagnostic tools and vaccines. Success in securing Research England follow-on-funding for
 Bloomsbury SET (GBP4,000,000; 2021-2023) creates a remarkable opportunity to collaborate
 with the Infection Innovation Consortium (iiCON) from North West England and operate an
 ambitious ‘Impact Connector’ model enabling tailored commercial support for our strongest
 projects through the core Accelerator element, increasing the pace at which they move towards
 TRL 7-9. The Poultry Hub is also stimulating engagement with UK and European industry (e.g.
 vaccine manufacturers), and with poultry producers in LMICs in South and South-East Asia.
  A major future goal of our pathogen-based research is to reduce reliance on chemotherapy by
 developing endemic pathogen vaccines. Hence, we are creating a Veterinary Vaccinology and
 Cell Therapy Hub (VCTH) in partnership with Herts LEP (see REF5a). This opens in July 2021.
 In addition to modern laboratory and office space, it includes SME space adjacent to academics
 enabling shared access to equipment. The facility is equipped with state-of-the-art cell sorting
 and analysing machines (GBP471,254), and fluorescent microscopy (GBP83,501) run by
 experienced newly appointed managers. This facility complements our Camden microscopy unit
 where the confocal microscope was renewed in 2019 (GBP250,026) through our rolling
 replacement programme. Sharing of equipment is a two-way process and the Merck group in
 LBIC allow RVC mitochondrial biologists access to their Seahorse equipment for cellular
 energetics analyses.


  Livestock vaccine development requires pathogen challenge studies and we have invested in
 our custom-built barn, equipping five rooms with individual air-handling systems and HEPA
 filtration. This enables work to SAPO 3 level, including exotic disease causing organisms such as


                                                                                             Page 30
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Theileria and Babesia spp. Large animal experimental facilities for regulated work are used
 extensively by external partners alongside RVC academics. For example, we maintain animals
 providing reagents for the National Institute for Biological Standards and Control, breed genetically
 modified pigs for heart valve-replacement research (UCL-led programme) and work collaboratively
 with UCL and Sheffield University in our GLP-registered facilities, developing human orthopaedic
 implants.
  Our Biological Services Units (BSU) on both campuses have been completely refurbished and
 plant replaced (2016-19; GBP3,712,397). This accommodated expansion of dog breeding facilities
 for our DMD model, successfully characterised with Wellcome Bioresources funding (see section
 1), a resource now available for collaborative working. Industry are funding trials to develop data
 for registration studies, hence the need to expand the facilities. A 3Rs project is underway to sort
 semen so only male puppies are produced, reducing the numbers of dogs that need to be bred.
 BSU staff are dedicated to rehoming dogs wherever possible.


  Further investments in experimental facilities for translational research include installation of a
 fluoroscopy unit (GBP143,500) enabling cardiac catheterisation. [Text removed for publication].
 We plan to expand our large animal translational model programme to complement our basic
 science and clinical expertise in cardiovascular biology and neurosciences through creation of an
 advanced imaging centre (3T MRI) run by clinical specialists. Co-funded by the Herts LEP
 (GBP2,127,000) this opens in Jan 2022. We envisage cell therapy and gene editing will be utilised
 extensively in these models, leading to treatments for chronic degenerative conditions in human
 and veterinary patients. Thus, we have established a Stem Cell Centre (SCC), licensed by the
 Veterinary Medicine Directorate, producing cells for veterinary use. HEIF funding is pump-priming
 SCC’s staffing, which will become part of the LEP-funded VCTH. We are actively pursuing
 partnerships with companies associated with the Stevenage Cell and Gene Therapy Catapult
 Manufacturing Centre.


  As part of our strategy to use veterinary patients as human disease models, we have invested in
 state-of-the-art facilities for single cell sequencing from clinical material (10xGenomics machine;
 USD128,125). Dedicated technicians trained by the WCHG, Oxford manage this facility. Parallel
 investments in high-performance computing (GBP199,643) have upgraded our cluster, and new
 bioinformatics appointments (Section 1) support this. We have maintained a group of veterinary
 nurses to support clinical sample acquisition, charged to research grants but employed on
 permanent contracts through the Clinical Investigation Centre. These staff archive clinical samples
 where owner informed consent is provided. IT investment in hospital and laboratory information
 management systems (ongoing) and VetCompass™ completes the tools we provide for clinical
 research. A dedicated IT developer manages these systems. We have invested in IT staff training
 to develop their natural language processing skills, facilitating text mining capabilities, which will


                                                                                               Page 31
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 also benefit our social science research. Finally, as a commitment to advancing primary care
 practice, we have purchased a primary care practice in Bedford. This centre will facilitate primary
 care-based clinical research, complementing partnerships we have with the PDSA and Blue Cross
 and Beaumont Sainsbury Animal Hospital in so doing.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
  We generate new knowledge through excellent basic biological, biomedical, veterinary applied
 and clinical research in order to advance science, and enhance human and animal health and
 welfare. The Institutional-level strategies to facilitate effective knowledge exchange are outlined in
 REF5a. Our ‘One Health’ approach to research means its beneficiaries encompass a broad range
 of stakeholders. Working in partnership with these groups is important to understand the context
 in which the knowledge generated is used to provide solutions to their problems.
  Evidence of RVC’s broad international reach can be gleaned from the Veterinary Science QS
 University World Rankings. RVC has been in the top three institutions globally since Veterinary
 Science’s inclusion (2016), ranking 1st in 2019 and 2021. Academic reputation, weighted for
 international views, comprises 40% of the ranking score.


 Fostering academic interactions
  Often academic partnerships are best established ‘bottom up’ with collaborations being
 established through shared interests. To foster interdisciplinary research, RVC as a stand-alone
 veterinary-focused institution needs to form lasting partnerships as a framework for collaborations.
 Staff in the Research Support Office (RSO) actively identify opportunities to apply for large
 consortium grants and work with lead academics identifying appropriate partners. LIDC is a major
 enduring partnership established in 2007, providing access to many disciplines needed to tackle
 global challenges outlined in section 1. Within LIDC, LSHTM’s interests align most closely with
 RVC’s and many academic partnerships have grown following initial introductions at LIDC or via
 PhD co-supervision through the Bloomsbury Research Studentship scheme. The VPR-I sits on
 LIDC’s Management Committee, line manages its Director and chaired the Bloomsbury Research
 Committee (2012-2016).


  The LIDo DTP is a second institutional-level academic partnership facilitating interdisciplinary
 working between biological, physical and mathematical sciences. The academic partners are
 detailed in section 2. RVC is a LIDo founding member and has provided leadership of its
 Management, Research and Training and Partnerships Committees during REF2021.                   LIDo
 encourages cross-institutional co-supervision from different disciplines which applies to 46% of
 our standard LIDo studentships. It enables us to build on existing collaborations with scientists
 working at 3 of London’s largest medical schools (important for our One Health Strategy). Our
 RSO has co-ordinated show-and-tell symposia at UCL (Biosciences Division and Dept. Medical


                                                                                               Page 32
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Physics and Biomedical Engineering) and QMUL (focusing on MSK Biology, Cardiovascular
 Biology and Comparative Genetics). Collaborations with Kings are strong in Neurosciences and
 Cardiovascular Biology. RVC and Kings jointly fund a Clinician Scientist Fellow in Neurosciences.
 The new LIDo partner, NRI (Greenwich University) provides complementary expertise for Food
 Systems research. NRI led the successful application for the UK’s Food System CDT in which
 RVC is one of seven partners (see above).


  In preparing for submission of the UKRI-GCRF One Poultry Hub bid, our wider shared interests
 with the Zoology Department, Oxford University became apparent. This resulted in a joint
 appointment (in Genomic Epidemiology – section 1) and a MoU (2018-2023) setting out the ways
 in which we intend to collaborate.      In 2019, two symposia were held to explore areas of
 collaboration, including sharing of resources, and joint grant applications resulted. The Covid-19
 outbreak has curtailed face-to-face interactions necessary to progress this relationship to its full
 potential. Support for our comparative genetics strategy is particularly important and strong
 relationships have been forged with WCHG, Department of Medicine in Oxford through Davison,
 who holds a visiting position there, mentoring veterinarians who have enrolled on the Wellcome-
 funded 4-year clinical PhD programme to which RVC is affiliated. In the field of antimicrobial
 resistance, academic collaboration with Copenhagen University has resulted in RVC’s
 involvement in a H2020 Innovation Grant and a senior joint appointment to provide RVC leadership
 in AMR (section 1).


  Institutional-level partnerships have also been fostered with UK-based Research Institutes,
 where RVC’s strength in particular academic disciplines is sought after. We have strength in depth
 in pathology, employing specialists with laboratory animal pathology expertise and work
 collaboratively with the Francis Crick Institute to ensure their scientists use the most appropriate
 models, design experiments correctly and interpret molecular pathology changes accurately. This
 partnership provides excellent development opportunities for our ECR pathologists who alert Crick
 scientists to relevant veterinary patient models. We provide The Pirbright Institute (TPI) with
 expertise in Veterinary Epidemiology, under a MoU (2019-2022) supporting them in developing
 their ECR epidemiologists.     This builds on longstanding TPI collaborations on chicken viral
 diseases (Professor Munir Iqbal holds an honorary RVC position) and PPR, where multiple joint
 grants have resulted through complementary expertise.


  To ensure we work with academic partners to maximise our research impact, RVC leads a
 Research England-funded CCF project, The Bloomsbury SET (see section 3). In addition, we are
 a partner in the MedTech Super-Connector CCF led by Imperial College.


 Non-academic users of our research include:


                                                                                             Page 33
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (a) Industry (Biomedical and Animal Health [encompassing Pharmaceuticals, Diagnostics,
 Medical Devices]; Agriculture and Horticulture Development Board, Animal Nutrition,
 Biotechnology and robotics businesses)
 (b) Government policy makers, veterinary drug registration agencies, non-governmental
 organisations, e.g. FAO, OIE and WHO, and charities involved in public health and infectious
 disease control
 (c) All areas of professional veterinary practice – companion, production animal and equine
 practice at first opinion and referral levels, wildlife medicine, government service for public health
 and food safety and security. Additionally, through translation to human medicine, human health
 care provision systems
 (d) Communities and individuals - particularly those affected by disease or injury, including
 organised patient groups; pet owners; and those concerned with animal welfare or food safety e.g.
 farmers and animal charities, together with all affected by socio-economic consequences of
 zoonoses
 (e) Public (adults and school-age children) and media – engagement has been directed towards
 fostering greater understanding of and enthusiasm for our science and natural history
  High level strategies for fostering interactions with each of these groups are detailed REF5a.
 Further details follow.


 Industry
  Strong engagement with industry is evident from the proportion (20.2% in REF2021) of our
 research funding from collaborative R&D contracts with private organisations world-wide. In
 addition, 25% of PhD students registered over REF2021 worked on projects with industry partners.
 Furthermore, 10.7% of our original research publications include corporate co-authors (Scopus),
 demonstrating that the research is often an intellectual partnership.


  We support industry engagement through: a) matched funding initiatives supporting collaborative
 R&D (proof-of-concept); b) provision of space for 30+ Life Science businesses at LBIC, RVC’s
 central London innovation hub; c) proactive marketing of College expertise, services and facilities;
 d) industry showcase events; e) researcher support and training in technology transfer, including
 the licensing of College-owned intellectual property; and f) policy engagement with corporates and
 small businesses in London’s Knowledge Quarter (KQ) and Hertfordshire, aiming to contribute to
 Local Industrial Strategy delivery.


  Academic consultancy is encouraged with up to one day per week of consultancy permitted to
 boost personal income or discretionary accounts. The RSO helps academics to find industry
 partners for iCASE studentships and grant applications requiring industrial partners (section 2).



                                                                                               Page 34
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have engaged two Entrepreneurs in Residence to work with researchers in understanding the
 routes to commercial impact of their work.


  RVC established the first London-based innovation centre for commercial companies in 2000
 (LBIC; section 3). Demand for LBIC space is very strong, extending to larger companies as well
 as SMEs. The LBIC CEO (who also leads RVC Business) and VPR-I work together to ensure
 companies whose interests align with RVC’s research strategy are recruited. Preference is also
 given to companies interested in accessing/sharing RVC resources (equipment, animal facilities).
 Such sharing increases contact with RVC staff and contributes to running costs. RVC Business
 will operate the new SME space (VCTH) from July 2021. As a member of One Nucleus, RVC
 hosts a ‘Bio-Wednesday’ networking event annually. We actively promote One Nucleus’s events
 to academics.


  Four of our impact cases studies demonstrate our success of achieving impact through working
 with animal health industries. Further examples of on-going work that is at an earlier stage and
 will likely generate future impact follow. Our strategic approach to engaging with medical pharma
 and device companies was explained in preceding sections. Our large animal experimental
 facilities are registered with MHRA for GLP studies [text removed for publication]. Similarly, novel
 treatments for DMD are being developed collaboratively in proof-of-concept trials using our dog
 model prior to human clinical trials. SML research informs bioinspired robotics. Those interested
 in flight have studied how insects sense proximity of objects and the ground whilst in flight [text
 removed for publication]. Further work on how birds adapt to turbulent airflow is being used to
 inform aircraft wing design and has led to a patent application. Collaboration with the
 Government’s DSTL in further R&D in a third concept derived from insect flight, echolocation, is
 ongoing. Finally, RVC researchers whose work with FSA informed the on-farm biosecurity
 measures to reduce broiler carcass contamination with Campylobacter, have worked
 collaboratively with Aviagen to develop a simulation model to assess the effectiveness of
 measures designed to reduce the risk of introduction and contain spread of infection between
 poultry facilities.


 Policy-makers:
  RVC encourages participation in regional, national and international bodies making and
 influencing policy, as well as in schemes to develop political awareness. The institutional-level
 relationships with APHA, OIE, FAO and WHO are detailed in REF5a and elsewhere in REF5b.
 RVC has consolidated its position as a trusted provider of consultancy and services to national
 and international bodies including the European Commission; FAO, WHO and DEFRA. Twenty-
 three RVC academics have served on national, European or International committees providing
 scientific advice to inform policy. RVC is recognised by the European Food Safety Authority


                                                                                             Page 35
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (registered provider) and a preferred provider for DEFRA. Strong links with private consultancy
 organisations provide complementary expertise when required to address specific project
 proposals. RVC is a partner of ILRI, the CGIAR-funded global research partnership for a food-
 secure future.


  Four of the submitted ICS demonstrate how our research is used to inform policy in the UK and
 internationally. Other examples include work informing policy to control highly pathogenic avian
 influenza in the socioeconomic context of Bangladesh’s poultry industry where trade in live poultry
 is an important income source for small-scale farmers.          RVC’s ZELS-funded programme,
 Behavioural Adaptations in Live Poultry Trading and Farming Systems and Zoonoses Control
 (BALZAC) has recommended that policy should be based on the One Health concept and that the
 policy environment should be modified to enable formal multi-sector engagement, clear roles and
 responsibilities, a common pool of transferable resources, and the creation of an inter-ministerial
 One Health secretariat to facilitate this process. With this platform in place, detailed research
 insights have contributed to new policy development aiming to improve Bangladesh’s avian
 influenza control. Continued research in collaboration with TPI into African Swine Fever virus has
 provided new information on virus transmission dynamics, demonstrated how the infection can
 spread without being detected in low-biosecurity pig farming systems, thus emphasising the
 challenge and critical importance of surveillance for early detection. These insights have informed
 OIE   and   FAO     policy   recommendations for     control    of   this   transboundary   disease,
 recommendations which are being adopted by the European Commission. Brucellosis research
 in Jordan, West Africa and India has established the extent of the public health problem and
 epidemiological risk factors, is informing local context specific control strategies (in India
 implementation impacted by the pandemic) and establishing diagnostic laboratory-based skills
 capacity to detect infection (West Africa).


 Professional Veterinary Practice
  RVC has a tradition of providing leadership within the veterinary profession. In REF2021, RVC
 academics have led RCVS (two presidents) and BVA.              Engagement with first opinion and
 specialist practitioners ensures research focuses on common important clinical issues and
 provides access to data and case material for research. Relationships with charities (e.g. PDSA,
 Blue Cross, Battersea Dogs and Cats Home, Redwings Horse Sanctuary) facilitate substantial
 projects with unique longitudinal data collection. Examples of these feature in our ICSs.
 VetCompass™, RVC’s system to enable veterinary practices to share data for research purposes,
 has tripled in size since REF2014, with 1800 practices and 15,000,000 animals providing data,
 including Equine Practices since 2016. Research using this system and has helped industry,
 welfare charities and government understand what diseases are seen in veterinary practice and
 how they are treated. Plans for further VetCompass™ development are included in section 1.


                                                                                              Page 36
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  RVC research is also translated through conventional dissemination routes: its own Continuing
 Professional Development (CPD) programme; textbooks; and national and international
 conference presentations.     During REF2021, RVC academics have co-authored 23 articles
 providing best practice consensus guidelines through International specialist colleges and special
 interest groups, evidence our clinical scientists are innovating in their fields. Three ICS describe
 RVC research that has changed clinical practice (reflected in consensus statements). Other
 examples where RVC research is influencing veterinary practice include: (i) equine laminitis
 research where refinement dynamic oral sugar tests and validation of plasma adiponectin assay
 allow accurate identification of high risk animal and so targeting of preventive measures; (ii) growth
 hormone-producing tumours,        diagnosed by measuring serum IGF-1 (assays offered
 commercially), has been identified as a treatable cause of feline diabetes mellitus. RVC research
 has informed a number treatment options for this newly recognised form of feline diabetes.


 Community and Public Engagement:
  RVC’s Widening Participation and Community Engagement team works closely with researchers
 to enthuse schools; groups recognised as hard-to-reach for higher education; and other
 community groups in RVC’s research. In REF2021 period, over 107,000 participants have
 attended events where RVC researchers have inspired young people and community groups with
 new discoveries and innovations. A highlight was our involvement in the BBSRC Great British
 Bioscience Festival in November 2014, Bethnal Green (Structure and Motion lab research). A
 series of 13 research-themed ‘RVC Late’ public open evenings have been held throughout
 REF2021 attracting 7223 bookings to attend. These events allow the public to talk to scientists
 leading to discussion about animal use in research, which is part of RVC’s commitment to the
 Openness Concordat (see above). Researchers involved in work to identify treatments for rare
 diseases affecting children (e.g. DMD, Batten’s disease) engage directly with patient groups.




 Media Interactions:
  RVC invests significantly in promoting its research outputs and impacts through the media. A
 centrally-managed professional team supported by specialist consultants collaborate with our
 researchers to promote our research and deliver bespoke campaigns for particular projects.
  During REF2021 we issued 516 research-specific press releases generating 22,741 press
 stories which compares favourably with international competitors. Content has been covered by
 1,388 different publications and broadcast media in 69 countries. RVC content has featured on
 UK terrestrial television both nationally and regionally as well in countries such as USA and
 Ireland.


                                                                                               Page 37
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  Research news releases posted on our website have been read 69,823 times by 60,685
 individuals. Our main social media channels have 136,738 followers. Our social media posts
 (1,874 in this period) have been seen by 19,100,000 people with RVC specific research stories
 being featured 850 times since 2016.


  This extensive social media and general media coverage has increased awareness and
 participation in our research surveys. Our DMD canine model featured on ITV News at Ten in
 2018 after its publication in ‘Science’, winning an UAR Openness Award in 2018. This contributed
 to RVC being granted UAR Leader in Openness status (2019-2022).


 Broader contributions to the subject area
  RVC academic staff actively contribute to the broader subject area through serving on grant
 awarding committees (37 members of international and 44 members of national committees)
 including 3 committee chairs. Academic staff hold 129 journal editorial board memberships, with
 26 as editor-in-chief and reviewed over 4560 journal articles and 1500 grants applications during
 REF2021. In addition, RVC staff have organised >180 conferences and have delivered >400
 Plenary or Keynote conference lectures and >1200 invited oral presentations. RVC hosted 214
 visiting researchers, provided supervisory input to 148 PGR students registered at other institutes.
 Within our new appraisal system (section 2), these and other knowledge exchange activities where
 audiences are non-academic, are an expectation. Opportunities to apply for national and
 international committees are circulated by the VPR-I and RSO colleagues encouraging individuals
 to apply. Recognition of RVC contributions to the subject area has resulted in 140 prizes/awards
 being received during REF2021 period.


 Knowledge exchange strategy and future goals
  To maximise the impact of its research, RVC’s Knowledge Exchange Strategy 2016-20 supports
 the undertaking of knowledge exchange activities internationally, mainly in least-developed or
 LIMCs. This involves partnership development for training and capacity-building, with the aim of
 tackling neglected zoonotic diseases influencing human and animal health; to understand factors
 that influence pathogen flow from wildlife into domestic animals and people; to determine factors
 associated with intensification of livestock production that drive unintended consequences (e.g.
 antimicrobial resistance, emergence of zoonotic diseases); and to develop field diagnostic tests
 and platforms for vaccine delivery. These areas contribute to the Government’s aim of addressing
 the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals 1 to 3 (elimination of poverty and hunger;
 better food security, improved nutrition and sustainable agriculture; healthy lives).


  During REF2021, RVC has substantially increased its efforts to help deliver the People and Place
 elements of the UK Industrial Strategy. This engagement has enabled the small team in RVC’s


                                                                                             Page 38
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RSO to shape local industrial strategies, and thereafter respond to the economic development
 and regeneration needs identified therein (e.g. working with Stevenage Bioscience Catalyst to
 secure a Life Sciences Opportunity Zone in Hertfordshire; collaborating with KQ London Ltd. to
 champion a new central London innovation district). RVC’s approach has been to lead these
 responses where opportunities have presented themselves – for example, the BEIS Science and
 Innovation Audit of the KQ (2018), The Bloomsbury SET (2018-21, funding from Research
 England’s CCF) and funding for science infrastructures (2018-24, Local Growth Fund for Herts –
 of which RVC is the single largest recipient).


  In response to the Knowledge Exchange Concordat, RVC is benchmarking its performance
 against other STEM specialist institutions, to create an action plan that facilitates continuous
 improvement through investment in people and infrastructures.




                                                                                         Page 39
