Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University (NU)

 Unit of Assessment: 7 Earth Systems and Environmental Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy
 Vision: Global environmental change is arguably humanity’s greatest challenge. Our
 research addresses fundamental impacts from rapid climate change and extreme
 environments through to accelerating biodiversity and habitat loss. Pressures on food, water,
 energy, raw materials and infrastructure, with their inherent links to human systems, are
 reflected in our research portfolio. These inform our drive to develop mitigations and policy
 grounded in an understanding of the anthropogenic drivers of environmental and socio-
 economic interactions.
 Context: Clear interdisciplinary support frameworks enabling action through global
 consensus are central to success. Our research across multiple disciplines contributes to,
 and is informed by, the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the UN 2030 Agenda for
 Sustainable Development and linked UN initiatives (Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-
 2030; Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable Development 2021-2030). Specifically, we
 target SDGs 7 and 12-15 (Affordable and Clean Energy, Responsible Consumption and
 Production, Climate Action, Life Below Water and Life on Land). Our research is interwoven
 with the work of the University’s Sustainability Team and SDG committee, providing collective
 leadership on our commitment to environmental sustainability. We benefit from unique
 infrastructure, including coastal research stations, farms, bespoke surface water and deep-
 sea research vessels, and a geothermal well on campus.
 Structures and Governance
 To facilitate the interdisciplinary working that is essential for our vision, since 2014 UoA7
 researchers have consolidated in the School of Natural and Environmental Sciences (SNES,
 formed in 2017 when the Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering consolidated from
 10 to 4 Schools, combining strengths in environmental, life, agricultural and chemical
 sciences). A key driver for the faculty restructure was to improve quality of decision-making,
 breakdown of artificial discipline boundaries and increased investment in staffing and
 infrastructure evidenced here. Key collaborations across Faculties culminated in 2020 in our
 leadership of a Newcastle University Centre of Research Excellence (NUCoRE, Ref5a 2.2.1)
 in Climate & Environmental Resilience, drawing on challenge-led collaborations with
 institutional, local, national and international partners (academic/research institutes; industry;
 government; NGOs).
 Our submission represents contributions from 37 independent research active staff (33.2
 FTE): (32.2 in SNES; 1 in the School of Mathematics, Statistics and Physics), an increase of
 8.6 FTE since REF2014, including 16 Professors (14.8 FTE; two Emeritus), 3 Readers, 11
 Senior Lecturers (10.2 FTE), 7 Lecturers (10 FTE) and one Research Fellow (1 FTE).
 Fourteen new appointments since REF2014 are included, while 9 staff left NU, 2 moved to
 other UoAs, and 3 reduced their FTE contribution. UoA7 academics work with ~30 PDRAs,
 40 PhD students, and 12 Research Technicians.
 All academics, PDRAs and PGRs are managed through primary membership of an Academic
 Group, led by experienced, research-active academics. Secondary group affiliations are
 encouraged to foster cross-disciplinarity. Academic Group members are proactive in jointly
 scoping funding opportunities and optimizing research outputs. Group leads report to a
 Director of Expertise (DoE), with oversight of research and related training and teaching
 within broad solution-focussed School Directorates (BioEconomy, UoA6; Ecosystems, UoA7;
 Applied Social Sciences, UoAs6/13; Chemistry, UoA8). Activity is co-ordinated across the
 Directorates through a School Research & Innovation Committee, School Executive Board

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (DoEs are members) and across all disciplines through the Faculty and University Research
 and Innovation Committees and NU Centres of Research Excellence (NUCoREs).
 Interdisciplinary Research/Academic Groups
 Research Topics: Topic modeling of 2014-2019 research outputs (Figure 1) illustrates the
 breadth of SNES research and interdisciplinarity across Academic Groups through interlinked
 key research themes. UoA7 research spans three component Academic Groups:




 Figure 1. Research activity and links derived from topic modelling of publications, 2014-2020:
 a; SNES, b; UoA7. Grey perimeter segments (top) are research themes. Coloured perimeter
 segments (bottom) are: Expertise Areas/UoA (SNES, a), and Academic Groups (UoA7, b).
 Link widths indicate relative activity levels.

 i) Modelling, Evidence and Policy (MEP): This Group brings together conservation
 ecologists, modellers and policy experts to study health and function of complex biological
 and socio-ecological systems to support policy development and ecosystem management
 locally, nationally (e.g. IFCAs, Natural England, DEFRA: Fitzsimmons) and globally (e.g.
 IUCN, IPBES: McGowan, Robertson).
 Collectively, we benefit from diverse funding (UKRI; EU; Royal Society; RAE; RGS; Gilchrist
 Educational Trust; Heritage Lottery Fund; National Geographic Society; Leverhulme Trust;
 UK Government/agencies (Natural England; MMO; DEFRA; JNCC)). UKRI PhD CASE
 partners include conservation NGOs (IUCN Sustain; Reforest Africa; Northumbrian Water;
 Natural England).
 We work closely with Government/NGO partners (e.g. Tanzania Agricultural Research
 Institute; Tanzania Forest Service Agency; World Agroforestry Centre, ICRAF). International
 collaborations include: GCRF, Tanzania, Kenya; Royal Society, South Africa; NERC, Brunei;
 ARC, Australia (Pfeifer); GCRF, Colombia, EU, Defra; JNCC and EU, Caribbean states
 (Fitzsimmons, Robertson); COST actions (Mill); IUCN specialisms (McGowan,
 Robertson); wildlife and zoonotic diseases (Mill); biological invasions (Mill, Pattison,
 Robertson); biodiversity-ecosystem services-human health (McGowan, Pfeifer,
 Fitzsimmons); and pristine and impacted landscape management (Pfeifer, Fitzsimmons).
 Our diverse portfolio of research outputs (65% internationally co-authored (to 2018) vs 31%
 in REF2014) involves 252 colleagues and 167 outside UK. We draw on skills from across
 NU in engineering, remote sensing, ecology, molecular biology, and mathematics, and
 actively promote PGR/ECR engagement. Hosting Associate Members (e.g. Animal Plant


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health Agency, Natural England, MMO, GN Non-native Species Secretariat) enhances our
 research and ECR training.
 Policy impact is maximized via models co-developed with stakeholders (e.g. web-based apps)
 and provision of scientific advice (e.g. NatureScot: Parliamentary Environmental Audit
 Committee evidence (Mill, Robertson)). Informing the science-policy interface includes: Earth
 Observation Intergovernmental Group (Pfeifer); IUCN Conventions on Biological Diversity and
 International Trade in Endangered Species; Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform,
 Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services (Mill, Robertson, McGowan).
 Optimized data synthesis addresses information gaps via biostatistical/stochastic simulations
 (Pfeifer, Fitzsimmons: BBSRC, EPSRC, NERC, MRC, NC3Rs, NHS, NIHR). Numerical,
 statistical and mixed-qualitative models address: species conservation (McGowan); forest
 restoration, fisheries, and sustainable food production (Pfeifer, Gaulton (UoA12),
 Fitzsimmons); human-wildlife conflicts including disease risk and spread (Mill; Rushton,
 Budge (UoA6)); and invasive species management (Mill, Robertson). PGR and ECR
 demonstrators share computer coding skills with UGs and developed a coding group that
 became a 120-member R-Ladies chapter involving industry, government and academics from
 across all 3 University Faculties.
 MEP’s work is delivered in three integrated themes:
 Biodiversity Science and Policy (McGowan, Mill, Robertson): The Convention on
 Biological Diversity (CBD) identifies priorities for global species targets. We have led on Aichi
 Biodiversity Target 12, which was highlighted as a concern by the Convention at mid-term
 review in 2014. For this we analyzed conservation planning research (McGowan, Mill,
 Robertson: Mair et al., Biol. Cons, 2019), identified challenges in aligning researcher and
 official targets (McGowan: Mair et al., Conserv. Soc. in press), predicting 2.9-4.2 times
 elevated bird and mammal extinctions without implementation during the Convention’s
 duration (McGowan: Bolam et al., Cons Lett, 2020), contributing to the CBD’s Global
 Biodiversity Outlook 5. We evaluated progress in conservation of wild relatives of livestock
 (McGowan et al., Cons. Lett. 2019), promoted opportunities for species-orientated
 conventions (McGowan: Kuunal et al., Conserv. Sci. Prac. 2020), and appraised risk
 assessment within the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
 (McGowan: Ridley et al., Biol. Cons. 2019), clarifying the contribution of ex-situ management
 (e.g. extinction avoidance: McGowan et al., Cons. Lett. 2017; Farhadinia et al., Cons. Biol.
 2020). We assessed protected area conformity to biodiversity outcomes, finding evidence of
 habitat and species inadequacy (Clark et al., PLOS One, Mallari et al., Env. Manage. 2013).
 Our case study to assess compliance with Aichi Target 11 demonstrated that the Philippines
 failed to fulfil key aspects of Aichi Target 11 regarding protected areas for conservation
 (McGowan: Mallari et al., Ambio, 2016), but identified that protected areas are the last refuge
 for some species (McGowan: Boakes et al., Cons Lett. 2019).
 Biological invasions (Mill, Robertson, Pattison): We inform solution-based adaptive
 management of biological invasions (Pattison et al. Appl. Veg. Sci. 2017; Seeny et al., Biol
 Inv. 2019; Robertson, REF2021 Impact Case Study: Mill; Richardson et al. Mam. Rev. 2020;
 Cowan et al., Mam. Rev. 2020; Jaric et al., Front. Ecol. Env. 2020). We determine potential
 loss of biological diversity, food and water security and inform problematic invader
 management (UN SDG target 6.6; Aichi Target 9). Our habitat (terrestrial/freshwater/marine),
 plant, and animal modelling predict a 36% increase in non-native species by 2050, with
 aquatic invasions occurring first (Pattison: Seebens et al. Glob. Change Biol., 2020). We
 contribute to large-scale UK (Mill, Robertson chair Nature Scotland Advisory Groups) and
 EU (Robertson et al., Biol. Inv. 2015) control programmes. Mill led modelling and analysis
 for Red Squirrels United (EU LIFE-funded), defining challenges and effective management
 across invasion stages (Mill et al., Mam. Rev. 2020). We develop UK/European frameworks
 for species prioritisation across taxa and environments (Mill, Robertson: Booy et al., Biol.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Inv. 2017; Glob. Change Biol. 2020). Robertson and Mill advised prioritising UK and UKOT
 invasive species surveillance and management (2019 Invasive Species Environmental Audit).
 Our species listing guidance (European Regulations) is now UK policy and global (CBD) best
 practice applied worldwide (e.g. USA, UKOTs, Australia). Moreover, our partnerships have
 set national/international invasive species policy and management (UK Non-native Species
 Secretariat, Animal and Plant Health Agency, Scottish Natural Heritage, UK Environmental
 Audit Committee, European Commission, International Union for Nature Conservation, CBD).
 Health and resilience in modified ecosystems (Fitzsimmons, Mill, Pattison, Pfeifer): We
 evaluate global landscape/seascape changes impacting biodiversity, ecosystems, and
 human well-being, identifying healthy forest contributions to stable microclimates (Pfeifer:
 Hardwick et al., Agric. Forest Meteor. 2015; Pfeifer et al., Peer J. 2019), ecosystem
 processes (Pfeifer: Ewers et al., Nat. Comms. 2015; Rolo, et al., Forest Ecol. Man. 2018),
 and local community livelihoods (Pfeifer: Cuni-Sanchez et al., Ecosys. Serv. 2016; Clim. Dev.
 2018). Novel forest health mapping (Pfeifer et al., Rem. Sens. Environ. 2016; Jucker et al.,
 Biogeosci. 2018) predicted biodiversity responses to external forcing (Pfeifer et al., Nature
 2017; Watling, et al., Ecol. Lett. 2020). We lobbied for increased forest resilience research
 (Pfeifer: Reyer et al., J. Ecol. 2015), devising a framework for forest restoration through
 regrowth (Pfeifer: Marshall et al., Front. Forests Glob. Change 2020) and highlighted the
 potential of forest restoration/conservation for biodiversity and climate change mitigation
 (Deere et al., J. Appl. Ecol. 2018) as well as pathways for landscape-scale anthropogenic
 manipulation of forest health (Pattinson, Pfeifer: Da Silva et al., Forest. Ecol. Man. 2020).
 Social network and futures analyses clarified coral reef resource exploitation (Fitzsimmons:
 Turner et al., GEC 2014; Cons. Lett. 2020, Env. Cons. 2020), identifying drivers of
 degradation, to advise governments and regional initiatives, e.g. CARICOM. UK Government
 Agency partnerships (Fitzsimmons, Mill with Polunin: Natural England, NIFCA, CEFAS)
 provided evidence of the impact of fishing intensity on temperate reefs, identifying fishing-
 habitat quality relationships (Stephenson et al., ICES J. Mar. Sci. 2017), and socio-economic,
 technological and environmental drivers (Stephenson et al., Mar. Pol. 2018). Fitzsimmons,
 Mill, Robertson (with Polunin) developed novel species tracking (Skerritt et al., MEPS 2015)
 and modelling/validation of natural (Lees et al., Animal Biotelem. 2016) and fished (Lees et
 al., MEPS 2020) species responses resulting in advice to fisheries managers ; Fitzsimmons
 and Polunin (Skerritt et al., Fish. Mgt. Ecol. 2020). Fitzsimmons (with Delany) developed
 intertidal fisheries management models (Tinlin-Mackenzie et al., Mar. Pol. 2019), delivering
 the first rapid detection of large-scale marine ecosystem change (Lightfoot, Aq. Cons 2020;
 Mar. Fresh Ecosys. 2020). Our mapping underpins major initiatives, e.g. designating UK
 marine conservation zones (CEFAS, DEFRA), advice to the Department of Disaster
 Management (UKCOTs) on developing coral reef maps pre- and post- hurricane (JNCC,
 DEFRA, UKHO). We are integrating ecological knowledge with remote sensing to identify and
 monitor UK and UKOT marine ecosystem services (Natural England, Environment Agency,
 DEFRA Darwin/UKHO), and support marine spatial planning (Colombia: Royal Academy of
 Engineering). Fitzsimmons (Brennan et al., Mar. Pol. 2014) informed the development of
 novel ecosystem health indicators by the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (via MMO).
 These are now part of the Marine Strategy Framework Directive.
 ii) Earth, Ocean, and Planetary Sciences (EOPS): EOPS focuses on Earth System
 processes sustaining the environment, from fundamental biogeochemistry to energy and food
 production. Research highlights reflect our combination of geology, marine science and
 biology that brings comprehensive understanding of interactions between diverse Earth
 surface processes. Our work spans the spatio-temporal spectrum (seconds to millennia;
 molecular to planetary), the living system-environment interface, and the wide-ranging
 implications of resource exploitation. Our collaborations amongst academics, industrialists



                                                                                           Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and policymakers nationally and internationally aid predictions and drive innovative,
 sustainable resource use (spanning UN SDGs 7, 12, and 15).
 Highlights include: our work leading to downward revision of the size of the Atlantic Ocean
 anthropogenic CO2 sink (Upstill-Goddard: Pereira et al. Nat.Geosci. 2018); the first
 demonstration of urban soil CO2 fixation by authigenic carbonates (Manning: Washbourne et
 al., Env.Sci.Technol. 2015); re-evaluation of the contribution of tropical soils to the global
 carbon budget (Teh: Riutta et al. Glob.Chan.Biol. 2018); identification of marine plastic
 accumulation at the surface (“garbage patches”) and the deep ocean (Morales-Maqueda:
 Mountford et al., J.Geophys.Res. 2019, Jamieson: Jamieson et al., Nat.Ecol.Evol. 2017);
 comprehensive benefit-impact analysis of UK shale gas exploitation (Davies: REFINE);
 identification of mineral replacements for fossil-fuel dependent fertilizers (Manning: Manning
 Nat.Resour.Res. 2018); discovery of sub-glacial (and potentially Martian) microbial life driven
 by mechano-chemically generated hydrogen (Telling: Telling Nat.Geosci. 2015);
 anthropogenic impacts on the deep biosphere and microbial succession associated with
 petroleum extraction (Head: Vigneron et al., The ISME J. 2017).
 We have hosted significant national and international conferences (UK Astrobiology; UK
 Challenger Society for Marine Science; and, with Engineering, International Symposium on
 Microbial Electrochemistry & Technology). We host/participate in national/international
 workshops and working groups (e.g. Scientific Committee on Oceanic Research, SCOR;
 Ocean Carbon & Biogeochemistry, OCB; EMBRAPA (Brazil Rochagem Conference Series);
 Association for Tropical Biology and Conservation; European Society for Tropical Biology).
 Funders include: UKRI; EU; charities (e.g. Leverhulme Trust); industry; UK/ non-UK
 agencies. Partners include: British Geological Survey; National Oceanography Centre;
 Plymouth Marine Laboratory; Centre for Ecology and Hydrology; DEFRA; UK Space Agency;
 Natural History Museum; Northumbrian Water; Malaysian and Sarawak Palm Oil Boards;
 Terrativa SA, Brazil; Shell Global solutions; BP; Saudi Aramco; Carnegie Institution for
 Science; Sabah Forestry Department; Southeast Asia Rainforest Research Partnership; UK
 universities (Aberdeen, Bristol, Cambridge, Cranfield, Edinburgh, Exeter; Imperial, Lancaster,
 Leicester, Liverpool, Manchester, Oxford, Royal Holloway, Southampton, York); non-UK
 universities (Calgary, Campinas, Miami, Oldenburg, Sao Paulo, Hawaii, Uppsala).
 EOPS work falls into three integrated themes, strengthened by recent investment in Staff
 (e.g. Teh, Ireland) and facilities (£2M Houston OnePlanet lab):
 Energy and Natural Resources (Davies, Gray, Head, Ireland, Jones, Manning, van der
 Land): our focus is growing resources with minimal environmental impact, e.g. reducing
 energy from fossil fuels, whilst maintaining them as raw materials (e.g fertilizers, steel) during
 the post-carbon transition. We are collaboratively exploring alternative energy and carbon
 mitigation, e.g. interim methane-sourced hydrogen fuel and associated storage issues during
 the transition to net zero carbon. The REFINE project (led by Davies) appraised UK shale
 gas exploitation and informed the fracking moratorium (Wilson et al., Mar. Pet. Geol. 2015) by
 objective linkage of commercial and environmental concerns with policy development for this
 contentious economic issue. Ireland’s appointment (2019) augments energy sector
 decarbonization expertise, and consolidates our geothermal energy research (unique >£1.6m
 EPSRC/LEP funded NU Helix geothermal well: Manning, Ireland: Younger et al., QJ Eng.
 Geol. 2016).
 Advances in microbial fuel cells and CO2 reduction for organic compound and fuel production
 (Head: Izadi et al., npj Biofilm.Microbiom. 2020) encompass energy and carbon capture
 within the circular economy (NERC, EPSRC). Building on close collaboration with engineers,
 we showed trace metal waste enhancement of microbial activity during biogas production
 (Gray: Shamurad et al., J Env Man. 2020), and assessed seam swelling-related, coal
 maceral geo-mechanical properties during CO2 sequestration (van der Land, Jones: Fender

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 et al., Int. J. Coal. Geol. 2020). Current NERC-funded studies (Gray) are developing organic
 and mineral waste co-digestion for enhanced biogas production and resource recovery from
 anaerobic digestors.
 Studies at the microbiology - petroleum geology interface have demonstrated subsurface
 microbial community development in active petroleum reservoirs following seawater injection
 (Head: Vigneron et al., ISME 2017), and implications for steel infrastructure of mitigating
 sulfide reservoir souring by stimulation of nitrate-reducing bacteria. Our petroleum systems
 microbiology research (Head: Lahme et al., Env. Microbiol. 2020; Sherry et al., Microbial
 Biotech. 2017) has in addition, defined physicochemical limits of microbial communities in
 petroleum systems (Gray: Sierra-Garcia et al., Sci Tot. Env. 2020). Work on oil/gas
 production infrastructure and developments in microbial fuel cells link directly to resource
 recovery from waste.
 Studies of soil processes link to carbon capture and crop nutrition and the science
 underpinning soil organic matter stability (Manning and Theodoro, Extr. Ind. Soc. 2020),
 identifying agricultural carbon emissions during future intensive food production. The work of
 Manning was also the first to show carbonate mineral formation in urban soils (Washbourne
 et al., Env Sci. Technol. 2015).
 Biogeochemistry and the Environment (Abbott, Acikalin, Flynn, Gray, Jones, Teh,
 Telling, van der Land): We study molecular to global-scale biosphere-environment links
 through geologic time, leading to better understanding of biogeochemical cycling via
 microbial-animal-higher plant systems (Teh: Riutta et al., Glob. Change Biol. 2018; Ashton et
 al., Science 2019).
 We develop innovative biomarkers to understand Earth surface/subsurface processes,
 including petroleum migration and biodegradation (Jones: Coffinet et al., Geochim.
 Cosmochim. Acta 2017; Aitken et al., J. Chromatog. A. 2018). Using Diamondoid biomarkers
 we were the first to identify the sub-delta Cretaceous as a major oil source (Niger Delta;
 Jones: Esegbue et al., AAPG Bull. 2020), with implications for assessing hydrocarbon
 exploration risk. We are also developing bio-electrochemical systems to monitor water
 quality and for resource recovery (with Northumbrian Water Group and Welsh Water. Head:
 Spurr et al., Env. Sci. Wat. Res. Tech. 2020).
 Organic pollutant fate and bioremediation studies (Oriaku and Jones, J. Bioremediat.
 Biodegrad. 9, 2018) revealed the stimulatory effect of Ni on oil spill bioremediation, clarifying
 mineralogical limits to biological nutrient provision (Jones: Mejeha et al., Chemosphere 237,
 2019). We are assessing environmental impacts of petroleum production and aqueous by-
 product mining (Flynn: He et al., Wat. Res. 2017; von Gunten et al., Can. J. Earth Sci. 2018).
 By evaluating biogeochemical drivers of environmental radionuclide fate, we are improving
 source to sink models of transport/immobilization for nuclear legacy waste management
 (Gray: Fuller et al., Chemosphere 2020; Ray et al., Sci Tot. Env. 2020).
 Work on the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary provides unique insight into the drivers of
 mass extinctions (Acikalin et al., Cretac. Res. 2015). Monitoring benthic organisms and
 water column phytoplankton traced subsequent ecological recovery (Acikalin: Vellekoop et
 al., Biogeosci. 2017) and revealed local tectonic control of late Cretaceous oceanography
 (Acikalin et al., Palaeogeogr. Palaeoclimatol. Palaeoecol. 2016). Our work on modern
 coastal sabkha elucidated microbial polygon development and preservation, with implications
 for paleo-environmental reconstruction (van der Land: Lokier et al., Depos. Rec. 2017). We
 developed new insights into microbial biogeochemistry in cold terrestrial and extraterrestrial
 environments (Telling: Safi et al., Sci. Rep. 2019; Teh: Hermans et al., Mires Peat, 2019).
 Our organic geochemistry expertise aids fundamental understanding of carbon turnover in
 peats and organic-rich soils/Arctic sediments, and the origin of fossil bone organics (Abbott:
 Schellekens et al., Geochim. Cosmochim. Acta, 2015; Saitta et al., eLife 2019; Stevenson

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Abbott, JAAP 2019; Teh: Manning et al., Front. Forest Glob. Change, 2019). Work on
 boreal peatland and tropical forest element cycling has informed management of oil palm
 plantations and human-modified tropical forests and catchment- to regional-scale IPCC
 element cycling estimates (Teh; Diem et al., Biogeosci. 2017; Manning et al., Front. Forest.
 Glob. Change, 2019;).
 Ocean Sciences (Morales-Maqueda, Upstill-Goddard, Willmott): With NU and external
 partners we contribute to SDG 14 and the UN Decade of Ocean Science for Sustainable
 Development. By studying biological and geophysical controls of air-sea trace-gas exchange
 we target sea surface microlayer (SML) structure and function and dissolved organics
 photochemistry. We measure and model large-scale ocean dynamics (circulation, sea
 surface height) and marine particle 3-D pathways (e.g. plastics; SDG 14.1). We were first to
 unequivocally demonstrate CO2 air-sea exchange suppression by natural SML surfactants in
 coastal and oceanic waters (Upstill-Goddard: Pereira et al., Biogeosci. 2016, Nat. Geosci.
 2018; Sabbaghzadeh et al., Geophys. Res. Lett. 2017). Subsequently this was designated a
 research priority through international SCOR WG141 Sea Surface Microlayers (Upstill-
 Goddard: Engel et al., Front. Mar. Sci. 2017). Our quantification of climate-active trace gas
 production, removal and air-sea exchange informs regional/global-scale evaluations and
 international agenda setting (SCOR WG143 Towards global ocean N2O and CH4 time series)
 through coordinating fieldwork and data calibration/reporting (Upstill-Goddard: Wilson et al.,
 Biogeosci. 2018; Bange et al., Front. Mar. Sci. 2019). Our development of GNSS-Wave
 Gliders (NERC) has advanced understanding of sea surface dynamics, storm surge and
 tsunami warning (Morales-Maqueda et al., J. Atmos. Ocean. Tech. 2016; Penna et al.,
 Geophys. Res. Lett. 2017). Surface and deep/abyssal circulation climate responses have
 implications for carbon and nutrient dynamics, marine productivity, and climate feedbacks.
 Quantifying and measuring these, Morales-Maqueda co-led one of NERC’s largest
 consortium awards (OSCAR). Hydrothermally driven, regional-to-global abyssal circulation
 was assessed seismically (Tang et al., Nat. Comms. 2019). State-of-the-art ocean models
 (e.g. NEMO) predict thermohaline circulation impacts on physics and biogeochemistry in
 climate-sensitive polar seas (Morales-Maqueda: Sansiviero et al., J. Mar. Sys. 2016), and
 have elucidated global plastic transport (SCOR WG153 Floating Litter: Oceanic TranSport
 Analysis & Modelling (FLOTSAM)) (van Sebille et al., Env. Res. Lett. 2020). Willmott and
 Morales-Maqueda have developed predictive capacity through models and autonomous
 observations (CAMPUS: Combining Autonomous observations and Models for Predicting &
 Understanding Shelf Seas (Mountford and Morales-Maqueda, J. Geophys. Res. 2019)).
 Understanding the Arctic ocean response and loss of sea ice, is critical for predicting wider
 climate responses; through international collaboration, Morales Maqueda and Willmott
 study Arctic topographic steering of steady, barotropic, planetary and geostrophic circulation,
 (Gavilan Pascual-Ahuir et al., J. Geophys. Res. 2020; Bassom and Willmott, Tellus 2019;
 Willmott and Gavilan Pascual-Ahuir, J. Phys. Oceanog. 47, 2017).
 iii) Marine Ecology (ME): This Group studies marine conservation and management,
 addressing the UN Ocean Decade and SDG 14, developing key indicators and cost-effective
 monitoring through observation. Strengths include: coral and temperate reef ecology; state-
 of-the-art exploration of extreme environments; marine megafauna conservation; evaluating
 zooplankton impacts on fisheries, conservation and human health using marine time series;
 promoting marine stewardship through citizen science.
 Marine Ecology interacts in a wider UoA7/UoA6 SNES Ecology Group (terrestrial ecologists
 in UoA6), facilitating coordinated interdisciplinary objectives, e.g. marine and terrestrial
 restoration ecology via common protected area management. In 2019, we hosted the Marine
 Biological Association ECR Conference. We have grown partnerships to enhance discovery
 and applied science, e.g. sustainable management advice to the Chilean and Peruvian kelp
 fishery (NERC Newton Fund: Moore, £800k); acoustic recorder networks for marine mammal
 monitoring (NERC: Berggren, £353k); low-cost solutions to cetacean bycatch (NOAA;

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Berggren; US$198k), Marine Mammal Commission (Berggren, US$91k); and Offshore
 Wind Energy and the Environment (Aura CDT 2019-2027; £560k to Newcastle).
 Marine Ecology has five research themes:
 Tropical and Temperate Reef Ecology (Bythell, Edwards, Guest, Moore, Polunin): Coral
 reefs provide trillions of pounds in ecosystem goods and services, with their decline resulting
 from climate and land use change and overfishing. Coral reef management and solution-
 based approaches to restoration ecology (e.g. achieving ongoing impact from REF2014 ICSs
 for which NU UoA7 ranked second nationally; Edwards, Guest), seeks knowledge to combat
 coral disease (Bythell et al., Biol. Rev. 2018; Sweet and Bythell Molecular Ecol. 2015;
 Sweet et al., Proc. R. Soc. B. 2014). Despite global average declines, we identified high
 coral cover “oases” (Guest et al., J. Appl. Ecol. 2018) and individual reef responses, e.g. to
 temperature and urbanization (Guest et al., Sci. Rep. 2016). Attracting a €2M ERC
 Consolidator Grant (2017-2022) and two NERC DTP studentships (2019-), our studies of
 heat tolerance from immunological, physiological, microbial, proteomic and hereditary
 perspectives informed innovative interventions to aid coral survival (Coralassist laboratory;
 Darling et al., Nat. Ecol. Evol. 2019), including selectively breeding heat-tolerant corals
 (Guest: Chamberland et al., Sci Rep. 2017). To support global research on reproduction
 timing and synchrony in reef recovery, Guest and Edwards developed a NU-based,
 interactive, coral spawning open resource (Keith et al., Proc. Roy. Soc. B, 2016; Baird et al.,
 Sci. Data 2021).
 Kelp forests, among the most productive ecosystems, are susceptible to ocean warming,
 over-exploitation, and pollution (UN Ocean Decade; SDG 14.2). We interrogated decadal and
 shorter (marine heatwave) warming impacts (Moore: Smale et al., Nat. Clim. Change, 2019),
 evidencing genetic diversity loss in trailing edges (Moore: King et al., ICES J. Mar. Sci.,
 2020) and potentially in range centres (Moore: King et al., J. Exp. Mar. Biol. Ecol. 2019;
 Ecography 2017). We predicted future reductions in detrital production that could
 compromise food web dynamics and carbon sequestration (Moore: Pessarrodona et al.,
 Glob. Change Biol. 2018). Our ecosystem management advice informs kelp harvesting
 sustainability (£1M: NERC and Newton Fund). Outreach activities have enhanced
 dissemination of our research impact in this area (‘Science Uncovered’ national museums,
 British Science Week, school/public lectures (e.g. Palau, Micronesia).
 Deep-Sea Ecology (Jamieson, Wigham): We design and construct cutting-edge deep-
 submergence technologies to study biodiversity and ecological responses to anthropogenic
 forcing in the deep abyssal ocean (45% of the ocean; chemosynthetic habitats) (UN Ocean
 Decade; SDG 14.2)(Jamieson Deep Sea Res. II, 2018). Jamieson participated in the $50M
 trans-global Five Deeps (chief scientist 2018-2019) and Pacific Ring of Fire (2019-)
 expeditions. This work provided the first documentation of anthropogenic contamination of
 the deepest ocean trenches (Jamieson et al., Nature Ecol. Evol. 2017), informing policy
 roadmaps for long-term marine stewardship (e.g. reversing the marine plastics problem:
 Jamieson: Forrest et al., Front. Mar. Sci. 2019). It also identified new species (Gerringer et
 al., Zootaxa 2017); established physiological depth limits for major taxa (Yansey et al., PNAS
 111, 2014); elucidated community structure and diversity (Lacey et al., Deep Sea Res. 2014),
 and evolutionary adaptations (Richie et al., Deep Sea Res. 2018); evidenced global genetic
 connectivity; devised ecology-based deep-sea sampling strategies (Danovaro et al., Science,
 2017, Nature Ecol. Evol. 2020); and provided ecological data underpinning mineral
 exploration (Wigham: Copley et al., Sci. Rep. 2016).
 Marine Megafauna Conservation Biology/Ecology (Berggren): Targeting the UN Ocean
 Decade and SDGs 14.2, 14.4 and 15.5, we evaluate: bycatch threats to biodiversity and
 ecosystem resilience (Temple et al., Rev. Fish Biol. Fish. 2018; Brownell et al., ESR 2019);
 exploitation/extinction risks to tropical species (Sharpe and Berggren Aq. Cons. Mar. Fresh.
 Ecosys. 2019); drivers of genetic structure, demography, species connectivity (Berggren:

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Viricel et al., Mar. Biol. 2016; Pirog et al., Eco. Evol. 2019); and socio-economic implications
 for small-scale developing fisheries of under-reporting of catch/bycatch (Berggren:
 Barrowclift-Mahon et al., Mar. Policy 2017; Temple et al., Biol. Cons. 2019). High profile
 outputs include new species discovery (Berggren and Temple, Conversation 2020;
 Weigmann et al., PLoS ONE, 2020) and the description of seal communication (Berggren:
 Hocking et al., Mar. Mam. Sci. 2020; CNN.com, March 2020). We are developing low-cost
 alarms/acoustic reflectors to minimise mammal bycatch (US NOAA; MMC) with potential
 global application and assessing anthropogenic noise impacts (Berggren: Yang et al., PLoS
 ONE 2020; NERC Innovation Grant £353k), including windfarm impacts on small cetacean
 occurrence and behaviour (Berggren: Temple et al., Rept. EDF-Renewables, 2019). We
 also evaluate anthropogenically compromised immunity (dolphins: Berggren: Van Bressem
 et al., Mar. Mamm. Sci. 2018) and develop algorithms classifying underwater sounds for
 mammal monitoring (Berggren: Song et al., and Yang et al., JASA 2017). NU are Aura CDT
 partners 2019-2027 (Offshore Wind Energy and Environment: £5.5M, University of Hull lead;
 £560k to NU).
 Marine Biotechnology (Burgess, Clare, Caldwell): With industry we are co-developing
 benign solutions to biofouling and associated hydrodynamic drag (SDG 14.1 Marine
 Pollution). These include strongly hydrated and multidimensional polymers, and non-stick,
 ultra-repellent surfaces, for practical coatings (Clare: Aldred et al., Biofouling, 2019; Kardela
 et al., ACS Appl. Mat. Int. 2019). We are deriving novel antifouling and bioactive compounds
 from marine bacteria (Burgess: Al-Naamani et al., Chemosphere 2017; Brunt and Burgess
 Int. J. Cosmetic Sci. 2018; Zhang and Burgess PLoS ONE, 2017) and promote low-cost,
 sustainable seaweeds for food and fuel (Caldwell: Nor et al., J. Appl. Phycol. 2016; Gao et
 al., Aquaculture 2017; Algal Res. 2019; Food Chem. 2018; Zhang et al., IET Renew. Power
 Gen 2019; J. Env. Chem. 2019), and microalgae for biotechnology applications such as
 biofuels, food additives, and nutritional supplements (Caldwell: Alkarawi et al. Algal Res.
 2018; Brain and Caldwell: Patent US20180155401, 2018). We elucidate chemical defence
 in marine microbes (Burgess, Bythell: Morales-Garcia et al., Biofilms Microbiomes 2018)
 and marine fermentation and bioprocessing / biotechnological applications of microbial
 nucleases (Burgess: Basle et al. Nucleic Acids Res. 2018). An example of the wide-reaching
 potential impact of our work is the use of our anti-fouling technology in Arial washing powder
 (Burgess: REF2021 Impact Case Study).
 Coastal Conservation and Governance (Polunin, Delany, Moore, Fitzsimmons): multi-
 decadal data sets aid understanding complex ecosystem responses to environmental
 change. Dove Time-Series data (1969-) reveal zooplankton trend-linked climate, fisheries,
 and human health changes, with conservation implications (UN Ocean Decade; SDG14).
 This allows evaluation of historical micro-plastic accumulation by zooplankton. Intertidal
 ecosystems times series are revealing temperature-driven range modification for key
 indicator species (Delany: Vye et al., Divers. Distrib.2020), reference their recovery
 (Polunin: MacNeil et al., Nature 2015). We contribute to the largest intertidal spatio-temporal
 climate change indicator time series that predicts species range (Delany: Vye et al., Divers.
 Distrib. 2020), and we are developing biomimetic loggers of internal body temperature
 deviations from microhabitats. Relationships between mobile consumers and seabed
 habitats (temperate and tropical) are being revealed (Polunin, with Mill, Fitzsimmons,
 (MEPS): Stephenson et al., ICES J. Mar. Sci. 2017; Newman et al., J. Animal Ecol. 2015).
 We also analyze fish assemblage responses to Marine Protected Areas (MPA) initiatives
 (Polunin, with Mill, Fitzsimmons: Stephenson et al., Mar. Policy 2018). We evaluate threats
 to intertidal and benthic habitats, and commercial fisheries (Polunin with Fitzsimmons:
 Skerritt et al., MEPS, 2015; Stephenson et al., Mar. Policy 2018 Stephenson et al., Mar.
 Policy 2018), informing national/international marine governance. We interrogate productivity
 drivers of temperate and tropical fish stocks, evaluate trophic transfer efficiency and changes
 in fish and food-web trophodynamics (Ocean Decade; SDG 14.4, e.g. Polunin, Mill: Skinner

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 et al., J. Animal Ecol. 2019) and examine benthic/pelagic fishery target species and fish stock
 variability (Polunin, Mill: Duffill-Telsnig et al., J. Animal Ecol. 2019).
 National/international stakeholder engagement is clarifying marine resource governance,
 management, and environmental health (UN Ocean Decade; SDG14) through enhanced
 understanding of socio-economic and environmental drivers (Fitzsimmons: Forster et al.,
 Mar. Policy 2017; Stephenson Mar Policy 2018). This aids management and governance
 (Fitzsimmons: Turner et al., GEC 2014, Cons. Letts. 2020), identifying barriers to eco-
 engineering solutions (Moore: Evans et al., Mar. Policy 2017; Evan et al, Env. Sci. Policy
 2019).
 Research Strategy
 Achievements since REF2014: in REF2014 we addressed challenges of Energy Supply,
 Climate Change and Sustainability, via Research Clusters in Geochemistry, Biodiversity and
 Biotechnology. Successful operation of these clusters across multiple Schools and disciplines
 was facilitated by the Newcastle Institute for Research on Sustainability (2014-17) (e.g. Blake
 et al., Waste Man. 2017; Carrillo-Barragan et al., Front Microbiol 2019; Ventura et al.,
 Biofouling 2017, Galhenage ACS App. Mat. Interface 2016; McGowan et al., Conserv. Lett.
 2017). In 2017, UoA7-relevant groups consolidated in SNES (see section 1), forming
 Academic Groups that have broadened our remit, through 14 appointments and staff
 transfers. Our remit now encompasses environmental science, biology, chemistry, natural
 and human geography, archaeology, mathematics, and computing. Doctoral training has
 also consolidated on UoA7 themes through new NERC DTPs (OnePlanet; IAPETUS2),
 GeoNetZero CDT (50% funded by NEO Energy), and Aura CDT.
 In addition to Group consolidation, our infrastructure has developed (section 3) through serial
 investment. Highlights include: the geothermal research well on the Helix campus,
 complementing NERCs £31M Geoenergy Observatories; upgrades to marine research
 capacity (RV Princess Royal, Blyth Marine Station (£2.5M; £0.5M dockside upgrade 2019);
 Dove Marine Laboratory dedicated marine plastics laboratory); £2M research space
 refurbishment (Drummond Building: Energy and Natural Resources, Biogeochemistry and the
 Environment including the £0.6M Houston Laboratory, PG/UG teaching/research project
 space which benefited from a £0.25M philanthropic donation); shared Molecular Diagnostics
 Facility (£0.5M modernised growth rooms, pathology, sequencing: Oxford Nanopore).
 Prestigious funding includes: 1x ERC Consolidator; 12x NERC; 1x EPSRC/BGS; 1x Darwin
 Initiative; 1x DEFRA; 1x University Ghent; 1x Scottish Government; 2x Malaysian Palm Oil
 Board; 1x H2020. Larger grants include: NERC Highlight, Global Methane Budget Closure
 (Teh: £4M); Malaysian Palm Oil Board, GHGs from Malaysian oil palms (Teh: £1.4M); NERC
 Resource Recovery from Waste (Head: £1.2M), EPSRC LifesCO2R (Head: £1.9M) GCRF
 Agri-Systems, Multi-functional agro-forestry systems (Pfeifer : £577K; NERC, Biodiversity
 and Land-use Impacts in human-modified forest (Teh: £5.2M, consortium); ERC Consolidator
 (Guest, coral reef restoration, €2M).
 These projects have driven UK/international fracking policy and led to our co-ordination of
 Unconventional Hydrocarbons (NERC: £8M; Davies, Manning). The industry-funded
 REFINE project, flagged in REF2014, now includes decarbonisation (EPSRC Decarbonising
 Heating and Cooling: Manning, Ireland, £1.7M). New interdisciplinary research includes
 agro-forestry landscape research (Pfeifer), sustainable management/restoration of
 rainforests (Teh, Pfeifer), greenhouse gas management in peatlands (Teh), geologically-
 sourced nutrients (Manning), and biodiversity conservation and sustainability in developing
 nations (Teh, Pfeifer, Moore).
 Future Vision: We are directing our research on fundamental ecosystem function to develop
 responses to global change, framed by the UN SDGs, consistent with NU’s core values of
 social and environmental justice. NU’s “one university, without walls” institutional philosophy

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the resulting recent formation of a cross-university NU Centre of Research Excellence
 (NUCoRE) in Climate & Environmental Resilience, comprising over 100 researchers across
 all 3 NU Faculties, will facilitate further reach across disciplines. Building upon institutional
 and national/international links, supported by NU’s Global Challenges Academy (Ref5a
 2.2.5), we will enable wider societal benefits. We will expand our engagement with
 policymakers through NU’s Policy Academy (Ref 5a 2.2.5), to improve governance structures
 and regulation. Parallel expansion of research-informed teaching will generate future
 scientific cohorts and national/international policymakers.
 Post-REF2021priorities include:
 • Nurturing inter- and multi-disciplinary research: Will be fostered in our NUCoREs.
   Historical research strengths (data modelling, molecular ecology, biogeochemistry etc.) will
   feed into cognate research on climate change and societal adaptation through our Climate
   and Environmental Resilience NUCoRE, strengthening connections with data scientists,
   engineers, geographers, political scientists and economists. An early example is the
   FarmZero initiative (with UoA6 and UoA12), promoting multi-disciplinary sustainable agro-
   ecosystems-energy research using NU’s research farms.
 • Promoting equitable collaboration: SNES resources and HEIF/QR-SPF funds will be used
   to promote cross-sectoral, SDG-focussed, global collaboration and knowledge exchange
   (e.g. agroforestry, forest restoration and resilience; human-wildlife interactions;
   infrastructure and biodiversity), engaging academics and stakeholders nationally and
   internationally.
 • Strategic staff appointments: NU’s strategic ambition is to grow research income by 35%
   in 5 years and increase researcher capacity by 20% in 10 years. This expansion,
   underpinned by the Newcastle University Academic Track (NUAcT) Fellowship initiative to
   support 100 transition-to-independence fellows (see Ref5a 3.2.4) alongside succession
   planning, will enable new strategic appointments. Specifically, targeted appointments will
   strengthen environmental microbiology and its links to Biology, Biogeochemistry, and
   Agriculture to address key environmental processes underpinning sustainable resource
   management.
 • Growing and adapting staff and student skills: We will develop sectoral and geographical
   mobility and skills at all career stages e.g. through our internal Peer Review College to
   help colleagues target funders, Research Masterclasses providing advice and guidance
   (e.g. Building Consortia with Government, 2020), expand DTP activity and engage in
   industry-funded initiatives (e.g. Energy Geoscience).
 • Influencing national/international research agendas: We will encourage staff to serve on
   national /international committees, research councils, learned societies and professional
   bodies.
 Impact Strategy
 Societal and economic impact is intertwined with our research strategy. Our second place
 impact ranking in REF2014 was facilitated by strong external collaboration (e.g. Edwards co-
 wrote IUCN Coral Reef Guidelines). External partner/stakeholder collaborations continue
 (e.g. Guest: ERC Fellowship). Our two additional highly ranked REF2014 ICS were built on
 strong collaboration with the energy sector and a current ICS has strong industry links
 (Proctor and Gamble).
 Highlights of ongoing research with impact include:
 • Invasive Alien Species: major global extinctions cost €9.6 billion p.a. Research (£30M+)
   underpins UK, EU, USA, Australia policy; IAS global target delivery (IUCN/ CBD).



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 • Global Species Conservation: assessing CBD (2011-2020) Strategic Plan; formulated
   post-2020 global biodiversity framework; protected areas and biodiversity conservation;
   anti-extinction conservation; informed global species targets.
 • Marine Biofouling: invasive species translocation (cost: $150 billion p.a); environmentally
   benign solutions via interdisciplinary consortia with industry R&D; antifouling technologies
   commercialised (AkzoNobel, Nanocyl, Adaptive Surface Technologies); spinouts formed
   (Sharklet Technologies, Naturecoat).
 • Marine Protected Areas (MPAs): informed UK fisheries policy; eight MPA designations;
   methodology adopted nationally/internationally.
 • Bacterial Biofilms: biofilm disrupting enzyme; first incorporation of a new enzyme into
   market leading laundry detergent (Arial) in 20 years.
 • Oil Palm Management: “best-practice” informing Malaysia Palm Oil Board; relevance to
   national and ASEAN policy, and IPCC through “GHG emissions factors”.
 • Climate-Smart European Rice: managing rice GHG emissions (Paris Accords);
   transferability to other temperate/sub-tropical systems.
 • Rock Dust for Soil Fertility: pioneered as agricultural fertilizer in Brazil, is now a Brazilian
   federal regulation).
 Open Research
 We support research impact through an institutional open dissemination policy, with “on
 request” data availability post-publication being expected, notwithstanding ethics, consent, or
 intellectual property issues. Open access of all published work is on-line (MyImpact): author
 typeset accepted manuscripts become “green” (embargo-dependent open access). New
 internal policies have increased compliance from 83.7% (2016) to 93.2% (2019). An open
 access team manages UKRI and COAF block grants, supporting Gold Open Access, and
 where the publisher does not offer green access (see Ref5a 2.3.3). We enhance impact and
 visibility through data management, facilitating originator-user collaborations via our
 Research Data Service repository, which archives and publishes open datasets linked to
 outputs, where funder-specified or discipline-specific repositories do not exist. The Data
 Service supports data management plan preparation in line with the FAIR data archive
 philosophy (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable, Re-useable) with 10 years minimum open
 access.
 Research integrity and ethics
 We align with NU commitment, policies and processes (Ref5a 2.3). All research proposals
 (externally or internally funded) are subject to initial ethics screening via an on-line procedure
 that identifies whether a proposal requires formal review by a Research Ethics
 Committee. All researchers are made aware of the University Code of Good Practice in
 Research, which clarifies expectations relating to integrity, research misconduct, leadership
 and cooperation, and professional standards and advice. Training is tailored to disciplinary
 needs and is obligatory for those involved in projects requiring formal ethical approval.
 Academic Groups encourage open discussion of current research, fostering values of
 integrity and ethical research practice from post-graduate research students through all
 career stages to our most senior professors.
 2. People
 Staffing strategy and staff development
 We support the UK goal of growing R&D spending through HEI research, recruiting the most
 talented staff and freeing-up additional research time to deliver on our strengths and vision.


                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff Turnover and New Appointments: We have used the opportunity of staff turnover to
 enhance the inter-disciplinarity within our Academic Groups. Staff leaving during the REF
 period (11 FTE; Professor: Bentley; Larter; Stead; Wagner; Reader: Talbot; Hubert, Wolff.
 Senior Lecturer: Maerz; Lecturer: Tosh) were replaced (14 new appointments: 4 Professors; 5
 Senior Lecturers; 5 Lecturers; plus 1 Independent Research Fellow), evidencing our
 commitment to research growth and increasing our FTE return (33.2, REF2021; 24.6,
 REF2014). New appointments include: geology, Acikalin (2016); geo-energy/petroleum,
 Davies (Chair, 2014), Ireland (2019); soil science, Teh (Chair, 2019);
 geochemistry/geomicrobiology, Telling (2016), Flynn (2017); microbial systematics, functional
 (meta)genomics, Montero-Calasanz (2015); coral reef resilience, Guest (ERC Fellow, 2018);
 invasive species/ecological change, Robertson (2014), Pattison (2019); ecosystem function
 and services, Pfeifer (2016); coastal ecology and conservation, Moore (2020). New research
 areas that have emerged: physical oceanography/ global ocean modelling, Willmott (Chair,
 2014), Morales-Maqueda (2015); deep sea ecology Jamieson (2016).
 Staff Support: A robust workload allocation model ensures a research-focused workload
 distribution and strategic staff appointments are made to optimise academic research direction
 and workloads. New lecturers receive a start-up package and all academics receive personal
 travel budgets. Shared strategic budgets (Faculty, School and Academic Group level) support
 multi-user equipment purchase/upgrade/maintenance, workshop participation for initiating new
 partnerships, and support for grant applications and ECR and PGR development.
 New staff pursue the Postgraduate Certificate in Advanced Studies in Academic Practice
 (CASAP): within 'Pathways to Recognition', NU’s Continuing Professional Development
 Scheme. Staff mentoring optimises academic potential and ECR transition to independence.
 New staff have reduced teaching and administration duties to facilitate development of their
 research programmes. Academic Groups nurture interaction, supporting career development
 for all colleagues. Annual one-to-one reviews optimize individual staff strengths and set
 realistic, aspirational targets to develop potential, with NU courses (e.g. IP training, grant-
 writing, science communication, engagement, and outreach) supporting this. School seminars
 (external speakers) are scheduled biweekly, with Academic Groups hosting informal seminars
 from PDRAs and PGRs and research and teaching away-days attended by all staff including
 technicians. Peer mentoring and review provides critical evaluation and constructive feedback
 for grant/fellowship applications, mock interviews are organized as appropriate.
 Academic Promotions: eleven UoA7 staff promotions during the REF period (1 Professor;
 1 Reader; 7 Senior Lecturer, 2 Lecturer), illustrate our commitment to career development,
 recognising staff achievement.
 Gender Balance: UoA7 returns 29 male and 8 female staff. Twenty two percent of staff are
 female, representing 23% of returned FTE, an improvement over 11% in REF 2014 (27 male
 and 3 female staff returned).
 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion: EDI is embedded in our activities, maximizing equal
 opportunity. Full inclusivity ensures equitable, cross-society staff/student recruitment and
 retention. We increasingly use anonymized longlisting in recruitment campaigns (e.g. for our
 flagship NUAcT Fellowships) Membership of all panels/committees is structured to ensure
 representation of staff diversity, we encourage all minority group applications, promote
 outreach activities, EDI awareness, training, and development. Routine provision includes: EDI
 advisors and funds; training (e.g. unconscious bias); return-to-research and career re-entry
 fellowships; Stonewall Diversity Champions programme; staff-run support networks (e.g.
 BAME; carers; parents; disabled colleagues; NU Women). All provide fora for shared identities
 and interests in related issues. In recognition of the demands on colleagues, during the first
 Covid-19 lockdown NU activity was managed to provide the opportunity for flexible, quiet time
 on Fridays. SNES continues to encourage “Low Email Fridays”. NU is among few UK HEIs
 holding an Institutional Athena Swan Silver award. SNES (currently Bronze) is pursuing

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives to achieve silver by 2022 and gold by 2025. We support all staff re-establishing their
 research after career breaks; UoA7 pioneered support for return from extended periods of
 leave, including maternity leave, a model being adopted Faculty-wide. Case-by-case extended
 leave planning helps returning staff regain research momentum (e.g. continued teaching cover;
 reduced administrative tasks: enhanced travel budgets). We have enabled six
 maternity/paternity leaves since REF2014. We support staff experiencing challenges in their
 home life by providing teaching and administrative cover as appropriate, and promote part-time
 employment to help achieve better work-life balance. In 2020 16.7% of all academic staff and
 ECRs were part-time, a 23% increase on REF2014. We equally support ECRs and
 established staff in repositioning their research, by appropriately reallocating duties, supported
 through Academic Groups, Degree Programme Directors and Directors of Expertise, by
 deploying additional research funds, and by aiding childcare costs for conference attendance,
 and additionally as necessary.
 Technical Support: technical staff are managed at Faculty level to facilitate flexible, support
 for changing academic priorities on main campus and at the outstations/ research vessel in line
 with evolving SNES business plans and Faculty strategy. Clear accountability ensures
 professional development for technical staff and maximises career progression opportunities.
 A dedicated technical staff network (NUTechnet) enables meetings and communication,
 optimising knowledge transfer, best practice and championing EDI among the technical staff
 cohort. Through NUTechNet, the University jointly hosted the 2020 Technician Partnership
 Conference, with the National Technician Development Centre and Northern Universities N8
 group. Technical staff attend Academic Group meetings to support research and strategic
 equipment needs, and laboratory/field activity. A Faculty Technical Training Co-ordinator
 promotes the institutional commitment to career and professional development, emphasising
 visibility, recognition, sustainability, and impact, and supporting professional registration. In
 conjunction with the National Technician Development Centre (NTDC, 2019) technical staff
 development needs have been identified at all levels and are being addressed in conjunction
 with NU’s Organisational Development team.
 Administrative and Professional Services support: Faculty managed Professional Services
 supports academic excellence and student experience, meeting School research and teaching
 needs: technical provision; administration; PA/secretarial; business development and corporate
 partnership; communications, media; estates; finance/accounting; HR; IT; marketing;
 procurement; quality assurance.
 Postgraduate training
 Changes to PhD registrations partly reflect staff reassignment during Faculty restructuring in
 2017. Subsequent growth reflects our achievable aspiration of >30 PhDs per year by 2022, a
 goal which is facilitated by recent DTPs partnering with non-HEIs: the IAPETUS2 DTP (NERC)
 stipulates >30% CASE studentships and the OnePlanet DTP (NERC) anticipate 40% CASE.
 Growing our MPhil/MRes cohort was a major post-REF2014 aim which has been met. Current
 focus is increased PhDs in a supportive, stimulating, multidisciplinary environment that realizes
 full potential. Our PGR on-time completion rate was >95% in 2019.

 PGR Training, Support, and Academic and Personal Progress: All PGRs have primary and
 secondary supervisors, with twenty credits induction and 80 credits training support provided in
 years 1-2 (research skills, ethics, H&S). New PGRs sign a joint Learning Agreement with
 supervisors detailing expectations and responsibilities. Project approval (months 1-2)
 comprises: a 1000-word Project Plan; timeline/key milestones (Gantt Chart); ethical approval;
 financial budget; Training Needs Analysis Checklist (project-specific and career development
 training organised by the Faculty Graduate School). A Progression Panel (supervisor-
 nominated subject specialist and a PGR Director-nominated EDI representative) provides
 impartial support, ensures research viability, quality and impact and assesses the student’s
 academic progression. Student progression reports/forward plans are submitted electronically

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (e-portfolio; 9, 21, 33, 42 months) and are discussed in formal meetings, with
 recommendations closely monitored by the Graduate School Director.

 Postgraduate experience:
 Discipline-specific PGR conferences and themed seminars ensure exposure to cutting-edge
 research and include faculty and SNES trans-disciplinary PGR Conferences where all PGRs
 contribute either poster (Stage1) or oral (Stage 2+) presentations. Academic Groups provide
 additional presentation opportunities, with a monthly PGR Newsletter detailing events,
 research and training opportunities and School/University policies.
 PGRs control consumables budgets with supervisory guidance, supporting development of
 research management skills. An annual £500 allowance supports international/national
 meeting attendance (77 PhD attendances during REF period at international conferences, e.g.:
 AAPG; AGU; AGU Ocean Science; Anaerobic Digestion Technology; EGU; FEMS
 Microbiology Congress; Gas Transfer at Water Surfaces; ISME Microbiology; Liege Ocean
 Dynamics; Microbiology and Nuclear Wastes; Sustainable Bioenergy; World Congress,
 Geology and Soils Science).

 PGRs have received prestigious awards: Macgregor (2016/2017), best paper, Royal
 Entomological Society, Wallace Award, best thesis; Moss (2017), RES PG conference best
 talk; Byrne (2018), best student poster, Ecological Society Annual Conference. In addition PGR
 students participating in international placements (industrial/academic/ international fieldwork)
 include: Chiwona (Geological Survey Malawi); Kendry, McGhee (Canada, Congo fan); Walker
 (Cuadrilla); Sabbaghzadeh (Atlantic Meridional Transect: 2014, 2015; SOLAS summer School
 2015); Rickard (GEOMAR, Germany); Shamurad (Analysing microbial population structures,
 Woods Hole, 2018).

 Leaver data show high demand for our PhD graduates. Examples: Orrell (2017), Royal Society
 Edinburgh Enterprise Fellowship; Macgregor (2017), PDRA, Univ. York; Sabbaghzadeh (2018),
 PDRA, Leibniz Institute for Baltic Sea Research; Al-Wahaibi (2019) PDRA, Sultan Qaboos
 Univ., Oman; Malm (2020), PDRA, Umeå Univ., Sweden. In addition, PhDs (and PDRAs) have
 secured academic positions world-wide (e.g. Hiron, Swedish Univ. Agric. Science; Littlewood
 (2019), SRUC, Edinburgh; Oldekop (2017), Univ. Manchester; Washbourne, UCL; Goddard,
 Northumbria University; Jorat, Abertay; Renforth, Cardiff then Heriot Watt); Mejeha (2016),
 Federal University of Technology, Nigeria.

 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities:
 Research Spend: external research income has increased (Table 1) and reflects diverse
 funding sources (Figure 2).
    Table 1: UoA7 research income during the reporting period (2019/20 was artefactually
    reduced by Covid-19 pandemic)
                        13/14      14/15      15/16    16/17      17/18     18/19      19/20
  Research               2243      2623       2266      2271       2517     2529       2222
  Income: £1000’s




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Infrastructure, Facilities and Future Strategy:
 SNES research facilities are Faculty ‘owned’,
 facilitating interdisciplinary cross-School, cross-
 Academic Group, and cross-Faculty
 collaborations. Unique, externally-funded
 specialist facilities have been developed (e.g.
 Marine Biotechnology laboratory suite; research
 aquarium; NERC/Leverhulme air-sea exchange
 tank), and we routinely access centrally managed
 research facilities in other Schools/Faculties (e.g.
 SEM; XRD; EPSRC Surface Analysis Laboratory;
 IC, ICP-AES, ICP-MS). Facilities for UoA7
 research include unique off-campus assets; e.g. Dove Marine Laboratory, the only such HEI
 facility on the UK east coast, which together with the research vessel Princess Royal and
 Blyth Marine Station has greatly enhanced our capability in studying coastal ecosystems and
 global change (e.g. micro-plastic accumulation via dedicated plastics laboratory). NU
 contributed (£125k) to the £500k Coastal Communities Fund to upgrade the docks at Blyth
 Marine Station, improving the safety and provisioning of the Princess Royal.

 On the city centre campus (Ref5a 4.2), a programme to collocate cognate disciplines and
 facilities has been undertaken. The Drummond Building refurbishment (£2M, 2019), housing
 most EOPS research and the One Planet DTP hub, provides state-of-the-art class 2
 containment facilities (PGR and taught students), and enhanced preparation and experimental
 facilities, e.g. unique controlled environment system mimicking sub-glacial and Martian
 conditions. An example outcome is our lead, as one of only three institutions world-wide, in
 analysis of hopanepolyol lipids (unique indicators of bacterial processes). The Drummond
 building also supports researchers from the School of Engineering and Geography, History,
 Classics and Archaeology. This has cross fertilised ideas: 20% of Drummond-based UoA7
 PGRs and research grants are joint with non SNES staff (e.g. Decarbonising Heating and
 Cooling: EPSRC; £1.3M; Manning, Ireland, with Law, Engineering). A £2.8M refurbishment in
 the nearby Devonshire Building established a microbiological hub alongside
 biotechnologists/synthetic biologists. Analytical facilities (e.g. HPLC suite including HPLC-MS
 for innovative biomarker research) are now co-located in the Bedson Building (£0.6M
 investment), optimising technical support and updating/rationalising instrumentation.

 At Newcastle Helix campus (Ref5a 4.2.1) we have a deep “green” geothermal well and
 community-used Carbon Capture Gardens (NERC Engagement /EPSRC SUCCESS funding,
 Manning). Collaboration with Groundwork (cross-UK charities federation) is enabling
 community action on poverty and the environment.
 In the region, we use the BeWISE facility (£1.2M EPSRC; £ 0.5M NU /Northumbrian Water
 Group), the largest European facility examining microbial behaviour during sewage treatment,
 to develop electrochemical sensors (Head).
 Nationally, we were major partners in the £31M UK Geoenergy Observatories, exploiting our
 experience of deep (>2km) research borehole drilling: Manning is a 20% FTE, NERC Senior
 Science User.
 Capability will expand post- REF 2021 through ongoing/planned improvements to facilities, by
 encouraging co-habitation with related disciplines, continued development of industrial links,
 and via shared services with local businesses.




                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Table 2 provides a summary which is exemplified below.

  Table 2: UoA7 REF2021 collaborations and contributions to the research base, economy,
 and society.

     Invited      Workshops     External International Incoming Lead PhD           PhDs co-
    External      Organised     Panels     Partners     Visitors supervisions     supervised
  Presentations                                                                   with other
                                                                                     HEIs
      47             21           26           41         11          72             15


    PhD co-        Awards,      Editorial   Grants   Spinouts/    Collaboration    Esteem
   authorships    Prizes etc.   Boards      >£1M      Patents     Agreements      Indicators

  136 of 314          6           28          24          2           21             54

 National Scale policy and other national impacts:
 • House of Commons: UK Soil Health Inquiry 2015 (Gray)
 • REFINE; UK shale gas exploitation appraisal/ fracking moratorium (Davies)
 • Invasive species policy/management (UK Non-native Species Secretariat, Animal and Plant
   Health Agency (Robertson)
 • Policy advice, Natural England, DEFRA (Fitzsimmons)
 • Chairs: Nature Scotland Advisory Groups (Mill, Robertson)
 • Environmental Audit Committee Evidence, NatureScot, 2019 Invasive Species Audit
   Committee, UK/UKOT (Mill, Robertson)
 • Coral degradation and MPA advice, Natural England, NIFCA, Cefas (Fitzsimmons, Mill,
   Polunin)
 • REMIN (Scotland): soil carbon capture (Manning)
 • Capturing our Coast, public “ownership” and stewardship (Delany)

 International policy contributions and science collaborations:
 • Chair: IUCN SSC Post-2020 Biodiversity Targets Task Force (21 international members:
   post-2020 Global Biodiversity Framework (McGowan).
 • Co-chair: 2016-17 Policy Committee, IUCN Species Survival Commission (IUCN SSC
   10,000-member global network (McGowan).
 • IUCN representative: CBD (2016-); IPBES (2012-); IPBES Capacity Building Task Force
   (2017-) (McGowan)
 • IUCN delegation, Intergovernmental Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
   (IPBES; 2021), resource agent, IPBES Capacity Building Task Force, 2017-2019
   (McGowan).
 • CBD workshop: decadal plan, Global Biodiversity Outlook 5 (McGowan)
 • UNEP-World Conservation Monitoring workshop (2015): impacts of illegal wildlife trade;
   report, UN Environment Assembly and Earth Commission Post-2020 Global Biodiversity
   Framework (2020); briefing, CBD Subsidiary Body on Science, Technology and
   Technological Advice 24 (McGowan)
 • UN High Level Political Forum: Setting Science-Based Targets for Biodiversity in the
   Context of UN SDGs: July 2020 (McGowan)



                                                                                       Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • World Bank Environment, Natural Resources and Blue Economy Global Practice, Coalition
   on Private Investment in Conservation, 2020 (McGowan).
 • Co-chair, Association of Commonwealth Universities, “HE and SDG networks” (McGowan).
 • Chair: Technical Steering Committee, GEF/World Bank Capturing Coral Reef Ecosystems
   (Edwards).
 • Earth Observation intergovernmental group (Pfeifer).
 • Evidence: European Maritime and Fisheries Fund (MMO); ecosystem health indicators
   (Fitzsimmons).
 • Invasive species best practice; USA, Australia (Robertson, Mill)
 • Invited contribution: The Prokaryotes; highly regarded reference work (Head, Gray).
 • Invited contribution: Ocean-Atmosphere Interactions of Gases and Particles; state-of-the-art
   reference (Upstill-Goddard).
 • SCOR WGs: Sea Surface Microlayers; Marine trace gases; Marine Carbon (USA 2018):
   international agenda setting (Upstill-Goddard).
 • Helmholtz International Ocean-Atmosphere Network, Kiel, 2018 (Upstill-Goddard). Key
   output: Engel et al., Front. Mar. Sci. 2017.
 • NERC GHG Removal (Manning with Aberdeen). Key output: Lefebvre et al., 2019. LCA for
   enhanced weathering, Ministry of Mines & Energy Brasilia.
 Collaboration Agreements: METU-Turkey, Max-Planck-Institut für Chemie-Germany; INGV-
 Italy (Acikalin); AkzoNobel (Clare); IFAPA/Univ. Almeria, Spain (Montero Calasanz); Banyan
 Tree Global Foundation, IPB Indonesia (Polunin); Cuadrilla (van der Land).
 Plenary, Keynote and Invited External Presentations: Royal Society 2017; Brazilian Critical
 Zone Symposium, São Paulo, 2019; Plenary, 29th British Organic Geochemical Society
 Conference, Bristol 2018: Keynote, 56th BSRG Annual Conference, 2017; UN Climate Change
 Conference of the Parties COP 25, Madrid 2019 (Abbott); Keynote,11th International
 Symposium on Marine Engineering, 2017 Japan, Keynote, Japan Adhesion Biology Society
 2017; Keynote, Bridging the gap between academia and industry - a collaborative enterprise,
 2016 France (Clare); Goldschmidt 2019 (Flynn); ICABB 2019 India; ACMIS 2018 Mongolia;
 CABCBEB 2018 Chile; Servier Pharmaceuticals 2014 France (Goodfellow); CONTASAD,
 2015 (Jones); Keynote, Society for Environmental Geochemistry & Health, 2019; Ministry of
 Mines and Energy Brasilia, 2018 (Manning); Utrecht 2019 (Morales-Maqueda); Impact of
 atmospheric warming on SW Greenland ecology, 2017; SE Asia Rainforest Research
 Partnership 2014, Malaysian Palm Oil Board 2018, Univ. Malaysia Sabah 2018 (Teh),
 Manchester, Stirling, Edinburgh (Telling); marine biogas international workshop, Los Angeles
 2018; Helmholtz International Ocean- Atmosphere Network, Kiel, 2018 (Upstill-Goddard);
 Awards/Scholarships etc: Visiting Professor Toulon University (Clare); Leverhulme Emeritus
 Fellowship (Goodfellow), Fellow, American Academy of Microbiology (Goodfellow, Head);
 European Academy of Microbiology (Head), Fellow of the Royal Society of Biology (Head)
 “Deep Sea Hero 2020”: ECO magazine/ Schmidt Ocean Institute/ National Oceanography
 Centre; Chief Scientist, Five Deeps Expedition (2018-19); “‘Expedition of the Year” award
 2020, Explorers Club, NY (Jamieson); Web of Science highly cited researcher (cross-field)
 2018, 2019, 2020 (Moore); Fellow, International Coral Reef Society, Royal Society of Biology,
 MBA (Polunin); University Tasmania Senior Research Fellowship (Willmott).
 Conference and Workshop Organisation and Hosting: UK Challenger Society for Marine
 Science biennial conference (2018: 300+ delegates; high profile international keynotes); 8th
 Astrobiology Society of Britain Conference (2019); 16th Marine Biological Association PGR
 conference (2019); British Sedimentology Research Group (2017); 2nd International Workshop
 on Alternative Potash (2017); European Federation of Geologists workshop (2015); NERC
 LORISE consortium (2016); International Symposium on Microbial Electrochemistry &
 Technology (2018).


                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 External Advisory Panels (examples): Review Board, Leibniz Institute for Baltic Sea
 Research, Chair, Comité International Permanent pour la Recherche sur la Préservation des
 Matériaux en Milieu Marin (COIPM) (Clare); National Oceanography Centre Association
 Steering Board (Clare, Upstill-Goddard); Scientific Advisory Board, SECORE International,
 (Edwards); EPSRC Energy Science Advisory Committee, NERC Senior Science User, UK
 Geoenergy Observatories, EPSRC IDRIC Panel, BBSRC GGR Demonstrator Panel, NSF-
 NERC Sensors in the Soil Panel, NERC-FAPESP Sustainable Gas Futures panel chair
 (Manning); UK Geomicrobiology Network, Astrobiology Society UK, Greenland and
 Kangerlussuaq International Research Networks (Telling); External Review Group, National
 Oceanography Centre, Belgian Science Policy Office Evaluation Panel, Belgian Research
 Action- Interdisciplinary Networks, Kiel/GEOMAR Cluster of Excellence and Future Ocean
 sustainability, SCOR National Committee, Hong Kong University Grants Committee Research
 Assessment Exercise, Norwegian Research Council Centres of Excellence, EUROFLEETS2 -
 integrating the European Research Fleet (Upstill-Goddard); Defra/DECC Met. Office Science
 Review Group, Philip Leverhulme Prizes Panel, Canadian Excellence Research Chairs Panel,
 Plymouth Marine Laboratory Science Advisory Council (Willmott).
 Editorships/Editorial boards (examples): J. Mar Sci. Eng. (Clare (Chief Editor), Upstill-
 Goddard); The ISME Journal (Head (Chief Editor 2014-2020)); Restoration Ecol. (Edwards,
 Coordinating Editor); Org. Geochem., Mar. Pet. Geol. (Abbott); Antonie van Leeuwenhoek
 (Goodfellow); Coral Reefs, Plos One (Guest); Sci. Reps. (Moore); J. Ocean Clim. (Morales-
 Maqueda); Env. Conserv. (Polunin, Chief Editor); Ann. Appl. Biol. (Port); Ecol. Evol., Plant
 Ecol. Div., Front. Forests Glob. Change (Teh); Arctic, Antarctic Alpine Res. (Telling); JMBA
 (Wigham).
 Learned Societies (examples): Upstill-Goddard: President, UK Challenger Society for
 Marine Science (2018-2020); Manning: President, Geological Society of London (2014-2016);
 Moore: Council Member, British Phycological Society.
 Engagement: Jamieson: deep-sea ecology on Blue Planet II (BBC) and Deep Ocean:
 Mariana Trench (NHK/Discovery TV), advice to Filmic Art, 3D Deep Ocean Experience DVD,
 NHK 2017 documentary Deep Ocean: Descent into the Mariana Trench, lander featured in
 Blue Planet 2; Gray: co-author, “Understanding drivers of antibiotic resistance genes in High
 Arctic soil ecosystems”; Envir. Int (2019); coverage in >400 international media outlets (e.g.
 Washington Post; BBC World News); Upstill-Goddard: co-author, “Reduced air–sea CO2
 exchange in the Atlantic Ocean due to biological surfactants (2018); coverage in major
 newspapers and BBC World News; Bolam et al., 2020 on extinctions avoidance received
 widespread publicity (e.g. Guardian, New York Times) and CBD media team metrics indicated
 200 outlets (lead story in GB05 launch); Mill, Fitzsimmons: Great North Museum science
 engagement; climate change and invasive species (107,944 public visits in 6 weeks).




                                                                                          Page 19
