Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 27 English Language and Literature


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 1.1. Liverpool English
 University of Liverpool English conducts research that enriches intellectual, cultural, and social
 life, addressing contemporary challenges, regionally, nationally and internationally. Combining
 scholarship with critical and creative practice to examine the interwoven histories of speaking,
 listening, writing, and reading, Liverpool English research embraces many variants of this global
 language and literatures of many types. Our structures and resources support staff in developing
 research connections across many platforms, encompassing output generation, doctoral
 supervision, and impact pathways with multiple beneficiaries and legacies.


 1.2. Strategy 2014-20
 Since 2014 our objectives have been:


    1. To develop Centres and Clusters which cultivate collaboration, provide mutual support,
        and feature world-leading research and impact demonstrating the vitality of English [1.4]
    2. To recruit staff strategically to develop pioneering interdisciplinary methodologies [2.2]
    3. To support individuals at all career stages in advancing projects of the highest quality,
        and to secure external funding from multiple income streams through mentoring,
        professional development and pump-priming resource [2.4-6]
    4. To foster the Unit’s extensive network of non-HEI regional, national and international
        partners, and to accelerate new connections and the co-creation of knowledge via our
        Profile and External Relations group [1.11, 4.1]
    5. To develop projects that are briskly responsive to current global challenges, and their
        local and national implications, in areas such as climate change, racial and social
        injustice, citizenship, artificial intelligence and cyber security, and mental wellbeing [1.11-
        12].


 1.3. Development
 In this REF cycle we have enhanced traditional and core aspects of English (literary history, textual
 editing) with new directions that demonstrate the diversity of the subject: engaging with new
 narrative forms and theories of literary production, analysing and promoting the work of writers of
 colour, experimenting with ecologies of writing in the Anthropocene. The establishment of the

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Centre for New and International Writing (CNIW), with its associated imprint, Pavilion Poetry, has
 distinctively illuminated practices in contemporary literatures. Capacity in pragmatics and history
 of the language has been much enhanced. Stylistics has been made a recognised strength
 through targeted appointments, drawing the major international conference and summer school in
 stylistics, PALA, here in 2019. Applied Linguistics and TESOL, a minor aspect of the 2014
 submission, has been developed through significant recruitment, enabling us to host the major
 Language Teaching and Learning conference of the British Association for Applied Linguistics in
 2020. Other major events held here, e.g. the British Society for Literature and Science conference
 (2015) and the Science Fiction Research Association conference (2016), likewise indicate
 particular area profiles significantly enhanced during the cycle.


 1.4. Centres and Clusters
 Following REF2014, we adopted a theme-based structure comprising Centres (large discs in
 diagram) and Clusters (small discs). Individual, curiosity-driven research impetus is encouraged
 and nurtured within the collaborative, non-hierarchical ethos of these aggregations.




 Figure 1 – Centres and Clusters associated with the Unit


 The Unit hosts three research Centres: the Centre for New and International Writing (CNIW;
 founded in 2015); the Literature and Science Hub (LitSciHub; 2019), and the Olaf Stapledon
 Centre for Speculative Futures (2018). Each Centre includes extra-departmental members,
 facilitating interdisciplinary dialogue – a core objective. They have budgets within the School of
 the Arts. English contributes additionally to four Faculty-based Centres: Liverpool Centre for
 Medieval and Renaissance Studies (LCMRS); Eighteenth-Century Worlds (ECW); Centre for

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Humanities and Social Science of Health, Medicine and Technology (CHSSoHMT); and Centre
 for the Study of International Slavery (CSIS). Centres host events, reading groups and training
 sessions which draw together staff (including non-academic colleagues), PGR students and
 community partners, stimulating methodological diversity and outward-facing conversation. Each
 Unit Centre has produced an Impact Case Study; our fourth ICS is associated with CHSSoHMT.


 Our Centres were each generated by earlier Clusters which gained the critical mass and
 momentum to develop beneficial research impact. The Clusters represent smaller thematic
 groupings, working dynamically across methodological boundaries to generate new perspectives.
 This structure is always developing: the Gender and Sexuality cluster emerged in 2020, from a
 staff/PGR reading group combining language and literary study, reflecting the Unit’s work across
 the spectrum of English studies.


 Academics and PGRs (who are associated with an appropriate group; [2.12]), collaborate in these
 groupings through seminars, reading groups, and discussion. Co-reading of outputs in preparation
 is a feature of our diverse but cohesive research environment. The Centres have involved PGRs
 within multiple strands of their work. Rowe, a CNIW PGR 2015-2019, developed public
 engagement events showcasing poetry and photography in her residency at the Open Eye
 Gallery, Liverpool; a current CNIW PGR, Johnson, has established a reading group focused on
 working-class writers, and is creating an archive of interviews with contemporary working-class
 poets. Burton, as a LitSciHub PGR, organized the ‘Memory of Trees’ conference (2017) and
 contributed to collaboration with Alder Hey Children’s Hospital; as an affiliated ECR, she co-
 organized the British Society for Literature and Science 2019 symposium in Liverpool.


 1.5. Interdisciplinarity
 We have flagged 14 of the 106 submitted outputs as ‘Interdisciplinary’, though in many senses
 interdisciplinarity is implicit in all our work. We promote an internal cross-disciplinary exchange
 which ensures that research is conducted with an awareness of perspectives and challenges
 outside the discipline. This helps map Liverpool English onto the impact-bearing research themes
 of the Faculty and University, especially Heritage; Climate Futures; Digital; Starting Well, Living
 Well, Ageing Well [REF 5a:1, 2.3]. We have embedded English within these networks by
 appointing representatives, working with theme leads in the University to entwine our research
 with cross-cutting projects of public benefit [1.11] in mental health, local identity, and creativity.
 The Unit’s major grant successes [3.4] demonstrate the relation between interdisciplinarity and
 impact. We are pursuing networking events with other Units, e.g. Psychology and Modern
 Languages for the next REF cycle.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.6. Networks
 The Centres and Clusters foster mutual exchange, rather than constituting disciplinary boundaries.
 Each has between four and nine members; many colleagues are active within multiple clusters,
 linking specialisms across the Unit and providing fertile ground for new ideas. There are, for
 example, active intersections between Editing and Adaptation and Drama and Performance. Our
 creative writing practitioners seek to transcend the notional divide between creative and critical
 writing in research and teaching. CNIW’s interdisciplinary reach extends to departments such as
 Sociology, Psychology, and Oceanography. Most staff in CNIW also work within Global
 Literatures, while LitSciHub has strong intellectual links with CNIW and the Stapledon Centre.
 Lynall’s work on solar power (2020) reviews a cross-period longitudinal history but builds on an
 existing eighteenth-century literature specialism. Our stylisticians study literary texts in their
 historical-linguistic aspects (e.g. Gonzalez-Diaz on ‘female language’ in Austen); Chapman
 combines philosophy of language and pragmatics with ‘revision’ in literary texts.


 1.7. Diverse perspectives
 Our work focuses strongly on the multiple spectra of identity, race, gender, and wellbeing, as the
 Impact Case Studies show. Diversity of perspective is enhanced here by the mode of research
 itself. CNIW has actively collaborated with the programming of Das’s five-year ERC-funded TIDE
 project, ‘Travel, Transculturality and Identity in England’ from a proto-colonial period (1550-1700)
 [moved institution 2019]; TIDE has hosted a CNIW Writer in Residence. LitSciHub has invested
 notably in creative writing techniques in public work, and Migration is foregrounded as a theme in
 Sociolinguistics and Multilingualism. Northern Voices, a Cluster of language and literature staff,
 combines many angles in its approaches to ‘local’ identity.


 1.8. Seminar series
 Research webpages promote our Clusters and Centres and our flexible, multi-form seminar series
 across and beyond the University. Staff and PGR students meet for discussion papers of various
 kinds (work in progress, draft output, visiting lecture) at varying times to suit the diverse
 responsibilities of staff. In 2020, pandemic-related restrictions led to seminars being convened
 virtually; as this enhances reach, it is likely to become a normal aspect of research presentation,
 as it already is for Applied Linguistics online webinars.


 1.9. Outputs
 Under the Centres and Clusters, the productivity of the Unit has increased markedly since 2014.
 Since that selective exercise, in which all but two eligible staff in English were returned with four
 outputs each, we have produced 12 editions, 25 monographs, 18 edited collections, 114 chapters



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and 86 journal articles: more than 250 outputs have been reviewed for potential submission to
 REF, an average of over six per FTE.


 Scholarly editions heralded in REF2014 (Ferraro, Peverley, Baines) have been fostered by the
 Editing and Adaptation Cluster and are submitted among the Unit’s highest-profile outputs; these
 have also benefited from links to Faculty Centres (ECW and LCMRS). Each main researcher in
 creative writing (Rees-Jones, Parmar, Redmond) has produced an internationally successful
 poetry collection within the cycle. LitSciHub has generated work on climate change, solar power,
 ornithology, and weather, in specific periods and across chronologies, by Solnick, Lynall, B.
 Roberts and Harris [moved institution 2017]. From Literature and Religion come monographs,
 edited collections, and articles (Bradley, Davies and Marsden); we submit monographs, collections
 and articles supported by other Clusters on English, Irish, American and postcolonial literatures
 (Hering, Seed, Shovlin, Carson, Lybeck and Slocombe); and on early modern literature (Davies,
 Duxfield, and Knowles).


 Members of the Stylistics, Pragmatics and Discourse Studies, Language Learning, and
 Sociolinguistics and Multilingualism Clusters (Chapman, Kania, Gao) have produced large-scale
 book projects; flagship journals such as Discourse and Society; Critical Discourse Studies and
 English Language and Linguistics have published work by members across all language clusters
 (Lampropoulou, Jones, Gonzalez-Diaz, Simpson). The enhancement of the Language Learning
 and Teaching strand has generated books and articles in major journals (Language Learning,
 System, International Journal of Applied Linguistics).


 1.10. Open research
 While continuing to publish in traditional forms, the Unit is developing an open research
 environment in partnership with the University Library [REF 5a: 2.5], systematically working
 towards compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data. While many of our editions were
 commissioned by scholarly presses in conventional formats, staff have also made editions freely
 available online (Duxfield, Peverley, Baines and Lynall). The TIDE project has published reports,
 blogs, a ‘keywords’ database, resources for teachers, and other materials, on its open-access
 website. CNIW publishes research data as part of the ‘Ledbury Emerging Poetry Critics’ scheme
 (begun at Liverpool, now extended internationally), to analyse the state of diversity in modern
 poetry and criticism. B. Roberts’ book is part of Liverpool University Press’s Open Monograph
 series. Language colleagues have developed the first historical corpus of schoolchildren’s writing
 and reading, with free access upon registration [4.3] and have collaborated in the development of
 a socio-phonetic corpus of Liverpool English by a visiting scholar (Watson, Origins of Liverpool
 English; see 3.5), which will be open access on completion.



                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 1.11. Impact strategy
 Liverpool English’s activity is inseparable from its public-facing, socially responsible culture, which
 harnesses key research strengths to areas of pressing local, national and international concern.
 We pursue research themes with strong political and social currency, such as mental health and
 wellbeing, race and migration, citizenship and power, science and environment, heritage and
 dialect. Following the aspirational development of the impact agenda since REF2014, the strategy
 has been supported by Impact Leads at Department and School level (Lynall, Rees-Jones,
 Parmar, Billington), who have ensured staff can engage with the rich suite of training activities
 offered at Faculty level.


 The Unit considers its research environment to extend to its distinctive physical location within the
 City Region. It has established a ‘Profile and External Relations Group’ which identifies
 opportunities for external collaboration, and grows relationships with non-academic organizations
 [4.1-3]. These participatory initiatives foster intersections of culture, community, creativity and
 social care.


 1.12. Cultures
 As a port city and locale of migration and movement, Liverpool constitutes a richly distinctive place
 of writing, speech, history and culture, which includes Irish, Welsh, Chinese, African, Arab and
 Jewish communities intermeshed with ‘English’. Since 2014 and through alignments with
 departments such as History and Architecture, we have developed a new focus on Liverpool itself
 as an object of study, enhancing our partnerships with its institutions, communities, and social
 organisations, and developing the public benefits of research insights. This approach represents
 a sense of place within the world and across time; there is lateral connectivity between postcolonial
 explorations of Black British history (Loh), work on earlier Liverpool creative writing and empire
 (Baines, Seed), and the internationalist perspective of CNIW and TIDE. By linking the local to the
 global, and by making the location of exchanges an aspect of research topics, impact has been
 carefully embedded in our fundamental conception of research and its civic purpose.


 1.13. Impact case studies
 The Unit’s four case studies have been selected from a longlist of twenty ongoing projects. They
 have been supported by institutional and external funding [3.1-5], and promoted through the
 activity of the Centres: ‘Literary Reading and Mental Health/Wellbeing’ has been supported by the
 Faculty Centre for Humanities and Social Science of Health, Medicine and Technology, with
 additional links to the Unit’s Literature and Mental Health Cluster. ‘Changing and shaping the
 perception, reception and cultural value of poetry by women and BAME poets’ is based on the
 complementary work of two CNIW practitioners. ‘Enriching Ecological Understanding and


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Enhancing Healthcare Practices through the application of Literary Research into Science and
 Environment’ represents work by members of LitSciHub. ‘Operationalising Science Fiction for
 Futures Analysis, Technology Development, and Policy Communication’ draws on the commercial
 and intellectual activity of the Stapledon Centre.


 1.14. Future objectives
 These case studies show the ability of Liverpool English to increase capacity to imagine and
 realise better futures, through enhanced training practices, improved communications, and
 creative work. Their momentum will continue alongside ongoing projects which have a kindred
 investment in promoting the value of English, including its older literatures, for present-day
 concerns, and which set an agenda for issues and challenges to come. These include work on
 comics and mental health; scenario planning for sustainable environments; and corpus-informed
 approaches to language learning. Projects driven by Cluster activity include work on Early Modern
 English Social Structure and Identity (Kania, Guardamagna; Gonzalez-Diaz), Liverpool English,
 Intelligibility learning devices (Lampropoulou, Cooper and Masuhara), and Dictionary Use and
 Phraseology for EFL/EAP learners (Jones and Oakey). We anticipate impact relating to the
 dialectal varieties of English’s national complexion, e.g. projects on Scouse Identity, and on
 variation in children’s speech and writing and its effects on National Curriculum English language
 provision. We have sought to recruit and develop staff to pursue these dimensions of ‘English’,
 finding clear pathways from theory to practice and from text to world.


 From 2021, the Unit will build upon its previous objectives by seeking:


    1.      To promote the agency of English studies in the world by promoting a supportive,
            nurturing environment which galvanises collaborative, cross-institutional research, up
            to and across the boundaries of the discipline. We will engage fully with the
            University’s RISE project [REF 5a: 3.3.3].
    2.      To foster our interdisciplinary culture, by making strategic appointments in areas such
            as: computational linguistics; first-language learning and literacy; digital, medical and
            environmental humanities; global literatures.
    3.      To strengthen intradisciplinary links between creative writing, literature and language
            study within existing Clusters and Centres.
    4.      To collaborate with partners and institutions on projects with clear potential to achieve
            national and international policy change through (for example) engaging with post-
            COVID-19 initiatives and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals; and to attract
            significant grant and commercial income to these projects.




                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5.       To invest in infrastructure and equipment conducive to improving research
             performance, and to make available increased numbers of outputs in open access
             formats, maximising citation reach and potential impact.


 Whilst the COVID-19 pandemic may result in some realignment of these objectives, the Unit is
 confident that its robust structures ensure they will remain deliverable over the next cycle.



 2. People


 2.1. The Unit
 The Unit consists (at census date) of 46 (42.4 FTE) Category A submitted staff, representing an
 expansion of 37% on REF2014 (31 FTE Category A submitted staff, of 33 eligible). Three
 specialists from the multi-disciplinary Institute of Irish Studies are included, two of them recent
 appointments (one shared contractually between the two departments), reflecting strong
 collaborative alignment.


 2.2. Development
 Posts are planned in accordance with the Unit’s strategic emphases, and under procedures
 designed to ensure fairness, transparency and the avoidance of bias in relation to race, gender,
 or background [REF 5a: 3.2]. Candidates with a registered disability who meet the essential criteria
 for a post are guaranteed interview; one such is now a senior lecturer here. Under the University’s
 Strategy 2026 [REF 5a: 2.1, 3.1], the Unit focuses on long-term development of strong and
 emerging research specialisms, envisaging how successful applicants would advance the work of
 the Centres and Clusters to which they are affiliated on arrival. The great majority of the 15 T&R
 appointments since 2014 have been of promising academics at an early stage of career; we have
 selected staff who will mature as researchers in this supportive environment and who will add
 energy and impetus to research and research-connected teaching. Apart from the appointment of
 Simpson (Professor, as HoD 2016-19), and Jones (2016, Senior Lecturer, to lead Applied
 Linguistics), all promotions to personal chair, readership, and senior lecturer levels have been
 internal ones. Only Harris [0.5 FTE] and Das have changed institution during the census period;
 both were already professors. Demonstrable success in bringing staff through the promotion
 sequence confirms that we have built sustainable succession into recruitment from the start.


 2.3. Early Career Researchers (ECR)
 Currently over 20% of staff members meet the REF definition of ECR; all are aware through direct
 consultation of the support available inside the Unit and Institution. The HoD ran an Impact
 Workshop in 2019, to bring new staff with nascent ideas into contact with ICS authors. Mentoring

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 is especially important for ECRs, who also draw on the Faculty’s ECR support network and
 University’s Research Staff Association. Early-career staff such as Lybeck, Hering, Carson and B.
 Roberts are represented here by substantial monographs, with double weighting cases,
 demonstrating the success of research support, in-progress reading of outputs, and help with
 publication. These academics have also been carefully supported to develop grant bids and
 impact networks [3.5, 4.3]. Conversely, it is recognised through the open Cluster structure that
 established colleagues often learn from ECR experience. The integration of these young
 academics through respectful consultation and exchange renders the Unit a highly dynamic
 research environment.


 2.4. Identities
 Of Unit staff who record a racial identity, 13-17% have, over the cycle, done so as BAME. The
 University provides several networks to support the career development of staff who might
 experience marginalisation [REF 5a: 3.2]: the Female ECR Network, LGBT Staff Network, BAME
 Staff Network. These are widely promoted by the Unit Research Lead (Gonzalez-Diaz) and EDI
 Champion (Hanna) through regular notifications and meetings. English’s EDI Champion and
 working group contribute to the School’s EDI committee, currently applying for Athena SWAN
 status. English has instituted a ‘Decolonising the Curriculum’ working group which aspires to
 embed new modes of thinking about race across the research-connected syllabus.


 2.5. Flexible contracts
 Flexibility is itself regarded as capable of generating valuable perspectives. Three individuals (1.7
 FTE) are on fixed-term contracts and four on permanent part-time contracts (1.7 FTE). English
 has re-established an internally funded postdoctoral position, the William Noble Research
 Fellowship, to allow one individual, selected through open competition, to launch a postdoctoral
 career over a three-year span. The sequence of appointees indicates a particular commitment to
 impact-bearing research themes: the last three appointees, two now on permanent contracts, are
 part of LitSciHub. Part-time contracts have been made available to early-career staff (Knowles,
 0.5, Hanna, 0.6) to fit with particular needs, but also to later-career staff (Everest, Birch, 0.2; Seed,
 0.4) with different personal focus. Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) staff are supported in their
 research endeavours and during this cycle several colleagues (Broadhead, Hering, Knowles) have
 successfully applied to transfer to Teaching and Research (T&R) contracts, reflecting their
 research achievements and potential.


 The Environment has been further enriched by other colleagues on fixed-term contracts: Creative
 Writing Fellows (appointed for 18 months), four postdoctoral researchers and research assistants
 on the TIDE project, the PDRA on LitSciHub’s ICS project, and one 0.5 fixed-term post


                                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Christofides), funded to replace the teaching commitment of the TIDE project leader, on a T&R
 basis to promote his research. Lauren Elkin, Creative Writing Fellow in 2016, has been retained
 on an honorary contract to continue public engagement activities. Liverpool English has benefited
 from the presence of visiting fellows such as Kelly Sultzbach, a Fulbright scholar from the
 University of Wisconsin La-Crosse, who joined LitSciHub and participated in several collegiate
 research showcase events (2018-19); she remains a corresponding member.


 2.6. Careers
 The management of careers is facilitative; the principle of self-direction, aligned with Centres and
 Clusters, within national and international networks, constitutes the heart of practice. All staff
 engage with Professional Development Review, a one-to-one interface with an appropriately
 trained colleague in a related research area, which includes discussion of research strategies,
 grant-capture potential, training and support needs, and issues relating to wellbeing, equality and
 diversity. Postdoctoral researchers engage with the same PDR process, but with additional
 meetings to focus specifically on individual research and career issues, including post-project
 career discussions.


 2.7. Workload
 The allocation of duties, including teaching at all levels, administrative work and leadership
 responsibilities, such as the preparation of REF documentation and Impact Case Studies, is
 managed through a locally-specific workload model. Teaching is scheduled to allow for protected
 research time, flexible and remote working (in tailored patterns), family and caring responsibilities,
 and academic duties exterior to the Department or University. This has become particularly
 important under COVID-related restrictions. The allocation model includes management of duties
 assigned to ECRs, which facilitates induction in a phased, incremental way, commencing with
 (typically) a 50% teaching load in first year, allowing space to develop research profile, rising to a
 normal commitment on completion of probation. A new colleague will have a reduced but still
 significant collegial role to help build profile. New staff are invited to contribute to the seminar
 series, to foment networking. Staff returning from ill health (three colleagues this cycle) are offered
 a staged return to duties, including some remote working, as are those returning from parental
 leave (four colleagues this cycle).


 2.8. Research Planning
 Internally-managed leave is planned cyclically alongside externally-funded leave and staff
 exchanges. Staff are prompted to apply for a semester of internally-funded Research and Impact
 Leave after five semesters of teaching; applications, which must include plans for the completion
 of significant outputs and/or impact activities, are overseen by the School Research and Impact


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Committee with input from the Chair of the Unit’s Research Group. This process has been carefully
 managed through the REF assessment period, and 60 semesters of research leave have been
 approved for the Unit, driving the enhanced productivity noted in 1.9.


 The Unit’s Research Group has oversight of strategy and activity as a whole; its membership is
 representative of the diverse subject areas, career paths and identities of the Unit, including Irish
 Studies. Similarly inclusive is the Unit’s REF governance group, which oversees all decisions
 about the REF submission, including the selection of outputs. All involved have completed
 appropriate EDI training [REF 5a: 3.7]. All Unit-specific REF documentation is owned by the Unit,
 in all its variety, through consultation and revision, following drafting by delegated staff. The output
 reading team comprises the whole list of research-active staff, appropriately trained and mentored.
 The reading of outputs offers an additional means (alongside seminars) to showcase work
 amongst colleagues in ways which push against boundaries and generate potential new
 collaborations. The process is used to mentor newly appointed colleagues in an understanding of
 REF processes within the wider research agenda; they read outputs alongside more experienced
 researchers, promoting a research culture of transparent exchange and open critique and
 diminishing the possibility of discrimination and bias. The outputs returned reflect this process:
 there is a nearly-equal presence of female to male authorship, and strong representation of early-
 career staff.


 2.9. Progression
 The PDR process engages with individuals on matters of career progression and supports them
 under HoD guidance. Draft applications proceed via institutional procedures to an appropriately
 diverse Faculty Review panel which uses clear criteria, including research and impact
 achievement. Staff work with mentors and reviewers to engage with these aspects, which include
 incentives for public engagement and an open research culture. Four of the female professors, for
 example, were Radio 3 New Generation Thinkers [4.4], a contribution to the profile of Liverpool
 English recognised in their promotion. The make-up of the Category A submitted members of the
 Unit at census date is 22 female, 24 male (21.3:21.1 FTE). In the 31-40 age group, there are 11
 female and 5 male staff. There are 7 female professors and 6 male (6.2:4.6 FTE), reflecting a
 cultural commitment to equal promotion procedures and internal mutual support. This balance has
 improved since 2014 (6 male professors, 4 female), and is considerably in advance of the position
 achieved within the Faculty and University, itself better than the sector average [REF 5a: 3.4].


 2.10. Diversity
 Liverpool English has had two non-white professors for part of this REF cycle, both female, both
 part of the New Generation Thinkers scheme, and both occupying significant strategic roles. If


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘English’ suggests a narrow identity, a Unit in an entrepot city with a long history of diverse
 ethnicity, settlement and migration must have an international outlook, and staff are themselves
 associated with a wide range of geographical heritages, languages and narratives of origin, to a
 significantly greater extent now than in 2014. These include: Spanish, Greek, Cypriot, German,
 Italian, Welsh, Irish, Scottish, Japanese, Chinese, Malay, Indian, and Black American, bringing to
 our work a sense of the global reach of English and the interaction of languages and cultures
 generally. The University’s link with the campus at Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTLU) [REF 5a: 1,
 2.2.1] includes co-supervision of PGR work in both language and literature, maintaining a further
 global perspective.


 2.11. Liverpool ‘English’
 We recruit staff and PGRs from such diverse backgrounds because the subjects of the Unit’s
 research complicate the idea of a uniform English identity. We work on the fluid nature of literary
 and spoken dialect, especially Scouse, northern and Scots Englishes (Cooper and Broadhead),
 gender in sociolinguistics (Lampropoulou, Kania), the uses of applied linguistics in second
 language acquisition (Jones, Oakey, Kourtali, Masuhara), interlanguage pragmatics (Jones) and
 European perspectives on language (Chapman, Simms, Kania). Emphasis on literature, science
 and environment (Rudd, Lynall, Solnick, B. Roberts) links specific English localities with
 international scenarios, and much of our work concerns American English (Seed, Hering, Murray,
 Slocombe) or the gendering of literature (Oliver, B. Roberts, Rees-Jones, Parmar). Creative
 writing addresses problematic intersections of place and identity with race and gender. CNIW’s
 multidisciplinary Citizens of Everywhere project has, through public events and commissioned
 writing, addressed issues of migration, citizenship and internationalism in the light of political shifts
 in Europe and America. The project has run workshops with schools, developing teachers’ packs,
 free to download, on topics such as national borders, the migrant crisis, and turbulent geographies
 in the age of globalisation. Work in this area has received extensive internal and external funding
 [3.4.1]. The appointment of Mona Arshi, Human Rights activist and lawyer, whose poetry appears
 under our Pavilion Poetry imprint, to a visiting Professorship in English and the School of Law and
 Social Justice, offers an innovative cross-disciplinary and creative forum for engaging researchers
 and students in issues of citizenship and statelessness. Our literary history looks to international
 dimensions and interchanges (the TIDE project), slavery and abolition (Baines, Loh, Seed). We
 study the literature of physical impairment and reading for mental health (Billington, Hering,
 Baines, Seed).


 2.12. PGR community
 The Unit is enriched by a dynamic relationship with its research postgraduates. PGRs work within
 the Centre-Cluster structure, which helps to mentor and induct them into collaborative disciplinary


                                                                                                  Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work. The development of a successful Creative Writing PhD programme, with several AHRC-
 funded students, has boosted this part of the profile, as has greatly enhanced capacity to supervise
 in Applied Linguistics. During the REF2021 cycle the Unit has overseen the completion of over 50
 PhD projects, at an average of 7 or 8 completions per year. At census date, the number of
 registered students is 60; two thirds are female. Approximately a third have chosen to return to
 Liverpool following taught programmes here. Around a quarter are of international origin; there are
 particular concentrations of students from China and Saudi Arabia as well as Europe, including
 one student co-supervised with Université Paris Diderot. PGR students are thus recruited from
 around the world. Applicants are attracted by the range of expertise and high research profile of
 staff and by particular research collections and strengths. Subjects cover the full spectrum of our
 conception of the subject and are similarly diverse in approach. Academic staff have been centrally
 involved in PGR networks: Chapman has been School Director of PG Research; Bradley has been
 School and Faculty Director of PG Research, and is currently the Institutional Lead for the AHRC
 North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP); Solnick is the Institutional
 Representative on the NWCDTP Training, Employability and KE Panel.


 Research postgraduates have dedicated web presence, to help foreground their research profiles
 for career development purposes. They meet monthly with one of their two subject supervisors,
 assigned in percentages ranging from 90/10 to 50/50. Less-experienced supervisors are normally
 assigned to work with more established colleagues as co-supervisors as part of their own
 development; researchers in TIDE benefited from mentoring the attached PGR students on
 aspects of public engagement. Each year, two further academics, outside the research specialism,
 meet with PGR students individually to discuss specimen work, progress, and training needs, and
 issues relating to wellbeing, equality and diversity. These meetings also foster interdisciplinary
 awareness. They take place immediately after English’s Annual PGR conference. This ambitious
 and successful event is organised (with support) by the PGR students themselves, including all
 booking, catering, and publicity, in the manner of a professional conference, to showcase their
 research projects and engage in debate with each other and with academic staff. A spin-off, the
 Current Research into Speculative Fiction network, has been run by PGR students independently
 since 2010. We have been careful to monitor wellbeing via online meetings and chatrooms during
 the pandemic and have endeavoured to supply additional resources and access to study space
 particularly for those completing.


 As well as our own seminar series, and other University series, PGRs involve themselves in
 external networks such as the M6 Corridor medieval reading group. They take part with distinction
 in University-led training events; since its inception in 2016, PGRs from the Unit have won more
 than half the prizes at the Faculty PGR showcase and poster competition, an annual



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary event profiling postgraduate research across the Faculty to academics and
 external partners such as National Museums Liverpool.


 2.13. Early training and development
 Training opportunities for PGRs (and ECRs) have been enhanced by the University's partnership
 status with the ESRC-funded National Centre for Research Methods. We provide two days of
 subject-specific training for all its PGR tutors, with an emphasis upon opportunities for research-
 connected teaching. PGR students and ECRs benefit from the engage@liverpool programme
 [REF 5a: 3.5], a network promoting interdisciplinary approaches for which Slocombe is an Arts
 and Humanities Lead. The network spearheads methodological training initiatives in the North
 West; events on literature and science, reading and health, and narratological principles in
 research writing, have been led by researchers from the Unit recently. PGRs have acted as
 leaders and instructors on field trips such as environmental-literature studies workshops in the
 Lake District and at RSPB Burton Mere. PGRs have recently established their own
 EDI/Decolonising the Curriculum network, intersecting with the Unit’s related groups, as the Unit
 recognises the importance of involving the next generation of researchers in such conversations.


 2.14. Becoming colleagues
 Over the last decade, while most of our PGRs have gone on to careers elsewhere, several have
 been retained after graduation as staff, initially on T&S contracts; some have moved during the
 current cycle to T&R contracts (Hering, Knowles, Broadhead) to support their enhanced focus on
 research. Others, choosing to remain within the T&S framework, contribute to the research
 environment through published research and inclusion in Centre and Cluster activities. Miskimmin,
 who advises the Everyman/Playhouse Theatres on performance matters, contributed a chapter to
 Davies and Duxfield, Richard II: A Critical Reader (2020); Raines has published journal articles on
 nineteenth-century fiction and adaptation, and Bainbridge an article (2015) and book chapter
 (2020) on A. S. J. Tessimond. Another former PGR student (B. Roberts) has been appointed to
 our William Noble Research Fellowship. Roberts has enhanced her own career development by
 devising a new series of research colloquia events, involving particularly early-career or visiting
 academics, in the sessions 2018-20, on the theme of Environmental studies. Burton, formerly a
 PGR student and Faculty level impact-focused postdoctoral research associate, is the first holder
 of a newly-endowed post, the Allan Price Postdoctoral Teaching Fellowship (2020). Blackburn has
 a postdoctoral research assistant post at the Open University (2019) and Leyland a fellowship at
 XJTLU. We are already aligned with the career support objectives embodied in the University’s
 new Prosper project [REF 5a: 3.3.2].




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1. Funding overview
 In the current REF cycle, the Unit’s researchers have been awarded nearly £2.4 million (averaging
 some £340k annually) by a diverse range of external funders. Large-scale funding has come from
 EU government sources (£911,623); UK Research Councils (£467,571); UK charities (£215,815)
 and governmental, local authority and health bodies (£120,499). In the largest single award,
 following earlier concatenated grant successes, Das was awarded nearly €2 million by the
 European Research Council for TIDE in 2016, involving new PGR studentships, postdoctoral
 researchers, and a research-active teaching replacement to facilitate leadership of the project.
 Income per submitting FTE per annum has grown 55% since REF2014, from £3,807 to £5,909,
 outstripping the FTE growth itself (37%; [2.1]). The success rate of applications submitted as PI
 has been 33% (by number of applications) and 37% (by value of awards).


 This success has been achieved through co-ordinated thinking on early support from the Unit’s
 Research Funding Lead, guidance via PDRs and research mentor meetings, sharing of good
 practice, and careful targeting of internal pump-priming funding. The Unit’s longstanding record of
 success in the use of the University’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact (KEI) vouchers has been
 vital in considering the impact element of grant bids and co-creation of research with non-HEI
 partners; there are clear links between the supply of internal funding and larger external awards
 in the cases of Billington, Rees-Jones, Lynall, and others. Female and BAME researchers (Das,
 Parmar, Loh [3.4]) have been particularly successful in this cycle, benefiting from supportive
 mentoring structures and exchanges.


 3.2. Beginnings
 English, which funds some start-up activities in an immediate manner, has established the role of
 Research Funding Lead to support research staff, from conception of a project and its potential
 impact, through to the application cycle and post-award period. The Lead (currently Loh) co-
 ordinates discipline-specific input into research funding applications to encourage and increase
 grant capture. The Lead hosts a repository of successful funding bids and works as an information
 relay with the School Research Support Team, the Faculty Research and Impact Team, and the
 University’s Research, Partnerships and Innovation (RPI) team [REF 5a: 4.1.1] on funding calls
 and processes, with particular attention to the needs of ECRs. The School of the Arts funds
 research within its associated departments through the Research Development and Initiative Fund
 (RDIF). Over the period 2017-19, English achieved some £40k of RDIF funding across c.35
 projects. We currently expect to call on c. £20k per year, to support 15-20 projects, including
 archival research trips, conference attendance, conference organisation, the development of


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networks, public showcase events, and exploratory projects. Graduate Internship schemes have
 given students mentored research experience in diverse fields: scholarly editing, dialect studies,
 globalising Heritage, and ‘Corona on Twitter’; as a result of support from the Cluster structure,
 ECRs have become more confident in applications for these exploratory awards.


 3.3. Institutional support
 These internal support processes are particularly useful in speculative stages. School funding is
 used in combination with Institutional KEI funding [REF 5a: 4.1.2] to generate potential impact and
 grant applications. Hering has used RDIF, KEI voucher, and Impact Case Study support funds (c.
 £10k) to support networking, knowledge exchange workshops and exhibition events at Tate
 Modern and Tate Liverpool. Loh made use of the institution’s ECR and Returner’s Fund to support
 a workshop in November 2018 on ‘Chinese Liverpool’ in order to pump-prime a larger AHRC
 application on Chinese British History and Narratives and this has now led to significant impact
 pathways, including a forthcoming exhibition at the British Library (2023). This work has also been
 supported by a Faculty-led Undergraduate Research Scheme Award 2020. Loh also used the
 Santander Travel Grant (2016) to work with colleagues in Ghana towards a major collaborative
 project and AHRC application with English Heritage. Our confidence that institutional support will
 lead to external funding of research and impact reflects sustained successes in the current cycle
 of ICS work.


 3.4. Impact Case Study funding
 3.4.1 Parmar’s Ledbury Emerging Poetry Critics scheme has received over £7.5k in University
 funding (Flexible Faculty Fund, Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) [REF 5a: 4.1.1] for
 activities and reports. (HEIF also funds a Faculty-based, Unit-facing postdoctoral research
 assistant to help assess further impact from the ICS projects). RDIF provided £4.3k (2017) to fund
 research assistance for the Race and Poetry Statistical Analysis exercise. In late 2020, Parmar
 was awarded an AHRC EDI Fellowship (£99k) to enhance this work (‘Race and Reviewing in the
 UK: The Ledbury Poetry Critics’). Rees-Jones has won funding and support in kind from the
 Victoria Gallery and Museum to support exhibitions, poetry readings and cultural exchanges. She
 was awarded a two-year Major Fellowship (£85k) from the Leverhulme Trust to pursue her
 monograph Paula Rego (2019; winner, international Filaf prize for best art history monograph).
 She was awarded nearly £50k by the British Academy to help manage the ‘Yemen in Conflict’
 collaboration with the University of Leeds, a project which links Yemenis across the UK, and
 archives poetry in danger of being lost, and a further £13k to develop this project with Liverpool
 Arab Arts Festival. The AHRC NWCDTP has supported the Parmar/Rees-Jones Impact Case
 Study through the cultural engagement and outreach activities of their PGR student.




                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.4.2 Billington secured £7.5k from HEIF to disseminate research findings from a NHS-funded
 project at Ashworth Hospital to medical professionals via a London workshop, and to help train
 care home staff in related practical activities; and £10k from RDIF to foster interdisciplinary
 collaboration (on reading and dementia) with health practitioners in New Zealand. She has
 collaboratively won substantial grants from the AHRC, Mersey Care Mental Health Trust, the
 Ministry of Justice, and commercial companies, to support inclusive investigations in reading for
 mental health, adult literacy and pain management. As Co-I, with Lampropoulou, Billington was
 part of a successful £1.2m ESRC bid (£230k within the Unit) to investigate child language
 development through family reading, working with colleagues in Psychology at Liverpool and at
 several other universities in the North-West. Most recently (2020), Billington (PI) and Balabanova
 (Co-I, Communication and Media) have won a further UKRI COVID Urgency award (COVID-19
 Care, total award £200k), examining the effects on mental health in the city region of restricted
 access to culture under the pandemic, in partnership with multiple organisations and promising
 extensive future impact. This exemplifies the Unit’s ability to make a rapid response to a
 developing need, in an extremely competitive funding call.


 3.4.3 Lynall (2016-17) drew £900 from the HEIF for a project with schools and (2018-19) KEI
 funding (£4k) to promote activities at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital. These formed an important
 element of the LitSciHub Impact Case Study, enabling a strand concerned with environmental
 consciousness, creativity and health/wellbeing. Lynall won a £15k Leverhulme Trust Fellowship,
 for research leave to complete the Imagining Solar Energy project, one of the underpinning
 research outputs. Solnick was funded by RDIF to liaise with a Cardiff opera company to help with
 ecological aspects of a revived opera and by HEIF to support the Life Rooms project [4.2].


 3.5. Funding Spectrum
 The Unit has built capacity with particular funders. Harris won the very prestigious Philip
 Leverhulme Prize (£100k) in 2016 in respect of her Liverpool-based research in literature, art and
 environmental awareness. Shovlin was awarded nearly £50k (British Academy/Leverhulme,
 Senior Research Fellowship and Small Grant) to complete editorial and critical work on John
 McGahern’s Letters; Peverley was granted £40k (Leverhulme Research Fellowship) to support
 research for work on the cultural history of mermaids. With the support of the Funding Lead, staff
 look more widely at the spectrum of available sources, as examples in 3.4 show. Other significant
 grants include £26k from the British Academy Visiting Fellowships Programme (Cooper and
 Lampropoulou) to fund a visiting scholar (2018) for the project ‘Accent and Identity in Liverpool: A
 Corpus Sociophonetic “Big Data” Approach’ [1.10]. Birch won £54k from the AHRC and N8
 partnership for ‘New Thinking from the North’, to explore ways in which academics and
 practitioners in the humanities can work with external partners to stimulate reinvention and
 regrowth. We have gained funds from the Modern Humanities Research Association, NHS care

                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 trusts, charities, and heritage organisations, helping us to pursue a more representative and
 interdisciplinary research agenda in science and literature, poetry and diversity, mental health,
 and heritage, through support for conferences, exhibitions, summer schools, and the appointment
 of postdoctoral researchers and research assistants. ECRs such as Moreton and Lybeck have
 benefited from sustained support and consultation in developing research themes (respectively in
 cybersecurity, practice-based theatre research) in ways that should attract commercial or
 industrial collaboration and can be supported by funding bodies; both have funding applications in
 development.


 3.6. Consultancy
 Knowledge Exchange has also promoted consultancy income of c. £90k. Slocombe drew £1.2k in
 Faculty Impact Support to fund the gathering of impact evidence and the generation of further
 impact pathways from a feasibility study in the use of Science Fiction texts and concepts in product
 design and scenario planning, leading to commercial/organisational consultancy work reflected in
 the relevant ICS. Other consultancy work has been undertaken in relation to finance and literary
 culture (Ferraro) and forensic linguistics (Simpson).


 3.7. PGR funding
 Many PGR students have been assisted to secure external funding through the AHRC North West
 Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP): four in literature, three in creative writing,
 one (ESRC route) in linguistics, across the cycle. The School provides doctoral studentships
 across its departments; English currently has three students funded this way. PGR students can
 bid to the School PGR support fund (normally up to £350, with ‘exceptional’ awards up to £600).
 English funds additional PGR studentships, currently held by one Language and one Literature
 student. A fees and maintenance scholarship, the J. I. C. Davies award for three years of PGR
 study, is funded from a bequest. Other PGR support includes the Alan and Barbara Price Graduate
 Teaching Assistantships, which have paid a stipend to PGR students to support research-led
 teaching.


 3.8. Space
 Much presentation of the Unit’s research activities takes place in the School’s Old Library, now
 adapted to be accessible via lift; public-facing events take place in a historic setting the continuing
 heritage of which can feature in the research itself, as in the reading (and e-publication) of
 Roscoe’s lecture on the founding of Liverpool Royal Institution, a forerunner of the University
 (2017). It is also the base for filming and archiving CNIW events. The ground floor was used for
 the Life and Limb disability exhibition, funded by BLESMA: The Limbless Veterans (formerly British
 Limbless Ex-Servicemen's Association), in 2016. The Victoria Gallery and Museum has been used


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for several projects since 2014, including the annual Liverpool Literary Festival, involving many
 Unit staff, and Rees-Jones’s collaborative exhibition, ‘The Errant Muse’, with the artist Charlotte
 Hodes. It hosts and sponsors Redbrick Writers, another group outside the academy that we
 actively engage with. We look forward to the new opportunities presented by the University’s Yoko
 Ono Lennon Centre, nearing completion (2021) [REF 5a: 4.2.1] which will allow us to engage in
 collaborative performances and presentations.



 3.9. University Library
 The University Library [REF 5a: 4.2] is the main location for printed resources, and also the hub
 for PGR training, electronic resources, and open access work. The University’s Special Collections
 and Archives division has high-quality research, teaching and exhibition facilities for use by
 academics, PGR students (who have a dedicated reading room, near the sources they are using)
 and visiting researchers. Of particular relevance to our research is the Science Fiction Foundation
 Collection, the largest such collection in Europe. The Collection, which recently acquired the library
 of Arthur C. Clarke, supports the work of the Olaf Stapledon Centre for Speculative Futures (it
 contains Stapledon’s archive). The early printed books collections have enabled historical, critical
 and editorial projects Liverpool-focused and otherwise. The modern poetry collections are local,
 national and international in scope and support the activities of CNIW. Recent acquisitions include
 the Matt Smith poetry archive and early Liverpool imprints, supporting research into local literature.
 The exhibition space is used in connection with research projects, e.g. holdings relating to William
 Roscoe and the Royal Liverpool Institution (2017). In collaboration with English, Special
 Collections goes ‘on tour’, to support seminar events such as B. Roberts’ ‘A Nightingale Sang in
 Abercromby Square’ (2018), celebrating Keats’s famous poem in the Old Library. Specialist filming
 equipment has been obtained to facilitate virtual teaching and research events with special
 collections materials.


 The University Library hosts leading-edge electronic resources, especially in primary texts, used
 not only by literature scholars but language researchers, who can access the historical databases,
 such as Early English Books Online, Early American Imprints and Electronic Enlightenment, as
 corpora for historical stylistics or discourse analysis. Recently, the University has invested in new
 corpus linguistics packages such as English Corpus, SketchEngine, and WMatrix, and a bid is in
 process for eye-tracking software to assist research, in partnership with Psychology, into reading
 comprehension and second language acquisition.




                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1. Profile and partners
 In order to maximize the number of beneficiaries from its research, Liverpool English has, with the
 support of the University’s RPI team [REF 5a: 4.1.2], created a diverse, interconnected range of
 regional, national and international partnerships. English’s Profile and External Relations Group,
 established this cycle, implements the Unit’s strategy by nurturing existing collaborations and
 brokering new ones, providing opportunities for staff to develop research-led public engagement
 and impact. The Group is particularly active in accelerating relations with metropolitan and regional
 partners, reflecting the University’s position at the civic, economic and geographic centre of
 Liverpool City Region, historically a gateway to the world. Research has been vitalised this cycle
 through work with virtually every civic institution across the City via exchanges, talks, exhibitions,
 poetry launches and residencies, and other events, enabled by targeted funding and the
 University’s KEI stimuli [REF 5a: 4.1.2; above 3.3]. These external perspectives keep disciplinary
 boundaries fluid, and research relevant to public concerns.




 Figure 2 – Links with local organisations, galleries and museums




                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.2. Liverpool Arts Regeneration Consortium
 A central strand is our engagement with members of the Liverpool Arts Regeneration Consortium
 (LARC). These institutions reflect Liverpool’s status as one of the country’s major cultural hubs.
 Research collaborations include: Solnick’s HEIF-funded collaboration with Everyman &
 Playhouse Theatres and NHS Mersey Care on the Life Rooms, working with marginalised and
 isolated adults; PGR residencies and placements at FACT Liverpool, DaDaFest, and the
 Bluecoat; curatorial work (e.g. Slocombe, Lynall and Solnick, and Hering for Tate Exchanges at
 Tate Liverpool and film programmes at FACT). Many activities with LARC and other partners are
 marked by a commitment to diversity and community, including widening participation schools
 from wards ranked nationally in the top 1% for child poverty.


 4.3. Cultures
 Other examples of deep interaction with third-sector organisations include: Loh’s developing work
 with the Liverpool Chinese community and Merseyside Police on countering Sinophobia; Rees-
 Jones’s work with the Liverpool Arab Festival; Billington’s work with prisons, hospitals and other
 sites of care and recovery; and Hering’s collaboration with Comics Youth, a group he recently
 helped to gain National Lottery Funding. English’s Clusters collaborate widely. Drama and
 Performance works with Shakespeare North; Literature and Mental Health works with Aintree and
 Alder Hey hospitals; Members of the LitSciHub and the Stapledon Centre work on the Liverpool
 Literary Festival; and for the Being Human Festival 2016, the University was an official national
 Hub, with Peverley and Slocombe on the organising committee. Stylistics, Pragmatics and
 Discourse Studies is collaborating with the Cheshire-based Data Science organisation The
 Hartree Institute on an ESRC CASE project ‘Variation and style in Liverpool English: Building
 Corpora to Support Automatic Dialect Recognition’ (2016-22), to enhance speech-recognition
 software. Gonzalez-Diaz is partnering the Central Library to showcase the APU literacy archive
 through an exhibition, ‘Merseyside through Mersey Eyes: Liverpool through the eyes of
 schoolchildren in the 1980s’, and she, Kania and Guardamagna have worked with Unilever on
 language and attitude patterns in consumer reviews. Gonzalez-Diaz ran a practical ‘Liverlanguage
 Lab’ with three regional schools, 2017-20, in which practical spoken corpus data was generated
 during bespoke language teaching sessions.


 4.4. New Generation Thinkers
 A strong marker of English’s capacity to develop young staff is our further success as part of the
 AHRC/BBC New Generation Thinkers (NGT) scheme. The sequence of three NGTs awarded in
 the previous cycle (Harris, Das, Peverley) became a sequence of five with the awards to Parmar
 (2015) and Oliver (2020), their applications benefitting from our previous winners’ mentoring and
 training. Several other staff have been shortlisted. The ‘New Generation’ themes (climate and


                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 perception; travel and migration in history; the international reach of poetry and criticism) link Unit
 themes to national research concerns. These awards testify to the Unit’s success in promoting the
 extension of the traditional core of humanities subjects towards newly-urgent questions and wider
 general audiences, with pipelines to impact. Our recently appointed colleague Lybeck was a NGT
 in 2017.


 The NGTs sustain their own and Liverpool English’s research profile through the Scheme.
 Peverley has continued TV and Radio work (BBC4, Channel 4, Radio 3), and expert contributions
 to popular media such as the BBC History Magazine, The Big Issue, and The Washington Post.
 Consultancy work for children’s history books, blogposts and podcasts on medieval literature and
 history, and performances with The Liverpool Players of medieval stories at venues in Liverpool,
 Edinburgh and London, reach diverse local and national publics. Parmar presents her work on
 BBC Radio 3 and at literary festivals and other public events internationally. Following her work
 as Co-Curator and catalogue editor (2016) of the Liverpool Biennial, the largest arts festival in the
 UK, she was appointed board member 2017-2019, facilitating contributions by several colleagues.
 She won the Ledbury Forte Prize for Best Second Poetry Collection (2017), and is on the judging
 panel for many literary prizes. She made ‘Archive for a Daughter’, a BBC Arts online short film
 (2016), and gave the keynote address, ‘Lyric Violence and Authenticity’ at the AHRC NWCDTP
 Conference at FACT Liverpool (2017). She has recently been appointed Fellow of both the Royal
 Society of Arts and the Royal Society of Literature, in recognition of her work in Diversity and
 Poetry. Oliver, our new NGT (2020), curated an exhibition at the British Library (2016–2017) on
 ‘Jean Rhys, Wide Sargasso Sea and the Making of an Author’, and gave a talk on ‘Women in the
 City’ at Tate Liverpool, in conjunction with the Fernand Léger exhibition (2019). She organised a
 public reading group on women’s fairy tales at FACT Liverpool, as part of their public programme
 (2019).


 4.5. Platforms
 Research engagement and dissemination is the responsibility of all research active staff.
 For example, Everest spoke on Romantic poetry at Keats House, Hampstead and at Leicester
 Literary and Philosophical Society (2018 and 2019); Shovlin spoke on ‘The Greatness of John
 McGahern’ at World Book Day, Kildare County Libraries (2016), and at the National Library of
 Ireland in 2019. Simpson lectured (2016) on ‘Celebrating Linguistic Diversity . . . and how to speak
 Belfast’, at the Linguistic and Cultural Diversity event, City Hall, Belfast. In this cycle, moreover,
 there has been a committed shift towards co-creating research with non-academic audiences at
 non-HE locations. At Gladstone’s Library, Bradley is a member of the Advisory Board for the
 Carnegie-funded digitization project (2018-present) and organised a PGR colloquium there in
 2016. Ferraro’s 2017 talks, based on research into eighteenth-century literature, to more than
 seven hundred people at Goldman Sachs, was streamed on the firm’s intranet to New York, Hong

                                                                                                Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kong and Dubai, followed by a series of monthly seminars with financial practitioners which drew
 on literary and economic texts of the last three hundred years to discuss ethical questions in
 finance. In such ways we make academic scholarship on modern and earlier literature and
 language matter in contemporary, diverse contexts.


 4.6. Partners and Impact
 Such modes of research, completely embedded in the Unit’s culture, scale readily from local to
 global engagement, enabling symbiotic research impacts via a wide spectrum of partners.
 Billington’s networks include academics from Australia, New Zealand, the Netherlands, Germany,
 Denmark and the USA, alongside local healthcare practitioners in Mersey Care NHS Trust, Royal
 Liverpool and Broadgreen NHS Trust, Greater Manchester Public Health, Wirral Public Health and
 HM Prison and Probation Service. We have made Liverpool a centre of literature and
 environmental science studies, a focus which has drawn together interdisciplinary teams of
 academics, demonstrators, PGR students, postdoctoral researchers, and creative writers. The
 British Society for Literature and Science annual conference, held here in 2015, was followed by
 The Memory of Trees, the LitSciHub interdisciplinary conference (2017), and the British Society
 for Literature and Science Winter Symposium (2019) on ‘Extinctions and Rebellions in literature
 and science’. Lynall has given research talks at the London School of Economics (2019), the
 British Science Festival, Brighton (2017), The Liverpool Athenaeum (2016), The Stephenson
 Institute for Renewable Energy, Liverpool (2015), Birmingham Public Library (2015), the Wellcome
 Institute, London (2015), and the Natural History Museum (2014). Local partnership events linked
 to this national profile include the Picton Poets’ climate change schools project with Shrinking
 Space (2019), relocatable exhibitions at Alder Hey Children’s Hospital, Liverpool (2018-19), and
 a partnership with the construction firm Morgan Sindall (2019) to support writing competitions in
 schools on the Built Environment. Another high-profile event was ‘Made from Light: The Art and
 Science of Renewable Energy’, a Tate Liverpool Exchange (2018) following Slocombe’s ‘Visions
 of the Future’ (2017). Slocombe is developing a new advisory role in environment scenario
 planning with DEFRA.


 4.7. World Liverpool
 CNIW’s writers have appeared in poetry readings across Europe and America, while the Pavilion
 Poetry imprint has established itself as a highly visible platform: Bhanu Kapil's How To Wash A
 Heart won the T.S. Eliot Prize 2020. The Centre fosters an international conversation about
 contemporary poetics as well as race and gender, which brings writers from round the world to
 Liverpool, rendering the Unit a key fulcrum of international literary activity within the city: Xiaolu
 Guo (China), Ishion Hutchinson (Jamaica), Valzhyna Mort (Belarus), Tishani Doshi (India),
 Michael Augustin (Germany), Sujata Bhatt (India), and Kate Kilaea (South Africa). Many events


                                                                                               Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have been film-archived to build a repository of publicly accessible international writing. The Hope
 Street Writer-in-Residence programme, in conjunction with The White Review, brings international
 writers and thinkers (including poets Forrest Gander, poet and psychoanalyst Nuar Alsadir and
 philosopher Rosi Braidotti) to work with students and to give readings in the city. Loh has brought
 several Chinese British poets to campus, alongside eminent non-UK writers in an Annual
 Contemporary Writers Masterclass Series, including Caryl Phillips (2014) and Fred D’Aguiar
 (2017).


 4.8. Global collaborations
 We work constructively with scholars across the world. A third of the outputs considered for
 submission are substantial chapters commissioned for multi-contributor volumes, often
 representing collective enquiries into new fields. Among language-focused projects originating
 here, Gonzalez-Diaz, Linguistics and Literary History (2016, with Auer, Hodson and Sotirova), is
 complemented by two field-defining Stylistics collections: Style, Rhetoric and Creativity in
 Language (ed. Simpson) and Literature and Pragmatics (ed. Chapman and Clark). Since 2013,
 Davies has been collaborating on the Dissenting Experience project, generating An Inventory of
 Puritan and Dissenting Records, 1640–1714 (2016), a special issue of Bunyan Studies (2016),
 Church Life in Seventeenth-Century England (2019), and, via an additional partnership, the Oxford
 Handbook of John Bunyan (2018; awarded the Richard L. Greaves Prize by the International John
 Bunyan Society, 2019). The underlying network producing these outputs connects Liverpool, to
 universities at Aix-Marseille, East Anglia, Queen Mary (London), Institut Universitaire de France;
 and Dr Williams’s Library, Boston Congregational Library, and Regent’s Park College, Oxford.
 These publications demonstrate the sustained management of world-leading research networks,
 reflected in over fifty invitations to speak nationally and internationally, and promising global
 connections, such as Chapman’s work on the joint German/UK research bid ‘Women on logic and
 language in the twentieth century’ (2020-2022). As the focus of the research is international, so
 the academic audience is global, and staff have held visiting appointments or spoken in Germany,
 Cyprus, Finland, Australia, Japan, Italy, the US, Sweden, Ghana, China, Greece and Ireland.


 4.9. Research society
 Staff have extended networks by taking roles in learned societies and other bodies. Birch and
 Rees-Jones have panel roles within REF itself. Parmar has recently (2020) been appointed to the
 AHRC Advisory Board. Staff have attained influential positions in their fields: as President of the
 British Association for Victorian Studies (since 2018), Birch has promoted the benefits of
 interdisciplinary and international research, and supported the development of ECR progression
 through bursaries and networking opportunities. In his role as Chair (since 2018) and previously
 secretary (2016-18) of the British Society for Literature and Science, Lynall has enhanced support


                                                                                             Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 for ECRs through targeted funding and career development sessions. Billington is Vice-President
 of the International Society for the Empirical Study of Literature; Oliver, Hering and Solnick serve
 on the executive committees of the British Association for Modernist Studies, the British
 Association for American Studies, and Association for the Study of Literature and the Environment
 respectively. Chapman was (2009–2016) an academic member of the AHRC and is now a
 member of the Irish Research Council’s International Inner Assessment Board for Postdoctoral
 Fellowships. Simpson is Outer Board Assessor for this, and was Chair of the International Poetics
 and Linguistics Association, 2013-16; he is a reviewer for the National Science Center, Poland.
 Masuhara is co-founder of MATSDA, or Materials Development Association, a world-
 encompassing network of scholars dedicated to the research-led development of language
 teaching materials.


 4.10. Editorial boards
 Publishing a considerable number of innovative and significant scholarly editions has enabled us
 to establish staff in senior positions on editorial boards, e.g. Baines, Oxford Edition of the Writings
 of Alexander Pope; Everest, The Collected Works of Evelyn Waugh (Oxford University Press).
 Alongside publication of monographs, we act as editors for monograph series: seven colleagues
 are on the editorial board of diverse Liverpool University Press imprints. Rudd is a series editor
 for Nature and Environment in the Middle Ages (Boydell & Brewer); Parmar for Modern and
 Contemporary Poetry and Poetics (Palgrave); Lynall for Swift and his Contemporaries (Delaware)
 and Simms for Pop Music, Culture and Identity (Palgrave). Chapman edits Bloomsbury Studies in
 Theoretical Linguistics; Simpson edits Palgrave Macmillan’s Language, Style and Literature.


 4.11. International journals
 All staff are involved in the assessment of article submissions to international journals, across all
 areas, including recently-emerging topics (e.g. Rudd, Medieval Ecocriticisms, Interdisciplinary
 Studies in Literature and Environment). Staff are on editorial boards of journals across the
 discipline, e.g. Foundation: The International Review of Science Fiction (Slocombe); Women: A
 Cultural Review (Rees-Jones); Appraisal (Simms); The White Review (Parmar, Solnick); Journal
 of Marlowe Studies (Duxfield); Journal of David Foster Wallace Studies (Hering); Journal of
 Postcolonial Writing (Loh); Journal of Pragmatics (Chapman); Language and Literature (Simpson);
 English Language Teaching Journal (Jones). Guest-editorships develop links between
 ‘conventional’ literary history and emerging themes: Christofides edited Synthesis (10: 2017) on
 ‘The Cyprus Problem in Literature and Theory’; Baines and Lynall collaborated with Italian
 colleagues on special issues of La Questione Romantica (2015-16), publishing work from
 Liverpool’s international Edward Rushton conference; Loh edited the Journal of Global Slavery
 (4:1, 2019) on ‘Legacies of Trans-Atlantic Slavery in Contemporary Culture’; Parmar was guest


                                                                                                Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 editor for a special issue of the Journal of British and Irish Innovative Poetry, on Race (2020), as
 well as serving on the editorial board. As Chair of The Conversation’s Editorial Board, Birch has
 enhanced the profile of literary research, alongside that of other disciplines.


 4.12. Liverpool English futures
 While these projects, embedded in a supportive culture, will foster sustainable future impact,
 certain areas, both emerging and established – equality and diversity, mental health, the
 environment – promise to be especially relevant in the wake of COVID-19 and in view of Liverpool
 City Region’s mission to invest in its cultural heritage and creative industries in a healthier, more
 just and environmentally cleaner future. New ventures aligned with such themes include
 Broadhead’s Northern Voices Seminar Series, examining regional inequalities through open public
 discussion by academics, writers, journalists and musicians, and Loh’s extensive recent work with
 Liverpudlian Chinese, tracing personal histories and self-representations of a low-visibility (and
 recently stigmatised) community. The mental health work of the Unit, spearheaded by the
 Literature and Mental Health Cluster, e.g. Billington’s work with adults through The Reader
 Organisation and Hering’s with adolescents via Comics Youth, is already evolving into a future
 Impact Case Study and now involves colleagues in LitSciHub, and Sociolinguistics and
 Multilingualism.


 Thanks to its interdisciplinary endeavours, fruitful partnerships, and vision of the subject as open,
 inclusive and far-sighted, Liverpool English is strategically positioned to make a dynamic
 contribution to this internationally connected city’s vision for sustained regional and national
 recovery, putting culture, creativity and community at the centre of research, cooperation, and
 impact.




                                                                                              Page 26
