Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 28 – History
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 History at the University of Roehampton is a community of 20 (19 FTE) researchers in the School
 of Humanities, whose work is distinguished by long-standing chronological breadth, ranging from
 Classics and Ancient History (Fantuzzi, Garcia Morcillo, Malik, McHardy, Tempest) to Medieval
 and Early Modern History (Dean, Lipscomb, Parry, Vallance, Wareham) and Modern and
 Contemporary History (Brown, Cullinane, Darwen, Gehrig, Johnston-White, O’Shea,
 Sharples, Sinclair, Williams, Wojnowski), as well as thematic depth, from the study of medicine
 and gender to that of war and politics. Our research adopts methodologies including literary,
 cultural and intellectual approaches, and ranges to economic, diplomatic and political histories.
 History is an outward facing community, engaging a range of external partners and informing the
 practice of non-academic stakeholders, including schools, charities, professional and
 governmental bodies, and the public at large. Our research culture and environment have been
 transformed since 2014 through the appointment of 14 new staff, focused on the recruitment of
 Early Career Researchers across our three sub-fields (Darwen, Johnston-White, Gehrig, Malik,
 O’Shea, Williams), investing in research leadership in Classics and Ancient History (Fantuzzi),
 consolidating our strengths in Early Modern History and public humanities (Lipscomb), and
 expanding our work in Modern and Contemporary History through the appointment of experienced
 researchers (Cullinane, Sharples, Wojnowski).

 Our strategic aims, as identified in REF2014, were to advance key areas of research strength,
 enhance the quality of the research undertaken, develop closer associations with external
 partners, and integrate research students into our research environment. Since 2014, we have
 enacted this research strategy in ambitious ways which have seen remarkable growth and
 development across the team, through the establishment of commensurate structures for research
 leadership, developmental support and mentorship, and investment in our staff. The growth and
 diversification of our research profile has been accelerated, particularly in areas of strategic
 development such as Modern and Contemporary History, through investment in the expansion of
 our staff base. The successful delivery of our strategy is evident in the number of monographs
 produced by the unit since 2014 (10), together with edited volumes (7), articles in refereed journals
 (56), chapters in books (51), and a plethora of encyclopaedia and popular history magazine
 articles. We have increased our research income by 460% and extended our cultural and heritage
 sector partnerships (e.g., The National Archives, National Trust and the US National Parks
 Service), developing new avenues to facilitate the impact of our research through collaboration.
 Since 2014, we have expanded our postgraduate research community, primarily through our
 success in research bidding, as well as through our participation in the Arts and Humanities
 Research Council (AHRC) TECHNE consortium. Our success in this regard can be measured by
 the fact that we have increased our postgraduate enrolment by 160% when compared with
 REF2014 and have integrated these students effectively into our research culture. The expansion
 of key areas of research strength has also provided the platform for interdisciplinary engagement,
 best evidenced in our success in attracting major grant funding. Our objectives have been realised
 across our core chronological and thematic areas of research outlined below:

 Classics and Ancient History
 Our classicists and ancient historians focus on rhetorical, behavioural and reception histories,
 including trade and material culture (Garcia Morcillo), classical reception (Garcia Morcillo,
 Malik), ancient authors and audiences (Fantuzzi, Malik, McHardy, Tempest) and gender and
 violence (McHardy, and between 2014-16, Barrow). Fantuzzi was appointed to provide extensive
 research experience and research leadership in Classics and Ancient History, and his monograph
 Happy Love Actually: Bucolic Eros from Theocritus to Longus was published by
 Cambridge University Press in 2020. Since 2014, the group has achieved considerable success
 in developing research projects and securing external grants. In 2015, for example, Tempest
 received funding from the Leverhulme Trust, leading to her prize-winning monograph Brutus:
 The Noble Conspirator (Yale, 2017). In 2017, Garcia Morcillo’s work on ‘Roman Auctions’ was
 recognised by an award from the Gerda Henkel Foundation, and in 2020 Garcia Morcillo and

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ECR Malik secured a three-year DFC-AHRC grant, and supplementary AHRC/BBC Culture in
 Quarantine funding, for a project entitled ‘Twisted Transfers’, which explores the discursive and
 cultural construction of corruption in Greco-Roman Antiquity. This project is interdisciplinary and
 works across legal, economic and cultural frameworks, and has brought a postdoctoral fellow
 (Gershon) to the team. ECR Malik, meanwhile, is a scholar of ancient Rome who, among other
 outputs, has published a major book on Nero’s legacy with Cambridge University Press in 2020.
 While Rosemary Barrow (Reader) sadly passed away in 2016, her work was posthumously
 published in a major work entitled Gender, Identity and the Body in Greek and Roman
 Sculpture (Cambridge University Press, 2018).

 Medieval and Early Modern History
 Our medievalists (Dean, Wareham) focus on British and European history, encompassing
 medieval social and economic history, especially Renaissance Italy (Dean) and taxation
 (Wareham). Wareham is Director of the Centre for Hearth Tax Research, which is funded as a
 British Academy Research Project, with linked funding from the Aurelius Trust, the British Record
 Society and the Marc Fitch Fund. He works in partnership with UK and European universities, the
 Centre’s research fellows (Ferguson, Harding, Parkinson, Seaman), postgraduate students
 (Swain, Williams) and teams of county historians to deepen understanding of social and economic
 conditions in Restoration England. The Centre organizes workshops, digital work-in-progress
 discussions and academic and public conferences, including (with Dean) an international
 conference in 2015 funded by the Huntington Library, RHS, and Economic History Society,
 reflecting on the work of former Roehampton Professor and pioneer of local history, Margaret
 Spufford, the proceedings of which were published as Faith, Place and People in Early
 Modern England: Essays in Honour of Margaret Spufford (Boydell Press, 2018). The
 Centre also organised the national University of the Third Age’s conference in 2020 on the Hearth
 Tax. Wareham has published Hearth Tax research in Economic History Review, whilst Dean has
 published widely on crime and criminal justice in Medieval Italy, including articles in Social History,
 Historical Research and Renaissance Studies since 2014.

 Our early modern historians (Lipscomb, Parry, Vallance) work on a range of themes in British
 and European history including political, religious, cultural and gender history, challenging existing
 perceptions of the period for both public and academic audiences alike. Lipscomb’s appointment
 brought additional expertise on the Tudor court and sixteenth-century century social history,
 facilitating our reorientation toward public history, which has resulted in the development of a
 research-showcasing MOOC on Tudor Studies that attracted 44,000 participants, and a major
 exhibition with the National Trust, We are Bess. Lipscomb’s appointment also deepened our
 research culture through her two recent books, The King is Dead: The Last Will and
 Testament of Henry VIII (Head of Zeus, 2015) and The Voices of Nîmes: Women, Sex, and
 Marriage in Reformation Languedoc (Oxford University Press, 2019), a work which Simon
 Schama has said is ‘destined to be a classic of social history’. Parry’s ground-breaking work on
 Shakespeare has also attracted significant media attention and led to a co-authored monograph
 for Oxford University Press, Shakespeare Before ‘Shakespeare’: Stratford-Upon-Avon,
 Warwickshire and the Elizabethan State (2020). In 2015, Parry won a British Academy Small
 Research Grant for a project on 'Universities in the Early Modern World' with Anja-Silvia Goeing
 (Universität Zürich), supporting workshops in Newcastle, Oxford, Cambridge and at the Institute
 of Historical Research (IHR, 2015-16), attended by scholars from the UK, US and Europe.
 Vallance’s work on oaths of allegiance and loyal addresses in the late seventeenth and early
 eighteenth centuries resulted in a monograph for Manchester University Press (2019) and three
 articles, including in the Historical Journal, while his interests in the regicide and memory led to a
 Lewis Walpole Library Fellowship (2015), Huntington Library Fellowship (2019), and a 2017
 conference at the IHR, ‘Remembering Revolutions in England, North America, France and Haiti’,
 funded by the Fritz Thyssen Stiftung and the Royal Historical Society. The conference proceedings
 were subsequently published as Remembering Early Modern Revolutions: England, North
 America, France and Haiti (Routledge, 2018).

 Modern and Contemporary History


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Since 2014, a primary strategic aim has been to develop our strengths in Modern and
 Contemporary History. Staff working in this area focus on American history and thought
 (Cullinane, Williams), British, Irish and imperial history (Brown, and ECRs Darwen and
 Johnston-White), German history (ECR Gehrig, Sharples) and Eastern European/Soviet history
 (Wojnowski). Our ECRs in this area have significantly extended the breadth of our research.
 Darwen, a social historian of poverty in nineteenth-century Britain, has rapidly developed a strong
 research profile with articles in Irish Historical Studies and English Historical Review. Johnston-
 White adds a commonwealth dimension to our expertise in British history, as well as strengths in
 the history of war. His book The British Commonwealth and Victory in the Second World
 War (Palgrave Macmillan, 2017) has been described as ‘the most important work on the empire
 at war for a generation’. Gehrig is an historian of contemporary German, European and
 international history with an impressive publication record (e.g., Journal of Contemporary History;
 German History; East Central Europe). Sharples’ publications include Postwar Germany and
 the Holocaust (Bloomsbury, 2015), and in 2019 she brought the annual meeting of the British
 Society for Holocaust Studies to Roehampton. As an historian of the USSR in a transnational
 context, Wojnowski has added geographical breadth to our research profile, publishing a series
 of articles and the book The Near Abroad: Socialist Eastern Europe and Soviet Patriotism
 in Ukraine, 1956-85 (University of Toronto Press, 2017).

 The expansion of our work in Modern and Contemporary History has led to considerable success
 in research bidding and publications. Brown secured a major Wellcome Trust Investigator Award
 for his ‘Surgery & Emotion’ project (2016-20). This project brought in four postdoctoral fellows
 (Arnold-Forster, Kennaway, Moulds, Saunders) and a PhD student (Ryall-Stockton) and funded
 an international conference on ‘Health, Care and the Emotions’, in September 2019. Brown’s
 research produced several journal articles and a forthcoming book for Cambridge University
 Press. Cullinane secured AHRC follow-on funding for his project, ‘A Call to Action: Raising
 Awareness of Theodore Roosevelt Island’ which led to an award-winning monograph, Theodore
 Roosevelt's Ghost: The History and Memory of an American Icon (LSU Press, 2017) and
 its dissemination in the form of a documentary. In 2020, he gained a Leverhulme Research
 Fellowship for a project on the ‘Political Networks of the “Progressive Era” United States (1901-
 1920)’. Cullinane’s work since 2014 includes a further monograph and two edited collections as
 well as articles and book chapters. In modern and contemporary intellectual history, Sinclair,
 O’Shea and Williams work on the history of philosophy with an emphasis on the development of
 metaphysical concepts in the history of French philosophy (Sinclair), socially engaged ethics
 research (O’Shea), and the intersection of environmental ethics, animal rights and social class
 (Williams). The research they undertake is both historical and theoretical, drawing from Marxist,
 civic republican, phenomenological, and pragmatist traditions. O’Shea and Williams have
 published widely in journals such the British Journal for the History of Philosophy, Journal of Social
 Philosophy, Legal Studies and European Journal of Philosophy. Besides publishing Being
 Inclined: Félix Ravaisson's Philosophy of Habit (Oxford University Press, 2019), Sinclair
 was awarded a prestigious Fellowship in the Collegium de Lyon, allowing him to develop his work
 in modern French philosophy in an international setting.

 Research and Impact Strategy
 One of our core goals has been to develop and enhance the impact of our research locally,
 nationally and internationally. Our strategy has been two-pronged: raising the visibility of the
 humanities through sustained public engagement; and building collaborations and partnerships
 with key heritage organisations and those invested in public history. This strategy has extended
 our networks with a diverse range of audiences including public, professional and governmental
 organisations, and the third sector. Colleagues have been active in events and activities which
 shape popular perceptions of the past, including contributions to the Being Human Festival of the
 Humanities, public lectures, talks and media appearances. Our Medieval and Early Modern
 researchers Lipscomb, Vallance and Wareham, have given over 60 public speaking
 engagements at leading cultural institutions, literary festivals, and schools nationally and
 internationally (including France, India, Malaysia, Singapore, Sweden, Thailand, UK and USA),
 reaching an audience of approximately 15,000. Since 2014, Lipscomb has written and presented
 40 hours of history documentaries for major British and American outlets including the BBC, ITV,

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Channel Five, PBS, National Geographic, and UKTV, whilst Vallance has contributed to BBC4
 and Radio 3 and Radio 4 broadcasts. Cullinane has also held screenings of a feature-length
 documentary which he presents (The Man on the Island), based on his research, in addition to
 gaining extensive media coverage across the UK.

 Our development of partnerships with a range of stakeholders has been built on meaningful
 collaboration grounded in well-defined research affinities. Wareham (and Frazier-Wood, English
 Literature) collaborated with the University of the Third Age, a UK-wide movement of locally-run
 interest groups that provide a wide range of opportunities to come together to learn, to organise a
 Shared Learning Project on the 'Lost Histories of the People of Late Seventeenth Century
 England'. Vallance’s work on English radicalism and early modern revolutions has formed the
 basis of a series of sustained partnerships with schools and teaching organisations, including the
 Prince’s Teaching Institute, the Historical Association and the HEA, where his research has
 influenced the pedagogy of historical enquiry. More broadly, we have contributed to exhibitions at
 mainstream and fringe heritage organisations, including historic houses, museums and archives,
 in England and beyond, informing their approaches. For example, Cullinane’s research into the
 shifting legacy of Theodore Roosevelt has led to collaborations at four U.S. National Park Service
 sites related to the former president (Theodore Roosevelt Island, Sagamore Hill National Historic
 Site, Theodore Roosevelt National Park and Theodore Roosevelt Birthplace National Historic
 Site), where his research has reached approximately 900,000 guests who visit the sites annually.
 Our two Impact Case Studies illustrate the delivery of our ambitious partnership strategy to extend
 our impact. Brown’s ‘Surgery & Emotion’ project was designed with professional impact in mind
 and secured a ‘research enrichment’ grant from the Wellcome Trust to facilitate public
 engagement to work in collaboration with the Royal College of Surgeons of England (RSC) and
 the Royal College of Nursing, which has contributed to policy in the form of the RSC’s ‘Future of
 Surgery’ report (2018). Lipscomb developed partnerships with the National Trust and, between
 October 2018 and June 2019, she co-curated an exhibition at Hardwick Hall that explored the life
 of Elizabeth Cavendish, known as ‘Bess of Hardwick’ which engaged a large public audience and
 influenced the institution’s approach to the use of research in the staging of exhibitions.

 Open Research
 The public profile of our research has also been raised by our efforts to make it as widely
 accessible as possible through open research initiatives. Our commitment to open research is
 further demonstrated by our 91% compliance with the REF Open Access policy for outputs
 produced by History. We actively develop Open Research innovations, building on the Centre for
 Hearth Tax Research’s longstanding aim to make archival data and research publicly accessible.
 Innovations since 2014 include fully searchable data sets and GIS mapping of the data, facilitated
 through collaboration with University of Graz and their expertise in digitisation. Data from the
 London 1723 oath rolls has also been digitised, having previously been integrated into the London
 Metropolitan Archives catalogue. A digitised finding list of other 1723 oath returns has been made
 available Open Access through support from the Marc Fitch Fund and all of the publications
 produced by members of the ‘Surgery & Emotion’ project (including monographs) are fully Open
 Access (CC BY 4.0) in accordance with the policy of the Wellcome Trust.

 Research Integrity
 We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of research integrity and rigour. Our
 governance in these areas is informed by the University of Roehampton Ethics Guidelines and the
 Code of Good Research Practice and Research Integrity in accordance with the revised
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity (Universities UK, 2019). Our approach is distinguished
 by its commitment to moving beyond procedural ethics to the instilling of a culture of ethics and
 integrity. Ethics review is carried out at the departmental level by the Research Ethics
 Committee representative, in conjunction with a pool of authorised departmental reviewers. This
 review process takes the form of a dialogue between the applicant and the reviewer, facilitating a
 view of ethics as a critical, reflexive faculty. All staff and PGRs have access to training in research
 ethics and Good Research Practice and PGR student research is subject to the same rigorous
 scrutiny as that of staff, with training provided for students and supervisors through Graduate
 School.

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Future Strategic Aims and Goals for Research and Impact
 History has an ambitious future strategy, built around a new ‘practical Humanities’ initiative that
 will foster interdisciplinary conversations with other disciplines including English, Philosophy, and
 Theology and Religious Studies, to apply our research to the most pressing global issues and the
 enhancement of culture and society through knowledge exchange and impact. Driven by the
 University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy, this will shape the conception of
 research projects for colleagues and PGRs. It is intended to enhance and extend our relationships
 with outside partners and stakeholders, particularly across London, but also internationally and
 we will encourage research synergies and collaborations via periodic thematic foci, research
 seminar series and collaborative bidding. Building on our individual research strengths, we aim to:
    1) produce high-quality research, with a focus on long-form outputs and monographs, in
       addition to exhibitions, digital artefacts and databases;
    2) build on our strong track record of grant capture, by increasing and diversifying our
       research income to develop our capacities for research at the PGR and ECR levels, with
       a focus on international and interdisciplinary collaboration;
    3) further build on our success within the AHRC TECHNE Consortium to attract research
       students of the highest calibre and develop clear progression pathways for PGRs to
       transition to ECR careers in both academia and the cultural sectors;
    4) ensure that our research reaches as wide and diverse an audience as possible through
       Open Data and Open Access initiatives, as well as through extending our engagement
       with local communities and partner organisations; and
    5) provide inclusive research cultures and support diverse talent at the PGR, ECR and senior
       leadership levels, pursuing a concomitant development of our expertise in the histories of
       America and the Global South.

 2. People

 It is the aim of History to enable every colleague to realise their research potential and to ensure
 that they can access the full range of resources needed to develop and disseminate research of
 the highest standard. To achieve our strategic aims of consolidating our research strengths and
 building our capacity in new areas, particularly modern and international history, History has
 invested significantly in people since 2014. Our success in securing increased research funding
 has also seen several postdoctoral appointments, while we have actively grown our postgraduate
 community and integrated PGR students into our research culture. Our research strategy has
 focused on three different groups of scholars, respectively: faculty staff, postdoctoral researchers,
 and postgraduate students. The following provides an overview of our implementation of our
 strategy in relation to each of these groups.

 Faculty staff
 Our staffing strategy has focused on encouraging the career development of current staff, and on
 attracting exceptional new colleagues to History. Our commitment to recognising research
 excellence has also been evident in our track-record of internal promotions. Since 2014, Brown
 and Tempest have been promoted to Reader, while Cullinane, Lipscomb and McHardy have
 been promoted to Professor, based on their contribution to the research base, including bidding
 success, impact activities, and leadership. Since 2014, the unit has enabled 40% of its 20 staff to
 academically advance through career progression. To ensure the long-term viability of the unit
 and aid succession planning, six of our 14 new appointments since 2014 have been ECRs
 (Darwen, Gehrig, Malik, O’Shea, Williams, Johnston-White), with Gehrig and Johnston-
 White progressing swiftly to Senior Lecturer in recognition of their exceptional contribution to our
 research environment over a short period of time. As well as investing in ECRs, we have sought
 to bolster our research culture with strategic appointments at mid-career stage (Wojnowski,
 Sharples and Sinclair) and invested significantly in senior scholars to expand our research
 portfolio and to provide experienced research leadership (Cullinane, Fantuzzi and Lipscomb).
 All staff returned to this unit are on permanent contracts.



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History oversees institutional investment in research time and sabbaticals, with allocations ranging
 between 30% and 40% of workload, and up to 10% being allocated strategically to support
 significant bidding and impact activities. We operate a system of research mentoring in which all
 members of staff are paired with a senior and experienced colleague. This is targeted to strategic
 priorities so that colleagues requiring support and guidance in such areas as outputs,
 collaborations, dissemination, public engagement, impact and bidding will be paired with staff who
 are experienced and successful in those specific areas; staff with mentoring responsibilities have
 included Brown, Cullinane, Dean, Lipscomb, McHardy, Tempest and Vallance. Staff meet their
 mentors twice a year and develop a five-year personal research plan that is reviewed annually.
 As part of the mentoring process, colleagues are supported to incorporate bidding into their plans,
 and discuss opportunities and strategies across outputs, impact and contribution to the research
 base with their mentors, who are trained to support these plans. Colleagues are encouraged to
 bid for a range of funding appropriate to career stage and experience, from individual research
 projects to larger collaborative, networking and interdisciplinary projects. Staff can apply for
 funding for travel and accommodation to attend conferences, to undertake archival research and
 impact activities and for training costs, as well as for the costs related to essential physical and
 electronic resources. Since 2013/14, an average of £30,000 per annum has been allocated to this
 end with international research and impact being prioritised. School-wide training events,
 seminars, workshops and talks are managed locally to provide further support and guidance in
 nurturing our research output, impact and culture. All new staff are supported through their
 probationary period with clear objectives in relation to research, and additional workload
 allocations to support their integration. Meetings with research mentors and line managers support
 probation and annual appraisals for all staff offer structured opportunities to discuss career
 development.

 A sabbatical rota has further supported staff by granting research leave for one term every three
 years. During this assessment period, 11 members of History staff have benefited from 20
 sabbaticals which have been instrumental in enabling them to complete long-form outputs,
 develop new initiatives and extend impact activity. We have also demonstrated sustained
 commitment to developing the research profiles of our ECRs. Our strategy ensures that all six of
 our ECRs have had access to at least one period of research leave, allowing them time to work
 on current research and to develop future plans. ECRs also have a reduced workload protected
 for their first year. History and Classic's ECRs participate in the Early Career Academic Network
 which runs seminars with themed sessions on areas such as publishing, bidding and impact. The
 success of our efforts to support ECRs in this regard is exemplified by Malik’s grant capture, and
 Williams' successful bid as part of the collaborative AHRC-funded project ‘“Guardians of the
 Rivers” and the future of Earth Law: Towards a new Legal, Ecological and Participatory (LEAP)
 model for Environmental Humanities’ (AH/V00574X/1).

 Postdoctoral researchers
 A key aim of our research strategy has been to grow the number of our postdoctoral staff through
 external grant capture. Our aim is to nurture such scholars, to provide vitally important bridging
 opportunities for postdoctoral researchers to develop international research profiles and secure
 permanent research positions within the academy, whilst also extending the strength and depth
 to our own research culture. They are supported with mentoring and dedicated resources,
 including membership of the ECR network. From 2013 to 2016, Dean mentored a British Academy
 Postdoctoral Fellow (Visnjevac), working on a fifteenth-century preacher, Leonardo Mattei and his
 world. Brown’s ‘Surgery & Emotion’ project has sustained four postdoctoral positions, two of
 which, Research Fellow (Arnold-Forster, then David Saunders) and Senior Research Fellow
 (Kennaway), are entirely research focused. During the three years of her Research Fellowship,
 Arnold-Forster has published articles in major journals such as Gender and History and History
 Workshop Journal and is publishing a monograph based on her PhD research for Oxford
 University Press. In that same period, she has secured an Elizabeth Blackwell Institute Early
 Career Fellowship at the University of Bristol. Kennaway has also been able to use his post to
 develop an international research profile, giving lectures throughout North America and Europe,
 publishing articles in journals such as Cultural and Social History and War and Society and
 securing an academic post in Hamburg. In addition, we have supported postdoctoral success

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internally, including developing Darwen, who was appointed Lecturer in 2019, following his
 position as postdoctoral researcher on a Leverhulme Trust project, ‘The Irish and British famine,
 1845–1850: comparing lives lost and lives saved’ (£235,454) based at Roehampton between 2017
 and 2019. Attracting postdoctoral scholars continues to be a key priority for History. Garcia
 Morcillo’s recent DFC-AHRC ‘Twisted Transfers’ project includes a postdoctoral research fellow,
 Yehudah Gershon.

 Postgraduate research students
 History is committed to providing a supportive and intellectually challenging research environment
 for all our PGR students and career-shaping opportunities. Increasing PGR student recruitment
 has been a strategic priority for History. We currently have 18 PGRs registered in History and have
 awarded seven PhDs since January 2014. History has an improving record of securing AHRC-
 funded studentships through our membership of the TECHNE Doctoral Training Partnership and
 supervising them to successful completion. History secured three TECHNE studentships in 2020
 (including Collaborative Doctoral Awards with the National Archives and Historic Royal Palaces)
 for projects grounded in our expertise in Hearth Tax research, Early Modern History and Classical
 reception studies. These students join our existing cohort of five TECHNE students. We also have
 a PhD student funded by the Wellcome Trust through the ‘Surgery & Emotion’ project (Ryall-
 Stockton) whose work was recognised in 2020 by her appointment as Head Curator of the
 Museum of Science and Industry in Manchester.

 PGR recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, in accordance
 with University Equality and Diversity policy, and PGRs are able to approach the Graduate School
 to identify appropriate supervisory teams. Applications are supported by the Research Degrees
 Convenor and PGRs are only recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research
 strategy. Students receive bespoke training tailored to their needs and designed to advance both
 their research and their career progression. Recent training, delivered in collaboration with
 colleagues in English and Creative Writing, has focused on PGR professional development,
 developing publications from conferences and applying for funding. All research students are
 supported by a Director of Studies, an experienced staff member who has previously supervised
 to completion, and at least one co-supervisor. The quality of supervision within the Humanities
 area is highly rated with 96% of respondents expressing satisfaction with their support in the most
 recent PRES survey. PGR progress is closely monitored by the Research Degrees Convenor for
 Humanities (Brown) and reviewed by the Humanities Research Student Review Board monthly.
 Further PGR training and training support is available through our DTP partnership with TECHNE.
 TECHNE embeds a cohort approach to research training, creating networking opportunities for an
 interdisciplinary community of doctoral scholars. Working with the creative industries, through
 research partnership and co-supervision, also provides clear pathways to academic and non-
 academic employment. Since March 2020, we have added further levels of support for all PGRs
 to help them through the pandemic, including funded extensions, extra academic and pastoral
 support when required, and the revision of research topics where necessary.

 Each PGR benefits from targeted disciplinary collaborations and networking. For example, PGRs
 connected to the Hearth Tax project (Swain and Williams) are embedded in the wider project and
 benefit from the broader expertise within the group. Within the School, PGRs can access research
 space, including dedicated workstations. Each PGR student in History is offered teaching
 opportunities through our peer observation scheme, supporting UG dissertation students, and our
 in-house SEDA accredited training for teaching, the completion of which leads to an Associate
 Fellowship of the HEA. To foster community among our PGRs and give them greater experience
 of research dissemination, we organise special research days, such as the PGR/ECR conference
 on ‘New Research into Death and Trauma in Antiquity’ in December 2020, and an annual PGR
 Conference to provide an opportunity to share research in a collegial and supportive environment.
 We have established fortnightly virtual ‘coffee mornings’ in which students and staff can discuss
 any issues that emerge from their work, be they intellectual, personal or practical. Our PGR
 students also lead on enriching the academic community in History. For example, in 2017,
 Magalhães organised a two-day international conference on ‘Rape in Antiquity’ with 24 academics
 – many of them ECRs – from the UK, US, Australia, Germany, and Israel. In 2020, Menzies

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published Greek Myths: Meet the heroes, gods, and monsters of ancient Greece (aimed
 for children aged 7 to 9), winning the Books Are My Bag Breakthrough Author Award 2020.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Our research strategy embeds the values of equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in its staffing
 strategy, research culture, and support mechanisms, implementing University policies and
 legislation relating to equality, diversity and anti-discrimination. Management, including the Head
 of School, Deputy Head of School (Research and Knowledge Exchange) and History subject
 research lead, are all trained in EDI and implement the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion policy to ensure that recruitment, promotion, sabbatical, bidding and funding decisions
 are made equitably. The research we undertake challenges the disciplines of History to be more
 inclusive with a key focus on issues of gender (Lipscomb, McHardy, Vallance, Brown) and
 sexuality (Dean). 32% of our research staff identify as female, as do 29% of our professoriate.
 Our selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality and diversity analysis to
 ensure decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected characteristics. Out of the 45
 submitted outputs, 24% are attributed to `female staff, 9% to LGBTQ+ staff and 4% to BAME staff,
 while across the staff base, 11% of outputs have been authored by Lecturers, 22% by Senior
 Lecturers, 20% by Readers and 42% by Professors.

 The individual needs of staff are supported in our research environment, for example staff
 returning from parental leave are supported via workload allocation and access to a sabbatical in
 the year preceding or following the period of leave, while colleagues with caring responsibilities
 and those with reasonable adjustments are given the option to work flexibly, including, where
 feasible, remotely. The senior staff who act as research mentors are also trained in EDI practices.
 Fixed-term and part-time staff are supported through the same mechanisms as all staff, and both
 workload and progression are facilitated on a pro-rata basis in terms of expectations. The unit has
 also implemented practical changes that encourage inclusivity such as the timing of the History
 Seminar Series being brought forward from the evening to late afternoon, to ensure that staff with
 childcare responsibilities can attend. Staff wellbeing is delivered through our college system. All
 staff are affiliated to one of our four colleges, who provide research events, community building
 opportunities, and dedicated Wellbeing Officers for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered
 mental health first aid training in 2020, whilst dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions
 have been delivered on mental health.

 At present just 5% of our research active staff identify as BAME. Diversifying our staff base and
 our areas of research expertise are top priorities and we will seek to achieve them through a range
 of strategies which include the launch of a BAME PGR application support platform, led by
 Vallance and supported by TECHNE AHRC funding (£60,000), along with a postdoctoral fellow
 programme which will develop and mentor diverse talent. Building on the expansion of our
 research expertise on America and the Global South, we are focusing on the development of
 collaborative research projects with international partners which provide further studentship,
 postdoctoral and exchange opportunities. We will build flexibility into any employment
 opportunities to ensure that they provide equality of opportunity and are already making progress
 in this area: of our three most recent TECHNE-funded PhD students, two identify as BAME and
 both identified Roehampton as being an attractive place to study because of its reputation for, and
 commitment to, diversity.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 History has significantly increased research income since 2013/14, and we have secured
 £1,455,142 from diverse sources, including the AHRC and prestigious charitable foundations,
 including the British Academy, Leverhulme and Wellcome Trust. This represents a 460% increase
 since 2014 (£259,944), facilitated by a robust system of research support. Our most notable
 successes have been several large grants from major funders. The biggest single grant awarded
 to History was Brown’s £569,215 Investigator Award in Medical Humanities from the Wellcome
 Trust to sustain a four-year research project (2016-20) exploring the relationship between

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emotions and the practice and experience of surgery from 1800 to the present. In addition, Prof
 Donald MacRaild (left 2019) won a Leverhulme Research Project Grant of £235,454 to work on
 the Irish and British Famine, 1845-1850, and Brown received £19,650 follow-on funding for impact
 and engagement work. Another major success has been the 2020 grant of £349,946 from the
 DFC-AHRC to Garcia Morcillo and Malik for their project exploring the complex and contested
 conceptions of corruption in the ancient world. Cullinane was awarded £53,843 by the AHRC as
 a follow-on grant to his work on Theodore Roosevelt’s memorialisation and has recently (2020)
 been awarded £43,901 by the Leverhulme Trust to explore Roosevelt’s political networks.

 Our strategy has been to grow our experience of managing funded research projects appropriate
 to career stage, and to develop a pipeline of more ambitious bids. Colleagues are actively
 encouraged to apply for smaller external grants to build capacity, develop a track record of bidding
 success and pave the way to larger and more ambitious research projects. History continues to
 benefit from the long-term investment of the British Academy in the Hearth Tax project for the
 period 2017-20 (£25,000 awarded, following on from the same sum awarded to cover the period
 2011-17) as well as £20,000 from the Marc Fitch Fund to support the Hearth Tax County Returns
 and Regional Comparisons for the period 2013-17. Garcia Morcillo won a Gerda Henkel
 Foundation Fellowship (£27,418) for her work on ‘Art Markets in Ancient Rome’ and Tempest
 received a Leverhulme Research Fellowship (£23,286) for her work on the ‘Pseudepigraphia of
 Marcus Junius Brutus’. Other, smaller awards were received from the Aurelius Trust (Wareham),
 Australian Historical Association (Johnston-White), British Academy (Parry), British Agricultural
 Society, Economic History Society (Dean), Fritz Thyssen Foundation (Vallance), International
 Society for the History of Rhetoric (Tempest), Institute of Historical Research (Sharples), Royal
 Historical Society (Vallance) and Santander (Brown, Dean, Garcia Morcillo). Staff have also
 been successful in applying for research fellowships, including three at Huntington Library (Parry,
 Vallance) and one at Collegium de Lyon (Sinclair).

 In addition to research mentoring and support, History provides seed-funding for developmental
 bids. All bids are supported through a process of internal peer-review (a second reader with a
 track-record of bidding success and relevant expertise to mentor the applicant, potentially across
 disciplines) and a university-wide review process for major bids. Our considerable success in the
 field of grant capture is a testament to the ambition and rigour of staff at all stages of their career,
 the levels of support provided by the University, and the emphasis we place on research
 excellence as well as impact and public engagement. History will continue to support grant
 applications based on individual colleagues’ research on larger collaborative endeavours, and on
 knowledge exchange opportunities and to support income generation through targeted mentoring,
 workload allocation, pump priming and internal seed-funding. However, building on recent
 successes, we also intend to effect a step-change in our bidding culture, through identifying
 interdisciplinary research potentials, and international collaborations, that will facilitate a more
 prominent public role for History and a platform to advocate for the value of humanities in
 addressing urgent societal needs.

 Infrastructure
 At the School level, research is coordinated by the Research Committee whose Chair, the Deputy
 Head of School (Research and Knowledge Exchange), also sits on the University Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Committee. The role of the School Research Committee is to provide
 strategic oversight of the full range of School research activity, including the work of individual
 research staff and students; the programme of research seminars, conferences and other events;
 invitations to, and support for, visiting scholars and research students; the development of
 strategic initiatives (e.g., Open Access) and funding bids. Each subject area within the School,
 such as History, has a subject research lead (Brown) who works with the Deputy Head of
 Research and Knowledge Exchange to oversee the research environment. All colleagues’
 research is supported by dedicated Research Development and Impact Officers, and they have
 access to regular training opportunities provided by the Research Office. Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Leads also participate in a University-wide forum, that facilitates the
 management of researchers across units, and supports the identification of potential research
 affinities and interdisciplinary collaboration.

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Facilities
 The University has invested in a major programme of infrastructural development which has
 transformed both the physical and research environments. History staff and PGRs have utilised
 full access to the new state-of-the-art conference facilities in the Elm Grove building (2016),
 facilitating the hosting of international conferences, such as ‘The Narratives of the Holocaust’
 (Sharples, 2019); the German History Society’s Annual Conference (Gehrig, 2021) and ‘Health,
 Care and the Emotions’ (Brown, 2019). The Library provides access to a wide range of printed
 sources, e-books and online databases and journals. On-line access to digital resources includes
 Gale Primary Sources offering newspapers, periodicals, books and ephemera from the 17th to
 20th centuries and Loeb Classical Library. Specialist secondary resources include L’Année
 philologique; Brill’s New Pauly and Bibliography of British and Irish History. In addition to these
 digital archives, we work closely with the archives and archivists for the four constituent colleges
 of the University. The Digby Stuart (Roman Catholic, Society of the Sacred Heath), Southlands
 (Methodist, Southlands Methodist Trust) and Whitelands (Church of England) College archives
 provide a unique insight into religious history and the history of education, particularly that of
 women and children. The Froebel Archive for Childhood Studies, incorporates the National
 Froebel Foundation Archive, a unique historical record of the Froebel and kindergarten movement
 in the UK. We also house the Bishop’s Conference Collection, as a record of an approach to
 catechesis and religious education in the Catholic community in the UK, and the Jewish Resource
 Centre Collection; the appointment of Sharples will support ongoing dialogue with the local
 community regarding documenting and supporting religious education. These archives have been
 used in a number of staff, postgraduate and undergraduate research projects, and have facilitated
 public engagement, including a collaboration with the Society of the Sacred Heart to exhibit
 material relating to a war memorial on our campus that commemorates the contribution of
 Catholics to the First World War effort.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Since 2014, our strategy has been to enhance the impact of our research and to extend our
 collective focus outward, establishing, consolidating and developing communities of engagement
 at local, national and international levels. In so doing, we aim to create a research culture that
 makes an active contribution to the research base, economy and society. Our strategy in this area
 has three strands: 1) to build engagement with external partners and collaborators into our
 research from the very beginning; 2) to bring innovative research to as broad an audience as
 possible through varied forms of public dissemination; and 3) to support, sustain and shape our
 disciplinary fields through academic service and leadership activities.

 History has established partnerships with a range of institutions and organisations at local, national
 and international levels, including museums and heritage bodies, libraries and archives, schools
 and colleges, academic researchers, media organisations, medical practitioners, publishers, local
 and national government agencies, policy-makers, charities, and wider publics. These
 relationships are research, and researcher, led. Examples of our international collaborations
 include Cullinane’s work with the Theodore Roosevelt Association, Theodore Roosevelt
 Presidential Library Foundation and US National Parks Service, and Garcia Morcillo’s
 collaboration with the University of Potsdam on the 'Twisted Transfers' project. Our national
 collaborations include Parry and Lipscomb’s with the National Archives and Royal Historic
 Palaces, Lipscomb’s with the National Trust and Brown’s with the Royal College of Surgeons
 (London and Edinburgh), Royal College of Physicians, Royal College of Nursing and Society of
 Apothecaries. Our local and community-based engagements include Lipscomb’s appearances
 at numerous local history and literary festivals (including Wimbledon BookFest), Parry’s
 collaboration with Shakespeare’s Schoolroom and Guildhall in Stratford-upon-Avon and
 Wareham’s ongoing work with over 15 local learned societies. We also seek to engage a variety
 of stakeholders though long-term projects such as Wareham’s work on the Hearth Tax and to
 develop new relationships and involve PGRs in exciting new collaborations through collaborative
 doctoral awards funded by the TECHNE AHRC consortium. A recent example of this is Lipscomb


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Parry’s supervision of a student working with the National Archives at Kew and Royal Historic
 Palaces on the material culture of early modern queenship.

 History also aims to engage the widest public audience possible with our timely and relevant
 research through our extensive collaborations with the media. Lipscomb, in particular, is one of
 the country’s most prominent popular historians, with nearly 115,000 followers on Twitter and an
 extensive media profile. She co-presented a four-part historical documentary series on the history
 of London for Channel 5 (London: 2000 Years Revealed, 2019) and she acted as writer and
 presenter of a two-part documentary series, Nicholas and Alexandra: The Letters with Dr
 Suzannah Lipscomb for UKTV (2018). She also presented a three-part historical documentary
 series on Elizabeth I for Channel 5 in 2017 (attracting 2.2m viewers, the best performing history
 programme on Channel 5) and she was the writer and co-presenter of a four-part historical
 documentary series on Henry VIII for Channel 5 (2016, 1.1m viewers and ‘Pick of the Day’ in five
 newspapers). In addition to presenting, she has made guest appearances on Sky News as well
 as writing for The Times Literary Supplement and History Today. Cullinane is regularly consulted
 on issues related to US politics and Presidents and has appeared on television with the BBC, Sky
 News, CNN, NBC, Deutsche Welle, France 24, and TRT World, on radio with a range of national
 and local BBC stations and with Radio FM4 (Austria) and Radio Free Europe. He served as a
 documentary consultant on the BBC2 Icons series and the History Channel’s Presidents at War
 and has written for a range of newspapers and popular publications including The Daily Express,
 The Sun, The Irish News, The Daily Mirror, The Washington Post, Smithsonian Magazine, History
 Today and BBC History Magazine. Other colleagues have also made notable appearances on
 radio and have collaborated with various media outlets to disseminate their research. Malik
 appeared on the BBC Radio 3 programme The Sunday Feature: The Deluxe Edition (2018) and
 BBC Radio 4’s In Our Time (2019), as has Sinclair (2019). Wareham has written in Who Do You
 Think You Are? magazine, while McHardy was a consultant for Mammoth Screen, the makers of
 TV series Lewis, providing information on the language and style of Euripides for a fictional version
 of his fragmentary play Alcmaeon in Corinth (2014). Tempest has appeared on Radio 4’s Thinking
 Aloud and consulted on Netflix’s series Roman Empire, while Brown appeared on the Radio 4
 programme The Strange Case of Henry James' Testicles (2017), the Radio 3 Free Thinking
 episode, ‘Should Doctors Cry’ (2019) and a short film on the same topic for BBC Ideas (2019).

 History’s role in contributing to the economy and society by enriching cultural life and shaping
 public discourse is complemented by the work of staff to help shape their disciplinary fields for the
 future. History staff have given 17 keynotes at national and international conferences, including
 Lipscomb at the Women and Power Conference, University of Oxford, 2019, and O’Shea at the
 international conference on Law, Ethics and Mental Health, University College Dublin, 2020.
 Amplifying this dissemination have been the 187 public lectures and talks at literary festivals
 (including Bloxham, Winchester, King’s Lynn, Cliveden, Gloucester History Festival, Wimbledon
 Bookfest and Histfest), learned societies (including the Royal Geographical Society and the
 German History Society) and libraries and heritage institutions across the UK, Europe and North
 America (including the British Library, Franklin Delano Roosevelt Presidential Library, Fairfax
 House, Sagamore Hill National Historic Site and Hardwick Hall).

 We also play leading roles in national and international professional bodies. Sharples was
 President of the British Association for Holocaust Studies (2018-19) while Cullinane served on
 the Executive Committee of the Transatlantic Studies Association, Tempest on the Roman
 Studies Committee, and Sinclair on the Management Committees of the British Society for the
 History of Philosophy and Société des amis de Bergson. Brown was a member of the Society for
 the Social History of Medicine Executive Committee (2013-17). McHardy is a Standing Committee
 member and editor of Cloelia for Women's Classical Caucus (USA) and a Standing Committee
 member for Classics and Social Justice (USA). Gehrig also convenes the Modern German History
 seminar at the IHR.

 Colleagues also make a vital contribution to the research base through editorial work for journals
 and book series in the field, with several staff sitting on editorial advisory boards. Dean is series
 co-editor of ‘Pre-modern Crime and Punishment’ (Amsterdam University Press) while Fantuzzi is

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a member of the board of ‘Bryn Mawr Classical Review’, Materiali e discussioni per l'analisi dei
 testi classici, Seminari romani di cultura greca, and of the monograph series Le Rane of the
 publisher Levante, Bari. Garcia Morcillo is an editor of the Bloomsbury series Imagines:
 Classical Receptions in the Visual and Performing Arts. In terms of journals, the following
 staff have editorial responsibility: Brown (Endeavour); Cullinane (Book Reviews Editor, Journal
 of Transatlantic Studies, 2009-17 and editorial board member, 2017-); Dean (Journal of Medieval
 History; Co-editor, Papers of the British School at Rome); Garcia Morcillo (Journal of Artistic
 Creation and Literary Research and Nuntius Antiquus); Lipscomb (History, 2014-2016); Sharples
 (Reviews editor for Holocaust Studies: A Journal of Culture and History): Sinclair (Reviews Editor,
 British Journal for the History of Philosophy). Staff have also acted as guest editors: Wojnowski
 (Nationalities Papers 43:1, 2015); Brown (Social History of Medicine, ‘Virtual Issue on Medicine
 and War’, 2018).

 We support our disciplines through academic service in peer-review and judging, internationally.
 Several colleagues have served on the AHRC Peer Review College (Cullinane, Dean, Vallance).
 Garcia Morcillo reviewed applications for the Humanities into European Research Area, Horizon
 2020, and acted as an examiner of funded projects for AEI (Spanish State Research Agency);
 Fantuzzi is external evaluator of major research grant applications for the ‘Thalis’ Programme of
 the Greek Ministry of Education and the Netherlands Organization for Scientific Research and
 Council for the Humanities. He is also a permanent referee for the Agenzia Nazionale per la
 Valutazione del sistema Universitario e della Ricerca (ANVUR) in Italy; Brown has been a
 reviewer for the Wellcome Trust; Cullinane has assessed the Cambridge University Press book
 award for the Transatlantic Studies Association; Gehrig has been a member of the German
 History Society Dissertation Prize Committee. Staff have also acted as external assessors for
 academic positions at Keele, Cork, and Merton College. Unit members have peer-reviewed article
 submissions to 38 different scholarly journals, and have reviewed book manuscripts for 16
 publishers, including Amsterdam University Press, Harvard University Press, Oxford University
 Press, SUNY Press, and University of Toronto Press. We have also contributed to the vitality and
 sustainability of the field through our extensive PhD examining work, with 12 of us having
 examined 31 PhDs, including seven abroad.




                                                                                            Page 12
