Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine

 Unit of Assessment: 1


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


The London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine (LSHTM) is a specialist postgraduate
institution. Its mission is to improve health and health equity worldwide, working in partnership to
achieve excellence in public and global health research, education and the translation of
knowledge into policy and practice.

LSHTM performs strongly on the world stage. In the 2020 Shanghai World Rankings it was placed
third globally and first in the UK for public health. In the 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking, the School
was:
 fifth in the UK for research impact in all sciences based on the proportion of publications that
    belong to the top 10% most frequently cited publications
 first in the UK in all sciences for the proportion of female authorships, reflecting our
    commitment to equality and diversity
 ninth in the world, fifth in Europe and first in the UK in all sciences for inter-institutional
    collaborative publications
 sixth in the world, and first in Europe and the UK, for long-distance collaborative publications.

In May 2020, as the COVID-19 crisis deepened, Edurank named @LSHTM the most influential
university Twitter feed in the UK and Ireland.

1.1. How research is structured across the unit

Our UOA1 submission (69.4 FTE, 77 staff) includes 100% of Category A eligible staff in the
Department of Infection Biology, together with laboratory-based and clinical staff in the
Departments of Disease Control and Clinical Research, in the Faculty of Infectious and Tropical
Diseases (ITD). This represents a 23% increase in FTE on our 2014 submission. It includes staff
working at the interface of basic laboratory science, clinical medicine, and public health, to
progress knowledge and impact in infectious disease.

ITD comprises all LSHTM laboratory-based researchers and clinicians working on infectious
diseases. It studies the biology of pathogens relevant to populations in low-and-middle-income
counties (LMICs), their interactions with hosts and the diseases they cause, and the development
and evaluation of control measures.

The Medical Research Council (MRC) Unit The Gambia (MRCG) and the MRC/UVRI Uganda Unit
(MRCU) joined LSHTM in 2018, with status equivalent to Faculties. MRCG aims to reduce the
burden of illness and death in LMICs. MRCU focuses on improving the control of infectious and
non-communicable diseases in Uganda, Africa and globally. Unit staff are allocated across our two
UOAs.

LSHTM has 14 School Centres which actively draw together expertise in priority areas (listed in full
in REF5a). Those relevant to UOA1 include Malaria, Tuberculosis (TB), Genomics, AMR
(antimicrobial resistance), Vaccines, MARCH (Maternal, Adolescent, Reproductive and Child
Health) and Evaluation.

Research activity across LSHTM is centred on flexible and dynamic teams, often spanning
Departments, Faculties and Units.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.2. Research objectives during the assessment period and over the next five years,
including review of unit’s research plans in REF 2014

The assessment period encompassed two School-level strategy phases – 2012-2017 and 2017-
2022 – with considerable continuity for UOA1, reflecting the overarching aims in our REF 2014
submission: to focus on areas of strength and prioritise research particularly benefiting from an
interdisciplinary approach. We intended to achieve these by establishing the Bloomsbury Research
Institute with University College London (UCL), including new infectious disease laboratories;
building industry partnerships; and embedding research capacity for global health.

In 2019, LSHTM decided instead to consolidate and expand London-based laboratory research
into co-located space at our Keppel Street site. The inter-connected space includes entomology,
virology, bacteriology, parasitology and our Biological Services Facility. Co-location ensures
optimum benefit from our unique expertise, e.g. enabling study of the full life cycle of vector-borne
diseases including leishmaniasis and schistosomiasis. The integration of the MRC Units meant we
adjusted our plans for embedding research capacity for global health. Nonetheless, our
overarching aims remained intact, and we summarise progress below.

Malaria

Research was strengthened by the recruitment of Blackman, Moon and van Ooij. The integration of
MRCG brought d’Alessandro and Ngwa. Grants included an MRC Career Development Award to
investigate the red blood cell invasion pathways of P. knowlesi (£1.1m, 2015-2020); Wellcome
Investigator Awards for analysing the cyclic nucleotide signalling pathway’s role in malaria
parasites (£0.7m, 2015-2021; £0.7m, 2020-2024); and a Wellcome Innovator Award to provide in
vivo proof of concept for antimalarial drug development (£0.5m, 2019-2021).

Respiratory infections

Our TB research expanded, recruiting Cortes, Dheda, Kranzer and adding J Sutherland (MRCG).
Research awards included a European & Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership
(EDCTP) -funded trial to measure the impact of a TB/HIV intervention and evaluate new TB
diagnostic tools (€12.9m, 2017-2021); a Wellcome Fellowship to investigate undiagnosed TB after
TB/HIV case-finding in the community (£4m, 2016-2021); and a Horizon 2020 consortium to
advance TB vaccine candidates from discovery to development (€25m, 2015-2019).

Enteric infections

Research increased considerably, supported by the recruitment of Allen, Gundogdu, Mostowy and
N Thomson. Grants included a European Research Council Consolidator Grant (€2.7m, 2019-
2024) and Wellcome Senior Fellowship (£1.8m, 2019-2023) for determining the role of septins in
the innate immune response to Shigella; a Wellcome Collaborative Award to investigate norovirus
(£2.8m, 2017-2022); and a Wellcome Investigator Award to analyse glycosylation in
Campylobacter jejuni and Vibrio cholerae (£1.1m, 2014-2019).

HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs)

HIV research was strengthened by the inclusion of Kaleebu (MRCU). Funding included a
Wellcome Fellowship to test a community-based intervention’s impact on virological suppression
among HIV-positive adolescents in Zimbabwe (£3.1m, 2017-2022); an EDCTP-funded trial to
develop an alternative treatment for cryptococcal meningitis in HIV-positive patients (€10m, 2017-
2021); and an NIHR Global Health Research Professorship to improve adult meningitis
management in African settings with high HIV prevalence (£2m, 2018-2023).




                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Neglected tropical diseases

The recruitment of Furnham and T Walker strengthened capacity. Grants included a Wellcome
Fellowship to test novel treatments to reduce blindness from microbial keratitis (£3.1m, 2018-
2023); a Wellcome Collaborative Award to improve treatment and prevention of Chlamydia
trachomatis (£3.8m, 2017-2022); and an NIHR grant to improve outcomes for patients with
stigmatising skin diseases in Africa (£5m, 2019-2023).

Emerging/re-emerging infectious diseases

The 2014 West African Ebola outbreak catalysed huge expansion of work in this area. We played a
leading role in trials of the Ad26.ZEBOV and MVA-BN-Filo vaccines, funded by the Innovative
Medicines Initiative: EBOVAC1 (€58.3m, 2014-2021), EBOVAC2 (€22.8m, 2014-2021) and
EBOVAC3 (€29.4m, 2018-2023). The recruitment of Cotten and E Thomson increased genomics
capacity. We were able to respond rapidly to COVID-19, with MRCG generating whole genome
sequences of the first imported cases and investigating the disease’s effects on pregnant women
and newborns. MRCU supported sequencing in Uganda and studied genomic diversity of SARS-
CoV-2; and London-based staff led a Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation-funded project in Kenya and
Burkina Faso investigating malaria infection’s effect on immune response to SARS-CoV-2 (£1.2m,
2020-2021).

Vaccines

Research into bacterial glycosylation led to Protein Glycan Coupling Technology (PGCT) – applied
to develop inexpensive vaccines for human and veterinary use. Key awards included
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) funding for PGCT research
(£4.3m, 2016-2021); the above-mentioned Ebola vaccine trials; and MRC-funded HPV vaccine
trials in Tanzania (£3m, 2016-2022). LSHTM was a founding partner in the UK’s first dedicated
Vaccines Manufacturing Innovation Centre (VMIC), enabled by a £66m UK Research and
Innovation (UKRI) investment in 2018; we are a partner on the UCL/Oxford Engineering and
Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) Future Vaccine Manufacturing Research Hub
(£7.2m, 2018-22). Under the directorship of Kampmann, MCRG’s vaccine theme lead, the Vaccine
Centre expanded its internal and external contributions, notably developing an online tool to track
development of COVID-19 vaccine candidates.

AMR

Our AMR Centre was launched in 2015, reflecting AMR’s status as a new imperative. Key
recruitments included Holt and Antonio (MRCG). Funding included an Economic and Social
Research Council (ESRC) award on infection prevention and control for drug-resistant TB in South
Africa (£1.7m, 2017-2021); a Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) grant to
study causes of fever in Africa and Asia (£10m, 2017-2022) and the Global Challenges Research
Fund (GCRF) One Health Poultry Hub, led by the Royal Veterinary College (RVC), to monitor AMR
and achieve sustainable poultry production in LMICs (£18.1m, 2019-2024).

1.3. Achievements in the REF period

We list below our major discoveries and innovations in our main areas of research, including
delivery on intentions in our 2014 submission, and priorities for the next five years. Staff leading
research teams are noted; our research overseas involves extensive collaboration with local
partners.




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Malaria (Baker, Blackman, Campino, Conway, Delves, Drakeley, Moon, Ngwa, Roper, C
Sutherland, Tetteh, van Ooij, Wassmer)

   We have advanced understanding of parasite invasion into erythrocytes, including linking
    protection from severe malaria to natural variation in erythrocyte receptors, and demonstrating
    cAMP and PKA signalling’s role in the invasion process.
   We found male and female P. falciparum gametocytes respond differently to antimalarial drugs,
    with implications for the design and efficacy measurement of transmission-blocking drugs.
   We linked a steep rise in human cases of P. knowlesi malaria in Malaysia to deforestation and
    environmental changes, and showed distinct parasite strains in humans are associated with
    different monkey reservoir host species.
   Future research will investigate downstream elements of cAMP signalling in blood-stage
    malaria parasites, determinants of parasite sexual commitment rates, and the quiescence of
    gametocytes, to identify drug targets. A dedicated new facility will study malaria transmission
    biology.

Respiratory infections (Ayles, T Clark, Corbett, Cortes, Dheda, Dockrell, Fletcher, Grant, Hibberd,
Kranzer, J Sutherland)

   We identified a novel biosignature distinguishing TB from other respiratory diseases; and
    helped discriminate between latent infection and TB disease.
   We showed in a large trial in South Africa that mass testing and treatment were inadequate to
    interrupt TB transmission and that six months’ isoniazid preventive therapy may be inadequate
    to cure latent TB among those heavily exposed to infection.
   We identified 62 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) that discriminate known circulating
    Mycobacterium TB strains into distinct lineages. The resulting SNP-based “barcode” is the first
    to cover all the main lineages.
   Future research priorities include developing a human infection model to evaluate TB
    immunopathogenicity and vaccine efficacy; examining the contribution of subclinical TB to TB
    transmission; and investigating novel genetic determinants in the pathogenesis of invasive S.
    pneumoniae infections.

Enteric infections (Allen, CG Clarke, Dawson, Dorrell, Gundogdu, Mostowy, Stabler, N Thomson,
Wren)

   We used zebrafish to study the cell biology of Shigella flexneri infection in vivo, discovering the
    role of septins in host defence against bacterial infection.
   We discovered Clostridium difficile produces a unique compound, para-cresol, which prevents
    other bacteria growing. The largest-ever genomic study of C. difficile found it was evolving into
    two separate species, one highly adapted to hospital spread.
   We identified the sources and routes of transmission of epidemic cholera over a 50-year
    period, supporting the development of approaches to reduce global cholera burden.
   We discovered the importance of the unfolded protein response in Campylobacter disease and
    determined mechanisms by which Campylobacter colonises poultry.
   Future research priorities include investigating the mechanisms underlying the assembly of
    septin cages in the innate immune response to Shigella; developing a pre-clinical antimicrobial
    compound against C. difficile; and poultry vaccines to reduce Campylobacter in the food chain.

HIV and other STIs (Ayles, Corbett, Ferrand, Jarvis, Kaleebu, Mabey, Mayaud, Watson-Jones)

   We showed support visits by community health workers significantly reduced deaths and
    increased viral suppression among HIV-positive children in Zimbabwe. We also demonstrated
    the feasibility of community-based STI testing of 16-to-24-year-olds.
   We demonstrated that HIV self-testing in Southern Africa was safe, accurate and cost-effective.
   We found a high prevalence and incidence of HPV infection in Tanzanian young women shortly
    after sexual debut, paving the way for the first sub-Saharan Africa HPV vaccine trials.

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   Future research will evaluate the effectiveness of community-based services among
    adolescents and young people. The PrEPVacc HIV prevention study in Uganda will evaluate
    two experimental HIV-1 prophylactic vaccine regimens.

Neglected tropical diseases (Burton, Croft, Furnham, Hibberd, Holland, Kelly, Lewis, Mabey, S
Walker, T Walker)

   We changed World Health Organization (WHO) policy by finding its recommended surgery to
    correct trachomatous trichiasis produced worse outcomes than an alternative procedure.
   We showed in a community randomised trial in 3 African countries that twice yearly mass
    treatment with azithromycin, used for trachoma control, reduced all cause under 5 mortality.
   We supported the control and elimination of visceral Leishmaniasis in six countries and
    informed mass distribution of azithromycin for trachoma in 29.
   We developed an in vivo model to investigate the progression of Chagas disease and test drug
    effectiveness.
   Future research aims to improve outcomes for patients with stigmatising skin diseases and use
    genomics approaches to develop novel treatment for dengue.

Vaccines (Cuccui, Elliott, Fletcher, Kampmann, Roy, Watson-Jones, Wren)

   We identified changes in gene and protein expression, and metabolites in the first seven days
    of life, relevant to understanding health and disease in babies and improving newborn
    vaccines.
   We developed Protein Glycan Coupling Technology (PGCT) for producing inexpensive
    glycoconjugate vaccines for human and veterinary use; this led to the establishment of the spin
    out ArkVax.
   We completed the first HPV vaccine trials in sub-Saharan Africa, demonstrating high-coverage
    in schools.
   Future research will include exploiting PGCT to develop and produce vaccines against the
    human pathogens S. pneumonia, Group A Streptococcus, Francisella tularensis, Shigella; and
    testing the population-level impact of giving HPV vaccines to boys.

AMR (Antonio, Grant, Holt, Stabler, N Thomson)

   We examined health worker practices and health worker/patient perceptions of infection risk in
    South Africa, leading to interventions to prevent transmission of drug-resistant TB.
   We recommended improved surveillance approaches after studying methicillin-resistant
    Staphylococcus aureus transmission dynamics in healthcare and community settings in
    England.
   We demonstrated that Klebsiella pneumoniae is a key trafficker of drug resistance genes from
    environmental to clinically important bacteria.
   We compared bacteria isolated from livestock and retail meat with those responsible for
    bloodstream infections in the UK, demonstrating that human infections were probably not
    derived from livestock.
   Future research will focus on One Health themes, including the impact of increased poultry
    production in LMICs. We will also develop tools to identify genetic regions associated with drug
    resistance in TB and malaria.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.4. Enabling impact

Our approach to impact has been built on four main elements, outlined below and illustrated
through our case studies (italicised in brackets) where appropriate.

Generic activities designed to support staff to achieve impact

Our Communications and Engagement Department helped increase understanding, shape public
debate and influence policy, practice and behaviours around health. Our researchers made
frequent media appearances to explain COVID-19 developments. Our events team supported
major dissemination events, including Global Health Lab public debates co-hosted with The
Lancet.

Our School Centres (REF5a) helped ensure our impact case studies benefited from shared
expertise and external networks. They also supported communication of research findings and
interacted with stakeholders, including all-party parliamentary groups (e.g. malaria, TB, global
health).

Maximising research’s reach and influence by encouraging external engagement has been a key
strategic priority. Dissemination activities and seeking policy and practice impact are explicit
expectations in our promotion criteria. Our HR policies have supported staff to be based overseas
(16 in UOA1), where they can interact closely with local research users.

We enhanced support for translational research and innovation, forming an Innovation Committee
and winning a Wellcome Institutional Translation Partnership Award. Increased Higher Education
Innovation Fund (HEIF) income from Research England further strengthened activities.

Support to spinouts ensured the translation of ideas and knowledge into innovative products and
services. For example, Peek Vision, a social enterprise providing sustainable access to eye care,
was built on the work of Burton and Bastawrous (UOA2) and spun out in 2015 (Smartphone
technology for innovative targeted treatment of poor vision and blindness). Cuccui and Wren
established ArkVax (2020), using novel technology to develop low-cost veterinary vaccines.

Mechanisms to help build long-term relationships with research users

We encourage academic staff to engage with global, regional, national and local organisations that
shape health policy and practice (see section 4.7). For example:

   Our close relationships with WHO have supported policy and guidance. Our expertise on
    azithromycin, used for trachoma control, led to further LSHTM studies showing azithromycin
    reduced all-cause child mortality, which informed a 2020 recommendation on mass treatment
    of children with azithromycin to reduce under-5 mortality in sub-Saharan Africa (Eliminating
    trachoma via azithromycin).
   Our industry engagement included collaborations with the Medicines for Malaria Venture
    (MMV) to screen lead compounds for activity against non-falciparum malaria, leading to studies
    to develop novel antimalarial drugs with MMV and Salvensis.

We hosted two UOA-1 relevant WHO Collaborating Centres, which support WHO programmes:

   Our WHO Collaborating Centre for STIs worked on preventing cervical cancer, improving
    progress towards elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV and syphilis (Preventing
    newborn mortality due to syphilis), point-of-care testing for STIs and interventions to improve
    STI control.
   MRCG’s WHO Collaborating Centre on New Vaccines Surveillance supported African
    countries, e.g. by quantifying the burden of invasive bacterial diseases to inform vaccine
    introduction and impact measurement.


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Activities relating to specific research projects and programmes

Researchers often feed their findings into policy and practice discussions to generate impact. For
example:

   Researchers who developed the Portable Eye Examination Kit (Peek) engaged with NGOs and
    country eye health programmes to support its use (Smartphone technology for innovative
    targeted treatment of poor vision and blindness).
   MRCU HIV researchers helped develop national treatment guidelines on antiretroviral
    regimens.
   MRCG researchers conducting trials on pneumococcal conjugate vaccines informed the
    Gambian vaccination programme, and their real-time research informed the Gambian
    government’s response to COVID-19.

Impact via learning and understanding

There is a deliberately close match between our research and our Masters, doctoral and short-
course programmes.

We provide a huge range of MSc modules offering the latest knowledge in particular fields. For
example, our Master’s module on HIV features work on new diagnostics including HIV self-testing,
and the use of rapid diagnostic tools Xpert and lateral flow lipoarabinomannan for TB in HIV-
positive people.

Our short-course programmes also share research knowledge; e.g. the Applied Genomics Centre
has provided training in genomic epidemiology and data analysis.

In 2015 we introduced Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC). Examples include the International
Centre for Eye Health’s Open Education for Eye Health Programme, which has reached over
23,000 people in 188 countries and territories; one evaluation found training had influenced the
practices of 85% of participants.

Research programmes featuring educational materials as specific outputs have included the ‘Her
Life Matters’ campaign, which grew out of the WOMAN trial to educate the public about the number
of LMIC women bleeding to death after giving birth. Individuals were encouraged to lobby MPs to
prioritise reducing maternal mortality (Repurposing tranexamic acid as a life-saving treatment for
severe bleeding).

Shaping and adapting plans to ensure they continue to support the vitality and sustainability of
unit’s impact in the future

We will continue our multi-pronged approach to achieving impact, reshaping it in light of experience
and new opportunities – including digital developments.

In recent years we have focused on supporting translational research activities through a dedicated
staff member in the Strategic Research Office (SRO) and the appointment of an Intellectual
Property Manager. Funding from HEIF and the Wellcome Institutional Translational Partnership will
be used to enhance our approach through competitively awarded small grants, training and
support.

We will continue to engage with policy and practice communities in the UK and globally, including
through membership of WHO Advisory Committees, local Technical Working Groups, UK advisory
bodies and our WHO Collaborating Centres.




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

1.5. Unit’s approach to supporting interdisciplinary research in the context of unit’s
research strategy

Interdisciplinary research is an acknowledged LSHTM strength. In UOA1 this involves integrating
expertise in epidemiology, clinical medicine and trials, parasitology, virology, bacteriology,
immunology and genomics, plus collaborations with UOA2 researchers in areas including
entomology, statistics, health economics and mathematical modelling. Our Centres support this
activity, and we also ensure minimal barriers to cross-department working.

As a Centre example, the Malaria Centre brings together researchers in fields ranging from basic
laboratory science to social science. Discussions in 2019 catalysed plans among parasitologists,
entomologists and immunologists, leading in 2020 to a successful bid to Wellcome for a dedicated
malaria transmission biology suite.

As a cross-department example, the ESRC-funded ‘Umoya Omuhle’ project used a whole systems
approach to identify interventions to reduce TB transmission within primary health care clinics in
South Africa. Rather than presenting parallel, disciplinary-specific findings on barriers to infection
control, evidence-informed group modelling by researchers across UOAs (e.g. clinical and social
scientists, epidemiologists, mathematical modellers), practitioners and policymakers was used to
build common understanding and identify feasible solutions to improve infection control.

1.6. Open research environment

Principles of open research are instilled in all researchers, supported by our Library and Archives
Service. Our 2017 Open Access Policy mandated open-access for all research outputs.

Our research data management service offers in-depth advice and maintains our Data Compass
repository, where data are discoverable, accessible and re-usable. The repository held over a
thousand datasets by 2020.

In the 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking indicators for all sciences, 90.7% of our publications were
open-access, placing us second in the UK and third in the world for this indicator. This
achievement underlines our successful commitment to and support for an open research
environment, as does the fact that our modellers and statisticians routinely post online their
statistical packages, R codes, and models.

Our Academic Expectations and Promotions Guidance make clear that all types of research output
are valued and all, including underpinning data, should be made freely available at the earliest
opportunity.

1.7. Research Integrity

Our Research Governance Committee oversees relevant policies and procedures and our ethics
committees; promotes best practice; ensures effective monitoring and reporting arrangements for
investigating allegations of research misconduct; and receives reports of research governance
audits/inspections and monitors our responses.

The Research Governance and Integrity Office (RGIO), expanded during the assessment period,
provides the secretariat to the Committee and ensures research is conducted in accordance with
good practice, professional frameworks and relevant legislation everywhere we work. These
commitments are underpinned by a Good Research Practice policy, which follows guidance from
UKRI and the UK Research Integrity Office and conforms with the Concordat to Support Research
Integrity.

Procedures and templates are available to help researchers develop compliant protocols. Clinical
trials, projects involving human tissue, and tissue storage facilities are regularly audited by RGIO to


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

ensure compliance with study protocols, regulations including the Human Tissue Act, and other
LSHTM policies.

International projects require approval from the relevant partner country’s ethics committee; clinical
trials of investigational medicinal products or medical devices also require approval from the
relevant regulatory authority. A new Commercialisation and Rapid Response Committee was
established to review research projects where quick turnaround times are needed.

The MRC Units have their own ethics review processes, with projects fast-tracked through central
committees to ensure oversight. LSHTM’s ethics training was made available online in 2019.

We are a signatory to the Concordat on Openness on Animal Research. Laboratory rodents –
mostly mice – and zebrafish are used in the small proportion of laboratory research which requires
animals.




                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development

2.1.1. Staff development strategy

LSHTM is a signatory to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
was awarded the EU HR Excellence in Research Award in 2019. As part of the award, we
established a Research Staff Forum to work alongside the Concordat Monitoring Group.

Our Talent and Educational Development (TED) team and SRO oversee researchers’ career
development. TED is responsible for professional development and improving skills. SRO provides
support to early- and mid-career researchers with fellowship applications.

Since 2015, when SRO was established, fellowship and personal award applications have notably
increased, with a 40% average success rate. In 2019-2020, LSHTM ran 311 in-house training
workshops, with 3,098 places filled. 43% were offered virtually.

In 2017 LSHTM launched a Pathway to Academic Leadership Programme. Over 80% of
participants reported this developed their leadership confidence. Senior staff also benefit from
external training opportunities, such as the leadership programmes of Wellcome, NIHR and the
Academy of Medical Sciences.

In 2015, drawing on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework and Advance HE’s UK
Professional Standards Framework, we created our Academic Expectations, setting performance
criteria at each grade and in four categories: knowledge generation, education, internal
contributions and external contributions. We introduced Professorial bands to ensure fair pay and
expectations and explicitly described how personal circumstances would be considered.

Our promotion cycle is reviewed annually, scrutinizing applications and outcomes by gender and
ethnicity. In 2020 we enhanced guidance on adhering to our San Francisco Declaration of
Research Assessment commitment and further stressed the value of a supportive academic
environment.

Our annual online Performance and Development Review assesses whether objectives have been
met and agrees goals and activities for the coming year. Completion rates increased from 63% in
2018 to 78% in 2019.

The School runs a mentoring programme, open to all staff. It was evaluated and relaunched in
2018 and is complemented by mentoring in research groups and Departments.

2.1.2. Clinical academics

Eleven clinical academics in UOA1 hold honorary consultant contracts or joint academic NHS
appointments. We support the career development of clinical researchers through NIHR awards.
Since 2014 there have been nine Academic Clinical Fellowships and seven Academic Clinical
Lecturers in infectious diseases. We lead a consortium of 5 universities which in 2016 was
awarded a Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme in Global Health Research.

Our academic expectations allow for time spent in clinical duties. We collaborate closely with the
NHS, including with University College London Hospital. We joined the board of UCLPartners in
2013 and are part of its Academic Health Science Centre.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.1.3. Staffing and recruitment policy

Our REF submission includes all staff at Assistant (17), Associate (27) and Professor (37) grades
who have significant responsibility for research.

LSHTM’s Recruitment and Selection Procedures ensure new staff are selected via a fair,
transparent process. Our promotion process ensures junior researchers’ achievements are
recognised, and an average of 7% of each grade pool are promoted each year.

Joint appointments have been used to support partnerships, including with the Francis Crick
Institute, Wellcome Sanger Institute, and universities of Glasgow and Cape Town.

In 2017, a ‘big splash’ recruitment drive led to Professorial and junior supporting appointments in a
range of strategic areas (see section 1).

2.1.4. Fixed-term contracts

LSHTM reviewed fixed-term contracts for Professors in 2014, reducing the proportion of female
fixed-term Professors from 53% to 0%. In 2016 all staff at Associate Professor level and above
were reviewed for transfer to permanent contracts, leading to a sharp reduction in Associate
Professors on fixed-term contracts.

35% of UOA1 staff are on fixed-term contracts, mostly linked to time-limited grant funding. Fixed-
term contract levels by gender are monitored in fulfilment of commitments to Athena SWAN
awards, and ethnicity monitoring was added in 2020.

2.1.5. Support to early-career researchers

We nurture early-career researchers (ECRs) through individually tailored activities, including
reviewing grant proposals, pump priming grants and facilitating external research/policy links. Two
major funders – MRC and Wellcome – have established career frameworks, which we use as
points of reference. SRO, TED and our Careers Service support staff exploring career options
outside academic research.

UOA1 staff and their team members won 27 fellowships and personal awards during the
assessment period. Five have subsequently been promoted internally. We won several training
awards, including two Doctoral Training Partnerships relevant to UOA1 (MRC, BBSRC) and our
Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme.

Research Assistants and Research Fellows can register for an LSHTM doctorate at a reduced fee.
In 2019-2020 19 such staff working with UOA1 researchers were registered, benefiting from the
creation of our Doctoral College in 2018. All ECRs and postdoctoral research staff can freely
access our MSc modules and in-house TED programme.

In 2018 we initiated a biennial internal fellowship scheme for researchers at the transition to mid-
career stage. So far eight fellows have received 18 months’ support. In addition, 35 pump priming
grants have enabled Research Fellows and Assistant Professors to undertake small research
projects. In 2019 we set up an Early-Career Researcher Network to assist with professional
development and networking, training and funding opportunities.

The MRC Units share in the above initiatives. They also have their own systems of support for
ECRs.

MRCG is a regional training hub for West Africa, nurturing young talent through internships and
technical positions. Its leadership and development programme for PhDs and postdoctoral fellows
had supported 10 early- and mid-career scientists to attract grants by 2019. The Unit hosts the


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

African Research Excellence Fund, established by MRC to invest in emerging researchers. MRCU
has similarly strong capacity-strengthening programmes.

LSHTM played a key role in seven Wellcome/Alliance Developing Excellence in Leadership,
Training and Science (DELTAS) Africa programmes; the DELTAS award led by Elliott has provided
career paths to Ugandan and East African scientists – with several alumni achieving leadership
roles at institutions in the region.

2.1.6. Research, impact and sabbatical leave

Assistant Professors and above with five years’ continuous service can apply for study leave of
three to eight months. Most academic time is spent on research, so take-up is relatively low.

2.1.7. Exchanges between academia and business, industry, public or third-sector bodies

Requests for exchanges and secondments are welcomed. Staff seconded to policy and
implementing agencies include Whitty (Department for International Development, Chief Scientist,
2009-2015; Department of Health and Social Care (DHSC), Chief Scientific Adviser, 2017-2018;
HM Government, Chief Medical Officer for England, 2019-present). Shared appointments include
D Schellenberg (WHO Global Malaria Programme, Scientific Adviser) and Fletcher (UKRI, Director
of International Development).

2.1.8. Rewarding research and impact

We recognise and reward research and impact in the following ways:

   Our Academic Expectations and Promotions Guidance state how research and impact are
    valued and how achievements can be evidenced to support career progression.
   Our internal staff newsletter, Chariot, highlights research successes and has
    Centre/Publication of the Month features.
   LSHTM’s website publicises impactful research publications, thought leadership, awards and
    honours.
   Our annual LSHTM Week showcases research, innovation and impact.
   Faculties, Departments, Units and Centres regularly celebrate successes via their own
    newsletters and research days.
   Launched in 2018, our Director’s Awards include categories covering individual and team
    performance, ECRs and public engagement.

2.2. Research students

2.2.1. Doctoral study environment

A Doctoral College was launched in 2018, encompassing MPhil/PhD and our professional
Doctorate in Public Health (DrPH). We launched a joint doctoral training programme with Nagasaki
University in 2017. We also support the development of doctoral training overseas (see 2.1.5).

LSHTM doctoral students represent 70 countries. In 2019-2020 48% were over 36 years old
(sector average: 22%), 67% were part-time (24%), 40% were from a BME background (18%) and
8.4% declared a disability.

Staff undertaking PhDs made up 31% of the UOA1 doctoral student body in 2019-2020. In 2019 a
PhD-by-publication route was introduced to enable researchers with significant experience to
prepare and submit a PhD within 6-18 months, based on work already completed.

Our most recent PRES results show improvements in almost all areas. Our research culture score
increased most and we scored particularly well compared to others. There was 90% reported
satisfaction with supervision.

                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.2.2. Recruitment into Doctoral Training Programmes

We advertise all funded studentships. These include Doctoral Training Programmes and individual
opportunities. Our Capacity-Strengthening Research Degree Scheme has provided highly
subsidised fees for LMIC students employed by 15 major overseas partners.

We were members of the following multi-institution Doctoral Training Programmes during the
assessment period (LSHTM studentship numbers in brackets):

   The BBSRC London Interdisciplinary Doctoral Programme supported projects in basic biology
    (2-4 p.a).
   The MRC London Intercollegiate Doctoral Training Partnership supported research on global
    infectious diseases and evaluation of complex interventions (5 p.a.).
   The Wellcome Clinical PhD Programme in Global Health Research supported fellows in global
    health (2-3 p.a.).
   The Bloomsbury Colleges PhD Studentships offered interdisciplinary research opportunities
    with joint supervision across two institutions (2 p.a).

Annually, via a competitive selection process, MRCG has recruited three/four PhD students funded
by the MRCG Doctoral Training Programme. Opportunities arising at MRCU are awarded on a
competitive basis; staff have also supported students at Makerere University. Staff at both Units
can access LSHTM doctoral degrees at discounted fees.

2.2.3. Support, monitoring and progression

In the assessment period we enhanced requirements and monitoring systems for student
supervision, and ensured regular progress monitoring by a Departmental Research Degree
Coordinator to improve progression.

2.2.4. Skills development and preparation for future career

Our Doctoral College’s programme includes in-house training and shared courses in the
Bloomsbury Postgraduate Skills Network, enabling doctoral students to acquire skills in Vitae’s
Researcher Development Framework. Many doctoral students have contributed to our Masters
teaching.

DrPH students study two specific modules during their first term and complete an organisational
and/or policy analysis, the latter usually involving three to six months’ study, to equip them for their
future professional career.

2.2.5. Integration into research culture

Doctoral students are considered full Department members. They are invited to meetings,
seminars and social events and welcomed by Centres. Many already have a wealth of experience,
which enhances the integration process.

Work-in-progress seminars involving staff and students were run at research team, Department
and Faculty levels during the assessment period, augmenting the more formal upgrading and pre-
viva seminars and the annual doctoral student poster day. Students were also encouraged to
submit work to external conferences and seminars, with funding available to support attendance.
Doctoral students were represented on our Research Culture Working Group.




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.3. Equality and diversity

2.3.1. LSHTM’s commitment

LSHTM is committed to an inclusive research environment. As stated in our Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion (EDI) Strategy, our vision is ‘to embrace and value the diversity of the staff and student
population and to embed equality and diversity activities as an essential element in enhancing our
contribution to the improvement of health worldwide’.

We explored EDI issues in staff surveys in 2015, 2017 and 2019 and through an in-depth
qualitative study. These led to a framework for enhancing leadership, values, culture and
wellbeing. Staff’s engagement with Decolonising Global Health (DGH) and Black Lives Matter
(BLM) networks further underlined the importance of keeping EDI central to everything we do.

We reformed our EDI Committee in 2020. In developing its action plan we have drawn on surveys
and follow-up activities, DGH and BLM testimony, Athena SWAN submissions, external focus
groups, ongoing discussions, data analysis and progress against our previous strategy. We are
committed to continued, positive change.

2.3.2. Arrangements for supporting flexible and/or remote working

Our policies and practices support flexible working arrangements. Options include part-time work,
flexible hours, job-sharing, term-time contracts and remote working.

We provided extensive support during the COVID-19 outbreak, supporting managers and their
teams to balance work with caring responsibilities. Requesting leave to manage commitments, or
'making up' missed hours, were not required. Equipment for ergonomic working was paid for by
School or project funds.

We especially emphasised mental health and wellbeing. To maintain our sense of community, all
LSHTM communications and events continued online. We held regular webinars with all staff,
attracting up to 600 participants.

A June 2020 survey reported 90% satisfaction with line management support, plus increased trust
and collegiality. New initiatives have since been implemented to address concerns such as burnout
and isolation, and mixed home and office working, a preference of 66% of academic staff, is being
piloted.

2.3.3. Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff

We have a structured, single career path for academics, progressing from Research Assistant to
Professor. The promotions process runs annually, and Heads of Department are tasked with
ensuring anyone – regardless of FTE and contract length – can apply.

In 2018 an external consultant reviewed our promotion decisions for part-time staff and found no
evidence of disadvantage. Our Academic Expectations and Promotions Guidance clearly state how
personal circumstances, including part-time working, are allowed for. Our UOA1 submission
includes 14 part-time staff (18% of the submission).

2.3.4. Taking equality and diversity into account in structures and processes

EDI principles are embedded throughout LSHTM’s training provision; we also run EDI-specific
workshops. An online Report & Support tool was launched in 2020, enabling staff and students to
report bullying or harassment.




                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

We monitor our research workforce’s diversity as part of an annual, publicly available report. This
presents data across protected characteristics, highlights activities supporting EDI and identifies
areas for further investigation and action.

Recruitment panels and promotion committees must have diverse membership. Promotion data
are analysed by gender and ethnicity after each round and made available to all staff via Chariot
and included on promotion committees’ agendas.

LSHTM has introduced several career re-entry fellowships, complementing external schemes.
Since 2014, ITD has awarded ten Athena SWAN Career Restart Fellowships for Carers.

Gender

Our UOA1 submission is 30% female and 70% male. LSHTM’s Athena SWAN bronze award was
renewed in 2018, as was ITD’s.

School-wide data show that women became equally represented at the associate professor grade
at the start of the assessment period, and achieved this for the entry band for professors (Band C)
in 2017/18. In Bands B and A, the share of women increased from 31% in 2014/15, to 35% in
2019/20. We seek further improvement through targeted support to women nearing the point of
promotion to professor and progressing through the professorial bands, and especially in ITD
where gender balance has improved more slowly than in other Faculties.

Recruitment data show women were more likely to be appointed than men overall, but relatively
fewer women applied to advertisements for higher academic grades.

School promotion data 2017-2020 show women and men each had slightly higher application
success rates for promotion to grades where they were less represented (Associate Professor and
Professor for women, Research Fellow and Assistant Professor for men).

 Promotions by gender             % pool applied     % pool promoted       % applications
 (2017-2020) from grade of:                                                 successful
                                Women       Men      Women       Men      Women      Men
 Research Assistant              14           6        9          6        69        100
 Research Fellow                 12           9        7          7        64         78
 Assistant Professor             10          16        6          8        60         53
 Associate Professor             12          10        9          5        75         50

MRC, one of our largest funders, reports gender-specific data on our applications annually. The
number and share of applications, and successful applications, from female LSHTM staff have
increased over time. Our gender balance exceeds that of all other universities applying to MRC.
The 2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking named LSHTM the UK’s top university in all sciences for the
proportion of academic research with women listed as authors (48.1% LSHTM).

We attribute these improvements to various activities to support female progression, including
active Athena SWAN committees, extensive development programmes for women, supporting
eight women each year on the Advance HE Aurora Programme, SRO investment to support career
progression, and mentoring by leading female academics.

Ethnicity

Our UOA1 submission is 77% white, 18% BME, and 5% not declared.

In 2018 LSHTM funded archival research to explore its colonial legacies. Progressing race equality
has been a key focus in developing our new EDI action plan, and all staff are required to undergo
mandatory EDI training.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

School-wide data show that in 2020, 29% of Research Assistants identified as BME, but this
decreased to 15% at Professorial level. There was an increase in the proportion of BME staff at all
grades between 2015 and 2020, though to a lesser degree for higher grades. Recruitment data
show white applicants were more likely to be appointed than BME applicants, and analysis by
grade shows fewer BME applicants for higher academic grades.

School promotion data for 2017 to 2020 reveal similar application success rates for BME and white
staff for promotion to Research Fellow and Professor, with lower application success rates for BME
staff at Research Fellow and, in particular, Assistant Professor level.

 Promotions by ethnicity          % pool applied     % pool promoted       % applications
 (2017-2020) from grade of:                                                  successful
                                  BME      White      BME       White      BME      White
 Research Assistant                11       12         8         8          73        73
 Research Fellow                   10       10         6         8          59        73
 Assistant Professor               15       11         5         7          32        65
 Associate Professor               17       10         11        7          64        64

Observers invited to attend Faculty and School staff review committees in 2020 found all
applicants received a fair hearing and constructive feedback. A recommendation that EDI
contributions be more strongly embedded in reward and recognition criteria is being taken forward,
along with strengthened positive actions to support BME staff career development.

LSHTM has reaffirmed its commitment to ending racial injustice and racial disparities in public
health. DGH and BLM members have addressed our Council, and a new Council Committee on
Diversity and Inclusion monitors structural and cultural change. The School is undertaking Race
Equality Charter self-assessment.

Other protected characteristics

LSHTM supports parental and adoption leave. Staff and line managers are encouraged to use
Keeping in Touch days and benefit from training and development opportunities. Our maternity
return rate for academics is 92% (sector benchmark: 88%).

We are a Stonewall diversity champion. Our LGBT and Friends Network hosts a range of LGBT+
events, open to all. Trans identity is included in our Anti-Bullying and Harassment Policy and in
training on respectful working cultures.

3% of UOA1 staff declared a disability. LSHTM is a Disability Confident Employer and is working to
become a Level 3 Disability Confident Leader. We are a certified user of the Two Ticks Disability
Scheme. Our International Centre for Research on Disability works extensively with people with
disabilities and has a work experience scheme for students with disability.

2.3.5. Supporting the wellbeing of staff and research students

In 2017 LSHTM achieved the London Healthy Workplace Charter Award and signed the Time to
Change Pledge, which recognised our action plan to end mental health discrimination in the
workplace. We have also set up a Mental Health Network of staff volunteers and a team of Mental
Health First Aiders. LSHTM’s Wellbeing Committee coordinates efforts in collaboration with our
EDI Committee.

We provide free counselling to all staff. Occupational health support has been increased.
Wellbeing resources offered during the COVID-19 outbreak have included a Microsoft Teams site
for parents and carers, and dedicated disability resources. LSHTM's Student Support Services
offers confidential support and advice for students on non-academic issues, including counselling,
disability and dyslexia support, and a financial hardship fund.


                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

2.3.6. REF Code of Practice

Our Code of Practice was drafted to ensure an inclusive process. It enabled us to identify all
independent researchers and the outputs produced by Category A eligible staff across all protected
groups and with individual circumstances that may have constrained their ability to undertake
research during the assessment period.

A mock REF scoring exercise for outputs was conducted, with the scoring profile and number of
outputs allocated to submitted staff compared with the equality profile of submitted staff at those
grades. This was done to determine whether the outputs from any groups in relation to their
protected characteristics were underrepresented in the final submission. Analysis of the submitted
outputs by gender, ethnicity and disability demonstrated that no groups were underrepresented.
Equality Impact Assessments of the outcome of the exercise and the preparation for final REF
submissions were also undertaken.




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1. Research funding

LSHTM’s grant portfolio grew during the assessment period, with research income in UOA1 of
£10.9m in 2013-2014 and £45.2m in 2019-2020. The total value of the 43 new grants awarded to
UOA1 staff in 2019-2020 was £30.7m.

UOA1 research income increased overall by 314%:
 EU funding increased by 913%, especially reflecting the Ebola vaccine trials
 DHSC and FCDO income increased by 420%
 UKRI income increased by 200%, reflecting our success with GCRF and the incorporation of
  the MRC Units
 UK charity funding, mainly from Wellcome, increased by 59%

We frequently receive awards as the lead institution and transfer funds to partners, usually in
LMICs. The average research income per FTE submitted staff member in 2019-2020 was
£650,696. We have attracted substantial awards to evaluate major innovations and ensured the
inclusion of funds for dissemination and policy engagement.

We have used allocations from Research England’s QR GCRF, HEIF and QR Strategic Priorities
Fund to amplify impacts achieved from grant funding. Internal funding calls have awarded small
grants to staff to translate research into benefits beyond academia. We dedicated a proportion of
QR GCRF funding in 2019-2020 to support COVID-19 projects in LMICs.

3.2. Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact

Our SRO supports academics in identifying funding opportunities, developing grant applications
and coordinating institution-level strategic applications. It runs Funder Showcases and an annual
Fellows’ Showcase and is responsible for knowledge exchange, international partnerships,
implementing QR GCRF and HEIF strategies and managing institutional grants. It has five staff,
including a position supporting impact work.

Our Research Operations Office manages LSHTM’s portfolio of external funding. The team
increased from 20 to 34 between 2017 and 2019 and managed 1,000 applications and a UOA1
portfolio of 194 active grants, worth £243m, in 2019-2020.

We enhanced support to staff in communicating research. We have over 150,000 followers across
Twitter, Facebook, Instagram and LinkedIn, and our monthly external e-newsletter now has over
15,000 subscribers and open (36.4%) and click-through (21.3%) rates far above sector averages
(17.4% and 2.6% respectively).

In 2015 we introduced a Research in Action feature series, which was highly commended at the
2017 Medical Journalists’ Association Awards. We have also provided support for staff to
demonstrate thought leadership via external media. More than 20,000 pieces of LSHTM coverage
were generated each year across print, online and broadcast media globally.

LSHTM has developed an inclusive strategy to embed and facilitate public engagement. In 2017 a
UKRI SEE-PER (Strategic Support to Expedite Embedding Public Engagement with Research)
grant supported a School-wide survey of attitudes and needs around this goal. Our public
engagement action plan developed new training, networks and champions.

The MRC Units’ incorporation enhanced synergies between Units and LSHTM research groups.
Unit scientists can apply for the award of an academic title, bringing attachment to a Department
and Faculty; School funding has been used to support two-way visits and seed funding for joint
projects; and Unit staff have enriched Centres’ activities.

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3.3. Operational and scholarly infrastructure

UOA1 research is housed across the LSHTM estate. It encompasses London-based staff at our
Keppel Street (ITD) site; MRCG staff at the Unit’s three campuses with state-of-the-art facilities;
and MRCU staff at the campus of the Ministry of Health’s Uganda Virus Research Institute (UVRI)
in Entebbe, which includes research clinics and laboratories.

In 2017 the School’s Council agreed a programme to increase space and renovate old buildings.
£23.6m was spent between 2017 and 2020, with £38.6m committed to further phases. Key work
completed during the assessment period included new insectaries for entomology research;
refurbishment of the bacteriology laboratories; and a new entomology laboratory at MRCG. Further
details are listed in section 3.6.

LSHTM is committed to achieving carbon neutrality by 2020 and factors environmental
sustainability into all its operations. The biggest solar power generation system of its kind in the
Gambia was completed at MRCG in 2019. We have invested in new virtual conferencing facilities
and rolled out related software to all staff as an alternative to business travel.

These and other changes resulted in the following:

   A 42% reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 carbon emissions between 2012/13 and 2018/19
   Increased recycling rates – from 54% in 2016/17 to 66% in 2018/19
   An 18% reduction in water consumption between 2016/17 and 2018/19
   A 66-place rise in the People & Planet University League between 2016 and 2019

Chariot Innovations Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of the School, was launched in 2013 as an
incubator for spin-out companies established by LSHTM academics. During the assessment period
we enhanced support for translational research and innovation by recruiting a new Intellectual
Property Manager and an SRO staff member to support funding applications, and filed nine patents
for new inventions.

Our School Library has extensive collections of print and electronic material. Evaluations and
ongoing acquisition policies ensure resources are relevant. The Library and Archives Service offers
advice on literature searching and systematic reviews and is responsible for our open-access
research repository (LSHTM Research Online) and our research data repository (LSHTM Data
Compass). Staff provide guidance on open-access publishing and research data management. In
2015 we became fully compliant with the EPSRC Policy Framework on Research Data.

LSHTM runs high-performance computing clusters in London and at each MRC Unit. We reviewed
our facilities in 2019 and agreed additional staffing.

3.4. Equality and diversity considerations in infrastructure

Our new buildings provide accessibility solutions not available in our Grade II listed premises.
Enhancements include more wheelchair-accessible toilets, asymmetrical door sets and coloured
plug sockets for the visually impaired.

Our flexible working policy and remote access support enables researchers to work from home to
help manage caring and related responsibilities. Our TED and Technology-Enhanced Learning
teams have developed various materials to support digital accessibility, include training in best
practice when designing resources.

3.5. Use of infrastructure, facilities and expertise in impact activities

Before COVID-19 we used our central London facilities to host our own and others’ events.
Notable examples during the assessment period included:
 The launch of the AMR Centre, featuring the Chief Medical Officer for England

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   High-profile talks in our annual Women in Science series, including a lecture by then WHO
    Director General Margaret Chan
   The John Snow Annual Pumphandle Lectures, featuring (among others) Joanne Liu,
    International President of Médecins Sans Frontières, and Richard Horton, The Lancet Editor in
    Chief

Although the event was not held at our own facilities, in 2018 LSHTM hosted the second Women
Leaders in Global Health conference. Over 900 participants from 70+ countries of residence
attended. Speakers included Soumya Swaminathan, WHO Deputy Director General for
Programmes, and Sally Davies, then Chief Medical Officer for England.

3.6. Specialist research infrastructure and facilities

In 2019 we consolidated most of our London-based infectious diseases laboratory research into
one department, the Department of Infection Biology, merging the Departments of Pathogen
Molecular Biology and Immunology and Infection. This enhanced the interdisciplinary working
environment and was supported by the redevelopment of our laboratories.

New state-of-the-art facilities included a Schedule 5 suite for studying pathogens listed under the
Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001 (Shigella and cholera research), with three
Containment Level 3 and two Containment Level 2 laboratories. An integrated Malaria Suite
enabled us to expand a key area of strength and increase inter-group collaboration.

Pathogen-handling facilities with biocontainment for small animal infection studies by clinically-
relevant routes and monitoring of infected animals by in vivo bioimaging have enabled research on
Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Burkholderia pseudomallei; Trypanosoma cruzi, Leishmania
donovani and Plasmodium falciparum and their vectors; and animal pathogens regulated by the
Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Trypanosoma brucei, bluetongue virus). Our
animal facility was expanded in 2019 to include a zebrafish facility.

We host the Public Health England (PHE) Malaria Reference Laboratory, which provides malaria
diagnosis, epidemiological data for the Centre for Infectious Disease Surveillance and Control, and
training and technical advice on methodology and laboratory procedures. Our Diagnostic
Parasitology Laboratory, an ISO 15189:2012 UKAS accredited medical laboratory, provides a
reference facility offering a range of parasitological investigations for enteric and blood parasites to
all hospitals, NHS and PHE laboratories, GPs and private medical laboratories in the UK and
abroad. The Diagnostic Parasitology Laboratory also specialises in the diagnosis of non-human
parasites, offering this service to veterinary practitioners.

Reflecting LSHTM’s 2017-2022 strategy, ITD has further strengthened laboratory science through
a technical support review. This improved service delivery and knowledge-sharing and created a
structure supporting career progression. The 49 technical staff were formed into new teams in
2019, and a new Head of Research Laboratories appointed.

The inclusion of MRCG brought further specialist infrastructure and facilities. MRCG played a key
role in expanding genomics capabilities in Africa by building a new international-standard
molecular biology laboratory, the base for the Centre for Genomics’ research and training for West
Africa. A new entomology laboratory supports research on novel interventions against vector-borne
diseases.

MRCU’s General Population Cohort monitors trends in HIV infection and their determinants. The
Entebbe Mother and Baby Study explores how early-life experiences affect health outcomes. The
MRC/UVRI Medical Informatics Centre supports the integration of epidemiological methods with
genomic and computational technologies, to study the biology of various diseases and strengthen
medical informatics capacity in sub-Saharan Africa.



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

3.7. Cross-HEI shared/collaborative research infrastructure and major research facilities

3.7.1. Overseas

A priority in LSHTM’s 2017-2022 strategy is to create and consolidate national and global
partnerships. Below we address major cross-HEI shared use of research infrastructure overseas
and in the UK. These partnerships are all with locally owned institutions.

Africa (in addition to MRCG and MRCU)

   Ethiopia: The Ethiopian Federal Ministry of Health and Armauer Hansen Research Institute are
    key partners for LSHTM research projects in vaccination and infectious diseases.
   South Africa: The Africa Health Research Institute (AHRI) is an independent scientific research
    institute based in KwaZulu-Natal and is a key partner in research on TB and adolescent health.
   Tanzania: The Mwanza Interventions Trials Unit is a longstanding partnership with the
    Tanzania National Institute for Medical Research Mwanza Centre, with shared clinical trials
    expertise and strengthened laboratory infrastructure.
   Uganda: UVRI, a key partner of MRCU, is home to several national and international reference
    and specialised testing laboratories. UVRI researchers have access to shared enhanced
    bioinformatics and laboratory facilities at MRCU.
   Zambia: Zambart is a research organisation that grew out of a 20-year collaboration between
    the University of Zambia’s School of Medicine and LSHTM which includes epidemiological and
    clinical research.
   Zimbabwe: The Biomedical Research and Training Institute, a Zimbabwean NGO, is a key
    partner for the Zimbabwe LSHTM Research Partnership working on TB and HIV.

Asia

   Japan: Our partnership with Nagasaki University has supported the Nagasaki School of
    Tropical Medicine and Global Health, created shared resources and provided LSHTM
    researchers with access to research opportunities in the region. Two members of staff are
    based in Nagasaki full-time.
   Singapore: Our partnership with the National University of Singapore focusses on infectious
    diseases research. Two joint appointments develop research on TB and malaria.

3.7.2. UK

LSHTM is a member of the London International Development Centre, a consortium of seven
institutions facilitating interdisciplinary research and training. Members collectively fund a core
team and associated infrastructure. Major successes include a Research England Connecting
Capabilities Fund award on AMR.




                                                                                               Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Collaboration in doctoral training was addressed in section 2.2.2.

4.1. Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

LSHTM is a member of global networks including the M8 Alliance of Academic Health Centers,
Universities and National Academies and the Consortium of Universities for Global Health. The
2020 CWTS Leiden Ranking for all sciences placed us first in the UK and ninth in the world for
proportion of papers published in collaboration with researchers from other institutions (95%) and
first in the UK and seventh in the world for proportion of papers published with researchers from
outside the UK (78.3%). InCites data show that between 2014 and 2020 we collaborated on over
10 publications each with close to 1,500 institutions across Africa (118), Middle East (74), Asia
Pacific (295), Latin America (66), North America (319), EU-27 (420), UK (167).

Our major collaborations are in Africa, Asia, Latin America, Europe and the UK.

4.1.1. Africa

In 2020 we had over a hundred researchers based in Africa outside the MRC Units, embedded
within local institutions. Sixteen are included in our UOA1 submission. Our principal collaborating
institutions for UOA1 staff are shown below. These were fundamental to much of the research and
related achievements described in section 1.

 Botswana: Botswana Harvard AIDS Institute Partnership

 Burkina Faso: Centre Muraz, Centre National de Recherche et de Formation sur le Paludisme

 Democratic Republic of Congo: Institut National de Recherche Biomédicale

 Ethiopia: Ministry of Health; Armauer Hansen Research Institute

 Ghana: Kintampo Health Research Centre; Kwame Nkrumah University of Science &
 Technology; Noguchi Memorial Research Institute, University of Ghana

 Senegal: Université Cheikh Anta Diop; Institut de Recherche en Santé, de Surveillance
 Epidémiologique et de Formation

 Sierra Leone: College of Medicine and Allied Health Sciences, University of Sierra Leone

 South Africa: Africa Health Research Institute, University of KwaZulu Natal; Universities of Cape
 Town, Stellenbosch and Witwatersrand

 Tanzania: Mwanza Intervention Trials Unit; National Institute for Medical Research; Kilimanjaro
 Christian Medical University College; Sokoine University

 Uganda: Uganda Virus Research Institute; Makerere University

 Zambia: Zambart

 Zimbabwe: Biomedical Research Training Institute


LSHTM has supported the development of regional networks to share expertise and strengthen
capacity. For example, MRCG initiated the development of a West Africa network building on
existing connections with Senegal through the West Africa Global Health Alliance and, more

                                                                                            Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

widely, the West African Network of Excellence for TB, AIDS and Malaria. MRCU has expanded
links in East and Southern Africa, including with AHRI and Zambart.

4.1.2. Asia

In section 3.7.1 we covered partnerships in which we share research resources in Japan and
Singapore. Collaborations between London-based researchers and universities in China,
Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, the Philippines, Thailand and Vietnam have strengthened research and
capacity around malaria, TB, STIs, NTDs and non-malarial febrile illness. Collaborations in India
focus on leprosy, leishmaniasis and eye health.

4.1.3. Latin America

We have strong links with Brazil, including on Chagas disease research; this collaboration was
reinforced by our work on the Zika epidemic. The Fundação Oswaldo Cruz (Fiocruz) has emerged
as a major partner, with a focus on the ‘triple epidemic’ of dengue, chikungunya and Zika. We also
collaborate with the Universidad Cayetano Heredia in Peru on TB and STI research.

4.1.4. Europe

LSHTM works with many European institutions and leads and/or contributes to numerous EU and
EDCTP research consortia. We joined the new European Global Health Research Institutes
Network in 2020.

4.1.5. UK

LSHTM collaborates with leading institutions in the UK, including UCL, Imperial College, the
Universities of Cambridge and Oxford, the Francis Crick Institute, the Wellcome Sanger Institute
and PHE. Many of these collaborations include partners in Africa, Asia and elsewhere.

4.1.6. Evaluation of collaborations

Our indicators of success for our research collaborations around the world include the following:

   Significant discoveries, especially in the control of infectious diseases and vaccines (see
    section 1.3)
   High citation rates for our published outputs with partners, as illustrated by the Category
    Normalized Citation Impact (CNCI) for our top four partnerships in South Africa during the
    2014-2020 period:
        o University of Witwatersrand: 682 publications, CNCI of 6, 10% of papers in top 1%
        o University of Cape Town: 642, 8, 13%
        o University of KwaZulu Natal: 309, 15, 18%
        o Stellenbosch University: 294, 14, 19%
   Strengthened research capacity in key locations – as illustrated by decades of collaborative
    research in Zambia resulting in an established local NGO research institution, Zambart,
    undertaking high-quality science
   Increased joint working with product development partnerships, the biotech sector and large
    pharmaceutical and diagnostics companies
   Impact on policy and practice – all our UOA1 case studies draw on research produced through
    overseas partnerships

4.2. Collaboration with external organisations, including health services, industry and
government bodies

We have developed productive links with partners in government, the NHS and its executive
agencies, PHE, industry and charities. For example:


                                                                                            Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

    We host PHE’s Malaria Reference Laboratory
    LSHTM is a member of UCLPartners, providing valuable links into the local NHS
    MRCG works with the Gambian Ministry of Health, providing outpatient medical care to the
     general public
    MRCU works with the Ugandan Ministry of Health and its AIDS control programme, including
     providing HIV counselling and testing services
    We contribute expertise to the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations which finances
     and coordinates vaccine development
    LSHTM is a founding partner in VMIC (see section 1.2)
    Collaborations with the Medicines for Malaria Venture have expanded during the assessment
     period, including establishing in vitro susceptibility assays for P. knowlesi
    LSHTM’s collaborations with charities are extensive; e.g. the International Centre for Eye
     Health works closely with CBM and Sightsavers

4.3. Relationships with key research users

The table below summarises our key research users and the areas in which they have enriched
our research environment. Section 4.7.4 features specific evidence on advisory roles.

    Global users/beneficiaries                      Research areas
    Governments in LMICs; regional                  Disease control; adolescent health
    agencies (e.g. Africa CDC)
    International agencies (e.g. WHO; UNICEF;       Vaccines; adolescent health; sexual health;
    UNAIDS; Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB and       HIV, TB, malaria, other infectious diseases
    Malaria; PEPFAR; UNITAID; GAVI Alliance)
    European agencies (e.g. EU)                     Infectious diseases surveillance and control

    Bilateral aid agencies                          Infectious diseases; adolescent health
    Industry (e.g. Medicines for Malaria Venture;   Clinical trials; Ebola vaccines; malaria
    Janssen Pharmaceuticals; DNDi; Sanofi;          prevention and drug discovery
    GSK)
    Major NGOs (e.g. Sightsavers; CBM)              Eye health; Ebola; COVID-19

    UK users/beneficiaries                          Research areas
    DHSC; NHS England; PHE                          Vaccines; COVID-19; AMR
    FCDO                                            Malaria; neglected tropical diseases


4.4. Wider contributions to economy and society and engagement with diverse communities
and publics

In line with its mission, LSHTM seeks to especially engage with vulnerable communities. Two
examples are given here.

Staff in Uganda undertook innovative public engagement activities to tackle HIV stigma and
address misconceptions about lumbar punctures in diagnosing brain infections associated with
advanced HIV disease. Research participants who had survived advanced HIV disease designed
and implemented activities, helping researchers engage effectively with the community and
empowering participants as advocates.

Community engagement in Zimbabwe underpins all research, ensuring work is relevant and
respectful to the local context. A life skills course for adolescents living with HIV in Harare focused


                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

on issues faced by adolescents. The team also runs a Youth Researchers Academy, enabling 18-
to-24-year-olds to conduct research informing sexual and reproductive health interventions.

4.5. Contribution to sustainability of discipline, support for interdisciplinary research,
responsiveness to national and international priorities

LSHTM laboratory and clinical researchers play a major role in maintaining UK capacity in
disciplines critical to global health and UK health security, including clinical virology, clinical
bacteriology, diagnostic parasitology and vector sampling, identification and incrimination. Our
Professional Diploma in Tropical Medicine & Hygiene provides clinicians with the learning required
for professional competence in this field. Our Professional Diploma in Tropical Nursing trains
nurses, midwives, paramedics and allied health professionals to recognise malaria, TB,
Leishmaniasis, Filariasis and other parasitic diseases.

Our researchers’ embeddedness in national and global policy has enabled them to respond quickly
to health emergencies including Ebola, Zika, AMR and COVID-19. For example, the MRC Units
were at the forefront of augmenting the COVID-19 response in Africa, using their labs and
expertise to boost national testing capacities; they continue to monitor the outbreak in population
samples, providing real-time analyses of its evolution.

4.6. Encouraging reproducibility

All laboratory work is performed to ensure it can be repeated and that results obtained can be
replicated. For example, LSHTM has been a partner in the EU-funded TRANSVAC and
EURIPRED consortia, which have developed standardised protocols for cellular assays for use in
vaccine trials following parallel testing of shared reagents and protocols in leading European
laboratories.

4.7. Wider influence, contributions and recognition of UOA1 staff in the assessment period

4.7.1. Honours, awards and prizes

Honours, awards and prizes received by LSHTM staff during the assessment period include the
following:

   UK honours: CB – Whitty; CBE– Mabey; OBE – Roy
   Election to Learned Societies: Fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences – Riley, Corbett,
    Kaleebu; Royal Society of Biology – Roy; Fellow of the African Academy of Sciences – Elliott
    and Antonio; Fellow of the Uganda National Academy of Sciences – Elliott
   Awards and prizes: Prince Mahidol Award – Mabey; Union Scientific Award – Kranzer; Royal
    Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene Chalmers Medal – Ferrand; Royal Society of Tropical
    Medicine and Hygiene – Mabey (President); International Society of Protistologists – CG Clark
    (President); British Society for Parasitology – C Sutherland (President-elect)

4.7.2. Fellowships

There were 27 external fellowships and personal awards to UOA1 staff and their team members
during the assessment period, including the following:

   MRC: Career Development Award – Moon, van Ooij; African Research Leader (with DFID) –
    Tiono/Drakeley; Strategic Skills Fellowship – Furnham
   BBSRC: Enterprise Fellowship (with RSE) – Cuccui
   Wellcome: Sir Henry Wellcome Fellowship – Ludden, Coll, Stresman, Stone; Sir Henry Dale
    Fellowship (with Royal Society) – T Walker; Senior Research Fellowship – Elliott, Corbett,
    Ferrand, Burton, Mostowy; Investigator Award in Science – Baker (2), Wren
   Research England: Bloomsbury SET Innovation Fellow – Tetteh
   EU: Marie Curie Fellowship – Lewis, Hachani, Dyson, Jimenez
                                                                                           Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   ERC: Starting Grant – Cortes; Consolidator Grant – Mostowy
   NIHR: Global Health Professorship – Jarvis
   African Academy of Sciences/Royal Society: FLAIR Fellowship - Tientcheu

4.7.3. UK Research grant committees

There were at least 25 instances of service on UK research grant committees during the
assessment period, including the following:

   MRC: Infections and Immunity Board – Baker; Adolescent Health Call – Ferrand; AHRC/MRC
    GCRF – Grant; Clinical Academic Research Partnerships – Jarvis; African Research Leader –
    Kampmann; Joint Global Health Trials – Corbett; Developmental Pathway Funding Scheme –
    Fletcher; Experimental Medicine – Kampmann; Global Adolescent Health – Ferrand
   UKRI: GCRF/Newton Agile Response to COVID-19 – Fletcher (Chair); Future Leadership
    Fellowships – Fletcher
   BBSRC: Tools and Resources Development Fund – Ward, Wren
   NIHR: Global Health Research Units – Elliott; Global Effort on COVID-19 Health Research Call
    – Jarvis; Research and Innovation for Global Health Transformation – Jarvis
   EDCTP: Senior Fellowships – Dockrell, Elliott, Ferrand, Jarvis; Strategy Advisory Board – Croft
   British Council: Commonwealth Scholarships – Croft
   Medical Research Foundation: Grant Panel – Dockrell
   Wellcome: Science Interview Panel – Burton; Basic Science Interview Committee – Mostowy;
    Sir Henry Dale Fellowship Interview Committee – Wren; Pathogen Biology and Disease
    Transmission Expert Review Group – Blackman

4.7.4. Advisory roles

During the assessment period there were many examples of staff acting as advisors for UK,
international and other national agencies, including the following:

   WHO Advisory Groups: Croft, Ferrand, Jarvis, Kranzer, Mabey, Mayaud, Roy
   International government agencies: Uganda Ministry of Health NTD Technical Committee –
    Elliott; Uganda COVID-19 Laboratory Quality Assurance Committee – Kaleebu; Uganda
    Ministry of Health Scientific Advisory Committee – Kaleebu; Uganda SARS-CoV-2 National
    Vaccine Access Committee – Kaleebu
   COVID-19: Zimbabwe National COVID-19 Expert Advisory Panel – Ferrand; Zimbabwe
    Ministry of Health and Child Care Infection Prevention and Control Adviser – Kranzer;
    Botswana Minister of Health COVID-19 Technical Advisor – Jarvis; Botswana Ministry of Health
    and Wellness National HIV and TB Guidelines Development Group – Jarvis
   The Global Fund: Technical Review Panel – Ayles
   Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative: Scientific Advisory Committee – Croft
   Medicines for Malaria Venture: Scientific Advisory Committee – Croft
   Genome Canada: Genomics in Medicine – Wren
   African Academy of Sciences: Open Research Advisory Board – Elliott
   Armauer Hansen Research Institute: Scientific Advisory Board – Dockrell
   Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene: Trustee – Grant
   Scientific Foundation Ireland – Wren

4.7.5. Journal editorships and editorial boards

During the assessment period at least 20 UOA1 staff held Editor, Editor-in-Chief and Section Editor
roles, including:

   BMC: Immunology – Helmby (Associate Editor); Infectious Diseases – T Walker (Editorial
    Board); Medicine – Fletcher (Editorial Board)


                                                                                           Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

   FEMS Microbiology Reviews – van Ooij (Editorial Board)
   Genes – Alsford (Editorial Board)
   Infection and Immunity – Dockrell (Editorial Board)
   International Journal of Molecular Sciences – Holland (Editorial Board)
   Journal for Antimicrobial Chemotherapy – C Sutherland (Editorial Board)
   Journal of Adolescent Health – Ferrand (Editorial Board)
   Journal of Infectious Diseases – Dockrell (Editorial Board)
   Malaria Journal – Drakeley, Walker, Helmby (Associate Editors)
   PLoS: Neglected Tropical Diseases – Lewis (Editor); One – Ferrand (Editorial Board);
    Pathogens – Blackman, Lewis (Editors)
   Scientific Reports – Stresman (Editor); Furnham, Beshir, Cortez (Editorial Board)
   Tropical Medicine and International Health Fletcher (Editor).
   Tuberculosis – Fletcher (Editorial Board)




                                                                                           Page 27
