Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Gloucestershire

 Unit of Assessment: 27 English and Creative Writing

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
The unit builds on a strong record in every research exercise since 1996, with a high proportion of
world leading and internationally significant work in recent cycles. It incorporates staff in the
cognate disciplines of English Literature, English Language and Creative Writing. The main aim in
this cycle has been twofold: to continue to foster innovative research work of the highest quality
within each of these disciplines, while articulating an over-arching vision for the team that can
meaningfully connect and direct them in forward-looking ways. Thus, while there is valued diversity
in the unit’s research work, its culture is also informed throughout by key common themes - of
individual growth, and local, social, and environmental benefit - that are themselves positively
aligned with concordant aims and principles of self-expression, community, inclusion, and impact
articulated in the University’s academic, sustainability, and equality and diversity strategies, and
widening access plan. Within this period the ongoing enhancement of the research identity and
culture of the unit has been a result of stable, supportive University systems, proactive leadership
and recruitment, clear strategic thinking, and extensive University resourcing. Crucially, the
University’s academic strategy has also resulted in curriculum changes that have brought the three
discipline areas closer together in ways affecting research as well as the teaching informed by it,
and plans for future research and impact reflect this. Finally, our conviction is that the aim of these
measures of strategy, planning and culture since 2014 has been to increase not only the number of
research-active staff in the unit, but also the quality of research outcomes. The judgements of our
external assessor suggest success in this regard – for instance, currently rating our 3* and 4*
outputs as, respectively, 60.9% and 17.4% as against 31% and 7.1% in 2014.
Research Aims and Strategy

The University’s academic strategy (2017-22) has four goals central to the unit’s research
principles and practice:
           •   an ethos that ‘enables all our students to reach their full potential’
           •   the provision of research-informed teaching ‘of the highest quality’
           •   the existence of research that will enrich learning ‘and create impact’
           •   the creation of beneficial relationships with ‘the communities we serve’
In terms of vision or philosophy, the idea of research-informed teaching usefully binds together
the team’s research culture with these university goals, since staff integration of research into
teaching involves the modelling and transmission of an autonomous engagement for the subject
for a student who thereby learns, above all, how to research, and so fulfil his/her individual
potential. This connects with the distinctive and long-standing ethos of the Humanities area in the
University which has always centrally acknowledged and developed the individuality and academic
voice of the student through tutorial and group work, as well as seminar and lecture provision.
Such a conception, being dependent on dialogue and close teaching relationships, is clearly social,
and even communal, since it implies the student’s capacity for further engagements in the
discipline and beyond. An analogue for this is the close, ongoing, mentoring relationships
developed between REF leads and junior research staff.
The UoA is further fortunate in this context in having several teaching fellows, including two
national fellows, Stibbe and McLoughlin, who have produced teaching-informed research,
publishing innovative work in the area of pedagogic research. Further, Stibbe’s research on
environmental and ecological matters in particular draws on the University’s sustainability strategy
and its proud tradition as a leading institution in its environmental commitment, awareness and
attainment (number 1 sustainability University in the UK, most shortlisted in the Green Gown
awards, and perennials in the first class of the Sustainability League since its origin).

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In terms of practice, the UoA, by implementing these strategic principles and overarching themes,
has sought to:
   a) respect and develop the range of existing research strengths, and what is often discrete
      and diverse within them:

           •   English Literature: drama from the 16th century to the 21st ; Romantic, 19th and 20th
               century writing; N American writing; crime fiction; literary theory, including feminist
               theory; eco-poetics, and women’s writing
           •   English Language: eco-criticism, discourse analysis, and eco-linguistics
           •   Creative Writing: poetry, prose, and dramatic writing, often engaging with eco-
               poetic, feminist, historical and political themes.

   b) maximise the production of high-quality outputs, particularly research monographs, but also
      journal articles and book chapters in prestigious publications, so contributing to new
      research directions within the larger academic community.

   c) foster work and outreach that reflects the larger themes of environment, locality/community
      and individual expression. Examples could include the following:

           •   the ecological perspectives, and use of eco-criticism, evident in Stibbe’s published
               work and impact study (which evidences an online sustainability course with
               200,000 visitors and 2000 registered participants, and 22 tutors in 10 languages);
               his advising of Greenpeace on a large international campaign; and work with
               Cheltenham Borough Council to establish legal protection for a large area of local
               countryside
           •   the innovative work on literary style, versification and language, as features of
               individual voice and expression undertaken by Hughes, as well as his work on the
               relations of loss and nature in Wordsworth’s poetry
           •   the poetic exploration of memory, history, and local geography and history in
               France’s impact study, and Middleton’s work on the poetry of ‘the Dymock poets’
           •   the original theories of cognitive poetics as a component of creative expression
               undertaken by McLoughlin
           •   Beyer’s contribution to an RCUK-funded research project on human trafficking with
               the Specialist Policing Consultancy
           •   work on Gloucestershire dialect by Straw
           •   Andrejevic-Bullock’s funded theatre production in Stroud
           •   Walker’s overseeing of an outreach project with schools resulting in development
               with schools of a community opera watched by 1200 people
           •   Walker’s £2500 ACE covid 19 response fund award for theatre writing projects in
               the socially distanced environment.
           •   the development of a flourishing MA in Critical and Creative Writing that combines
               creative explorations with importantly searching and reflective literary critical and
               theoretical strands. Taught by colleagues across the UoA, the MA faces both
               inwards towards the student’s work and outwards to literary history, society, and
               criticism.
           •   the manifold staff links with local groups and societies (section 4 below).


Achievement and Administration
The research standing of the English UoA at Gloucestershire since its origin in 1990 has been one
of significant achievement and progress. A 3b in 1996 was followed by a 4 in 2001. In the 2008
RAE 75% of outputs were gauged as internationally recognised or higher, with 35% at 3 and 4.
The REF of 2014 returned a very similar result – respectively, 70% with 38.1% at 3 and 4, and our
external advisor’s ratings project a figure for 2021 of nearly 100% with 78.3% at 3 and 4.

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UoA staff liaise closely with the School Research Administrator, whose responsibilities include
monitoring the administration of research supervision, the various research committees, and
overseeing and recording of the progress of PGR students from application to examination and
final award. Staff contribute significantly to University administration, and the conception and
implementation of policy and research goals at every level. McLoughlin leads the Being Human
Research Priority Area, which groups the UoA with those in History, Religious Studies, Art and
Design, and Media, and sits on the University’s Research Committee. With Hughes he is also a
member of the University Research Degrees Committee, and the UoA Development Group.
Organisationally, the UoA is located within the School of Education and Humanities, and its
research is supported by a Research Development office which oversees different facets of
research policy and administration:
           •   the training programme for research supervisors
           •   the processing of progression from application, registration and training to
               supervision and examination
           •   the appointment of examiners and supervisors.
Research degree student recruitment, progress, and ethics approval is overseen within the School
by a co-ordinator (formerly Griffiths, now Long), who requires independent scrutiny of research
proposals by senior academic staff (with recommendations sent to a Research Ethics Committee),
and who works closely with the RDO to oversee staff’s monitoring and supporting of a student’s
work, welfare and progress. Staff also take part in School-wide activities, such as research
seminars and symposia, and Stibbe oversees the ‘Being Human Research Centre’, largely based
in the School, and building on two previous research centres – one led by Hughes (Centre for
Writing Place and History) and one by McLoughlin (Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in
Creativity and Expression).


Research Culture and Organisation
The long-standing ‘Open Lectures in Culture and Criticism’, initiated over twenty years ago by Prof.
Widdowson, shaped an ethos of literary historical work that remains an important strand of a UoA
identity that has also become wider and more diverse, now incorporating English Language and
Creative Writing. The Being Human Research Centre provides an important locus for this wider
ambition. It organises seminars, open lectures, and other events including visiting speakers, as
well as allowing for connections with colleagues in History, Philosophy, and Media.
Organisationally, the research activity and identity in this cycle have been shaped by the 2017-22
strategy aim for ‘impact and benefit for others’, reflected in budget and time support for areas of
perceived and developing strength. Competitive bids across the institution in 2014 led to six
interdisciplinary research priority areas (RPAs) being identified as centres of excellence, and
receiving significant internal investment (up to £150,000 p. a.) to develop research and impact
capacity, and oversee competitive research bids. This UoA is central to the RPA, ‘Being Human:
past, present and future’, which has brought colleagues together from different disciplines to
explore contemporary issues of the human. As such, it provides academic focus while
accommodating diversity of projects, and specifically aspires to promote inter-disciplinary projects
with significant and measurable impact.


Research Impact Strategy
Stibbe, as UoA and RPA Impact co-ordinator, is tasked with advising staff; developing and
improving bids; and supporting activities that generate impact in line with the UoA strategic aim of
promoting greater levels of social, local, individual, and environmental benefit and flourishing
through activities such as the following:
       a) educational and community group materials and workshops
       b) public contributions to the arts through performances and readings
       c) ethical consultancy for businesses
       d) contributions to national and international media outlets (online, print and broadcast)


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       e) contributions to teaching enhancement within the University of Gloucestershire.

A key aim in the next cycle will be to enhance such activities further through a more successful
culture of grant capture. In terms of financial support, the Being Human RPA draws on University
funding to support bids (particularly for collaborative projects), where impact is demonstrable, and
where the bidders have also sought to apply for external funding.
Looking forward, it is important to acknowledge the success of our current strategy in fostering staff
autonomy within over-arching systems that facilitate positive publication and impact outcomes,
while also ensuring compliance with ethical practice, and contribution to the social and
environmental ethos of the school and the University. Building on existing success, there are also
other larger aims that will importantly shape future activity seeking to develop:
       a) external partnerships with other education institutions and ethical businesses (so as to
       carry out consultancy work and work on larger-scale projects)
       b) collaborative projects with cognate disciplines, such as Art, Media, Music and Drama, as
       well as interdisciplinary projects with areas such as History and Philosophy
       c) Stibbe’s successful worldwide dissemination of teaching materials, based on research
       d) and continue our strong local relationships whereby staff variously lead public
       workshops, give performances, broadcasts, and readings of their own creative work, and
       offer public lectures, or train staff in local businesses
       e) continuing education courses linked to outreach, research and impact (and described in
       following sub-section).


Impact and Locality
The UoA’s distinctive fostering of impact linked to locality can be demonstrated through key
examples:
   •   France’s impact study showcases the production and local dissemination of poetry about
       Leckhampton Hill.
   •   Hughes oversees the Cyder Press, a University imprint that has published over twenty
       volumes, including scholarly editions of 18th and 19th century poets, and neglected prose
       works by writers connected to our Dymock Poets archive, such as Edward Thomas and
       Robert Frost. He edits its publications of the prestigious annual Laurie Lee lecture at the
       Cheltenham Literature Festival, including recent titles by Robert Macfarlane, Katherine
       Frank, and Michael Holroyd. Over the last decade or so, lecturers have also included
       Andrew Motion, Valerie Grove, U. A. Fanthorpe, Jonathan Bate, Jon Stallworthy, Terry
       Eagleton, Claire Tomalin, and Roy Strong.
   •   The University’s ‘Gloucestershire Poets, Writers and Artists Collection’ is held in the Francis
       Close Hall campus, and includes the U. A. Fanthorpe, Whittington Press, and James Elroy
       Flecker collections.
   •   University bidding (in partnership with the Dean Heritage Centre and Voices in the Forest)
       raised £100,000 of Heritage Lottery Funding to buy materials for its Dennis Potter Archive.
Further, UoA staff have a long history of links and regular contributions to the Cheltenham Literary
and Poetry Festivals and of active engagement with local community groups, schools, events,
businesses, and the Wilson Gallery. Hughes has given numerous talks at the Cheltenham
Literature and Poetry Festivals (as well as the Gloucestershire Philosophical and Historical
Societies). McLoughlin and France have both given invited readings at the Literature and Poetry
festivals, as well as the Ledbury Poetry Festival. Walker has participated in various festivals and
fora, including the BBC Drama Writer’s Festival, the Cheltenham Literature Festival, and the
Writer’s Guild. In the future, a key ambition is to develop an impact study around community
dissemination of research work through a menu of continuing education courses which will
primarily recruit from Gloucestershire residents, and which will be creative, environmental, and
critical in orientation.
More broadly, this strongly outward facing direction of our research has also involved long-standing
successful engagement with charities, businesses and educational organisations: for instance,
providing materials, staff training analyses, and carrying out analyses of advertising campaigns.

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2. People
Research staff strategy and management

The English UoA is based in the School of Education and Humanities, at the Francis Close Hall
campus of the University in Cheltenham, and all staff teach and have offices on this site, and are
research active. The gender balance in the UoA is 10M:9F, and all but two staff have PhDs. Nearly
all are on permanent, teaching and research contracts, and most supervise PGR students, and/or
teach on the MA in Critical and Creative Writing. The University runs a Workload Allocation Model
which integrates research time and development within individual profiles. Each member of staff is
allocated a research day, and there is generous provision for applications for research leave and
travel, conference attendance, and other research activity geared to publication or impact. All staff
have an annual Staff Review and Development session, which for academic staff includes a
research focus that reviews past achievements and identifies research priorities and targets. New
staff, particularly early-career researchers, benefit from a mentoring system that supports them in
identifying and producing research outputs, undertaking graduate teaching and supervision and
promoting career progression. Hughes and McLoughlin contribute quarterly reports onto a
University spreadsheet, and research inputs are submitted to the institutional Research Repository.

University Research is supervised by the Vice-Chancellor, Marston, and the Dean of Academic
Development, Prof. James, through the University Research Committee. The UoA submission and
policy are co-ordinated by two Professors: Hughes (English Literature) and McLoughlin (Creative
Writing), with assistance from a third: Stibbe (English Language). The UoA co-ordinators reports
on a three-monthly basis to University Research Committee on research progress in (a) progress
with publications and other outputs b) staffing and Equality issues; (c) research impact strategy
and case studies development; (d) research student progress; (e) research income. These reports
are then disseminated to the Being Human Research Priority Area which scrutinises them and
considers budgetary issues. McLoughlin leads this RPA, which funds research in this UoA as well
as those of History, Theology and Religious Studies, Art and Design, and Media. Hughes and
Stibbe (and formerly Saguaro) also sit on the RPA steering group along with the other UoA co-
ordinators and senior researchers. This cross-UoA grouping offers a powerful forum for
disseminating ideas and good practice, and for allocating internal funding against internal bids.
Hughes and McLoughlin further contribute to the University’s conceiving and implementing of
research policy through their membership of the University Research Degree Committee and the
UoA Development Group. McLoughlin also sits on the University’s Research Committee which
oversees Research strategy and policy, and until 2015 Hughes sat on the Professorial Board,
responsible for the appointment of Readers and Professors.
As section 4 below demonstrates, UoA staff appointments within this cycle (Innes, Middleton,
Rivers, Knight, Hitchman, Dicks, Andrejevic-Bullock and Walker) demonstrate our
commitment to developing our research profile of beneficial links to diversity, locality, and the
natural environment while also maintaining existing research strengths.

In 2016-17 the new degree in English brought together the Literature and Language strands, and
the English Literature degree was phased out by 2019, while the English Literature and Creative
Writing joint degree has continued to recruit well. This reconfiguration has led in research terms, as
well as teaching, to significant areas of common purpose and cross-fertilisation, incorporating
areas of existing strength within the new composite as importantly indicated in the examples and
discussion in section 1a above, and in the further expansion of the taught MA course in Creative
and Critical Writing (with additional Literature modules added in 2018) discussed in the
postgraduate students sub-section below. This alignment is underwritten by steady undergraduate
recruitment.
During the period of this REF there have been changes in staff personnel. In English Literature,
Innes (2015), Middleton (0.2, 2016), and Rivers (0.2, 2016) joined while Hughes reduced to a 0.3
fraction (2019), Saguaro retired (2017) and Bailey joined Liverpool John Moores University

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(2015). In Language, Braña-Straw resigned from teaching (2015); and in Creative Writing,
Hitchman (2017 until 2020), Andrejevic-Bullock (0.6, 2016), Walker (0.4, 2016), Dicks (0.5,
2017) and Moore (0.2, 2016 until 2019) joined, while Tyler left for Reading University (2015), and
Keevil for Cardiff University (2017). France’s role, formerly 0.2, is now 0.5 (2017).
In this period, Innes was Academic Subject Leader (ASL) from 2015 to 2020, and Course Leader
(CL) for English from 2020, while Weeks retired as CL for English Literature in 2015 and Stibbe
was CL for the new English course (incorporating Literature and Language) from 2017-20.
Marshall has been CL for Language throughout, as well as being CL for English Literature for
2015-17. Hughes and Beyer carried out the CL role for English Literature degree for 2017-18 and
18-19 respectively Hughes and McLoughlin have actively mentored junior staff through regular
meetings, scoping and developing research plans, discussing external or other feedback, fostering
applications for sabbatical leave where merited, and assisting in producing and disseminating (and
in some cases revising) their research proposals, publication, readings and seminars. This has
involved actively supporting nearly all staff in the UoA, not least Andrejevic-Bullock and Walker
who are early career researchers.
Through the RPA the UoA in 2017 invited applications for research leave, visits, writing breaks,
and other activities, and the Being Human Steering Group scrutinises and approves these.
Successful bids are detailed in section 3 following. The BH Steering Group also offers generous
funds to Professors and Readers for research needs, and encourages bids from staff for funds
from the Faculty QR budget: for conference attendance and other research costs, and for small
periods of remission from teaching to facilitate the completion of specific research outcomes (such
as a monograph, chapter, article or other piece of work). A central research budget of over £90,000
has enabled PGR students to take up PTHP posts to cover REF preparation (especially for early
career researchers). In general, staff have continued to publish widely. Aside from the RA2
research outputs, colleagues who have not submitted in this REF have ongoing research aims,
such as Daly, who has a recent piece in Essays in Criticism, and a monograph at an advanced
stage of writing, and Marshall, who has written six short articles on the etymology of place names
for The Trow (2017).
Our decision-making on submissions is informed by regular dialogue with our external assessor
who provides an extensive and detailed annual report on all aspects of our research work. Our
research strategy, in part through involving principles of equality and diversity, has led to many
staff needing to exclude items from the submission (many of which were highly-rated by the
external assessor): for instance, McLoughlin and Hughes have numerous publications in
prestigious journals, editions or collections.


Postgraduate students
The interviewing, admissions, monitoring, support, and supervision of PGR students are overseen
by the Postgraduate Research Centre, in liaison with the School Postgraduate Research Lead and
devolved to relevant academic staff, while progression is subject to the rigorous scrutiny and
formal approval of proposals by the University Research Degrees Committee. Moodle has taken
over from the online Skills Forge in overseeing the recording of student meetings and progress.
Supervisors undertake mandatory university training, and complete a Joint Annual Progress Report
which identifies training needs and oversees progression. Before beginning PhD research, a PGR
student is expected to have completed recent research degree training at Master’s level (provided
by the two taught modules from the Master of Research programme if not otherwise achieved).
Once underway, PGR students complete an annual Training Needs Analysis Form and Joint
Annual Progress Report in collaboration with their supervisory team. Before a thesis is submitted
for examination, the research project must be formally approved by the School Postgraduate
Research Lead and University Research Degrees Committee.
Opportunity is available for PGR students to gain in-class teaching experience. Conference
attendance is also supported, while full-time PGR students are eligible to apply for research
expenses covered by the University: to a limit of £300 per annum for full-time students and £200
per annum for part-time students. Further funding is accessible through discretionary bids to the
FRC. Research groups can bid for University bursaries to cover graduate fees, and research

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
priority areas will hopefully benefit from studentships (formerly attached to Readers’ and
Professors’ posts) under current University plans.
As Director of Studies, the first supervisor has a key role in supporting PGR students throughout
and liaising with other staff (including the second supervisor as the other personal tutor) at times of
crisis or difficulty. Routinely these staff will address mental and emotional health, and well-being
(and equality, medical, and diversity issues), working with the Senior Tutor and the University’s
disability, dyslexia and learning support service to offer confidential, one-to-one support to
students. Advice includes advisory visits; help with diagnosing specific learning difficulties;
assistance with applying for disabled students’ allowance; and training, consultation, and advice on
matters including disability access, awareness training and students’ specific needs. The
University’s Helpzone provides a portal for support with mental health and wellbeing, directing all
students to our nationally outstanding student services, to free counselling, and/or to advice or
assistance with childcare, or academic writing skills. The Helpzone also provides information on
other University services, such as sport, music, faith and the Student Union.
A key success of the unit, is the taught MA course in Creative & Critical Writing. After recruiting its
first cohort in 2006-07, it graduated 32 students between 2014-17. In its current, more
interdisciplinary, iteration (led by France who took over from Johnstone in 2017), it has recruited
strongly, recently incorporating students from Humber College. Graduating figures for 2017/18 and
18/19 were, respectively, 33 and 31. Currently there are over 40 enrolled students.
Within the UoA, Hughes, Beyer, McLoughlin, Stibbe and Innes have particular experience in
PhD examination, and responsibility for: advising PGR students and supporting them through their
applications; allocating supervisory teams; running seminars and meetings; encouraging students
to participate in conferences, workshops, and networks, both internal and external (and national
and international), relevant to their study. Most full-time staff contribute to PGR teaching and
supervision. PGR students have a minimum of two supervisors, who must have supervised two
successful completions at or above the intended level. Students are able to access a broad range
of academic and vocational training, including all of the professional development activities
provided for academic staff, and some designed specifically for PGR students. Research students
have the same entitlement as academic staff to computing and other resources, also. The
University’s Postgraduate Research Centre annually organises a PGR conference and summer
school, where students present papers and engage in specialist research training. PGR Students
also participate in the English and Research Centres seminar series, and are encouraged to attend
and present papers at relevant (inter)national conferences. The university’s success in supporting
research students is reflected in the university coming 6th nationally in the latest Postgraduate
Research Experience Survey (PRES).

The thriving postgraduate culture of the UoA is further reflected in the number and success of PGR
students, and their career progression. Since 2014 there have been six successful awards at PhD
level in Creative Writing (Varotsis, France, Schlosser, Dicks, Smith, and El Hajj). In the same
period in English Literature there have been six successful PhD submissions (Davie, Rivers,
Griffiths, Cotterell, Latham, and Jones), and one successful MA (Perrins). Beyer was also
second supervisor for a PhD thesis awarded in Theology that involved American writing. There are
currently twelve PhD students in Creative Writing (Andrejevic-Bullock, Bates, Bonson,
Gardiner, Harkness, Hartless, Mortenson, Raven, Santo, Smith, Solomon-Campbell, and
Thompson). In English Language there are five PhD students (Hughes, Pallant, Leto, Russo
and Mancey) and two others (Lewis and Wardle) are currently deferred. Kuchukel and Riley are
M A by research students. In English Literature there are four MA by research (Fraser, Mure,
Middleton, and Rosser) and four PhD (Norrish, Fiebig, Everett, and Jones) students.

A good number of research students, past and present, already have significant publications
and/or academic posts in HEIs as a result of their research work here (Kym Martindale, Jo Gill,
Monika Smialkowska, Jenny Fryman, Judy Kendall, Fiona Peters, Hilary Weeks, Martin
Randall, Jai Clare, Mike Johnstone, Sonia Hendy-Isaac, Angela France, Rowan Middleton,
Duncan Dicks, Nikki Rivers, and James Green). The research culture in Creative Writing has led
to particular success in publication. Angela France, Lesley Ingram, Anna Saunders, Daniel
Sluman, Sonia Hendy-Isaac, Sally Clark, Sharon Larkin (poetry collections) and K. J. Moore

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(novella), Lucy Brownlee (novel) have all published work submitted for their MA dissertations,
while Michael Johnstone has published a novel previously submitted for his PhD.

Equality and Diversity

The promotion of Equality and Diversity has always been an intrinsic and embedded value of the
culture of the UoA, and in this cycle it has benefitted from closer alignment with the University’s
more explicit commitments and larger systems. In 2020 the University of Gloucestershire was
shortlisted for its outstanding contribution in the THES ‘Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Awards’,
and in 2019 the University formally subscribed to the AthenaSwan Charter, adhering to all its
principles in contributing to issues of gender-equality. As one feature of this, the University now
actively seeks to narrow the gender pay gap across all grades through its Gender Pay Gap Action
Plan. More broadly, REF co-ordinators and other staff have benefitted from several mandatory
meetings and training sessions, including training on counteracting Unconscious Bias. Equal
opportunities and diversity training is mandatory for all new staff; recruitment and selection training
is mandatory for all sitting on an interview panel (another initiative in our Gender Pay Gap Action
Plan). Further, the University draws on various groups (Women Professors Group, Women’s
Network, BAME Network and Early Career Network) to support and promote equality of opportunity
for female, early career, and other under-represented staff members.

The UoA’s promotion of Equality and Diversity is also extrinsically connected to the University as a
whole, which oversees and monitors it, though a rigorous, wide-ranging and proactive Equality and
Diversity policy. This advocates and safeguards the welfare and freedom of all students, and
documents proscribed kinds of direct and indirect discrimination in accordance with the 2010
Equality Act. County statistics show that Gloucester (10.9 %) and Cheltenham (5.7%) have higher
proportions of BAME residents that other areas of the county, though these are considerably lower
than the national figure of 14.6%. Within our UoA student recruitment tends to reflect this lower
figure, though our outward-facing participation in local festivals, the media, community groups, and
societies (described elsewhere) can be seen as linked to the recent significant boosting of our
school outreach strategies, in conjunction with the University’s student recruitment team, where the
unit demonstrates its perpetual commitment to enhance our links with, and potential recruitment of,
BAME and other under-represented minorities. The University has achieved Level 3 of ‘Disability
Confident’ which identifies us as a Leader.

Within the UoA, the addressing of issues of race, sexuality, and gender has long been fundamental
to research, and pervasive in teaching. Staff collectively make every effort to contest discrimination
and raise awareness of it through all teaching, and not merely through modules that take it as their
content, such as ‘After Windrush’, ‘Transgressive Writing’, and ‘Writing the Self’. Issues of race,
gender and sexuality are perhaps the central issues of our teaching and writing, and there is an
important emphasis also on specifically LGBT issues. Hughes has in the past written several
pieces on cross-gender imagining in Tennyson’s work, and Beyer, Hitchman, and Knight have
pieces within this REF that reflect this LGBT aspect of the UoA’s work, and external talks by
Hitchman on lesbian writing are detailed in section 4 below. Staff strongly support LGBT students
and the student union’s growing promotion of gender and sexuality issues through the LGBT
society.

In recognition of child-care commitments, and the need for more sustainable commuting, the
University begins classes from 9.15. Within recent years, the onset of full fees and the loss of
maintenance grants has produced a decline in the number of mature students at PGR and UG
levels. This diminishment in opportunities for lifelong learning is a situation inimical to the values
and vision of the unit, as well as to the University’s own equality and diversity, and widening
access, principles. With these things in mind, it is a key ambition to produce an impact study for the
next REF around the shared dissemination of research work into the community through a menu of
continuing education courses which will recruit from Gloucestershire residents primarily, and be
creative, environmental, and critical in orientation. The manifold benefits of these courses will
include addressing issues of equality, diversity and access, and strengthening community links, as
well as providing pathways for recruitment of mature UG and PG students.
                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Issues of equality and safeguarding have also been uppermost during the 2020 Covid-19
pandemic. Well in advance of the national lockdown, the University took the initiative of
recommending that shielding and vulnerable staff and students should work exclusively from
home, and support to do so was swiftly made available online. This flexibility and decisiveness of
provision, in light of the changing situation and the needs of all staff and students (balancing safety
and the desirability of face to face teaching where possible), has marked course delivery
throughout the period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

There have been a number of successful internal bids for research leave through the Being Human
Research Priority Area, resulting already in one monograph (Hughes), with two other monograph
(or book) publications in the pipeline from 2018 (Beyer and Johnstone). In 2018-19 Hitchman
and Knight took leave and in 2019-20 Daly did, for approved and pending publication projects. An
inter-disciplinary project entitled ‘Biosemiotics; meaning beyond the human world’ led by Saguaro,
also involving McLoughlin and Stibbe along with colleagues in Fine Art, was awarded £10,000 of
internal research funding through the RPA in 2016.

Staff have also successfully applied for internal QR REF funding to the Research Committee,
which encourages bids for Conference attendance and other research costs (such as indexing,
travel, book illustrations, and research trips), and for small periods of remission (as described
above). Strategically, this currently thriving culture of internal support and bidding is
developmentally linked to the future expansion of our existing successful external applications for
research funding. Along with the expansion of research student numbers, this promotion of a more
pervasive bidding culture is a key strategic future research aim of the University and the school,
through the RC and UoA co-ordinators. Such research bids will continue to draw on support from
the University’s funding office.
Current successes in external funding include:
   •   Beyer as a co-investigator on an AHRC and ESRC funded PaCCS Interdisciplinary
       Innovation Award research project into media and fictional Representation of Transnational
       Human Trafficking, which brought in £17,986 to this University as well as £7500 in ESRC
       money to cover the cost of Open Access book publication.
   •   Keevil received two bursaries, the Stiwdio Maelor Residency (2016) and a Literature Wales
       Writer’s Bursary (2015) to work on his new novel ‘Incomers’. He also won the Writer’s Trust
       of Canada Journey Prize in 2014 ($10,000) and the Helénè James Short Story Contest
       2014 and the Wales Book of the Year People’s Prize. He received short-listings for the
       Wales Book of the Year 2014 and 2015, and was long-listed in several others including The
       Frank O’Connor Short Story Award and The London Short Story Prize.
   •   Stibbe was awarded £4600 for a University of Glos. e-learning project (2017), £2000 for an
       impact case study, and was a member of a team in 2015 that completed a £50000 project.
       Also he was awarded £8,100 for an innovative pedagogy project from the Higher Education
       Academy (2015), and £3500 for a research project on Being Human (2014).
   •   Andrejevic-Bullock received funding from Arts Council England funding to write and
       produce a play at the Stroud Theatre Festival, and from the Janet Trotter fund for a
       collaborative event with Theatre503 in London for students.
   •   Braña-Straw is the Lead of ‘Forest Dialect: Linguistic Landscape’ a Heritage Lottery Fund
       project working with local community and statutory organisations to research the dialect
       heritage of the Forest of Dean, and offer volunteering and training opportunities. Planned
       outputs include educational resources, online and social media engagement and academic
       outputs. Funding for the development phase (1July 2015-31 October 2016) was £1,242,
       and for the delivery phase (1 Aug 2017-31 July 2020) was £16,650.


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   France, a 2011 winner of the Lightship Press International Poetry Prize was awarded an
       Arts Council England grant (£3,200) in 2017, funding 10 nationwide dates.
   •   Walker’s Arts Council Grant (see above) led to some monologues with director Kirstie
       Davis, and work towards a commission from the Everyman Theatre for a potential large-
       scale production in 2022.
   •   The University’s Cyder Press imprint, founded by Widdowson and now overseen by
       Hughes, continues to generate income from its various facsimile and other editions,
       including U. A. Fanthorpe, Homing In: Selected Local Poems and John Nash, Love Letters
       from the Front (to Christine Kühlenthal), and from sales of the Laurie Lee lectures.

Infrastructure and Facilities

The University library for Humanities is housed in the same block at Francis Close Hall campus as
staff offices, and is normally open 24/7. The book and journal stock has been built up consistently
over many years. Purchases of new books and e-books, and subscriptions to journals, continue
annually as requested through the subject community. In recent years journal access for our areas
has moved to extensive online resources through:

   •   Humanities International Complete
   •   JSTOR Arts and Sciences
   •   Project Muse Humanities Collection (since Feb 2018)
   •   British Periodicals Collections
   •   Oxford Academic Journals Online, including Historical Research
   •   Project Muse Humanities Collection
   •   Sage Premier Collection for Arts and Humanities
   •   Times Online

The library also possesses online access to a range of journals through general and sociology
packages, of interest to Lit/CW. For example:

   •   SocINDEX
   •   Science Direct

Recent subscriptions include two key, cross-disciplinary, publisher packages:

   •   Wiley Core Collection including 370+ titles (Feb 2018)
   •   SAGE Premier Collection 1000+ titles (May 2020)

Since 2017 the library has used Online Computer Library Centre as its management system
incorporating a Library Discovery tool that searches worldwide journal article and book indexes,
and links directly to full texts.

In addition to the journal packages, since 2016 the library also has access to:

   •   Digital Theatre Plus
   •   JISC Historical Texts which provides primary source material, including access to Early
       English Books online (EEBO), Eighteenth Century Collections Online (ECCO) and British
       Library 19th Century Collection (we previously subscribed just to EEBO)
   •   Lexis Library, with access to historical law reports and legal cases
   •   Archival Sound Recordings, linking to oral history and radio and sound recording history

Academic staff and researchers have access to a generous allocation of books, e-books and to
Interlibrary loans (50 per academic year) and since membership of OCLC they are able quickly to
source ILLs from a far wider range of institutions.


                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

The research work and impact of the UoA are actively embedded in a number of external
communities – local, social, and academic – to bring continuing and reciprocal benefit, and
demonstrate the themes of outreach and individual expression that have been key to the ethos and
development of the unit.


External Research Roles and Recognition: National and International
The high external standing of the unit is evident in the number of staff who have held external
examinerships at other Universities: Johnstone, Loughborough; McLoughlin (Hull, Kent, and
Southampton), and Stibbe (MA, Plymouth), Beyer (MA in Creative and Critical Writing, Suffolk).
Staff too have been active in externally examining PhDs: McLoughlin (Deakin University,
Australia, and the South Australia, Central Queensland, Sheffield, and Winchester, as well as
internally) Beyer (Central Queensland and Adelaide) Hughes (Hull) and Moore (Hertfordshire),
while Saguaro and Stibbe each examined several PhDs internally.

More specifically, the unit’s reputation in connecting pedagogy and research is evidenced by
McLoughlin and Stibbe who are both National Teaching Fellows, and have contributed significant
publications on pedagogy. Five other members of the team - Johnstone (2013), Weeks (2016),
Middleton (2019), Knight (2020) and France (2020) - are also University Teaching Fellows, as
was Tyler (2015) before leaving. McLoughlin is a Fellow of RSA and the HEA, a member of the
International Association of Literary Semantics, the Poetics and Linguistics Association, and the
International Centre for Creative Writing Research, and a former member of the AHRC Peer
Review College. Stibbe founded the Language and Ecology Research Forum, and has written
extensively on Language and Ecology (in longer academic pieces as well as in shorter ones for
forums including the English Subject Centre and the LLAS Centre). He gained a University
excellence award (2010), and was highly commended in the Green Gown Awards for his
contribution to Education for Sustainable Development.
Staff have also significantly contributed in other ways to the national and international research
culture, through this period:

   •   Beyer is a member of the editorial board of American, British and Canadian Studies, The
       New Americanist, and Feminist Encounters, a guest editor for Feminist Encounters, and a
       member of the Steering Group of the Crime Studies Network. She has also peer-reviewed
       several book proposals and journal articles, and is Editor in Chief for Palgrave’s ‘Teaching
       the New English’ series on HE pedagogy.

   •   France was one of twelve regional poets selected by the BB/c for National Poetry Day
       2018.

   •   Hitchman was awarded one of two national Creative Writing PhD bursaries in 2014, by
       AHRC SWW-DTP. The BBC re-ran their serialisation of her first novel, Petit Mort in 2018.

   •   Hughes has been a peer reviewer and reader for Oxford University Press, Edinburgh
       University Press, Palgrave, Mosaic, Keywords, English, The Hardy Review, European
       Romantic Review, The Explicator, Popular Music History, Branch@RaVoN,The Journal of
       American Culture, Nineteenth-Century Music Review, and Deleuze and Guattari Studies.
       He has also reviewed for the The Bridge, and The Journal of British Culture.

   •   During 2014/15, Keevil was invited to read at Word Factory TV and various festivals,
       including Hay and Hay Winter, Penarth, Monmouth, Laugharne, Penfro Book, and Dinefwr
       Literature.

   •   Knight has been invited to read her work at Florence University of the Arts, and the
       Universities of Illinois, Wisconsin (Women’s History Month Reading), Harlaxton College,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       USA, Bath Spa, and Boneyard Arts Festival, Illinois. She has also given workshops and
       papers at the Burlesque Press’ Hands-On Literary Festival, New Orleans.

   •   Johnstone has spoken about his novels and writing to the Guardian, the local press, and
       on BBC Radio Manchester and Gloucestershire, and at public talks, festivals and readings
       in Hull, Abergavenny and Cheltenham, as well as at a residential course at the National
       Writing Centre of Wales, and the National Association of Writers in Education conference in
       Stratford. He also runs a website and YouTube Channel on writing craft
       (OnlineWritingTips.com), which is an open access resource of prose writing advice
       featuring video tips, articles, and interviews with authors and literary agents. The website
       has 2336 followers (including social media subscribers) and it has received 7500 unique
       visitors since it launched in January 2015. The YouTube channel has 156 subscribers and
       the videos have been watched 11,785 times.

   •   McLoughlin serves as a member of the editorial board for New Writing: The International
       Journal for the Practice and Theory of Creative Writing and Axon: Creative Explorations. He
       also served as editor of Iota poetry journal until 2015. He has reviewed for Palgrave and
       Continuum, and the Journal of Literary Semantics, Language and Literature, and Narrative
       Enquiry.

   •   Stibbe has also submitted consultation papers commissioned by Greenpeace in 2017 into
       the meat and dairy industries and ‘framing campaign consultation’. He has contributed
       significantly to the development of eco-linguistics as a mainstream discipline within
       Linguistics. His formation and convening of the International Eco-linguistics Association
       (now including 750 members and numerous publications) means his impact also remains a
       possibility for a case study. His free online MOOC course in Eco-linguistics, The Stories we
       Live By has over 1500 participants, and his environmental education website, Living in the
       Weather-World (with materials for teachers) has been translated into four languages.


   •   Walker is a member of the Writer’s Guild of Great Britain, and was a member of the jury for
       the Children’s TV Award, and co-wrote lyrics for a musical, Atmosphere, which debuted at
       the Iris Theatre, Covent Garden, with music by Michael Childs (2018). She has also written
       a libretto for A Likely Story (music by Michael Betteridge), and a community opera libretto,
       ‘Across the Sky’, that was shortlisted for the 2020 Royal Philharmonic Society impact
       award. A film about the making of ‘Across the Sky’ is available on the repository.

External Dissemination of Research: Local and Social

   •   France has been appointed Cheltenham Poet in Residence. She was invited to discuss her
       research work at St Hilda’s, Oxford, and to collaborate with an academic from the
       University of Budapest in developing research on the reception of women’s poetry. She has
       given readings at various festivals: Cheltenham Literature and Poetry, Albion Beatnik
       (Oxford), Ledbury Poetry and Bluegate Poets. She has also co-delivered workshops (with
       Jo Bell) at Nottingham Writers’ Centre and Ledbury Poetry Festival. Her multi-media show
       around her collection ‘The Hill’ (2017) involved a 10 date tour funded by the Arts Council. In
       2018-19 she gave further performances at Falmouth, Ludlow, Tetbury, Torbay and
       Birmingham City University. There is a podcast, as well as film of the show
       (https://vimero.com/234425113), and she been invited to present her research on the
       project to the Local History Society.

   •   Hitchman’s public engagements include Creative Writing workshops at School and the
       Bristol Hippodrome, presentations at the Bath Royal Literary Society and Bristol LGBT
       History month, talks on lesbian historical fiction for Lloyds Bank LGBTQ+ staff conference
       (2018) and a talk on Radio Ujima in Bristol. She has judged the Bath Spa Flash Fiction
       competition (2017) and co-judged the Women’s Institute annual fiction competition (2018)
       and

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Hughes has spoken at the Gloucestershire Historical Society in 2020.

   •   Middleton read his poetry at the Cheltenham Poetry Festival in 2015, the Gloucester
       Poetry Festival in 2019, and the Stroud Wool and Water Festival in 2019. He has given
       invited lectures for the Friends of the Dymock Poets (2019).

   •   McLoughlin has been invited to read his work at the Cheltenham and Swindon Poetry
       Festivals.

   •   Walker is a committee member for the Everyman Theatre Association, Cheltenham. Her
       work will be performed in July 2019 in Cheltenham Town Hall, by a professional orchestra
       and singers (including Dame Sarah Connolly). She also runs libretto writing workshops in
       several local schools (2018). She is Writer in Residence for the inclusive APT Theatre and
       Dance Company, working with a disabled writer on his play BLISS, for performance by the
       group. She has led Creative Writing Groups for BBC Birmingham and The Theatre,
       Chipping Norton, given talks at Cheltenham Writer’s Circle (2018), and contributed to
       Wychwood, Hawkesbury Upton, and Cheltenham literature festivals (2018).

Contribution to the External Research Base
The external contribution of members of the UoA to the wider research community and base within
this census period is evident in their extensive and significant contributions to conferences and
other institutions. Place references below are to Universities unless specified otherwise:

   •   Andrejevic-Bullock has given papers at Glasgow and Bath Spa (twice).
   •   Beyer has delivered papers (many now published) since 2014 at: St Mary's Twickenham,
       South Wales, NUI Galway, Bath Spa (twice), Edinburgh, Sheffield Hallam, Essex, UCL,
       Birkbeck, Leeds Beckett, Southampton Solent, Trinity Coll. Dublin, Sheffield, and the
       Institute of Historical research, London and the English and Media Centre (London).

   •   Dicks has given a conference paper at National Assoc. of Writers in Education (2019).

   •   Hitchman has delivered papers or contributed to panel discussions at Bath Spa, Kent and
       Sussex, and organised REMORA, a Creative Practice Research Symposium at Bath Spa.
       She has given papers at the University of Gloucestershire Being Human conference (2018)
       and the Great Writing ’18 conference.

   •   Hughes has given a guest lecture at Wolverhampton (2015). In 2019 he lectured at the
       International Bob Dylan conference at the University of Tulsa (attended by 500 delegates).
       An interview and his presentation, exploring Dylan’s friendship with Pauline Bogy, figure as
       a key segment in Godfrey Jordan’s film of the Tulsa conference which will be forthcoming,
       subject to scrutiny from Dylan’s management.

   •   Innes was invited to participate at the Shakespeare bulletin event, University of Exeter,
       2017. Attended British Shakespeare Association Conference (Swansea University, 2019)
       and Creative Collaboration Conference (Chichester Festival Theatre, 2019).

   •   McLoughlin gave a keynote addresses to the inaugural Powerful Literary Fiction
       conference (Brighton 2019) a joint keynote at the Great Writing Conference at Imperial
       College London (2015). He has given invited scholarly papers at the following conferences:
       Poetics And Linguistics Association, (Maribor, 2014; Kent, 2015; Cagliari, 2016; West
       Chester, 2017; Birmingham 2018; Liverpool 2019); International Association of Literary
       Semantics (Kent 2014, Huddersfield, 2017); Great Writing (Imperial College London, 2014,
       2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, 2019); Cognitive Futures in the Humanities Conferences (Durham,
       2014; and Oxford, 2015; Kent 2018),
   •   Middleton has given conference or seminar papers at Imperial College (2019), the
       Cumbria and Constantine the Philosopher, Slovakia (2018), Alanus (2014 and 15),

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Falmouth (2014), Gloucestershire (2014) and at Great Writing: the International Creative
       Writing conference in London, and has lectured at the University of Constantine the
       Philosopher in Slovakia (2019).

   •   Moore gave a presentation at Imperial College London (2018).

   •   Rivers in collaboration with Dave Webster has given papers contesting the notion of
       ‘resilience’ and the ‘growth mindset’ within current educational thinking, at Brighton and
       Gloucestershire (2017), and the University of Law in London (2018).

   •   Saguaro has given conference papers at Alanus, Copenhagen, Cambridge and Stavanger
       Universities (2015).

   •   Stibbe has contributed to conferences at the following Universities: Odense and Aalborg
       (2019), Warwick, Beijing, Bath Spa (2017); Catania, the CHSS Ottawa (2015), Cambridge,
       Lancaster, and Aston (2015), and Amsterdam and Lancaster (2014). He has given
       keynotes for the International Conference on Eco-linguistics at Denmark, and (filmed) in
       China (twice). He has also given keynote speeches for the Higher Education Academy
       English Subject Centre, the Art Design and Media Subject Centre, the Institution for
       Environmental Scientists, the History, Classics and Archaeology Subject Centre and the
       Language Linguistics and Area Studies Subject Centre.




                                                                                             Page 14
