Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Cumbria

 Unit of Assessment: UOA17: Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit context and structure

 Research within this Unit of Assessment (UoA) has high significance for the development of the
 University of Cumbria (UoC). Created on 1 August 2007, UoC has headquarters in Carlisle, major
 campuses in Ambleside, Lancaster and London, and a formal presence in Workington and Barrow.
 Formed with active support from public and private sector partners throughout Cumbria and North
 Lancashire, it was regarded as a key instrument in the development of the local economy and its
 skills base. This informs this Unit’s vision to: undertake research that contributes to creation
 of sustainable economies, regions, places and organisations, for the benefit of society.

 In its first REF submission in 2014, research strengths in Business and Management Studies
 focused on two very specific and distinct areas that had particular resonance with this vision.

        The first of these has involved research on regional development conducted within the
         Centre for Regional Economic Development (CRED). CRED was first created in 1996
         within one of our legacy institutions and has been involved for over 20 years in conducting
         applied research and consultancy on regional and local development.

        Secondly, UoC made a strategic decision to develop expertise in leadership and
         sustainability. The Institute for Leadership and Sustainability (IFLAS) was created in
         2012 and established itself as a global hub of inquiry, teaching and dialogue on enabling
         the transition to fairer and more sustainable societies. Based in Ambleside, IFLAS activities
         include conducting action research and advocacy on processes of social, economic and
         organisational transformation.

 Leading researchers in these two entities (CRED and IFLAS) formed the basis of UoCs REF 2014
 submission in Business and Management Studies with 12% assessed at 4* and, and 85% at 2*
 and above, across 2.8FTE.

 In August 2019, the creation of an ‘Institute of Business, Industry and Leadership’ (IBIL)
 reflected signficant portfolio expansion into Project Management, Leadership and Management,
 Engineering and Technology Management. CRED and IFLAS (the latter rebranded as the Initiative
 for Leadership and Sustainability) continued to operate within IBIL. An important benefit of portfolio
 expansion has been a broadening of the research base through new staff appointments and staff
 development. This has enabled this Unit to develop additional research themes in support of its
 vision, including:

        Project and Engineering Management (PEM)
        Business Management (BM)
        Sustainable Tourism (ST)

 Researchers named in bold are Category A staff with ‘significant responsibility for research’ (SRR,
 see UoC REF2021 Code of Practice, 2.10) and those in bold and italics are individuals who left
 UoC during the REF assessment period. Individuals in plain are non-submitted UoC staff –
 including staff with ‘emerging responsibility for research’ (ERR, see UoC REF2021 Code of
 Practice, 2.12), Research Assistants (RA), Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) and
 honorary/retired staff. Names followed by a number (e.g. Mulvey1) cross reference to REF2
 outputs.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Fig 1. demonstrates submitted research themes, and the focus of this Unit’s Category A/SRR staff,
 former staff as well as emerging researchers, and visiting staff.




 1.2 Expanding and broadening the research base

 The research strategy since 2014 has focussed on broadening the research base within business
 and management. Opportunities to achieve this have been associated with curriculum
 development that has arisen (in many instances) from identified regional business needs,
 enhanced through our strong relationships with industrial and other stakeholders in the region and
 beyond, and aligned to our vision. This has contributed to the growth in research themes outlined
 in Fig 1. Evidence of this strategy’s effectiveness includes:

        Growth of the PEM theme, linked to institutional delivery of the Project Academy for
         Sellafield, and an increasing number of industrial partners where UoC is delivering
         programmes in Project Management (Section 3.2).
        Establishment of the ST theme as a result of an institutional decision to offer a new
         curriculum in tourism and the visitor economy.
        Consolidation of other business related activity into the BM theme.

 The strategic approach to build research capacity around regional business need has culminated
 in the launch of the IBIL Research Strategy (2020) (see 1.5) which seeks to maximise synergies
 between new fields of research, this Unit’s vision, and IBIL’s mission to meet the need for higher
 level skills development in Cumbria. This approach means that there is a focus on multi-
 disciplinary applied research that draws insight and understanding of the region’s economy from
 wider engagement with regional partners.


                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Performance against REF2014 Objectives

 SO1: Research on the analyses of regional innovation systems and strategies, and local
 knowledge networks (CRED).

 Across the assessment period, CRED has been developed to focus on three major research
 strands, working with local knowledge networks:

       Identification of “innovation divides” at various geographical scales, including EU
        commissioned research on divides across EU member states and how use of certain
        innovation metrics is biased against rural areas with a high proportion of small and micro-
        businesses (such as Cumbria).
       Reducing unevenness in economic and innovation performance, working with
        Newcastle and Northumbria Universities on issues facing the regions straddling the Anglo-
        Scottish Border, challenging assumptions surrounding the significance of agglomeration
        economies and recognising the importance of balanced spatial development for
        sustainability (with elevated significance via Scottish independence and Brexit).
       The role of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in local knowledge networks
        and local supply chains, including an investigation on the impact of regulatory change
        on SME innovation and growth. This work concluded that while regulations can impose
        costs on small companies, some business owners make effective use of regulatory
        knowledge to gain competitive advantage, illustrated by several case studies.

 SO2: Capitalising on new facilities to support research activity, primarily through the
 redevelopment of the Ambleside Campus and the new Business Interaction Centre in Carlisle

    •   Ambleside campus - Created “in and for Cumbria”, UoC’s development has been guided
        by its regional mission. A key consideration in meeting this challenge has been to find ways
        to maximise the benefits of distributed campuses; to identify their individual contributions
        to the distinctiveness of places; and to direct local resources to enhance research. The
        Ambleside campus in the Lake District National Park offers unique opportunities for
        research, curriculum development and public outreach related to the landscape, uplands
        environments, arts and culture, sustainable leadership and outdoor activities. The campus
        was successfully redeveloped across the assessment period (Section 3.5) and hosted a
        number of public facing events (Section 4.3).
    •   Carlisle Business Interaction Centre – UoC’s campuses in Carlisle (Cumbria’s largest
        settlement) share this city location with many of the County’s public and private sector
        organisations. In 2014, an opportunity to further embed UoC locally was created by the
        redevelopment of the Paternoster Row site adjacent to Carlisle Cathedral. The Carlisle
        Business Interaction Centre (CBIC) operated on this site from 2014-2018 and facilitated
        interactions between CRED staff, enterprise professional services, and SME tenants. This
        enabled CRED researchers to discuss research ideas informally with enterprise staff, local
        business owners and other stakeholders (Section 3.5). The facility was also used to
        engage with the public (Section 4.3).

 SO3: The development of additional research themes, based on the work of new appointees and
 relating to international business, sustainable tourism and entrepreneurship

 As noted in Section 1.1, a key part of the research strategy since 2014 has been to continue
 existing themes of regional development (CRED) and sustainability leadership (IFLAS), but to
 diversify the research base. Appointments have been made in support of this Unit’s new research
 themes, including Anthonisz (ST), Gale, Besaiso and Lawlor-Wright (PEM) and Ozuem,
 Mouratidou and Lawson (BM). As a consequence of this approach, the number of researchers
 submitted for REF has risen from 2.8FTE in 2014 to 8.25 FTE.



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 SO4: Strategically target collaboration with colleagues in other disciplines, specifically within the
 environmental sciences to drive an interdisciplinary and value-added approach to sustainability
 research

 We have strategically developed interdisciplinary working within UoC to add value to sustainability
 research. IFLAS created a focus for research on sustainable development, but it was recognised
 that sustainability had application across many disciplines. In this regard, collaboration in hosting
 conferences and festivals has had significant benefit in encouraging cross-institution working and
 providing opportunities to build a research community in Cumbria that engages effectively with
 researchers and other experts internationally. Five collaborative research and engagement
 events were delivered across the assessment period, bringing together expertise in sustainability
 as applied to regional development, healthcare delivery, environmental management and
 business policy and practice (Section 4.2).

 1.4 Research Strategy 2021-2024

 As noted in Section 1, the forward Unit strategy is situated within the newly-formed Institute of
 Business, Industry and Leadership (IBIL). Our research will continue to build on this Unit’s vision
 to undertake research that contributes to creation of sustainable economies, regions,
 places and organisations, for the benefit of society. It additionally reflects UoC’s anchor role
 within Cumbria, and supports delivery of UoC’s Strategic Plans (REF5a, 2). The IBIL Research
 Strategy 2020 identifies the following priorities 2021-24:

 Research Environment - all academic staff and PGRs contribute to a vibrant critical academic
 environment where research is mainstream to our culture. Through external partner engagement,
 research will develop a strongly applied character with academic outputs originating from
 externally-funded research, consultancy and knowledge exchange (KE). Research will have a
 positive local and regional impact, with relevance for policy and practice. KPIs:
    •   Increase proportion of Category A staff submitted to future REF’s
    •   Increase income returned to Higher Education Business & Community Interaction Survey
    •   Increase external and internal interaction with institutional repository
    •   Develop four impact case studies

 Develop the PGR Portfolio - experimental, investigative and practice based doctoral work will be
 fundamental, recognising how a vibrant PGR community sustains research culture. As detailed in
 Section 2.2, there has been Unit PGR growth and the intention is to increase this. KPIs:
       Improved metrics via the Postgraduate Research Evaluation Survey
       Increase in number of PGRs
       Increase in fee income from PGRs

 Research Capability, Capacity and Sustainability - IBIL will offer academic leadership and
 prioritise research, consultancy and KE relevant to academic communities and interests of
 business, public and third sectors. KPI’s:
       Increase in doctoral supervision capacity and the proportion of staff supervisions
       Increase in collaborative research income
       Increase in research outputs

 Collaboration, Partnership and External Engagement - Strategic partnerships with our key
 employer stakeholders and universities, including Local Enterprise Partnership’s, Lancaster
 University, National Nuclear Laboratory, Rolls-Royce, BAE Systems, Sellafield Limited, NHS
 Trusts, Lake District National Park and Carlisle Partnerships, Constabularies, and County, District
 and Borough Councils. KPIs:
    •   Increase in income from collaborative and employer partnerships
    •   Increase in number of stakeholder events, media activity, conferences and workshops
    •   Increase in applied research and consultancy bidding, participation and income

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Enabling Impact

 Understanding impact is fundamental to the way in which research is conducted within this UOA.
 The process of research commonly involves collaboration with research users sometimes (though
 not always) as clients. As a consequence, the research process is highly interactive and non-
 linear. Impact is therefore not viewed as a “follow-on” process but it is embedded in the research
 process itself. In fact, impact often occurs before research is completed and certainly before it is
 published. This principle applies to research conducted within both CRED and IFLAS and our
 research strategy seek to extend this way of working to this Unit’s new research themes.
 Throughout the Unit, the high degree of user engagement (Section 4) in our research practice has
 generated impacts extending beyond the academy in three ways:

       Collaborative frameworks for research – providing opportunities to work with research
        users to embed impact in communities, organisations and environments. Research funding
        has facilitated collaborations with international bodies including the EU, the European
        Regional Development Fund and UNESCO. Peck and Mulvey’s report for the Association
        of North East Councils and the Institute for Local Governance underpinned the
        development of the Borderlands Inclusive Growth deal (Impact1702). Gale was
        commissioned in 2019 by the Health and Safety Executive (value £19,440, Lloyds Register
        Foundation) to design and undertake a study on loss of containment of non-radiological
        materials in the nuclear sector. This was the subject of a reserve ICS for this UOA.
       Applying research in practice – enabling staff to contribute research expertise through
        advisory committees, working groups and other public bodies. Bendell’s sabbatical on
        ‘Deep Adaptation’ (the implications of inevitable near-term social collapse due to climate
        change) resulted in a 2018 IFLAS occasional paper being published. This has been
        downloaded over one million times, with coverage in Bloomberg and New York Magazine.
        Bendell was subsequently invited (May 2019) to deliver a workshop on Deep Adaptation
        at the DG Connect (EU Commission). The research inspired some leaders in the Extinction
        Rebellion movement and was the subject of a reserve ICS.
       Reaching and engaging with diverse communities and publics – as a fundamental
        aspect of the Unit’s research, many of our projects are tied closely
        to authentic engagement, outreach and end-users. Bendell’s work on alternative
        currencies (Impact1701) has received institutional-support with UoC becoming the first
        public university to accept Bitcoin for fees, with Bendell further supported to offer a free
        online course at Masters-level - the Money and Society Massive Online Open Course.

 1.6 Supporting Interdisciplinary Research
 Interdisciplinary research underpins our research philosophy and this is particularly apparent
 through the work of IFLAS (1.4, SO4 and Section 4). The Research Strategy for IBIL clearly
 articulates the importance of cross-disciplinary working and collaborative working. The current
 research supervisory teams are designed to be cross-disciplinary, where possible. A spirit of
 interdisciplinarity is also prevalent through the current postgraduate supervision provided by
 academics at UoC, with UOA17 staff supervising with colleagues from four different UOAs.

 1.7 Supporting an Open Access Environment
 The Unit is supported by central resources for open access publishing (REF5a, 4.3), with a number
 of outputs produced by CRED and IFLAS made freely available. Bendell’s paper on ‘Deep
 Adaption’, and other occasional papers can be downloaded directly from the IFLAS blogsite as
 well as the institutional repository whilst a number of CRED reports are available directly online
 (including at Welsh Government, European Commission, and UK Government). Staff within the
 institution must submit research into peer reviewed journals that have at least green level of open
 access. The University’s policy that requires staff to submit research to open access journals is
 fully consistent with the strongly collaborative and applied nature of our research. Colleagues
 within the Research and Knowledge Exchange Office and those working within the institutional
 repository support staff with decisions about journals to ensure open access options.

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.8 Supporting Research Integrity
 This Unit adheres to centralised policies regards integrity (REF5a, 3.1) and Unit staff contribute to
 a research culture which upholds the concordat principles. For example, Hurford served on the
 UoC Research Ethics Panel and five of this Unit’s staff (and one PGR) have delivered sessions
 as part of the Graduate School organised ‘Research Skills Development Programme’, and
 ‘Summer School’.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 This Unit’s overall staffing strategy is to:

 2.1.1 Be strategic in recruiting staff with research and impact experience and interest that enable
 the further development of Unit research themes.

 This Unit evidences a successful recruitment and promotion strategy. In ST, senior appointments
 included Anthonisz as Principal Lecturer in Tourism from University of Northampton (2018), and
 Heap as Senior Lecturer in Tourism (2019). The curriculum development in tourism is also
 supported by the recent appointment of a Professor of Practice (Stephens - former Director of
 Cumbria Tourism).

 In PEM, a number of appointments have been made possible by collaboration with industrial
 employers to create the UoC Project Academy (Section 3.2) that delivers employer-led training
 and professional development in project management and related disciplines. This includes
 Lawlor-Wright as Principal Lecturer in Project Management, Gale as Director of Industrial
 Strategy (both from Manchester University), and Besaiso as Lecturer in Project Management from
 Liverpool John Moores University (2018).

 In IFLAS, Murphy was recruited from private consultancy with the United Nations system as
 IFLAS Deputy Director, and in BM, UoC recruited Ozuem as Lecturer in Marketing, Mouratidou
 as Lecturer in HR Management from Manchester Metropolitan University (2016), and Lawson
 (2015) as Senior Lecturer in Coaching and Leadership from Sunderland University.

 2.1.2 Support staff progression and promotion, linked to excellent research and impact, to further
 leverage researcher development.

 Researcher development in this Unit is enhanced by recent appointments, as well as retained
 staff. All submitted staff are on permanent contracts, except Ozuem who has a fixed term contract
 until January 2022, though the expectation is that his role be made permanent across 2021. Unit
 staff have representation on UoC’s Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee and the
 continuity (and in many cases promotion) since 2014 of Peck, Bendell and Mulvey demonstrates
 the success of this unit’s support for staff development and retention. Mulvey (submitted in 2014)
 was promoted to Senior Research Fellow in 2019. This Unit has increased REF-eligible outputs
 by 237% across the assessment period.

 Hurford was previously the Programme Lead for the Robert Kennedy College MBA and left the
 UOA across the assessment period to become the Director of the Mount Everest Foundation and
 Lawlor-Wright left UoC to become Head of Design and Engineering at Staffordshire University.
 Jackson left CRED to start a new business.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.3 Offer a range of research development activities throughout the year and open to all, to
 support staff early in their research careers.

 Early and mid-career researchers are effectively integrated into the research culture. Mouratidou
 received internal funding to publish Mouratidou1 and Besaiso received an ECR grant of £2,500
 to support research on Decision-Making in International Construction Arbitration resulting in
 Besaiso1. Five supervisors of IBIL-aligned PGRs are currently classed as ECR’s against the UoC
 definition (achieving PhD in last three years), and UoC provides opportunities for staff to acquire
 supervision skills as third supervisor and through attending training events. Six staff in IBIL are
 being supported to achieve their PhD.

 2.1.4 Utilise the Performance and Professional Development Review (PPDR) process, Mentorship
 Research Pathways, Research and Scholarly Leave (RASA) and Research Plans to encourage
 all staff to engage in research.

 Staff within this unit are encouraged to sign up to research mentorship, organised centrally, and
 another mechanism for ensuring compliance to the Concordat principles (REF5a 3.1). Five unit
 staff are research mentors. A centralised PPDR system identifies opportunities for training and
 development, and staff are supported to consider applying for Professorial title at the bi-annual
 round, with Lawlor-Wright supported to do so, becoming Associate Professor in 2019.

 The research pathways (UoC Code of Practice section 2.10) have enabled RASA plans to be
 submitted and appraised by the Institute Director. The RASA time available, will be allocated and
 managed to ensure tangible research benefits to the individual staff and their groups. Research
 leave and sabbatical leave are granted based on peer reviewed research business cases and
 measurable, verifiable objectives that align with the strategic aims and objectives of the Institute
 and the individual’s career development needs.

 2.1.5 Utilise a network of visiting and honorary staff, and Professors of Practice to embed work
 with practice and industry.

 IBIL utilises a network of Research Fellows, Honorary Professors, Researchers and Professors of
 Practice to facilitate academic and business exchanges. Prof Sir Cary Cooper CBE (Professor of
 Practice) has delivered talks as part of UoC’s Leadership Development programme, which
 includes emerging researchers. Richard Little (Co-Founder of Impact International) has delivered
 postgraduate teaching (and authored) with Bendell and Murphy. Prof David Gibson is a
 Professor of Practice in Entrepreneurship and Jackie Arnold MBE is a former Director of BAE,
 previously served on the Vice-Chancellor’s Executive, and has helped to facilitate development of
 the Barrow University campus (REF5a, 1).

 2.2 Research Students

 2.2.1 High quality PGR training and supervision has developed and integrated a pipeline of active
 researchers.
 In 2014, 6 PGRs were aligned to UOA17, compared to 21 in 2020 (July 2020), and this growing
 community has been integrated into the Unit’s research culture by providing opportunities to
 present research, acquire external funding, to teach, and engage directly with stakeholders
 alongside supervisors and other academic staff members. UoC has funded two PGR studentships
 and two fees only bursaries, with one PhD funded by the European Regional Development Fund.

 Across the IFLAS and PEM themes, PGRs have been supported to deliver seminars to the Peru
 government; British Medical Council regional group; Going Global, Berlin; India’s State Higher
 Education Council and at Universities including Lancaster, Bristol UWE, Edinburgh, and SWPS
 Warsaw. Chaffer also led a delegation (with Gale) to Uzbekistan to deliver sessions on enterprise
 and entrepreneurship to 320 university vice-rectors responsible for scientific work, researchers
 and postgraduate students from 65 universities. This included round table discussions with Deputy
 Prime Minister Uzbekistan and senior HE leaders on Feminised Leadership.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In IFLAS and in relation to currency innovations, PGR Bindewald (Bendell as supervisor) co-
 hosted conference sessions at the Community Currencies in Action Research Symposium, and at
 the UN Research Institute for Social Development. This included reporting to an Interagency
 Taskforce on amending the Accord on Financing for Development, co-drafted by Bendell.
 Bindewald represented IFLAS at the annual SIBOS conference of the payment systems industry,
 co-taught the ‘Certificate of Achievement in Sustainable Exchange’ (one of the first university
 certified course on community currency) and supported delivery of the ‘Money and Society’
 Massive Open Online Course, which engaged circa 600 monetary reformers, community activists,
 and students from different disciplines and political persuasions (Impacy1701). PGR Place and
 Bendell co-organised a PhD symposium at the UN (2018). Murphy hosted a Doctoral Symposium
 for eight PhD students and their supervisors in Ambleside (April 2016).

 In CRED, staff PGR Jackson was employed as a Research Fellow (2007-2017) and undertook
 commissioned research for Carlisle City Council, Northumbria University, Lancaster University,
 Britain’s Energy Coast, and Cumbria Local Enterprise Partnership. He published with Peck and
 Mulvey and spoke regularly in the media on retail, including for Cumberland News, BBC Radio
 Cumbria, In-Cumbria, Carlisle Evening News. CRED actively encouraged PGRs to attend the bi-
 monthly CRED Seminars (Section 4.3), providing opportunities to present research to key
 stakeholders and to network with industry and local authority partners.

 In BM, Ozuem supervises four PGRs in the field of digital marketing, with two teaching
 undergraduate courses at the London campus. PGR Willis and Ozuem have conducted several
 projects in the field of digital marketing, leading to four journal articles. Papers have been
 presented internationally at the American Marketing Association and European Marketing
 Academy with PGRs supported to publish edited book chapters and articles. One PGR in this
 theme received a Rotary Global Scholarship (2016) for a fellowship at the University of Nigeria.
 Two previous PhD students secured lectureships at the University of Huddersfield and
 Portsmouth, and one has returned to UoC as Senior Lecturer in Business.

 2.2.2 All PGRs are provided with opportunities to contribute to Unit vitality.
 IBIL’s recent approach to PGR recruitment has been to maximise opportunities from its portfolio
 of industrial higher education partnerships, including for Sellafield Limited, Rolls-Royce, BBC and
 BAE Systems, and to offer industry-based practice doctorates. UoC validated a suite of
 Professional Research Degrees in 2020 (DProf, MRes, DBA and EdD), supporting this strategy.

 IBIL provides opportunities for PGR annual reviews where research is presented and formalised
 as part of the end of year review process. All candidates are invited and supported to present their
 research at Research Summer School and contribute to the organisation of IBIL events, CRED
 research seminars or IFLAS open lecture series, including as presenters. PhD completions over
 the REF period stand at 7, compared to 1 over the REF2014 period. The Unit proactively works
 with PGRs with protected characteristics to ensure that they are supported to undertake studies
 in a supportive environment. A high-level commentary on Equality, Diversity and Inclusion data
 for this Unit’s PGRs has been provided below.

  Table 1. EDI Data for UOA17 PGRs
  Key consideration      Unit Considerations/Actions
  60% under the age of Important to maintain skills training and opportunities for younger
  39.                    researchers whilst integrating the experiences of older PGRs.
  Equal gender split.    Staff pool has higher number of males (see Table 2). All supervisors
                         have completed unconscious bias training (UBT).
  50% BAME               Higher proportion than staff pool, all supervisors completed UBT.
  0%          declared Unit staff ensure PGRs are informed of institutional disability support,
  disability             including signposting to Disability Officers.
  5% LGB                 Below staff pool, PGRs encouraged to engage in institutional networks.
  29% part-time          Ensure that part-time PGRs are engaged with Unit activities, and if in
                         practice, their experiences contribute to Unit vitality.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 Equality and Diversity
 The UOA adheres to centralised policies regarding EDI (REF5a, 3.3). These policies are applied
 in this Unit in the following ways:
    •   All Unit staff utilise PPDRs to request staff development or discuss wellbeing issues
    •   This Unit includes one Athena Swan Lead.
    •   Staff from under-represented groups are given additional encouragement and support to
        become research active.
    •   Flexible working arrangements are available for all staff, utilised by three Unit staff.
    •   A number of this Unit’s staff are engaged in LGBTQ initiatives, including the University and
        College Union (UCU) LGBT+ Members Network and the UoC LGBTQ Staff Network.
 More broadly, the Unit utilised data from the Equality Impact Assessment exercise on output
 distribution and eligible staff to identify EDI actions (see REF Code of Practice, 1.8 for schedule).
 Throughout submission preparation, Unit leads have worked directly with the UoC EDI Officer to
 understand and interpret the data and identify mitigating actions. These actions have been raised
 with the IBIL Director and also form part of our institutional approach to responding to this data
 (REF5a, 3.3). These considerations and actions are provided below (PNTS = Prefer not to say).
 .
   Table 2. EDI Data for Unit Staffing and Output Selection
   Category           %     Considerations                            Proposed Actions
   Age
   <=39               10    Continuing challenge of staff <30         Improve for next REF in
   40-49              36    achieving   SRR   in teaching-led         younger age ranges and
                            institution. More generally, age          consider positive action
   50-59              27    distribution positive. 50% of outputs     statement.
  >=60              27    attributable to <50.
  Gender
  Female            36    % of males reflective of sector (HESA       Small numbers but
  Male              64    shows more males in business studies.       reasonable balance across
                          % of female’s positive and identical        gender.
                          figures reflected in output pool.
  Orientation
  LGB+              9     Reflective of UoC institutional figures.    Recommend to Director that
  Heterosexual      82    Slightly lower output pool (5%) for         UoC EDI initiatives are
                          individuals declaring as LGB+.              promoted more widely.
  PNTS              9
  Religion
  Religious         73    No major considerations.                    Cross reference with
  Non-Religious     18                                                institutional network.
  PNTS              9
  Ethnicity
  White             73    Positive percentage for staff. A higher     Continue positive trend and
  BAME              27    proportion of Unit outputs (35%) are        include positive action
                          attributable to staff in BAME categories.   statement.
  Other             0
  Disability
  Declared          9     Slightly lower disability declared but      Positive figures,
  None Declared     82    small numbers.                              demonstrating staff are
                                                                      made aware of support and
  PNTS              9
                                                                      can research productively.
  Contract
  Full Time (f/t)   45    Consider how we support p/t                 Only one member of staff as
  Part Time (p/t)   55    researchers to research productively,       fixed term and high number
                          this Unit is positive in this regard.       p/t researchers.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Across the assessment period, this UOA has returned (to HESA) research income of £337,847
 compared to £54,000 for REF2014. This represents a significant increase, and has been
 underpinned by our strategy below:

3.1 Maximising expertise within the Unit (and external HEI networks) to drive externally
    funded or commissioned research

 CRED has driven this Unit’s research income, accessing funding from further education, county
 councils and local authorities, the EU, and UK Research Councils. HEI collaboration has been
 facilitated and CRED delivered a Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Books Cumbria Ltd and a
 consortium of businesses to identify online solutions for independent high street businesses. Part
 of the outputs of this work was a publication with the British Library (lead author Jackson). Modest
 research income across the other themes includes funding from the ESRC and Britain’s Energy
 Coast. The table below outlines the income achieved, which has additionally contributed to a
 number of outputs (REF2) as well as this Unit’s Impact1702.

  Table 3. HESA Research Income
  CRED
  £Amount Funder                             Project
  £103,161 Innovate UK                       Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Carlisle Retail
  £36,000    Regional Studies                Editorial Services of Peck and Mulvey
             Association
  £25,499    Copeland Borough Council        Copeland Work and Skills Partnership Programme
                                             Development
  £21,450     Northumbria County             Developing the Framework for a Borderlands
              Council and Institute for      Strategy
              Local Governance (Durham
              University)
  £15,509     Carlisle College               Skills Scoping for Cumbria
  £13,237     Britain’s Energy Coast         R&D on SME's in Sellafield supply chain
  £13,201     EU Commission DG               Assessment and critique of indicators and methods
              Research & Innovation          used to measure research and innovation
                                             performance of member states
  £12,329     Department for Business,       R&D on Better Regulation
              Innovation and Skills
  £12,152     EU Commission DG               Evaluation of COST Programme as part of EU
              Research & Innovation          Expert Group
  £10,000     Solway Energy Gateway          R&D on regional renewable energy projects
              Project
  £9,984      Carlisle College               Skills Scoping for Cumbria
  £9,958      Copeland Borough Council       Support on the production of a Copeland Enterprise
                                             Development Programme
  £7,522      Carlisle City Council          Review of the Carlisle Economy
  £6,600      Britain’s Energy Coast         SME's in Sellafield supply chain
  £5,749      Carlisle College               Evaluation of European Social Fund Skills for the
                                             Workforce Programme
  £5,050      Cognitive Cumbria              R&D on business innovation and health in Cumbria
              Partnership                    compared to other counties across England
  £5,000      Royal College of Art           R&D on understanding socio-economic impact of
                                             makerspaces in the UK.
  £4,721      ESRC via Northumbria           Work with Heriot-Watt and Northumbria hosting a
              University                     series of seminars on Brexit economic implications.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  CRED continued.
  £4,167    EU Commission DG                   Evaluation of sector-based cross-national
            Research & Innovation              Knowledge Innovation Communities
  £3,980    Furness Newspapers                 Barrow Focus Groups
  £3,956    AHRC via Lancaster                 Political Minecraft Project – analysis of socio-
            University                         economic data for Carlisle
  £3,657    Inspira                            R&D on the Ready for Work Programme
  £3,486    Cumbria County Council             R&D on Local Multiplier Effect
  £1,920    FN Solutions                       R&D for Wellbank Project (Housing Development)
  £1,440    Lake District National Park        Review and assessment of policy documents
            Authority                          provided by the Lake District National Park
  PEM and IFLAS
  £Amount Funder          Project
  £6,000  Britain’s       Testing efficacy of a waterwheel at a Lake District Hotel, incubating
          Energy          expertise in engineering, leading to £75,000 from the Sir John Fisher
          Coast           Foundation for a PhD in Sustainable Engineering (returned as PGR fee
                          income). This led to further engagement with the Foundation, see 3.3.
  £5,000       ESRC       Murphy explored the Innovation Capabilities of SMEs in collaboration
                          with the Universities of Exeter, Edinburgh, Essex.


 3.2 Generating a mixture of consultancy and enterprise income to support research
     capacity in PEM and IFLAS

 The Unit has utilised a blended model of enterprise and research income that aims to provide
 opportunities for staff to gain experience of working with industry and to increase skills in tendering,
 evaluations and commissioned knowledge exchange. IBIL’s industry-facing approach results in a
 high number of knowledge exchange programmes, and this is utilised to enhance research
 environment through investment in staff, attracting staff to the institution, and creating networks to
 explore and deliver research projects.

  Table 4. Enterprise income (non-HESA research income) supporting research
  environment
  £Amount Funder          Project
  £4.5m      Sellafield   A key driver of growth in research capacity in PEM has been the
             (SL)         establishment of the Project Academy for Sellafield, secured (via
                          tender) by a UoC-led consortium in April 2016 with a potential value
                          of £13.7 million over an 8 year period. To date, the Academy has:
                          • Supported over 2000 individual Sellafield employees to access
                             Project Management (PM) education not previously available
                             locally, including c. 220 on higher education programmes
                          • Provided PM education to employees of c. 50 other companies
                          • Enabled the development of PM programme for BAE Submarines
                             in Barrow (current value c. £1M, 200 learners).
                          • Supported the development of the PM apprenticeship standard;
                             with c150 students across 45 employers, notably Sellafield, BAE
                             and Rolls Royce
                          • Enabled growth of PM capacity and supporting functions by the
                             creation of 17 jobs and the appointment of 9 associate tutors.
                             This has supported research environment by leading to
                             recruitment of a number of research active staff, including Gale,
                             Besaiso Lawlor-Wright, and Kontzampiasis (UOA3).




                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
  £Amount Funder          Project
  £484,002 Brathay        The Aspiring Leaders Programme (ALP) has been delivered since
           Hall Trust     2011 with the Brathay Trust and Common Purpose. Now in its third
                          iteration, UoC are contracted to deliver a substantial part of this
                          programme which is aimed at Cumbria’s young voluntary sector
                          leaders, and involves a combination of lectures, seminars and
                          mentorship culminating in a BSc in Social Enterprise Leadership.
  £18,375     Arts        The Changing Culture Programme (CCP) develops the ALP
              Council     partnership and concept further, securing funding in 2019 to train 20
              England     students currently working or volunteering in the arts sector to achieve
              via Brathay a Diploma in Social Enterprise Leadership. ALP and CCP are
                          supported by staff within this Unit; enhancing research environment
                          and culture within the IFLAS research theme.
  £51,948     CPD         IFLAS short courses and CPD opportunities have generated income
              Income      and also enabled the recruitment of Bendell and Murphy and
                          provided opportunities for PGRs to deliver aspect of teaching and
                          assessment.
  £16,500     UNESCO      Murphy undertook consultancy for UNESCO on their Comprehensive
                          Partnership Strategy, involving an appraisal and assessment of
                          UNESCO’s partnering approach and strategy.
  £19,400     Lloyds      Gale worked with the Thomas Ashton Institute on loss of containment
              Register    of non-radiological materials.
              Foundation


 3.3 Utilising ‘regeneration income’ to build research capacity and capability.

 Similarly, with 3.2, this Unit has used regeneration funding to deliver PhDs and other programmes
 which support staff development as well as regional benefits more widely.

  Table 5. Regeneration income (non HESA research income) supporting research
  environment
  £Amount Funder           Project
  £66,715    European      IBIL is Lead Institute for the ERDF-funded Cumbria Innovations
             Regional      Platform, a £4m project to boost economic growth in Cumbria
             Development supporting 60 SMEs with business innovation, led by Lancaster
             Funds         University. This income has been returned to HESA as ‘enterprise
                           income’ but as it includes funding for PhD and MA programmes we
                           have allocated a proportion of the overall income (£66,715) to this
                           UOA based on the involvement of Unit staff.
  £750,000 Sir John        This grant (2016-2019) funded a staff team to work on STEM
             Fisher        outreach and coordination with partners. Funding enabled UoC to
             Foundation    design a new industry leadership programme – the PGCert/MSc
                           Industrial Leadership, with PhD progression routes. Funding also
                           supported a research conference (2019) on laser applications in the
                           nuclear industry at Energus, Workington. 60 participants attended
                           the event attracting researchers from Manchester and Sheffield
                           universities, Sellafield, and several companies from France,
                           Germany and the UK who are innovating with laser technology. This
                           UOA will continue to utilise funding in this way to enhance the
                           research culture.




                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.4 Income supporting Impact

 Research income for Borderlands research, has directly supported Peck, Mulvey (Impact1702),
 including funding from Northumbria County Council via the Institute for Local Governance, and the
 ESRC for a series of Brexit seminars. Murphy’s funding from UNESCO and his work on the MBA
 Sustainable Leadership directly contributed to his research around leadership and development,
 the subject of a reserve ICS. Bendell’s involvement in the Eco Innovation Project (including
 funding for a PhD on alternative currencies, PGR Place) informed developments around his
 submitted Impact1701.

 CRED’s research has enabled Jackson and Mulvey to gain experience of externally funded
 research projects, supporting promotion for Mulvey and enabling Jackson to start his own
 business.

 This Unit also supported by institutional structures, such as MS Teams and Impact software to
 support research infrastructure (REF5a, 4). For January-March 2020, UoC received an additional
 £50,000 from Research England, related to an allocation from the Strategic Priorities Fund, and
 this was invested in supporting impact generation for staff from this UOA, including Mouratidou,
 who was also provided with internal funding to undertake research on Covid-19.

 3.5 Facilities for research and impact

 Researchers and PGRs in IFLAS are based at Ambleside and since 2014, the University has
 invested in total ~£10.3M on facilities and infrastructure to support research undertaken by the
 Unit. Significant capital investment to update and expand the Ambleside Campus (~£6.6M since
 2014) has included investment in developing and equipping a suite of four new laboratories, library
 facilities, dedicated PGR offices, as well as providing student social working spaces and
 residential accommodation.

 The CBIC (2014-2018) was operated by Enterprise and Business Development Service, had
 seven business tenants and provided a virtual office package, a teaching base for the Sellafield
 Project Academy and a range of short courses and residential programmes. Office
 accommodation was let to SME, micro-enterprises and not-for-profit organisations. An
 interactional zone provided informal space for co-working and business engagement and hosting
 of meetings and events with bookings with key partners such as the County Council, Carlisle
 College, Chamber, Sellafield, CUFC, CBI and a range of SMEs. UoC achieved a Bronze Award
 from the Small Business Charter in 2015.

 In 2018, a combination of circumstances relating to estates consolidation led to UoC relocating
 the Paternoster Row site and the university functions to the Brampton Road Campus, also in
 Carlisle, retaining the interactional benefits of the CBIC, but on a major campus.




                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Illustrative of this Unit’s vision to undertake research that contributes to creation of
 sustainable economies, regions, places and organisations, for the benefit of society, UOA
 staff have been involved in research collaborations, networks and partnerships:

    •   IFLAS co-hosted a Researcher Symposium at the UN Research Institute for Social
        Development (Geneva, October 2018) looking at the broader implications for a sustainable
        society of a host of different monetary innovations, contributing to the development of
        Impact1701. Bendell was selected to join a group of world leaders in business and politics
        to study leadership approaches at Harvard University and is an Advisory Board Member,
        Grassroots Economics, Mombasa and has been an Advisor to the Office of the Leader of
        the Opposition, London. Murphy served on a Panel at an Institute of Directors Regional
        Conference (Manchester 2014) with Impact International, and on the Improvement Group
        of the Lake District National Park Partnership (LDNPP). In 2016, he was a judge for the
        Cumbria Tourism Sustainable Tourism Award Partnership.
    •   PEM - Gale was invited by the Rwandan Minister of Transport to deliver three
        Masterclasses to more than 30 senior Rwandan managers from government and industry,
        including the Head of the National Capacity Building Secretariat (2015-17). He served as
        Chairperson for the Higher Skills Exchange – an advisory group to Cumbria Local
        Enterprise Partnership Employment and Skills Group and has been a Member of the
        Nuclear Industry Council Trade & Investment Working Group (2014-16). In 2018, Gale
        provided training to help develop research and enterprise links in Uzbekistan for 320
        Universities.
    •   BM - Ozuem is Chief Adviser (Africa) at RIMA Engineering, Kosovo, advising on issues
        relating to Africa projects and has collaborated with Arden University; Macromedia
        University, Germany; Indiana University, USA; American University in Beirut, Lebanon;
        University of Florence, Italy and La Rochelle Business School, France. Ng has been
        instrumental in formalising the institutions partnership with FAME International College in
        Malaysia, including shared teaching and research programmes and hosted four academics
        from Dalian Nationalities University China on academic exchange. Mouratidou has
        facilitated Grounded Theory seminars with Dr A. Lowe (Fellow of the Grounded Research
        Institute in California).
    •   CRED has facilitated a number of key collaborations, including with the Association of
        North East Councils and the Institute for Local Governance with Northumbria University,
        leading to a detailed Framework Document that underpinned the development of the
        Borderlands Inclusive Growth deal, and Impact1702.

    •   ST – UoC is a Strategic Partner of Cumbria Tourism (CT) and in 2020 amidst the
        pandemic, CT facilitated two new 50% scholarships for the new MBA in Tourism
        Management. UoC has an Observer seat on CT’s Executive Board.

 4.2 A strength of this UOA is the impact of research of staff in this UOA beyond academia,
 and collaborations with the public, key research users, beneficiaries and audiences.

 IFLAS has convened a number of interdisciplinary events combining collaboration and public
 engagement, including:

       The Leading Wellbeing International Research Festival (July 2015) - 200 people from
        20 countries engaged in a 3 day event with 40 research papers, and 30 speakers.
        Organised with Brathay Trust, and Chaired by Bendell and Brathay’s CEO, sponsors
        included Futerra Sustainability Communications, Heart of the Lakes, Cumberland Building
        Society, and Reagent. Peck, Mulvey, and Jackson presented research as well as four
        colleagues from two other UOAs, evidencing IFLAS’s interdisciplinary approach to
        sustainability research.


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       The Leading Wellbeing: From Theory to Practice (July 2016) was an interim, reunion
        event at Ambleside, with staff across three UOAs delivering sessions in addition to
        contributors from Impact International, James Cropper, and Cambridge University. The
        event facilitated exploration the complex challenges of social, environmental and economic
        sustainability through 'sustainable leadership'.
       The Leading Wellbeing in Rural Contexts (November 2016) was hosted on campus and
        explored the unique challenges posed when leading wellbeing in rural contexts. The event
        involved panel members from Education, Cumbria Constabulary, and North Cumbria
        Hospital NHS Trust. This event also contributed to the Journal of Corporate Citizenship
        Special Issue: ‘Leading Wellbeing in Rural Contexts’ (No. 68, December 2017), with guest
        editors: Marshall (UOA20), and Murphy.
       The Poetics of Leadership Conference (2018) was aimed at stimulating creativity within
        leaders during challenging times, involving collaboration with the Crossfields Institute and
        the Institute of Philosophy and Aesthetics at Alanus University in Germany. Around 100
        delegates from business, academia and research attended. Professor Jonathan Gosling
        (Exeter) and Visiting Professor Richard Little (Impact International) gave keynote
        presentations, with contributors from Educational Practice, Sussex University, Plymouth
        College of Art, University of West of Scotland, Kent University, and Amity University Delhi.

 In CRED, Peck was undertaken evaluation programmes for EU-COST programmes, the
 European Institute for Technology, (EIT) Knowledge Innovation Communities, and a variety of
 Horizon 2020 programmes. Peck has been an advisor to PhD Programmes at the Waterford
 Institute for Technology, Waterford and has appeared on BBC Radio Cumbria, Radio 5 Live, BBC
 Coventry, and ITV Border. He has been an invited panel member for the Chartered Institute for
 Personnel Development (CIPD); and Invited Presenter for the Dept. for Business and Industrial
 Strategy; Britain’s Energy Coast; Wales Labour Market Summit; Chester Forum, and for the ESRC
 Centre on Constitutional Change.

 In ST, Anthonisz worked with Lincoln University, New Zealand and TFG Asset Management on
 benchmarking organisational social capital in the Dubai hotel industry (publishing a joint White
 Paper) and is extending this research to the UK. Anthonisz and Stephens regularly feature in
 local news, most recently on a new MBA in Sustainable Tourism and proposed regulation of
 AirBnB and impact of the Lake District hospitality sector.

 In BM, Mouratidou has delivered regional events for the Institute of Directors, exploring
 unconscious bias and influences in the recruitment process.


 4.3 As an indicator of wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and
 society, staff have contributed to the sustainability of research through engagement with
 national initiatives and the public.

 In PEM, Besaiso’s research into arbitral decision-making in disputes arising from international
 construction projects won the Society of Construction Arbitrators' (SCA) Norman Royce Prize 2017
 - a prestigious biannual prize that attracts international competitions between the world's best
 scholars and international lawyers. The SCA subsequently invited Besaiso to present his research
 findings to an audience of construction arbitrators and dispute resolvers at the annual general
 meeting (2018), and was also awarded a Travelling Scholarship from the Worshipful Company of
 Arbitrators enabling attendance at international arbitration proceedings (Dubai) to meet world-
 renowned figures in international arbitration.

 In ST, staff have engaged with The Lake District Hoteliers Association (LDHA), championing a
 new Chartered Manager Degree Apprenticeship, designed and delivered by UoC. A number of
 Lake District-based employers have already signed up to the scheme, including Gilpin Hotel and
 Lakes House, Lakeland Arts, Lake District Country Hotels (Cragwood, Briery Wood, Merewood)
 and South Lakes Hotels (Damson Dene).

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In IFLAS, a successful open lecture series to welcome over 30 speakers from organisations
 concerned with leadership and sustainability. This includes Sean Ansett (Chief Sustainability
 Officer, Fairphone), Ryan Heath (EU Digital Spokesperson and former speechwriter for Manuel
 Barroso), Mike Berners-Lee (climate change author and consultant), Mike Innerdale (Regional
 Director – North), Vivienne Westwood (iconic fashion designer and environmental activist), Paul
 Rose (adventurer and British television presenter), Aimee Leslie (WWF-Peru Marine Programme
 Director), and James Rebanks (author of ‘The Shepherd's Life’).

 In CRED, research seminars have regularly been delivered in the Carlisle Business Interaction
 Centre, now at the Brampton Road Campus. Seminars featured invited guest speakers (17
 between 2014-2018) including Roger Liddle (Lord Liddle of Carlisle), and representatives from the
 Crichton Institute Regional Observatory, BEIS, REACT Engineering, School of Advanced Social
 Studies (Slovenia), Irish Sea Rim and School of Geography & Geosciences Sustainable
 Development (University of St Andrews).


 4.4 Across the Unit, staff are renowned international speakers in the discipline and many
 of these presentations reach key research users:

 In PEM, Gale was a keynote speaker (2019) at the University of Business and Technology,
 Dahban Campus, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, and has co-delivered seminars for the Association for
 Project Management, Institution of Civil Engineers and National Nuclear Laboratory (2017-2018).

 In CRED, Peck provided the keynote address as part of an ‘Inspiring Business Growth’ event,
 hosted by Lancaster City Council in collaboration with NatWest, Lancaster University, Boost
 Business Lancashire and the Chamber of Commerce

 Bendell, as part of IFLAS, has given keynotes on Climate Leadership, at Griffith University in
 Australia (2016), the UN Blockchains for Sustainable Development Session at the World
 Investment Forum 2018 (700 attendees), the Guild of Independent Currencies, the UK Council for
 Psychotherapy, and Connect University (European Commission). Murphy delivered a keynote at
 the Ibero-American Conference on Sustainable Development Goals at University of Salamanca
 (2018), in partnership with the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid and multinational electric utility
 company, Iberdrola, with some 600 participants from more than 20 countries.


 4.5 Extensive key texts and journal editorship across the research themes:

 In CRED, Peck was a Board Member and Editor of Regions, the journal of the Regional Studies
 Association until 2017. Mulvey also served as Editor (2016-2017). In November 2017, at the RSA
 Annual President’s Dinner and Awards ceremony in London, Peck and Mulvey were presented
 with the “Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Regional Studies Association.”

 In IFLAS, Bendell has been guest editor of a Special Issue of the Sustainability Accounting,
 Management and Policy Journal and is a member of the editorial board of the Journal of Corporate
 Citizenship, and the Journal of Politics and Governance. Murphy and Marshall (UOA20) are co-
 editors of an interdisciplinary text - 'Citizenship and Sustainability in Organizations' – part of a new
 Routledge book series on innovative and critical scholarship in the fields of citizenship, social
 responsibility, sustainability, innovation, and place leadership in diverse organizational contexts,
 with contributions from authors from the US, Australia and Europe.

 In PEM, Lawlor-Wright published ‘Project Success and Quality: Balancing the Iron Triangle’
 (Routledge), aimed at Project Managers. Besaiso reviews for the Journal of Legal Affairs and
 Dispute Resolution in Engineering and Construction, Construction and Architectural Management,
 and the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors annual COBRA research conference.


                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In BM, Ozuem has guest edited Special issues (Digital Marketing) for the Interdisciplinary Journal
 of Economics and Business and Sustainability Journal. He has undertaken review work for the
 Journal of Business Research; the Journal of Retailing and Consumer Services; Information
 Technology and People; Sustainability; and the Interdisciplinary Journal of Economics and
 Business Law.


 Conclusion

 The evidence presented in this statement demonstrates that researchers submitted within the
 UOA have developed collaborations, networks and partnerships with external researchers,
 learned societies, research users and beneficiaries that are necessary to deliver our vision to
 undertake research for the benefit of society. This complements evidence presented in section 3
 which shows significant growth in research funding from government departments and
 organisations working in public policy including public and private sector partners in the region.
 The Unit also brings together a larger number of researchers and PGRs, and a broader range of
 research themes compared to the 2014 submission. This growth and development of research
 capacity has been a feature of the period since 2014 and this has provided a platform for the
 ambitious objectives that form the basis of the IBIL Research Strategy 2020.




                                                                                           Page 17
