Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cranfield University

 Unit of Assessment: 6

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and Structure

 Cranfield is an exclusively postgraduate university focused on technology and management. Our
 activities in agriculture and food sciences began when the National College of Agricultural
 Engineering joined Cranfield in 1975 and became Silsoe College. The Soil Survey and Land
 Research Centre for England and Wales was incorporated in 1985. In 2005, all activities
 relocated to the main Cranfield campus near Milton Keynes.
 Our high-level academic organisational structure embeds interdisciplinarity through market
 sector focussed Themes, rather than Departments that are typical of a conventional, discipline-
 led university (REF5a). Our agriculture and food science research is led by one of eight
 Themes: Environment & Agrifood, within the School of Water, Energy and Environment
 (SWEE, www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/our-structure). The theme is centred around agricultural
 research, working to ensure that global food systems are resilient for the future and to protect
 and enhance natural capital. We work with global and domestic agriculture and food companies,
 regulators, and governments to ensure that our research benefits society.
 Within agriculture and food, 40 staff (38.2 FTE) in SWEE are included in this UoA6 submission:
 38 from Environment & Agrifood and 2 from the Water Theme. Of these, 9 are Professors, 4
 independent researchers and 10 Early Career Researchers (ECRs). The staff from Water are
 experts in water management for agriculture and food, hence inclusion in UoA6.

 Research strategy

 Following REF2014 and development of the University’s 415i Corporate Plan
 (www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/about) and institutional Research Strategy (REF5a), the UoA6
 strategy was also reviewed. It was decided to significantly strengthen the role of basic research
 to better underpin the applied research strengths. The following objectives were set:
      Improve the quality of research and resulting outputs by increasing the UK Research and
         Innovation (UKRI) supported research while simultaneously increasing the academic
         quality of industry-supported research.
      Recruit senior academics to enhance academic leadership, encourage existing staff, and
         grow talented ECRs numbers through internal promotion and recruitment.
      Enhance doctoral training by strengthening industry networks and involvement in UKRI-
         funded initiatives.
      Invest further in near industrial-scale and new laboratory facilities to support these aims.

 In parallel, an important objective was to develop an integrated research strategy ensuring
 interdisciplinary agricultural and food science research was underpinned with achieving
 environmental sustainability. This change was motivated by the increasing recognition of the
 significant role for agriculture and food production in achieving net zero carbon emissions,
 preventing air and water pollution, and protecting the broader environment. As a consequence,
 the Theme now operates through two Centres:
      Cranfield Soil and Agrifood Institute (CSAFI) (www.cranfield.ac.uk/centres/soil-and-
         agrifood-institute).
      Centre for Environmental and Agricultural Informatics (CEAI)
         (www.cranfield.ac.uk/centres/centre-for-environmental-and-agricultural-informatics).

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The CSAFI and CEAI together have expertise in ecosystems, soil, plants, water and air, data
 science and decision-making. There are a number of research projects combining these centres
 of expertise, as well as the submitted outputs and impact case studies. The UKRI funding for this
 research comes principally from the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council
 (BBSRC) and the Natural Environment Research Council (NERC).

 The CSAFI builds on Cranfield’s heritage in agriculture and soil science, as exemplified by the
 Queen’s Anniversary Prize for soil science in 2017 (https://www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/rankings-
 and-awards/queens-anniversary-prize) and hosting the British Society of Soil Science
 (https://soils.org.uk/). Research includes food safety and storage, plant science and
 bioinformatics. This research base is complemented by the investment in Cranfield-based
 facilities in two AgriTech Centres of Innovation (of the four created as a result of the UK
 Government’s Agritech Strategy www.agritechcentres.com): Agricultural Engineering Precision
 Innovation (AgriEPI) and Crop Health and Protection (CHAP).
 The CEAI focusses on measuring, monitoring, and managing agricultural systems and the
 natural environment, with remote sensing and local sensor systems and their link to larger, more
 complex datasets at the core. In combination with data science and the soils’ datasets hosted at
 Cranfield, the Land Information System (LandIS, http://www.landis.org.uk) and World Soil
 Survey Archive and Collection (WOSSAC, www.wossac.com/), the potential for greatly
 enhanced understanding of how landscapes function and how they respond to stresses and
 pressures is being realised. Cranfield’s combination of agriculture, environment, and data
 science reflects agriculture’s critical role in achieving a sustainable environment and a safe and
 healthy food supply.
 Research in this submission focusses on the two research areas of resilient food systems and
 agricultural and environmental data sciences to address sustainable agriculture. These
 areas cut across the Theme structure and bring together those with similar interests and
 technological requirements. Much of our research is collaborative and involves scientists from
 across these research areas as well as from elsewhere within and beyond Cranfield.
 In this way, the research on agriculture and environment helps deliver the University’s mission
 ‘to create leaders through our education and research in technology and management’ (REF5a).
 Based on our fundamental science, our approach aims to provide food security, help create a
 low carbon and growing green economy, enhance natural capital and support the UK Industrial
 Strategy.
 Individuals have strengths in soil science, plant science, soil-plant systems, agricultural water
 management, agricultural engineering, agricultural systems modelling, agroforestry, postharvest
 biology and technology, food safety, bioinformatics, environmental informatics, natural capital,
 ecological restoration, atmospheric and climate science, and risk management and decision-
 making. These diverse research interests combine to develop the integrated view of agriculture
 and the environment required for current and future societal needs.
 Our multi-disciplinary research into resilient food systems is led by CSAFI and is conducted at
 spatial scales from genes to agro-ecological systems and involves bioinformaticians and remote
 sensing experts to lead analysis of complex datasets and development of software tools.
 The research in soil science spans basic soil physics, chemistry, and biology; soil management
 and conservation; and soil informatics and resource evaluation. Our expertise in the
 biogeochemistry (Kirk), biophysics (Otten) and biology (JHarris) of soil systems was
 consolidated with the appointment in 2020 of a plant and soil ecologist (Girkin). Specialisms
 include plant root-soil interactions in the rhizosphere (Kirk, Otten, Girkin), non-invasive


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 techniques to characterise soil microhabitats (Otten, JHarris), crop-plant adaptations to mineral
 deficiencies and toxicities (Kirk, Otten), the biogeochemistry of submerged soils and wetlands
 (Kirk, Girkin), whole-system carbon balances and greenhouse gas fluxes (Kirk, Girkin).
 More-applied soil and land management research focuses on soil protection and degradation,
 ecosystem restoration, sustainable land management and soil policy formulation. Our core
 expertise includes quantifying the cost of erosion at national level and defining the mechanisms
 underlying soil degradation (Rickson, Deeks, JHarris, Kirk); understanding soil functions and
 their role in the delivery of water regulation, agricultural production and carbon storage
 (Simmons, Rickson); assessing and improving soil fertility, health and biodiversity through the
 use of novel fertilisers and active management practices (Sakrabani, Pawlett, Johnston); and
 the application of novel ecological perspectives to resilience and ecosystem
 management (JHarris). Graves, Rickson, Deeks assess the current state of soil resources and
 the multiple ecosystem goods and services delivered to society. This research quantifies the
 pressures / threats acting on this finite national asset as well as the cost-effectiveness and
 feasibility of implementing soil protection policies and practices.
 The UK is committed to reducing food losses and waste by half by 2030 (UN Sustainable
 Development Goal 12.3), therefore scientific human capital needs to maintain quality and reduce
 food loss of horticultural and durable products. In UoA6, new collaborations have been
 developed between Cranfield researchers and users of research such as businesses and policy
 makers. Five new academic appointments have been made since 2013.
 Food loss research in the Plant Science Laboratory is led by Terry, working with Alamar,
 Anastasiadi and Falagan. It uses advanced controlled atmosphere facilities to research
 technologies for extending storage and shelf-life of fresh produce. Anastasiadi specializes in
 metabolomic and transcriptomic data analysis (e.g., bioactives in fruit), and Alamar and Falagan
 in manipulating biological mechanisms through innovative postharvest technologies to reduce
 food loss. Research encompasses fundamental biological processes of dormancy (e.g., onion,
 potato), postharvest senescence, ripening and nutrition with input from molecular plant scientists
 (Thompson, Kevei) and bioinformaticians (Mohareb, Anastasiadi). This mechanistic work
 intersects that on food safety by the Applied Mycology Group, with mycologists Magan and
 Medina researching methods to reduce fungal-derived mycotoxin accumulation during
 commodity, e.g. grains, nuts, storage to reduce losses and improve food safety. Kourmpetli,
 with expertise in the fundamentals of grain development, undertakes research with seed
 technologists to improve longevity of stored vegetable seeds.
 Sustainable crop production is addressed through molecular genetics of root development
 (Thompson, Kevei) and above-ground plant architecture in horticultural crops. The current
 focus is on defining genetic control of root vigour, adventitious rooting and drought resistance,
 using AgriTech Centre facilities for plant growth, phenotyping and genomic analysis led by
 Mohareb. New appointee Rezwan transfers bioinformatics expertise gained in medical studies
 to the rhizosphere microbiome and epigenetic variation in crop traits and disease.
 Application of sensor technology, coupled with informatics and data science, has led other
 industrial sectors to a rapid transformation of massive-scale data acquisition to formulate and
 rationalise management decisions and systems. This transformation has yet to be fully realised
 in the agricultural sector. Recognising this gap, UoA6 staff (Otten, Rickson, Waine, Simms,
 Khouakhi, Kourmpetli, Girkin) support the new CHAP and AgriEPI Centres. The facilities
 include a unique platform for assessing pilot scale crop-soil systems and sensor development,
 integrated with existing soil management and postharvest facilities.



                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Within digital agriculture, Earth Observation data provide a unique perspective on natural and
 anthropogenic processes. The remote sensing team (Waine, Rivas-Casado, Brewer, Simms,
 Khouakhi) develop state-of-the-art approaches, integrating remote sensing and ancillary data
 through model-data fusion, to provide reliable information for a breadth of applications including
 agriculture, deforestation, drought and food security.
 Water, agriculture, and the environment are inextricably linked. Understanding interactions and
 the relationship with policy and practice is critical for sustainable, resilient land and water
 management. Core strengths in UoA6 lie in development of integrated modelling platforms to
 evaluate climate impacts and adaptation responses for catchment-scale land and water
 management (Hess, Knox), the development of biophysical models to support national and
 regional agricultural water demand forecasting (Knox, Hess), water valuations for agriculture
 under conditions of drought and water scarcity, including governance links to the water-
 environment-food nexus (Knox) and the application of water footprinting to evaluate water-
 related risks to agriculture, food production and diets (Hess, Williams). New research is
 focusing on understanding resilience pathways to climate and water risks in international
 horticultural supply chains in the context of livelihoods and food security (Hess, Knox).
 ‘Crop water use’ research is multidisciplinary with Thompson (plant water relations) working
 with Knox and Hess (agricultural water management) on models and control systems for
 irrigation. Kirk and Simmons are experts in biogeochemistry and modelling of root-soil
 interactions in nutrient and toxicant uptake. Kevei studies biophysics of soil-root interactions with
 DNA-based assays for quantifying mixed root systems. Burgess uses agroforestry to
 demonstrate benefits of integrated agricultural systems to sustainability, drawing on crop
 modelling expertise and collaboration with Graves on bio-economic evaluation.
 Our multi-disciplinary research into agricultural and environmental data sciences is led by
 CEAI, strengthening the scientific base for informing land use and environmental policy. The soil
 informatics team (Hannam, Hallett, Corstanje, Keay, Johnston) work with the remote sensing
 experts to integrate spatial statistical models, remotely sensed data and the LandIS and
 WOSSAC databases to include plant soil and water interactions across spatial scales.
 Corstanje and Hallett lead harnessing digital sciences to environmental research through the
 CINITDIEN project - Championing INnovation In The DIgital Environment (£1.27M, NERC,
 NE/S016287/1). Broader research on land use includes natural capital assessment and
 modelling across the land-use spectrum (Corstanje, Burgess, Graves, JHarris, Leinster),
 ecological restoration (JHarris, Pawlett), flood risk (Rivas-Casado, Leinster) and crop,
 forestry, and agricultural modelling (Burgess, Corstanje, Graves, Waine). This is
 complemented by the decision science group assessing risks in natural and human systems
 (Garnett, Graves, Hallett).
 The importance of the interaction of soil, plant and water systems with the atmosphere has been
 recognised with four new appointments since 2013 which together provide expertise on air
 quality and climate change. A core strength is the use of measurements based on existing and
 custom-built sensors (NHarris, Mead, Girkin), used to study trace gas emissions from
 woodlands, agriculture, waste and the built environment. Lower cost instruments are used in
 networks (Mead, NHarris) and hard-to-access locations (NHarris). Understanding interactions
 of rural and built environments is central to this work, including the air quality component in the
 Urban Observatory.
 This observational work is complemented by research on policy implications for food supply, air
 quality and climate change (Williams, Cain, Leinster, NHarris). This includes life cycle analysis



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the potential for soils to sequester CO2 (Williams), as well as new metrics to assess the
 relative importance of the climate impact of CH4 and other greenhouse gases (Cain).
 Stimulating interdisciplinary research, the Cranfield Urban Observatory provides the networking
 and sensing infrastructure in the Living Laboratory (JHarris, NHarris, Mead). Inspired by
 research in the NERC Biodiversity & Ecosystem Service Sustainability programme, it focusses
 on sustainability and resilience of the agricultural, natural, and built environments across the
 Oxford-Cambridge Arc development region. Researchers interested in environmental and social
 issues encompassing agriculture, wildlife, air quality and water, are co-operating and integrating
 with data scientists (Corstanje, Hallett).
 The structure and research culture that has been developed to be able to deliver the UoA6
 research objectives over the next five years is aligned with global challenges and the UK
 agenda on agriculture linked to food security and environment. The UK’s 25-year Environment
 Plan, nascent National Food Strategy, Agriculture Act 2020, and Environment Bill centre around
 achieving a sustainable environment whilst ensuring a resilient food and water supply. Achieving
 this requires development of new technologies based on digital agriculture and data science, as
 well as further development of qualitative and quantitative understanding of existing areas such
 as soil quality, waste reduction, biodiversity and decision-making. Therefore, Cranfield’s
 fundamental agricultural research will aim to enhance environmental research across the
 university and beyond in the context of regional and global initiatives.
 The underpinning elements of research objectives over the next five years are to:
       Appoint talented scientists, provide the best research infrastructure and flexible
        environment so they flourish. Addition of high-quality researchers will continue through
        recruitment and internal promotion.
       Realise full potential of current and emerging talent by ensuring equality, diversity, and
        inclusion (ED&I) in staff and research students. Building on our positive experience in
        promoting ED&I, UoA6 will identify and action where extra support is most beneficial,
        raise awareness in Theme meetings and employee engagement through satisfaction
        surveys.
       Work even more closely with industry and government to ensure that our research
        results are translatable to the real world. Consolidation of existing strategic industry
        partnerships, e.g., Unilever, PepsiCo, is a priority alongside new ones.
       Develop the next generation of researchers. Engaging and training PhD students is
        central to this strategy and industrially funded partnerships will be complemented by
        involvement in new multi-university Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) supported by
        UKRI and industry.
 Environment and Agrifood is Cranfield’s principal recipient of NERC, BBSRC and Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF). Fundamental research forms the foundation of current and
 future activities.
 The underpinning research areas for the next 5 years are:
       Soil Science: Fundamental and applied understanding of physical, chemical, and
        biological processes mediating soil-crop and natural systems, exploring interaction
        between plants and microbes in the rhizosphere




                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Food quality: Linking agronomic traits to genes to accelerate plant breeding for food
        security, water use efficiency and nutrition using molecular genetics, advanced
        phenotyping, and bioinformatics
       Food loss and safety: Elucidating fundamental mechanisms governing ripening,
        senescence, and dormancy to improve quality and safety, reducing food loss.
       Catchment science: reconciling multi-scale trade-offs between agricultural,
        environmental, and other human needs for water quantity and quality within complex
        socio-ecological water resources systems
       Digital environment: Exploiting novel instrumentation and informatics techniques in a
        digital environment to enhance natural capital, gaining new insights addressing complex
        environmental and agricultural challenges
       Decision science: development of approaches to identify pathways to sustainable food
        and water supply, quantifying the impact of environmental change in planning for and
        managing vulnerability, risk, and resilience in the natural environment.
 These areas will inform decision-making towards meeting several United Nations Sustainable
 Development Goals (UNSDGs), especially zero hunger, clean water and sanitation, sustainable
 cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, climate action and life on land.


 Interdisciplinary research

 Cranfield’s Theme-led structure embeds interdisciplinarity, further supported through four Grand
 Challenges (GCs) linked to the UNSDGs (www.cranfield.ac.uk/research/why-cranfield/grand-
 challenges, REF5a) that brings together researchers across all Cranfield Themes. Staff from
 UoA6 have leadership roles in several:
       The Connected Resilience GC aims to advance resilience research across socio-
        economic silos (JHarris).
       The Sustainable Security GC focuses on synergies between security and sustainable
        development to advance research improving human health and well-being, including food
        and water security (Burgess).
       The nascent pan-university Grand Challenge on the Green Economic Recovery (Terry)
        nurtures research to ensure an environmentally sustainable recovery from Covid-19,
        including focused initiatives on agriculture and environment.

 Our expertise in futures analysis, strategic risk assessment and stakeholder engagement
 (Garnett, Graves, Leinster) is used in collaboration with external partners, e.g., UK utilities,
 Department for Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), Directorate-General for Environment, and
 Syngenta, on issues such as the green economy, critical infrastructure planning, flood
 preparation, and improving participatory decision-making in adaptation planning.

 Impact strategy

 Impact is central to the Unit’s research strategy, reflecting Cranfield’s Mission of unlocking the
 potential of people and organisations by partnering with business and governments (REF5a).
 The four submitted Impact Case Studies on agricultural issues are exemplars of this approach:
 two (CROPS and SOILS) address governmental actions and policy; and two (ETHYLENE and
 WATER) focus on agri-food business (Table 1). The Impact Case Studies, and other examples


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 cited below and in Section 4, are outcomes of ensuring academic staff are business-focussed in
 their day-to-day roles, nurturing strategic partnerships with key clients in agriculture and food,
 and supporting researchers through Cranfield’s Research and Innovation Office (RIO). These
 are three key objectives in our commended Higher Education Impact Fund (HEIF) Strategy that
 covers the REF period.
 (https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20180405122213/http://www.hefce.ac.uk/ke/heif/stra
 tegies/).
                                   Table 1. Impact Case Studies.
  Impact Case Study                 Summary
  CROPS – Improved crop             Cranfield’s development of refined remote sensing
  monitoring with applied remote    approaches became the basis for the United Nations Office
  sensing                           on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) and Government of
                                    Afghanistan campaign of poppy eradication: increasing
                                    accuracy of estimates of crop production; saving lives by
                                    reducing the need for field surveys; exposing misreporting of
                                    eradication; informing international drug policy decisions.
  ETHYLENE – Reducing food          Cranfield co-developed and helped commercialise a novel
  waste by controlling Ethylene     technology for an active compound to remove ethylene in
                                    the packaging of fresh produce, suppressing ripening and
                                    reducing food loss. Annual sales and exports of the
                                    technology licensed to It’s Fresh! Ltd total over £23M in
                                    global supply chains, with a Return on Investment of 300%.
  SOILS - Improved national soil    Cranfield’s work on large-scale soil and environmental data
  policies and local soil           has driven policy debates on the protection of national soil
  management based on               resources, culminating in a Parliamentary inquiry and
  geospatial data and modelling     inclusion of soil protection measures in Defra’s 25 Year
                                    Environment Plan which underpins the new Agriculture Act
                                    and Environment Bill. Research into spatial soil data and
                                    information systems has saved the Welsh Government an
                                    estimated £100 million, and 10 to 20 years of resources.
  WATER – Supporting                A new framework for understanding current and future water
  sustainable water management      demands in agriculture has directly informed policy and
  for agriculture and food          management reforms by the Defra and the Environment
  production                        Agency. Cranfield research has been used across the agri-
                                    food sector - including horticultural and fresh produce retail
                                    businesses - to develop sustainable water plans and build
                                    resilience, whilst meeting growing global demand for fresh
                                    fruit and vegetables.


 All staff are encouraged to take part in pan-University impact programmes and to integrate
 impact activities into the research culture. Academic staff in UoA6 are delivering impact from
 their research through involvement in national and international societies, programmes, and
 assessments (Section 4). Experience and leadership in impact for UoA6 is provided by NHarris,
 winner of NERC’s 2015 International Impact and Overall Impact Awards. The importance of
 planning for maximising the impact gained from our research is mentioned at most UoA6 local
 meetings.

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UoA6 has a leading national role in delivering impact through NERC’s Constructing a Digital
 Environment Strategic Priorities Fund, in partnership with the Engineering & Physical Sciences
 Research Council (EPSRC) and Defra. Corstanje and Hallett were appointed as NERC’s Digital
 Environment Champions who oversee the programme and a network of environmental and
 informatics experts to identify research ideas, develop funded feasibility studies and
 demonstrators.
 One of our data holdings, LandIS (www.landis.org.uk), is the National Reference Centre for Soils
 for England and Wales (Section 3). Research in UoA6 helps develop the accessibility and use of
 this data resource. Impact is created through products marketed by Cranfield. CatchIS
 (Catchment Information System) is a software decision support system for the management of
 water quality at the catchment scale (www.catchis.com/), widely by water utilities and the
 Environment Agency for the fate and behaviour of diffuse agricultural compounds such as
 pesticides. The National Perils Directory uses soils data for subsidence and flood predictions
 used by the insurance industry, water utilities and national and local governments
 (www.landis.org.uk/npd_insurance).
 In 2017, Cranfield received the Queen’s Anniversary Prize for its impact in large-scale soil and
 environmental data for sustainable use of natural resources in the UK and worldwide: the first
 that such an award has been given for soil science. The Prize recognises outstanding work that
 shows quality and innovation, delivering real benefit to the wider world.
 We view our close links with industry as important for our impact. Two key examples are:
       Cranfield is involved in two, AgriEPI and CHAP, of the four UK Agri-Tech Centres,
        working with farmers and businesses across the agrifood value chain to support greater
        efficiency, resilience, and profitability (www.agritechcentres.com). The centres support
        the development, evaluation and delivery of technology and data-driven solutions to the
        challenges faced by the agricultural industry.
       Cranfield and Produce World were awarded the KTP Research Base Impact Award in
        2015 for the development of the Soil-for-Life management system developed to allow
        Produce World to optimise soil fertility, match crops to soil type, and improve marketable
        yield of vegetables and the sustainability of its farming business
        (www.cranfield.ac.uk/case-studies/research-case-studies/produce-world-ktp).


 Further examples of industry collaboration and impact are given in Section 4.

 Research integrity and open research environment

 Cranfield is committed to research integrity based on the 2012 (and 2019 update) Concordat to
 Support Research with a comprehensive suite of integrity and ethics policies and processes
 (REF5a, www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/research-integrity). All research in UoA6 complies with the
 Joint Code of Practice for Research (JCoPR): UoA6 members on the JCoPR working group took
 the lead in embedding processes for improved quality assurance and compliance across the
 university. Research within UoA6 maintained 100% compliance with our Research Ethics Policy
 that requires all research, including ‘nil’ returns, to be logged through our online system CURES
 (www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/governance-and-policies/policies-and-regulations).

 Cranfield has a full suite of policies and processes to work towards a more open research
 environment and ensure compliance with the Concordat on Open Research (REF5a,
 www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/governance-and-policies/policies-and-regulations). Within UoA6,
 open access publishing is strongly encouraged with all outputs submitted to REF2021 being

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 eligible. Between 2016 and 2020 89 UoA6 datasets were deposited on Cranfield Open Research
 Data (CORD), the university’s data repository for use when no other suitable ones are available
 (REF5a, https://cord.cranfield.ac.uk). Over the 12 months to February 2021 there were ~49,000
 views and 19,000 downloads. The most viewed data (3359 views) is from the HEFCE Carbon
 Brainprint project on quantifying the impact of universities on carbon footprint reduction. Other
 initiatives within UoA6 to support open research include:
       All measurements from the Cranfield Urban Observatory will be fully open;
       We staged environmentally themed Digital Sprints tackling the effects of Covid-19 in
          2020.
       Where practicable, the approach to Open Source extends to software tools and GitHub is
          used to share code.
       Researchers 'blog' their work to encourage access to data.

 2. People

 Staffing strategy

 Cranfield is committed to supporting staff through the schemes described in REF5a. UoA6 is
 fully committed to these and ensures their full implementation, aiming to generate a supportive,
 inclusive culture and to trial new initiatives.
 Of the 40 staff (38.2 FTE) included in UoA6, 37 (92.5%) are on open-ended contracts and 3
 (7.5%) on fixed term contracts:16 staff have been retained since 2014 (63% retention). Of staff
 who have left during the REF2021 period, other than retirement and redeployment, three moved
 to chairs at leading Universities and one to a senior research role at the Centre for Environment,
 Fisheries and Aquaculture Science (CEFAS) and several to the private sector.
 Personal development and increasing the diversity of staff is an essential part of the overall Unit
 research strategy. For existing staff, the importance of personal development and working in a
 supportive working environment is a standing item at Theme and other team meetings. Training,
 regular appraisals, personal mentoring opportunities, open communication and being involved in
 research are all central to achieving this and so help motivate staff to achieve their full potential.
 To complement development of existing staff, 6 new lecturers (Cain, Girkin, Johnson,
 Khouakhi, Mead, Rezwan) have been recruited in the REF2021 period to bring in new
 expertise, develop future leaders and to ensure that UoA6’s research portfolio is cutting edge
 and future-proofed. These actions have been enhanced through recruitment to newly
 established professorial positions in strategic areas (NHarris, Leinster, Otten).

 Staff development and support

 Staff development at Cranfield is underpinned by a long-established annual Performance and
 Development Review (P&DR) (REF5a): participation for UoA6 is excellent with 100% completion
 of 2020 annual P&DRS. These P&DRs are supplemented by regular ad hoc meetings with line
 managers. Peer advice is enhanced in many projects undertaken by people in UoA6 where a
 team approach is taken to delivering the research. This provides practical opportunities for
 people to learn in a collegiate manner about all aspects of research from project design and
 proposal writing, through the research phase to interpreting and presenting results. The
 importance of staff development is emphasised through regular meetings held at Theme and
 Centre level to report on progress and opportunities, and to celebrate successes by all staff.
 These include PhD vivas, promotions, publications, patents, prizes and outreach activities.


                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the last 3 years, all UoA6 staff have attended a variety of workshops/online Learning and
 Development, including Building Personal Resilience; Dyslexia Awareness; Introduction to Bid
 Writing; Writing the Perfect Bid; Time Management; Improving Social Media Presence; Writing
 Research Proposals; Promoting Wellbeing in the Workplace; Business Development Skills and
 Opportunities to Leverage Private and Public Funding. LinkedIn Learning provides access to
 over 13,000 on-demand courses to all staff for personal career development: 46% of UoA6 staff
 are users. All staff in the Unit have completed mandatory online learning that includes ED&I,
 General Data Protection Regulation and information security awareness.
 All staff have the flexibility to work from home and are encouraged to achieve a healthy work-life
 balance. In UoA6 we continue to focus on flexible working and homeworking, for example by
 promoting the recently revised Flexible Working and Homeworking policies especially to those
 returning from family leave (REF5a). Of the 40 UoA6 staff, five have formal flexible working
 arrangements in place, working either part-time or annualised hours (12.5% of the unit
 headcount: one woman, four men). In addition, policy changes banning out of hours emails
 (unless business-critical or caused by time zone differences if travelling) are enforced, and a
 half-day per week has been set aside for ‘scholarship’ to encourage academics to develop new
 ideas and prioritise preparation of outputs. Maternity and paternity meetings are held in advance
 of the leave with regular Keep In Touch (KIT) days and potential options to work flexibly on
 return. Since 2013, 2 UoA6 academics and 3 Research Fellows (RFs) took maternity leave and
 3 took paternity leave and/or worked flexibly.
 Support for academics in developing proposals has increased since 2014 with the formation
 of the Research & Innovation Office (RIO) (REF5a, www.cranfield.ac.uk/research/rio).
 Improvements in UoA6 have included:
      More formalised evaluation of research opportunities involving mentoring (particularly for
         ECRs), early internal review panels and mock interview panels for UKRI proposals.
      Greater consideration of external collaboration needs to enhance the research quality.
      A new working group developing NERC Highlight topics and other large funding
         proposals involving senior, mid-career and ECR academics.
      Stronger emphasis on prompt publication of research outputs, complemented by support
         on preparation of potentially high impact outputs, to enhance track record.

 At Cranfield, Post-doctoral Research Assistants who are early career researchers (ECRs) are
 called Research Fellows (RFs), who we aspire to develop to become Cranfield academics to
 meet our distinctive business needs (REF5a). As a signatory to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers, support for research careers from ECRs is implemented
 through actions aligned with our HR Excellence in Research (HREiR) plan
 (www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/rankings-and-awards).
 Exceptionally talented RFs have the opportunity to be appointed as Academic Fellows (AFs) on
 a 5-year contract, with the expectation of promotion to Lecturer: Five of the staff submitted in
 UoA6 are AFs. Six early career lecturers (67% female) have benefited from this route in the
 assessment period, following in the footsteps of five others prior to 2014. In the REF period 16
 people (19%) have advanced their careers to lecturer equivalent or above through the University
 promotion scheme. Through these supportive initiatives, combined with an ECR population that
 is 50% female, we aim to steadily increase the gender balance of staff in senior academic roles.
 Cranfield’s has a £6M 75th Anniversary Fellowship Scheme
 (www.timeshighereducation.com/hub/p/cranfield-universitys-fellowship-scheme-tackling-
 problems-future) to support up to 30 exceptional RFs from September 2020: one of the first



                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 three appointments was to UoA6 (https://www.cranfield.ac.uk/people/dr-daniel-evans-
 28309587).
 Research Fellows are integral to the research environment of UoA6, examples of this include:
     The regular UoA6 Theme and Centre meetings are used to promote these opportunities,
       to celebrate their successes, and to encourage open discussions with academic staff.
     Use of independent mentors is strongly encouraged in addition to advice available from
       immediate colleagues.
     All RFs are included in the University’s P&DRs. These focus on career development with
       opportunities to take on responsibilities to develop skills and experience.
     RFs can submit small proposals (e.g., the University’s HEIF and GCRF schemes) with
       support from an established academic and assist in the preparation of other proposals.
       Such contributions are formally recorded.
     Opportunities to teach are offered to RFs.

 We offer all RFs the opportunity to register for the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic Practice
 (PgCAP), which includes research supervision skills to enhance their academic career
 prospects. As of July 31st, 2020, 8 of 17 UoA6 RFs had registered for the PgCAP, with 2 already
 achieving HEA recognition (AFHEA or FHEA).
 Technical staff are essential to the success of our research and individuals are integrated into
 UoA6 projects in many ways, e.g., sample/data analysis, proposal preparation, and project
 management and delivery. Technicians who run the laboratory facilities are responsible for
 development, training on and troubleshooting of analytical instrumentation. UoA6 actively
 supports the Technician Commitment As a signatory to the Science Council’s Technician
 Commitment (REF5a, www.cranfield.ac.uk/about/working-at-cranfield/technician-commitment),
 implementing the following measures for the University action plan:
     Provide ongoing support and funding for technical staff development.
     included on papers where a contribution is made
     Support technical staff to become professionally registered, achieving a target an initial
        target of 10% of technicians professionally registered by June 2020.
     Ensure technician input is sought for strategic plans and proposals.
     Nominate technical staff for awards as appropriate.

 Additionally, UoA6 supports the Midlands Innovation (MI) TALENT Research England RED fund
 project which leads, and influences change to advance status and opportunity for technical staff.
 TALENT is led by Midlands Innovation, a consortium of eight Midlands universities, along with
 industry partners (www.mitalent.ac.uk/Home). Within this project, UoA6 has identified new
 opportunities for technicians to engage with colleagues across the consortium, attend shared
 training, share best practice, and learn new skills through a placement scheme. Two technicians
 (Dawson, Cowley) benefited from placements at Nottingham University to gain more
 experience with analytical techniques and operating research glasshouses.

 Equality, Diversity, and Inclusion (ED&I)

 Increasing the diversity of staff is an essential part of the overall Unit research strategy. Cranfield
 has taken action to embed ED&I practices across the university, e.g., achieving an institutional-
 level Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2017 and a further 5 years from 2020, joining Stonewall,
 member of Working Families (REF5a). All staff undertake online ED&I training, including training
 on unconscious bias. Unconscious bias and ED&I awareness training was run for the UoA6 REF

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 team, led by the Head of Diversity and Inclusion, to ensure compliance with our Code of Practice
 (REF5a, www.cranfield.ac.uk/research/why-cranfield/research-excellence-framework)
 In 2014 there were 27 staff in UoA6, 5 women and 22 men, and a conscious decision was made
 to redress this gender imbalance. There are currently 40 UoA6 staff, 12 women and 28 men, i.e.,
 females comprise 54% of the increase in staff numbers. The percentage of women increased
 from 19% of headcount in 2014 to 30% in 2020.
 We encourage and support women staff to join development programmes and networks:
       Advanced HE’s Aurora programme to encourages women in academic and professional
        roles to develop leadership skills, and to help institutions maximise the potential of
        women. Since 2013, three women in UoA6 (20% of UoA6 females) have taken part in
        Aurora and subsequently acted as role models. Places on Aurora are limited, but we aim
        for other women in UoA6 to be involved in future.
       The Women as Leaders programme provides the opportunity to mix with other female
        leaders at Lecturer to Professor grades and to develop strategic leadership skills. Since
        2013, two women in UoA6 (13%) have attended the workshop.
       Cranfield’s own Step Up network was launched in 2017 and provides an inclusive
        network to support and create career development opportunities for women at Cranfield,
        in line with the wider University ED&I Strategy and helps to address the gender pay gap
        by seeking to improve the female representation at senior levels. Three UoA6 female
        staff (25%) are Step Up members.
       We encourage participation in Soapbox Science that promotes women scientists to the
        public (Section 4).

 In 2014 11% of UoA6 academics shared their ethnicity as BAME: this has increased to 22% in
 2020. One person in UoA6 has shared they have a disability. Reasonable adjustments are made
 to provide support for this colleague. The small numbers in UoA6 limit the analysis that can be
 presented on ethnicity and LGBT. While the signs are positive, this remains a topic for ongoing
 awareness and action.
 Recruitment processes are continually reviewed to make them more inclusive and free from
 unconscious bias. In the most recent recruitment campaign, SWEE advertised several positions
 around the theme of ‘Green Economy’, with four vacancies in UoA6. The selection criteria were
 designed to avoid women feeling they did not meet all the essential criteria and self-selecting out
 of recruitment processes. The overall requirements were broad and aligned to SWEE’s priorities,
 but the specific subject matter was left open within that. The level was flexible and advertised for
 Lecturer/Senior Lecturer. Gender neutral language was used in the advertising material and job
 description, using a text decoding app. Statements were included which encouraged
 underrepresented groups to apply. Finally, emphasis was placed on our values of ‘community’
 and ‘respect’ and the flexible working and career progression support that staff at Cranfield have
 access to. This was specifically aimed at encouraging women to apply, as they are
 underrepresented in our STEM subjects in Cranfield. Final selections were made on meeting the
 selection criteria and this resulted in four appointments, two male and two female (Table 2.)
                    Table 2. Recruitment statistics for academic posts in UoA6.
                          Applicants       Short-listed    Offers           Hired
           Female         12 (24%)         6 (35%)         3 (50%)          2 (50%)
           Male           37 (76%)         11 (65%)        3 (50%)          2 (50%)




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research students

 An increase in the PhD cohort was an explicit aim of the drive to increase scholarship in UoA6. It
 was achieved with an average of 25.6 PhD research degrees awarded annually in the REF2021
 period compared to 13.7 in REF2014. This equates to an average of 4.70 degrees awarded per
 submitted staff FTE for the period. In 2019/20, there were 76 full-time or part-time research
 students (73 FTE) in the Environment and Agrifood theme. The students are 49% UK, 14% EU
 and 37% RoW, with 92% full-time and 8% part-time, and 54% male and 46% female. 11% had a
 recorded disability.
 Students receive support from a variety of sources including UKRI, usually through DTPs or
 equivalent; business and government; charitable trusts; and self-funding. The Cranfield Industrial
 Partnership PhD Scholarships, with 50% funding from Cranfield, encourages business co-
 operation. Additionally, students may receive Cranfield scholarships; about half of all recruited
 by UoA6 received support. In 2016, the Sue White Fund for Africa was established to provide
 scholarships for up to 3 PhD students a year in UoA6 on topics related to catchment processes
 and water management in Africa (www.cranfield.ac.uk/themes/water/sue-white-fund/about).
 UoA6 was involved in 6 UKRI PhD Training Consortia during the assessment period:
       DREAM CDT (NERC, www.dream-cdt.ac.uk). Data, Risk and Environmental Analytical
        Methods consortium led by Cranfield with Birmingham, Cambridge, and Newcastle.
       CENTA2 (NERC, https://centa.ac.uk). Central England NERC Training Alliance led by
        Birmingham with Cranfield, Leicester, Loughborough, Open and Warwick with the British
        Geological Survey (BGS) and Centre for Ecology and Hydrology (CEH).
       STARS (BBSRC, NERC, http://www.starsoil.org.uk/). Soils Training and Research
        Studentships led by Lancaster with Bangor, Cranfield, and Nottingham with BGS, CEH,
        James Hutton Institute and Rothampsted Research.
       AFTP (BBSRC, www.aftp.co.uk/) Advanced Agrifood Training Partnership led by
        Reading with Aberystwyth, Cranfield, and Harper Adams. Support for part-time PhDs at
        Cranfield is available.
       FoodBioSystems DTP (BBSRC, https://research.reading.ac.uk/foodbiosystems/).
        FoodBioSystems Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) directed by Reading, co-directed
        by Cranfield, with Aberystwyth, Brunel, Queen’s University Belfast and Surrey; and 54
        partner organisations.
       CTP-FCR (BBSRC, Agricultural and Horticultural Development Board (ADHB),
        https://www.ctp-fcr.org/) Collaborative Training Partnership for Fruit Crop Research led
        by Berry Garden Growers Ltd and NIAB-EMR with Cranfield, Essex, Harper Adams,
        Lincoln, Nottingham, and Reading.

 The OCP Group, a phosphate fertilizer producer, sponsors a DTP in UoA6, delivered in co-
 operation with Rothampsted Research, supporting the development of the next generation of
 Moroccan agricultural scientists and engineers (www.cranfield.ac.uk/press/news-2019/building-
 africas-resilient-agricultural-future-uk-morocco-partnership-announced).

 All PhD students join the pan-University Cranfield Doctoral Network (CDN), through which they
 are offered training in the Doctoral Researcher Core Development (DRCD) programme (REF5a,
 www.cranfield.ac.uk/research/research-degrees/cranfield-doctoral-network). In UoA6, PhD
 students join the Thematic Doctoral Network (TDN) for Environment & AgriFood, one of eight at
 Cranfield (REF5a). Led by a senior academic (Sakrabani), the TDN aims to build a sense of
 community and belonging for all doctoral students across the Theme through provision of

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focussed activities, many of which are also offered pan-University to encourage inter-disciplinary
 understanding. Specific to those in UoA 6 are:
       Monthly research forums, seminars and discussions among staff and students that
        include bioinformatics and plant genetics; crop, soil and water systems; modelling;
        postharvest and mycology.
       Leading the student response to COP26 for the CDN.
       Encouragement to apply for and accept placements to gain broad experience for career
        development. Organisations accepting placement students include Defra, Natural
        England, NIAB-EMF, Parliamentary Office for Science and Technology, Syngenta and
        Unilever.
       Research students from UoA6 have leading roles in Silsoe Aid for Appropriate
        Development (SAFAD), a British charity managed by Cranfield students
        (https://safadcharity.org). The students gain practical experience and insight into how
        charities operate to raise money. The funds from SAFAD are then used to send Cranfield
        graduates to Low Income Countries to work with local organisations in providing
        technical assistance and expertise on agricultural related issues, gaining field experience
        in return. SAFAD has sent over 340 volunteers to 40 countries.

 Student representation is embedded in the governance structure of Cranfield (REF5a) with
 membership of key decision-making bodies (REF5a). The Postgraduate Research Experience
 Survey (PRES) is used an important component of student feedback, used to inform the delivery
 of individuals’ research programmes and the research culture engendered locally by UoA6 staff
 and the Environment and AgriFood TDN.
 Recent alumni have made successful starts to their career based on their PhD research
 experience with employers including PepsiCo, Severn Trent, Department for Business, Energy
 and Industrial Strategy (BEIS), Defra, Deloitte Ventures, Unilever and Mondelez International.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research income

 The overall research income grew with a total of £23.0M compared to £14.6M in REF2014. This
 was driven by UKRI income growth, increasing from 12% to 41% of total. The growth was
 principally from BBSRC and NERC due to the increased emphasis on delivering fundamental
 research. As planned, this translated into increased support from industry, growing to 35%
 (27%). Income from charities is 4% (2%). EU government income was stable at 10% (12%).
 These changes offset reduction in support from UK government, mainly Defra, due to changes in
 funding policies (10% vs 47%).
 Selected major UKRI grants include:
 Metal contamination in rice (£1.45M, BBSRC, BB/P02274X/1, BB/R020388/1 Kirk, Corstanje,
 Simmons)
 Greenhouse abatement in soils (£790K, NERC, NE/P019668/1, NE/P019498/1, Williams)
 Grassland management (£200K, NERC/BBSRC, NE/R017387/1, Burgess)
 Innovation in the digital environment (£1.27M, NERC, Corstanje, Hallett)
 Enhancing nutrient use from biosolids for crops (£110K, NERC/BBSRC, NE/M012794/1,
 Sakrabani)
 UKCRIC Urban Observatory (£1.05M, EPSRC, EP/R017727/1, Harris, Jude)

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Implementing novel, sustainable potato storage (£525K, BBSRC, Terry)
 Soils and irrigation in Senegal (£160K, InnovateUK, 47259, Simmons)
 Fine bean growers in Kenya (£150K, InnovateUK, 105658, Simmons)
 Aflatoxins in Ethiopian peanuts (£380K, InnovateUK, 105663, Medina Vaya)

 Strategic management of the overall income mix successfully ensured the financial sustainability
 of UoA6 by providing strong basic research. Contact with government and industry continually
 challenges the relevance of our work and helps us work across a wide range of technology
 readiness levels. Underlying trends include a shift toward multi-institutional projects, more joint
 UKRI-funded academic/industry projects, and the development of longer-term relationships with
 specific companies (Section 4).

 Research infrastructure and facilities

 Cranfield has a range of unique research facilities, often at or near industrial-scale, to deliver the
 mission of transformational research that meets the needs of business, government and wider
 society (REF5a). Within UoA6 this includes access to real-world conditions on Silsoe Farm
 where crops are trialled. Other established facilities include the Soil Management Facility and
 Wolfson Field Laboratory (www.cranfield.ac.uk/facilities). These facilities are complemented by
 20 commercial farms associated with Agri-EPI. As noted in Section 1, investment in new
 facilities was a major component of the plan to improve the research environment in UoA6.
 A total of £13M was secured from Innovate-UK for two of the four new UK Agritech Centres
 (www.agritechcentres.com) with facilities and staff at Cranfield. Cranfield hosts the Agri-EPI’s
 Crop Technology Southern Innovation Hub (https://agri-epicentre.com/solutions/soil-crop-
 technology/southern-innovation-hub). CHAP is designed to make sure that the knowledge from
 the UK’s science base is translated into benefits for farmers and the food industry. Academia
 and industry work together to improve crop productivity and provide environmentally friendly
 solutions to a range of challenges (e.g., soil health, plant and soil-borne diseases).
 A £3.5M Plant Growth Facility (https://www.cranfield.ac.uk/facilities/plant-growth-facility) for
 plant phenotyping and soil health was opened in 2018 by Indra Nooyi (CEO and Chairman of
 PepsiCo). This is the world’s first phenotyping glasshouse facility designed to trial crop-soil
 systems under a multi-sensor gantry operating at a scale large enough to simulate controlled
 field conditions (1-24 m2). Incorporated is a 45m long, 5m wide soil lane designed to
 accommodate field scale operations, such as cultivation and drilling, in a controlled manner.
 Uniquely, the facilities can operate over multiple cropping cycles allowing insights into legacy
 effects of previous cropping practices on future crop production. The LemnaTec overhead multi-
 sensor phenotyping platform is used to monitor crop health, develop new sensors and sensor
 protocols in controlled soil-crop systems. Data is used to research the optimum data collection
 and analysis routines to direct farm management. Facilities include a sensor laboratory and
 sensors deployed on associated commercial farms.
 The Soil Management Facility (www.cranfield.ac.uk/facilities/soil-management-facility)
 comprises full-scale facilities for studying the dynamics of soil-machine-crop-water interactions,
 unique in Europe; full scale rigs for studying soil erosion, including simulation of different rainfall
 intensities and storm return periods; and a gravity-fed ‘rain tower’ allowing precise control of
 precipitation form and intensity for detailed studies of soil erosion processes. The soil and plant
 laboratory provides a full range of equipment and processes for soil and plant characterisation
 with comprehensive equipment for soil physical and hydrological measurements. These are
 complemented by the soil microbiology laboratory for measuring genotypic, phenotypic, and
 functional community level traits. The Wolfson Field Laboratory is an array of 24 large lysimeters

                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with contrasting, intact soil monoliths and real time sampling of emitted gases via automated
 closure systems connected to greenhouse gas measurement systems.
 A new £3.2M Agri-informatics Building was completed in February 2020 funded by Innovate-
 UK, the Wolfson Foundation, Agri-EPI and Cranfield (www.cranfield.ac.uk/press/news-
 2018/construction-begins-on--new-agri-informatics-facility--at-cranfield). It will provide the UK
 with a centre of excellence in data science related to precision agriculture and house the
 National Soils Collection and Reference Centre. Cranfield and its partners will use the facility to
 increase data quantity and quality, while using innovative informatics to support novel business,
 management, and policy approaches in the agricultural sector. Agri-EPI will focus on agri-tech
 research and innovation.
 The Environmental Analytical Facility (EAF) underwent a £1.2M Cranfield funded
 refurbishment in 2016. It comprises a series of shared laboratories for the analysis of surrogate
 parameters, trace contaminants and emerging pollutants in all media as well as experimental
 rooms for bench top and longer-term experiments (www.cranfield.ac.uk/facilities/environmental-
 analytical-facility). The facility is central to many PhD and academic research projects with more
 than 200 registered users a year. Staff have recently improved data quality and governance.
 The Plant Science Laboratory comprising full analytical capability for volatile and non-volatile,
 targeted and non-targeted metabolomics, and labs for molecular biology and plant genetic
 transformation supported by a 270 m2 research glasshouse (www.cranfield.ac.uk/centres/soil-
 and-agrifood-institute/research-groups/plant-science-laboratory). It has access to a full suite of
 HPLC MS, and GC devices equipped with a wide range of detectors. UoA6 has invested heavily
 in upgraded capabilities which now include a UPLC-qTOF-MS and LC MS/MS for metabolomics
 and compound discovery. New instruments are significantly improving our capability for high
 throughput mycology and bacteriology experiments as well as in elemental analysis and gas
 chromatography. Associated facilities include four environmental walk-in growth chambers and
 cold storage rooms with controlled atmosphere facilities.
 The Postharvest Research Facility enables fresh produce storage and ripening research by
 simulating and further evaluating industrial postharvest scenarios by controlling/modifying the
 temperature, relative humidity, and the surrounding atmospheric environment (CO2 and O2, and
 ethylene levels) of fresh produce during storage. This is complemented by 6 mini-pods which
 imitate controlled commercial stores and three respirometers (one 16-channel and two 24-
 channel) and allow real time monitoring of CO2, ethylene production and O2 consumption in
 packaging, storage, and controlled atmosphere conditions.
 In 2016 a £3.1M new building to support the Cranfield-based Facility for Airborne
 Atmospheric Measurement (FAAM) was opened with co-funding from NERC
 (www.cranfield.ac.uk/press/news-2017/universities-minister-jo-johnson-opens-new-multiagency-
 research-hub). It houses CEAI atmospheric sciences academics researchers and the NERC
 FAAM research aircraft team. This has secured the future of the FAAM facility at Cranfield with
 strong links to the atmospheric scientists and related academics in UoA6. The building also
 houses the outdoor air quality station, a key component of the Living Lab.
 Cranfield is one of six universities in UKCRIC (UK Collaboratorium for Research on
 Infrastructure and Cities) establishing urban observatories as platforms for research. Cranfield
 Urban Observatory is a major part of the University's Living Laboratory providing a £1M
 campus-wide sensor network. Cranfield’s semi-rural, peri-urban location at the centre of the
 Oxford-Cambridge Arc provides unparalleled research and learning opportunities to investigate
 how agriculture can develop within a complex natural and built environment. The network
 harnesses the latest sensor technology and includes environmental and infrastructure sensors to

                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 monitor factors such as air, water, and wildlife. Data, analytics, and visualisation are used to
 investigate infrastructure performance, quality of life and wellbeing, allowing studies of healthy
 and sustainable environments and the effects of planned change. Cranfield provides a unique
 infrastructure, including the global research airport and other large facilities, such as
 the wastewater treatment works, all controlled by the University.

 Data holdings

 LandIS (www.landis.org.uk). Cranfield is recognised by Defra as providing the National
 Reference Centre for Soils. This comprises the entire data derived from the former Soil Survey
 of England and Wales, which is now integrated into a searchable vector data system. The 5-year
 LandIS soil contract was renewed by Defra in 2018. Since 2017, LandiS data has supported
 over 90 projects for Defra, associated governmental departments (e.g., Ministry of Defence,
 MOD), agencies (e.g., Committee on Climate Change, Environment Agency), charitable trusts
 (e.g., The National Trust) and UKRI research (NERC, BBSRC). These core archives have been
 developed to produce the National Perils Directory (flooding and subsidence), CatchIS (a
 software tool for the management of water quality at catchment level), and Soil-Net (an online
 soil science resource). The datasets holdings underpin many research projects, including those
 with outcomes used by government to formulate and implement policy e.g., Agricultural Land
 Classification (Welsh Government).
 WOSSAC (www.wossac.com). Cranfield is the custodian of more than 20,000 soil survey
 reports, maps, imagery, and photographs produced over the last 80 years from 372 territories
 worldwide. This unique global resource covers a large part of the terrestrial surface of the planet.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

 Developing collaborations with national and international partners and funders has been central
 to UoA6’s research strategy. This has been achieved by raising the quality of academic research
 (Section 1), increasing participation in doctoral partnerships and enhancing scholarship through
 recruitment and promotion (Section 2). The working group for preparing NERC Highlight Topics
 and strategic proposals is specifically aimed at promoting research collaborations. Overall
 research income has risen with increases from several sources – this has been coupled with our
 hosting an increased number of national facilities which engender collaboration (Section 3).
 Consortium projects comprise an increasing proportion of the UKRI research budget and UoA6
 academics are participating in many of these, including with 18 UK universities in several DTPs
 or equivalent (Section 3). In 2020 we joined 10 other UK universities and the Science and
 Technology Facilities Council (STFC) Rutherford Appleton Laboratory as a member of the
 National Centre for Atmospheric Science (NCAS) (https://ncas.ac.uk/about/site-locations/). The
 NERC funded FAAM aircraft is based at Cranfield (Section 3) that facilitates NCAS research. We
 collaborate with 8 universities in Agr-EPI (https://agri-epicentre.com/membership/network/) and 2
 in CHAP (https://chap-solutions.co.uk/our-network/).
 Academics are proactively setting the agenda for government research and innovation
 strategies, e.g., leading the preparation of two successful NERC Highlight Topics ideas related
 to land use and ecology. They contributed to the BBSRC/UKRI National Plant Science Strategy
 2021 with the Impact Case Study ETHYLENE (Table 1.) used an exemplar for converting




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research to impact (www.ukri.org/about-us/what-we-do/strategies-and-reviews/uk-plant-science-
 research-strategy/).
 UoA6 staff led international-facing projects including EU projects on agroforestry and on biofuels
 (Burgess, Graves), NERC and GCRF projects on metal pollution of soils (Kirk), and EU and
 BBSRC projects on plant genetics in horticultural crops and potatoes (Kevei, Thompson,
 Mohareb, Terry). In the UK, projects include the Global Food Security’s Resilience of the UK
 Food System Programme (Hess); the UKRI/BBSRC Horticultural Quality and Food Loss
 Network (Terry) and BBSRC FoodBiosystems DTP (Co-Director) (Terry); a MOD project
 seeking ways to use its estate to contribute to the UK Government target of net zero carbon
 emissions by 2050 (Burgess, Corstanje, Hannam, Rickson, Williams, Hallett); 3 NERC
 consortium projects on ecosystem resilience at the rural/urban interface (JHarris, Corstanje);
 and, for the UK governments, the evidence base on the state of soil resources and soil
 protection policy has been assembled and assessed (Hannam, Deeks, Burgess, Holman,
 Graves, Rickson).
 Two projects were funded under the UKRI Covid-19 Urgency call; one a rapid assessment of the
 spatial consequences on the environment of pandemic responses and opportunities, using our
 food systems and soils capability (Burgess, JHarris, Williams) in co-operation with the James
 Hutton Institute; the other on the response of pollution levels in the Oxford-Cambridge Arc
 (NHarris).

 Industry collaboration

 Cranfield particularly values industry partnerships and has 14 strategic industrial research
 partnerships (REF5a). Two of those are led by UoA6: with Unilever (2011-to date) and PepsiCo
 (2013-to date). This major emphasis on the development of long-term partnerships with industry
 allows kick-starting of new ideas, developing impact from existing research and helping to
 develop future thought-leaders. Other significant examples of our successful collaboration with
 industry include:
       Hosting key components of the Agricultural Engineering Precision Innovation (Agri-EPI)
        UK Agritech Centre (https://agri-epicentre.com). The centre engages with industry to
        encourage the adoption of precision agriculture and engineering technologies to boost
        productivity across the whole agrifood chain by using next generation technologies such
        as sensing, imaging and robotics.
       Providing key soils data and expertise for the Crop Health and Protection (CHAP) UK
        Agritech Centre (https://chap-solutions.co.uk). Industry partners include Bayer, Liberty
        Produce and Tesco.
       Helping entrepreneurs and start-ups who are combating climate change with science and
        technology-based ideas in the areas of agriculture and food production as a partner in
        the SHAKE Climate Change programme, funded by Societe Generale UK Foundation
        (www.shakeclimate.org).
       Improving Produce World Group’s Soil-for-Life® Soil Management Information System to
        help improve its use of soils and marketable yields.
       Co-creating and leading the Johnson Matthey Agritech Partnership Programme offering
        small companies and start-ups from across the world intensive advice and funding for
        market translation of high impact innovations in Agritech
        (www.cranfield.ac.uk/business/develop-your-technology-and-products/johnson-matthey-
        agritech-partnership-programme).



                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Partnering with OCP Group (£14M, 2019-23) to boost agricultural productivity in Africa
        with partners Rothampsted Research and Mohammed VI Polytechnic University,
        Morocco. In addition to the DTP (Section 2),

 Contributions to research base

 Individual UoA6 academics are involved in many learned societies, Research Council
 assessments and journal editorships (Table 3.). Many UoA6 academics are members of
 research council equivalent organisation panels in other countries, including Canada, Republic
 of Ireland, The Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Russia and USA.
                 Table 3. Cranfield staff contributions to wider research activities.
          Indicator                                                               Number
          Fellowships of learned societies                                          25
          Committee members for learned societies, professional bodies              30
          Research Council Committee roles                                          14
          Grant reviewers for Research Councils                                     20
          Grant reviewers for charities, Royal Society and non-UK bodies            32
          Journal editor roles                                                      38
          Keynote and Invited Lectures                                              52
          Conference Chairs and Organising Committees                               22


 Staff have undertaken major roles in a number of national and international societies,
 programmes, and assessments:
     President (2018-20) Institution of Agricultural Engineers, first female since established in
         1938 (Rickson)
     Member representative, Agricultural Universities Council UK (Terry)
     Non-Executive Director, AgriEPI and CHAP (Terry)
     President (2017-18) British Society of Soil Science (BSSS) (Otten)
     President elect (2020-21), British Society of Soil Science; Division Vice-Chair (2018-22),
         International Union of Soil Science (Hannam)
     Intergovernmental Science-Policy Platform on Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services
         (IPBES) Lead Author and UK delegation, BioDiversa, UN and World Commission on
         Protected Areas (WCPA) programmes (JHarris)
     Vice-chair, Food and Agriculture Organisation Advisory Committee on methane (Cain)
     Co-chair (2014-present) Stratosphere–troposphere Processes And their Role in Climate
         (SPARC), a core project of the World Climate Research Programme (NHarris)
     UNEP Ozone Layer Science support: Scientific Assessment Lead author (2014), Review
         Editor (2018;) Advisory Group, Unreported CFC-11 Emissions report (2021) (NHarris)
     Chair, Oxford—Cambridge Arc Local Natural Capital Plan Partnership Group (Leinster)
     Member, Global Food Security Programme Tipping Points Working Group (JHarris)
     Advisor to Defra Chief Scientist on Living Laboratories and the Soil Microbiome (JHarris)
     National Digital Champions for Constructing a Digital Environment (Corstanje, Hallett)

 Notable awards and prizes include:
     Queen’s Anniversary Prize (2017) in recognition of education and research in large-scale
        soil and environmental data for the sustainable use of natural resources in the UK and
        worldwide.(Rickson, Hallett, Hannam, Terry)

                                                                                           Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       RCUK Research Base Impact Award (2015) for Soil-for-Life system KTP (Simmons,
        Corstanje, Hallett)
       Women Leaders UK winner (2019), Outstanding Contribution and Engineering, Science
        & Maths awards (Rickson)
       Society of Chemical Industry‘s Sydney Andrew Medal (2021) for encouraging the
        application of science for public benefit (Rickson)
       IAgrE President Award (2018) for outstanding contribution to development of sustainable
        soil management solutions (Simmons)
       Berkeley Award (2020), British Mycological Society (Medina-Vaya)
       NERC International Impact and Overall Impact Awards (2015) for role in the development
        of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer. (NHarris)
       Highly Commended Papin Prizes (2019) and Times Higher Education Awards,
        Outstanding Technician category (2020) for senior technician (Hubble).


 Outreach

 Nearly all UoA6 academics are involved in outreach in some way, whether through contributions
 on TV or radio, writing blogs, giving talks to schools, the public, farming groups, etc. A total of
 118 press releases were issued by UoA6, with one on the perfect avocado reaching an audience
 of 399 million and generating 50 news articles (www.cranfield.ac.uk/press/news-2020/new-test-
 could-guarantee-the-perfect-avocado). Four events exemplify UoA6’s commitment:
       Researchers from Cranfield University and the Open University are responsible for Soil-
        Net (http://www.soil-net.com), a free, online soil science resource for school pupils (KS1-
        4) and teachers which has been used by >1.5 million people in >200 countries
        worldwide. It aims to remedy the historic under-representation of soil in the school
        curriculum.
       Soapbox Science is a unique platform that promotes women in science by organising
        events in public spaces to reach people normally not attending scientific activities. The
        event showcases women in STEMM and their research. Hannam was founder of the
        event in Milton Keynes in 2015. It has provided public engagement training to ~60
        Cranfield academics and PhD students who annually engage with >1000 members of the
        public. It supported promotion cases and UKRI proposals to demonstrate impact and
        engagement of their research and developed a regional network of women in science.
       The Digital Champions (Corstanje, Hallett) in UoA6 organised the UKRI NERC-funded
        Digital Sprints in June 2020. They brought together environmental researchers, health
        and social science experts and data specialists to work together or individually to draw
        from NERC digital assets and datasets to consider the environmental impacts and
        consequences of Covid-19 and create a wealth of open, digital, environmental solutions
        to the pandemic. The four topics were air quality; recovery; ecosystem services; and
        visualising risk.
       Lockdown Lettuce Beds stimulated lettuce growing in Bedfordshire through an
        oversubscribed citizen science experiment set up in response to Covid-19 (Kourmpetli,
        Falagan).




                                                                                            Page 20
