Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Hull

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 a) Overview

 Historical research at the University of Hull (UoH) takes in a broad chronology, from the early
 medieval to the contemporary world. It is global in its scope and topical reach, with world-
 leading contributions to the history of Native America, the study of historic and contemporary
 slavery, oceanic and maritime history, continental and island histories. Particular thematic
 strengths are Indigenous studies and slavery, the environment, the history of conflict, empire,
 colonisation and state-formation, culture, gender, place and the history of commemoration and
 memory. In REF 2014, 70% of the UoAs research was scored as 4* and 3* and generated £1.01m
 in research income over the census period, in addition to substantial external support for PGR
 studentships through the AHRC-funded Heritage Consortium. Research activity is located in the
 Department of History, which is part of the wider interdisciplinary and cross-faculty research
 environment within the Faculty of Arts, Cultures and Education (FACE), that includes colleagues
 from other academic units (Geography, English, Business, Law, American Studies). These areas
 contribute to the UoAs research activity through collaborative and cross-disciplinary research
 projects, funding applications, University-funded research clusters, and PGR/T teaching and
 supervision.

 Within the History UoA, research activity and collaboration cohere around three main
 interdisciplinary nodes: the Treatied Spaces Research Cluster (TSRC), the Wilberforce Institute
 (WI) and the Gender, Place and Memory Cluster (GPM). These research nodes provide an
 environment for internal collaboration and serve as local hubs of international and interdisciplinary
 projects with research institutions in the UK and internationally. Research projects in the unit have
 active collaborative links from mainland Europe to Brazil, China, east Asia, the post-Soviet
 republics, and across North America connecting with HEIs, NGOs, policy makers, cultural and
 third sector organisations, creative and heritage industries. Our research also engages
 communities on the global margins: from sub-Saharan Africa, the Ngarigo and Walgal peoples of
 the Great Dividing Range in Australia, the Haudenosaunee of the American Northeast, LGBTQ
 communities in post-Soviet states, diasporic communities, and peoples disproportionately affected
 by modern slavery, climate change, and historically entrenched forms of inequality.


 b) Research Strategy

 This small but agile Department aims to strengthen its reputation by focussing its activities through
 research institutes and clusters, and through collaborative projects led by individual members of
 the UoA’s staff (Veach, Cresswell, Bankoff, Biskup). Over the next five years the focus will be
 placed on the continued expansion of TSRC and GPM into self-sustaining and internationally
 facing research institutes. A second area of focus will be to expand and deepen our contribution
 to the public and policy understanding of Global Challenges – climate change and environmental
 disasters; modern slavery, social justice and fairness. This agenda will be driven through: a) the
 TSRC’s core contribution to the £1.3m Leverhulme Centre for Water Cultures, whose mission
 is to frame a ‘green-blue’ humanities approach to cultural understandings of human relationships
 with water in coastal, estuarine and delta regions across the globe; b) WI’s engagement with the
 policy and business environment on the issue of modern forms of labour exploitation, criminal
 exploitation, and ethical standards in business supply chains activity.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Implementation of REF 2014 Strategy

 A new research strategy for History was developed and implemented following REF 2014 to guide
 the UoAs activity, 2014-20. It was based on broad consultation and led by the Director of
 Research. It is based around key research objectives:

    1. To increase and diversify research income. We achieved this by submitting bids worth
       £6.1m and securing £2.6m from UK charities, UKRO research councils and through
       international collaborations. The Department leveraged established strengths in the study
       of historic slavery and developed a potent new presence in the field of Indigenous studies.

    2. To connect and collaborate with the wider research community. We achieved this
       objective by expanding the scope of our interdisciplinary collaboration within the
       University, the generation of new research collaborations and income-generating projects,
       and the development of our existing leadership of AHRC doctoral consortia, and by
       significantly enhancing UoA representation in the AHRC Peer Review College.

    3. To expand PGR recruitment. History increased its PGR and PGT numbers through a
       blend of programme reform, by leveraging our leadership of the AHRC-funded Heritage
       Consortium and the ESRC-funded White Rose DTP on Cities, Environment and Liveability.
       PGT numbers have increased year on year.

    4. To enhance our research quality and impact. Research planning and support focussed
       on the production of high-quality outputs, and on enhancing the impact of our research
       by the cultivation of new global collaborations, and enhanced engagement with MG&A,
       third sector, policy and educational sectors, regionally, nationally and internationally.

 These objectives have been met, and in some cases exceeded. Grant income in the current
 census period has increased by 200% over REF 2014. The UoA has generated large collaborative
 and interdisciplinary projects that align with and serve to advance UoH strategic themes, namely
 environmental change and resilience, low carbon futures, and social justice. Plans for grant
 capture formed part of an enhanced programme of unit-wide research meetings and progress
 reviews, with successful applicants sharing and commenting on draft bids. The PGR intake has
 increased, with additional funded studentships attached to TSRC and GPM, established doctoral
 consortia, and new initiatives, including an AHRC-British Library Collaborative Doctoral Award
 on Indigenous languages and the Leverhulme Center for Water Cultures, which will recruit a new
 PGR cohort in 2021. UoA staff have produced over 200 high-quality outputs, including
 monographs, peer reviewed journal articles and chapters; the impact of this research has been
 widened through a growing network of over 120 external partners, including Museums, Galleries
 & Archives; international NGOs; and a range of council-funded research projects based at other
 HEIs.

 Treatied Spaces Research Cluster: Established with £100k in University seed funding in
 September 2017, the TSRC had quickly established itself as a leading research node for the
 exploration of the ways in which treaties concluded between Native American peoples and settler,
 colonial, and Federal governments shed light on questions of sovereignty; the possession of land;
 the use of space and the environment; the movements of peoples and goods; and pathways of
 war and disease. The TSRC seeks to deepen historical understanding of treaties as instruments
 of diplomacy and conquest and to present them as contested and dynamic historical documents
 which remain central to contemporary debates on social and environmental justice in both
 American and trans-national contexts. The TSRC is led by Porter and Prior, assisted by a full
 time ECR Research Assistant. In the first three years of its life, the Cluster has secured £2,135,867
 in funding, including a British Academy Visiting Fellowship to bring the internationally-renowned
 First Nations (Anishinaabe) scholar Dale Turner (University of Toronto) to UoH for eight months;
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship (Prior); a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship (Porter),
 which added Ray to the TSRC for three years; and a British Academy Global Professorship,
 which brings Gregory Smithers (Virginia Commonwealth University) to the UoH between 2020

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and 2024; and an AHRC Standard Research Grant, 2021-24. The TSRC supports two PGRs at
 PhD level, one with an AHRC-funded CDA with the British Library, and a second via an AHRC
 CDA with English Heritage and Historic England. The Cluster also leads on the series
 Cambridge Elements in Indigenous Environmental Research, and contributes content to the
 New Books Network, an author-interview podcast channel with 1.5 million downloads per month.
 The UoH has made substantial investments in research infrastructure to support the work of the
 TSRC, including the purchase of books, and a continuing subscription to the American Indian
 Histories and Cultures Database; the UoH has one of the UK’s strongest resource collections for
 the study of Native North America. The TSRC has also established a broad collaborative network:
 it is co-directed by Professor Pekka Hämäläinen (Rhodes Professor of American History, Oxford)
 and Professor Mark Walters (Dean, Faculty of Law, Queen’s University, Canada), and has active
 partnerships with the Georgian Papers Programme (KCL), the Omohundro Institute (College
 of William and Mary, Virginia), the Eccles Centre for American Studies, and a range of
 museums, galleries, archives and historic sites in the UK and the Northeastern United States and
 Canada.

 Wilberforce Institute: Established by core staff (Richardson) in the Department of History in
 2006, WISE is one of the world’s premier research centres for the study of historic and
 contemporary slavery, which recruited Burnard as its Director in 2019. A significant proportion of
 the UoA staff (Burnard, Evans, Oldfield, Porter, Ray, Prior, Richardson, Smithers, Spicksley)
 contribute to the research, dissemination and impact activities at WI. The Institute brings together
 experts in humanities, law and social sciences to help tackle the global problem of slavery by
 contributing both deep historical knowledge, and up-to-date business and government-focussed
 policy input. Through a combination of research, practice and knowledge-exchange, the WI gives
 leaders and communities the tools they need to help shape a better future. The Institute actively
 partners with governments, NGOs, communities, businesses and other organisations to inform
 policy, practice and public participation at a local, national and international level. Over the census
 period, WI has secured £1,455,776 in competitive research funding, including AHRC support for
 the Antislavery Knowledge Network. It has expanded its global reach with the appointment of
 Allain, and a cohort of ECRs Arocha, Clopot, Faulkner, Kidd.

 Gender, Place and Memory: established with £80k in University seed funding in September
 2016, GPM has become a leading centre for interdisciplinary research in early-modern women’s
 property ownership, litigation and role in the economy. A cross-faculty collaboration, the GPM has
 focused on interdisciplinary research that advances social justice by expanding knowledge of
 female agency in the past. GPM is led by Capern and McDonagh (Geography). Affiliated
 members include Spicksley (WI), Slatter (Geography) and Fitzer (English). GPM has been
 supported by full-time Post-Doctoral Associates Aston (Year 1) and Worthen (Years 2 & 3) (+
 Rhodes [ML cover]) leading to multiple joint publications including Women and the Land, 1500-
 1900 (November 2019), edited by Capern, McDonagh and Aston and arising from a 2015
 conference held at the University of Hull.

 The GPM PIs have secured £613,000 in funding, including two Leverhulme Trust Research
 Fellowships (Capern and McDonagh, 2019-2020), a Huntington Library Fellowship (Capern,
 2017), an Erasmus intern from Italy (mentored by Capern 2018) and a Marie Curie intern from
 Spain (mentored by McDonagh 2019), and a £333k AHRC Standard Research Grant
 (McDonagh) GPM has evolved into a nationally important centre for women’s and gender history,
 recognised through a following of over 1000 people on Twitter. It acts as a significant doctoral
 training centre in the research area. The first two PhD students passed in 2019 (including one
 AHRC CDP/Capern co-supervised with The National Archives). A further three PhD students
 have submitted pending viva in 2019 (one AHRC Heritage Consortium and two University
 funded). Six PhD students and one MRes student are funded by AHRC, ESRC and the University,
 or have been attracted to GPM as self-funded students. Apart from dozens of ECR conference
 presentations, PGR students organised a conference on Women’s Negotiations of Space, 1500-
 1900 which was supported by £2000 of external funding from three external bodies including the
 Women’s History Network and attracted over 50 delegates. Impact work of the GPM includes
 planned publications, grant applications, international networking and outreach activities with the

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Trust and The National Archives. Current research of the PIs is now taking the
 research on female property ownership and litigation in the direction of transatlantic comparisons.

 Future Strategy

 Despite the fact that core staffing levels have remained static during the census period, the UoA
 has used a broad and consultative process of UG curriculum reform to refine its research
 strengths, while retaining significant geographical, temporal, and topical scope. A number of staff
 (Baker, Bankoff, Burnard, Biskup, Porter, Prior, Smith, Smithers, Veach) have trans-national
 and trans-temporal interests that connect environmental, political, Indigenous, and cultural
 histories. The unit is now consolidating its core strengths around three broad areas of focus that
 align with the UoH’s core strategic priorities and UKRI Delivery Plans.

 Global Challenges – conflict of resources (water), the environment, changing borders, mobility,
 migration, precarity

 Historic and Contemporary Rights – slavery, Indigenous rights, gender and minority rights, justice
 and exploitation

 Digital Storytelling – immersive environments, data visualisation, gaming, cultivating new digital
 audiences, heritage after Covid-19

 Our aim is to make a contribution across defined areas of UK strategic priority, aligning our activity
 with UKRI Delivery Plans. The first is to develop an interdisciplinary approach to contemporary
 global challenges by expanding the reach of our global engagement, linking specifically with
 communities and peoples who have traditionally been relegated to the global margins, and using
 the mechanism of the environmental ‘green-blue’ humanities to make a defined contribution to the
 UoH’s strategic focus on fairness, green economies, and coping with environmental change.
 Projects already active in this strand are Smithers’ British Academy Global Professorship project
 ‘Native Ecologies: A Deep History of Climate Change’, and Porter’s project ‘Canada’s Green
 Challenge’. Second, through our research clusters and contributions to University Research
 Institutes, including the Energy and Environment Institute, we will shed perspective on and
 enhance engagement with contemporary challenges, namely modern slavery, Indigenous
 rights, and women’s and LGBTQIA2S+ rights. The third is to contribute to the development of
 the UK’s cultural research infrastructure, with a focus on e-infrastructure, the demand for which
 has been sharply increased as the result of Covid-19. We seek to enhance the cultural value of
 research, and to use digital technology to engage audiences of the future with the UK’s diverse
 cultural assets.


 2. People

    i)       Staffing strategy and staff development

    a) Equality: The UoA has worked to create a space of learning and research that is
       strengthened by a diversity of people, ideas and beliefs. Since RAE 2008, the UoA has
       been strongly committed to staffing appointments that address historic imbalances in
       gender, recruiting female ECRs (Baker, Cresswell) and appointing Porter as the UK’s first
       female Professor of Indigenous History. We provide a supportive environment that ensures
       full participation and recognition of excellence. Women are represented in Departmental
       leadership and management roles, including Head of Department, Research Co-Ordinator,
       Directors TSRC and GPM. The preponderance of staff at SL level are women, and all staff
       benefit from flexible working arrangements, consideration of caring and childcare
       responsibilities in the scheduling of meetings and allocation of out-of-hours roles
       (recruitment, schools liaison, Open and Applicant days). Support is offered through
       initiatives such as the Minerva Network for Academic Women; the Women in Higher
       Education Network; and Advance HE’s Aurora Programme. These build on the UoH’s

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Athena Swan Bronze Award. The UoA is represented on Faculty and University-level
       Athena Swan working groups, and all staff are required to complete online training in
       Diversity in the Workplace, Diversity in Learning and Teaching. Additionally, Early
       Career Academics benefit from mentoring, access to the Vitae RD Framework, and a wider
       range of staff development opportunities, including the University’s Leadership
       Programme.


    b) Leadership and Mentoring: Research in the Department is managed by the Director of
       Research, a role that was divided in 2019 to comprise the separate posts of Research
       Director (.1 FTE) and REF Lead (.2 FTE). These two post holders work collaboratively on
       REF planning, research strategy, and funding applications, and co-ordinate activity through
       a Research Committee comprised of academic colleagues and PGR student members.
       The administration of research activity is supported by the FACE Research Office, and
       through annual Performance Review meetings with all UoA staff with significant
       responsibility for research. Mentoring is provided informally within the UoA, and formally
       through a Faculty-wide Mentorship Scheme that pairs colleagues across UoAs. This
       support includes regular meetings to consider publications in draft, funding applications, 5
       year research plans, and continuing professional development. Research leadership at
       Faculty-level is provided by the Associate Dean for Research, responsible for overall
       strategic and practical support. This includes the co-ordination and support for large
       funding applications, which are reviewed by a Faculty Peer Review College. All research-
       active staff are entitled to apply for one term-length period of research leave in every six
       terms; allocated research time is formally timetabled, and grant submission and success
       is recognised through formal Workload Allocation. Staff on leave have completed
       monographs and successful bids for competitive funding. Those on leave (both University
       and externally funded) at the onset of COVID-19 have been supported to make rapid
       adjustments to the timing of projects, including support with extensions to grants to allow
       scheduled travel to archives, and time-limited PDRA support.

    c) ECR / Mid-Staff: Despite static staffing levels in the UoA, the award of external funding
       has been leveraged to provide career development opportunities for ECRs: Leverhulme
       Research Fellowships awarded to Prior, Capern and Veach resulted in ECR
       appointments where teaching allocations were adjusted to ensure that role holders were
       able to make significant advances in individual research projects. ECRs benefit from the
       same research support and infrastructure as permanent staff, and are eligible for Faculty
       research funds, continuing professional development, and receive mentoring as part of the
       arrangements described in the previous sections. ECRs on open-ended contracts have
       contributed to the research excellence of the UoA through the award of an Early Career
       AHRC (Creswell) and an AHRC Networking Grant (Baker). The UoA recognises the
       Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. Postdoctoral researchers
       attached to WISE, TSRC, GPMC and to individual projects (Bankoff) receive mentoring
       and career development support; contribute to the planning and writing of grant
       applications; serve as a bridge between permanent staff and PGRs; and are eligible to
       receive Faculty research support funding. To ensure ECR support and successes across
       the History UoA, Capern acts as the formal lead on ECR development across the Faculty
       of Arts, Cultures and Education, sitting on the University Concordats Steering Group for
       Researcher Development and the University Research Committee. ECR activity in History
       is firmly in alignment with the Vitae Research Development Framework. Workshops have
       been held on planning and preparing for REF and research grant writing. There have been
       virtual research networking days and ECR attendance at international research sandpits.
       Benefitting ECRs are Hopson, Chetwood, Ramsden, Rowling, Whiteoak, Worthen, who
       have been supported in the completion of publications, preparation of external grant and
       fellowship applications, and interview for HE sector posts. ECRs have been given targeted
       support by the Research and Innovation Funding Office, Faculty-level Research
       Development Managers and by intra-Faculty researchers to drive interdisciplinary training
       and collaboration. Liaison with the Economic History Society in 2020 led to a .4 externally

                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          funded ECR appointment for coordination of EHS social media and conference
          organization activity (Whiteoak).


    d) Third sector links: Third sector links are a central pillar of research institutes at UoH,
       playing a prominent role in the cross-fertilisation of academia, public and cultural
       institutions and NGOs. The Wilberforce Institute led on a series of world-leading projects
       with extensive third sector links to deepen understanding and to shape responses to the
       challenge of contemporary slavery. Oldfield leads the AHRC Anti-slavery Knowledge
       Network, the Horizon 20/20 European Colonial Heritage Modalities Entangled Cities
       (ECHOES) and is co-director on the AHRC Anti-Slavery Usable Past (ASUP). These
       projects include work with community film makers, educational programmes designed for
       schools and arts-based community projects created through a formal tendering process
       with NGOs. The ASUP works to end global slavery by building on international partnerships
       with the heritage sector, policy makers and NGOs, and has subsequently built up a series
       of inter-sector partnerships including ‘Historians Against Slavery’ and ‘Lawyers against
       Slavery’ to provide practical aids for creating modern strategies and campaigns to tackle
       slavery. In 2016 the ASUP focussed specifically on third sector archives and the utilisation
       of heritage resources in modern day campaigning against slavery. The AHRC-funded
       Heritage Consortium (HC) directed by Capern works in strategic partnership with eight
       regional, national and international heritage organisations and networks, as well as with a
       wider network of over 70 partner organisations, to deliver doctoral training that promotes
       collaboration between academia and heritage professionals to foster new skills vital to
       future heritage provision. UoH research students benefit substantially from the HC’s third
       sector collaborations, to facilitate professionally-informed research, such as cataloguing
       and conservation at the Hull History Centre and the East Riding Council. Work placements
       and heritage mentors for research students have been secured globally (John Soane
       Museum, Stratford Hall, Virginia, Church of England). Treatied Spaces Research Cluster
       (TSRC): Directed by Porter and Prior, the Cluster has built up an extensive global network
       of third sector links to enhance the study of treaties in an international context. These
       include the American Museum and Gardens, New York State Parks, Assembly of First
       Nations, North American Native Museum, the Royal Archives. New collaborations with
       Historic England and English Heritage will focus on the Indigenous presence in a range of
       historic cultural locales, and make a direct contribution to the national effort to decolonise
       the UK’s cultural assets. Other UoA staff have also worked extensively with third sector
       organisations in an advisory capacity. Bankoff is an advisor for the International
       Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies, and he co-authored the 2014 World
       Disasters Report. Cresswell is a historical advisor for the St Johns Ambulance and both
       Porter and Ray have advised on Indigenous American exhibitions in the UK and the USA.


    ii)      Research students

    a) Community: PGRs are integral to the research culture of the UoA. PGRs organise and
       run an annual conference that brings regional and national participants to the University.
       All PGRs have allocated office space in the Department with networked PCs and
       telephones. PGRs run their own committee that feeds issues forward to the Departmental
       Leadership team; they maintain a robust social media presence, via Twitter, Facebook,
       and blog posts; and they organise reading groups; regular seminars, work in progress and
       networking events. As the COVID-19 lockdown set in, the PGR community worked with
       the Department to put in place regular online meetings to discuss work in progress, share
       tips on research under lockdown, and to provide other forms of emotional and practical
       support. Several PhD vivas were successfully completed using Microsoft Teams.
    b) Recruitment: the UoH recruits to its PGR community through leadership of The Heritage
       Consortium and the Northeast Consortium for Arts and Humanities. The Heritage
       Consortium UKRI/AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Training programme was established in
       2014. Based in History, it had 5 intakes of doctoral students to 2018, with a global total of


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       62 students, 52 on CDT funding plus 2 affiliated AHRC CDA students and 8 other funded
       studentships. Total UKRI/AHRC funding to December 2020 was £1,898,599.92
       (c.£170,000 expected 2021), match-funded by the consortium (Hull, Northumbria,
       Huddersfield, Teeside, Bradford, Sheffield Hallam, Leeds Beckett) to £2.5m. The HC is co-
       ordinated by a member of the History UoA (Cresswell, Capern), and has generated
       significant research capacity building in all participating HEIs, including building
       generative partnerships with non-HEI organizations right across Yorkshire and the North-
       East. At Hull it has partnered fruitfully with WI and other University Research Institutes.
       Collective PGR interdisciplinary and future-facing research has been established through
       mechanisms such as the annual Heritage Consortium conference. The end-of-grant
       conference will build legacy through alumni participation. The UoA is also one of the seven
       member of the ESRC-funded White Rose Social Sciences DTP that is dedicated to urban
       socio-economic change and responses through policy, governance and communities. CPD
       for PGRs is provided via career development workshops run by the Heritage Consortium,
       NECAH, White Rose, and TSRC and GPM.
    c) Employability: the UoH’s Doctoral College runs a programme of events throughout the
       year, which prominently features activities to support PGR career and continuing
       professional development, including a PhD Thesis Boot Camp, and a regular Writing
       Support Group, led by academic and DC staff, a PGR Development Skills Forum. All of
       this activity was swiftly moved online from March 2020. The UoAs doctoral consortia and
       research clusters are linked to over 120 partner organisations, from heritage to third
       sector, government policy, arts organisation, museums, galleries and archives, and offer
       experiential and placement-based opportunities, feedback on research plans, mock
       interviews, and guidance on public engagement.
    d) Progression: all PGRs attend monthly supervisions with two-person supervisory teams;
       student progress is supported by Six Month Reviews and a formal Annual Monitoring
       Review overseen by the Doctoral College, and chaired by a member of the UoA staff who
       is not part of the supervision team; the PGR Director (Ray) oversees Departmental
       processes and workflows of supervision and monitoring paperwork with the Faculty
       Research Office and the Doctoral College. Quality and student experience are
       monitored by the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey (PRES), an online survey
       hosted by the Higher Education Academy which is used to identify areas of best practice
       and to identify areas that require support and improvement. With the onset of COVID-19,
       all PGRs were supported by their supervisory teams to develop an Action Plan to make
       adjustments identify contingencies to address disruptions to research travel and the impact
       of illness and/or caring responsibilities to writing plans.
    e) Recognition: UoH History PGRs have obtained substantial external recognition through
       academic prizes, fellowships and bursaries demonstrating a high quality of training. Taylor
       won the 2020 Royal Air Force Museum Doctoral Academic Prize, and has been
       commissioned by BBC Radio 4 and History Hit TV to produce original content on British
       military aviation in WW2; Hanley (Royal Historical Society Alexander Prize), Raven (The
       Parliamentary History Essay Prize; Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, University of
       Nottingham), Hatton (Cumberland Lodge Scholar), Matthews (Research Center
       Sanssouci Fur Wissen Und Gesellschaft Visiting Fellow), Schlag (Paul McQuinn Research
       Fellow at the John Carter Brown Library), Hopson, Hatton and Mair (British Association
       of American Studies Travel grants). During the current census period, the Department
       awarded 34 doctoral degrees; fifteen History PGRs have published in peer reviewed
       publications; and fourteen History PGR graduates are currently in academic employment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income: The UoA has achieved successful income generation, capturing a wide range of grants
 (standard research grants, research fellowships, visiting fellowships, early career grants and
 networking grants) generating over £2.6 million. This has been obtained from a variety of sources
 (The British Academy, Leverhulme, AHRC, Horizon 20/20 and the Wellcome Trust). Major income
 has been secured by Porter who received a Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship for ‘What
 Would Nixon Do? The Forgotten Roots of American Environmentalism’, and an AHRC Standard

                                                                                           Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Grant with Prior as CO-I. In addition, Porter secured support for visiting academics
 through the British Academy (Visiting Fellowship, Dale Turner Dartmouth College) and a Global
 Professorship (Gregory Smithers, Virginia Commonwealth University). Oldfield has contributed
 to large collaborative projects that bring a share of income to the UoA: ‘Stolen Lives (AHRC,
 £80K); The Anti-Slavery Useable Past’ (AHRC £1.7m); the ‘Anti-Slavery Knowledge Network’
 (AHRC, Global Challenges, £2m); ‘European Colonial Heritage’ (ERC Horizon 2020, £1.6m).
 Bankoff received funding from NERC for ‘Earthquakes without Frontiers’, (£111,035), and an
 AHRC Research Grant, ‘Local Governance and Community Resilience’, (£370,359). Cresswell
 won an AHRC Early Career Research Grant for ‘Crossing Boundaries: The History of First Aid in
 Britain and France’ (£200,711) and a research bursary from the Wellcome Trust for ‘Oxfam and
 the History of the War, Health and Humanitarianism.’ Capern, Prior, Spicksley and Veach have
 all received prestigious Leverhulme Research Fellowships. Baker secured an AHRC Network
 award for ‘United Nations Television in Croatia and Bosnia Herzegovinia’, (£29,588). Bankoff
 obtained a Distinguished Research Fellowship from Murdoch University, Australia.

 Scholarly Infrastructure: The ability of the UoA to sustain its innovative research activity is
 enhanced by the UoH’s significant investment in Library services. The Brynmor Jones Library
 (BJL), refurbished in 2014 with a total spend of £28m, boasts an outstanding research collection
 consisting of 1 million monographs and a yearly spend of c. £2m on journal subscriptions and
 databases. The Library has world-class support for emerging areas of strength in History,
 particularly the history of Native North America, historic and contemporary slavery. The archival
 holdings of the University are housed at the Hull History Centre, managed in partnership with Hull
 City Council, and encompass private and family papers, nationally significant collections related
 to local figures, historic and contemporary manuscripts, and University-related material. The BJL
 supports research teams and individuals in History through its Learning & Research Group, led by
 a Research Support Librarian who contributes to the design and offer of skills development on
 ‘gold’ and ‘green’ level OA, data management, digital archiving using the UoA’s digital repository,
 HYDRA.

 Operational and organizational infrastructure: Support for historical research is provided at all
 levels of the University. Depending on the value and complexity of funding applications, support
 is provided by the University’s Research and Innovation Funding Office (EU-FP7, council bids
 >£1m); the Research & Innovation Development Team (RIDT) the Faculty of Arts, Cultures and
 Education’s Research Office (led by an Associate Dean, supported by 2 FTE admin staff); and by
 the UoAs Research Director (Prior). The RFO and RIDT staff complement of 9 FTE offer
 comprehensive support for funding applications, from initial project planning to post-award
 administration; this support is a major contributor to History’s success in grant capture at all levels,
 with an increase in the number of applications submitted, funding levels, and ratio of success. The
 Treatied Spaces Research Cluster alone has an 80% success rate, and currently administers 6
 active projects. At Faculty level, researchers in History benefit from the support of two Research
 Development managers, and an internal Peer Review College that is made up of successful
 applicants who offer advice, support and critical feedback at key stages of each application. The
 Faculty also administers the Internal Research Staff fund to support research project grant
 planning, knowledge exchange, and collaborative interdisciplinary projects. At Departmental level,
 researchers in History receive support for research project planning from the Research Director
 who arranges initial peer reviews, and oversees the workflow of pre-submission projects through
 Worktribe, the University’s research information platform.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 i) National and international collaboration: The UoA has a wide range of international and
 national collaborations, ranging from formal institutional research networks to collaborative
 research projects with academic colleagues and a variety of public and third sector organisations.
 The majority of colleagues have networks in the UK and many collaborate with European
 institutions. These span from Ireland to Norway. (Veach), Hungary (Baker), Germany (Biskup),
 Switzerland (Porter) the Netherlands and Poland (Oldfield). Furthermore, UoA staff have built up

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 substantial networks globally, including in Sierra Leone and the Democratic Republic of Congo
 (Oldfield), the United States & Canada (Biskup, Porter, Prior, Oldfield and Ray), New Zealand
 and Australia (Bankoff, Capern, Cresswell and Macleod) & Southeast Asia (Bankoff).

 ii) Visiting and other fellowships: Contributions to the Research environment have been made
 through an array of visiting fellowships from UoA staff. Eight UoA staff are Fellows of the Royal
 Historical Society, whilst other members have been awarded competitive research fellowships.
 These include Porter’s Leverhulme Trust Major Research Fellowship and a Fulbright All-
 Disciplines Scholar Award at Dartmouth College; Biskup’s Research Fellowship at the Herzog
 August Library and The Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton; Burnard’s Heinz Heinen
 Fellowship at the University of Bonn; Capern’s Mayers Fellowship at the Huntington Library;
 Cresswell’s University of Oxford Bodleian Libraries Sassoon Visiting Fellowship; Macleod’s
 election to a Canterbury Fellowship (NZ); Ray’s Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Fellowship at the
 Huntington Library as well as his Earhart Foundation Fellowship in American History at the William
 L. Clements Library at the University of Michigan, and Bankoff’s Distinguished Research
 Fellowship from Murdoch University (AUS). Capern, Prior, Spicksley and Veach held
 Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowships during the census period.


 iii) Membership of national and international committees: Four members of the UoA have
 served as panel members of AHRC, GCRF and UKRI FLF Peer Review Colleges. Porter is a
 member of the AHRC strategic review panel, serves on the Research Excellence Framework
 History sub-panel 2021 and is a review panel member of the Fulbright United States-United
 Kingdom Educational Commission. Baker was commended with a Gold Standard Letter from the
 AHRC and Prior serves as a member of the UKRI future leader fellowship review panel. Five UoA
 members have served in elected positions for learned societies, including Chair of the Society for
 the Social History of Medicine (Cresswell); and as Treasurer for the International Society of First
 World War Studies (Macleod). Colleagues have also served as Advisory Board members for
 collaborative projects and external consulting, including AB membership for DEFRA assessment
 (Bankoff); Scholars Advisory Board, Tennessee State Museum (Ray) and an international
 advisory board member for the research project ‘Between Class and Nation’ at the University of
 Graz (Baker).

 iv) Editorial positions and activities: All UoA staff are active in editorial and review work as
 editors, members of editorial boards and as academic reviewers across multiple interdisciplinary
 publications. Porter serves as lead editor of the series Cambridge Elements in Indigenous
 Environmental Research; Capern serves as series editor on Gender and History (Palgrave);
 Burnard sits on the editorial boards of Slavery and Abolition, Atlantic Studies, and on the Brill
 series ‘Early American History’, and serves as the editor of the Oxford Online Bibliography in
 Atlantic History; and Ray as editor of the Tennessee Historical Quarterly. Nine members of the
 UoA serve on the Advisory Boards of high impact journals including Eighteenth Century Thought,
 Slavery and Abolition, British Journal for Military History and Environment and History.

 v) Reviewing for journals, publishers and research funders: The UoA have refereed for over
 80 national, international and cross-disciplinary journals in five languages. These encompass a
 wide range of disciplines, including international relations, gender studies, environmental history,
 political science, cultural studies and include high impact journals such as English Historical
 Review, American Historical Review, The William and Mary Quarterly, Annals of Historical
 Geographers and The Journal of American History and The Journal of Modern History. Members
 have also reviewed for in excess of 30 publishers including CUP, OUP, Yale, Manchester UP,
 Bloomsbury, Routledge, Brill, Boydell and Brewer, and University presses of Virginia, Nebraska,
 Georgia, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin.

 vi) Examination of doctorates: Members of the UoA have externally examined doctorates from
 over 25 universities, both within the UK and internationally. These include, Exeter, Edinburgh,
 UCL, St Andrews, Nottingham, Sheffield, Swansea, Saint Louis University-Missouri, Melbourne
 and the University of Potsdam in Germany.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 vii) HE consultancies: Porter is a History sub-panel member and interdisciplinary member of the
 Research Excellence Framework, 2021. As outlined above, colleagues have served as grant
 application reviewers or on peer review panels (4 members of staff), including the AHRC, GCRF
 and the UKRI. UoA members have also reviewed for 16 research funders including the Natural
 Environment Research Council (Porter); UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship review panel (Prior);
 The Wellcome Trust (Cresswell); the Royal Society and the Institute of Advanced Study,
 Princeton (Biskup, Crouch) and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada (Prior).

 viii) Prizes: In 2015, WISE was awarded a Queen’s Anniversary Prize in recognition of it
 research, teaching, and knowledge exchange activity that examines the historical origins and
 contemporary resonances of global slavery.

 ix) Conference organisation and participation as invited keynote speaker or presenter: All
 UoA staff has contributed to conference participation with over 35 invited keynote lectures
 across the world, including named keynotes at the British Association for Canadian Studies, the
 British Library, Plymouth University, (Porter); Virginia Commonwealth University (Porter); All
 Souls College, The University of Oxford (Veach); Norwegian University of Science and
 Technology (Smith); Australian National University (Macleod); University of Copenhagen
 (Baker) and the Institute of Geography, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-
 Nürnberg (Bankoff).




                                                                                         Page 10
