Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: De Montfort University
 Unit of assessment: 18
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE
 Leicester De Montfort Law School is a vibrant scholarly community, internationally recognised as
 a centre of excellence in the provision of academic and professional legal education. With over
 1,700 students, the School is one of the largest in the country. Research is key to our mission.
 During the census period we have continued our trajectory towards a world-leading research
 environment. Since REF 2014, the number of staff submitted as Category A researchers has
 risen from 11 to 24. This largely reflects significant strategic investment in research-active staff
 (see 2.1) as well as developing staff who were not returned in REF 2014 through a mentoring
 process. This increase in research staff has seen corresponding increases in high-quality
 outputs, research student completions, grant capture and impactful research as evidenced by
 our impact case studies. As a School, we believe strongly in a synergy between research,
 scholarship and teaching. This agenda is driven by the Head of School (Hillier) who has won
 University and Faculty awards for his own research-informed teaching.
 During the assessment period, our structure and strategy evolved to accommodate a change in
 institutional research governance. Research in the UOA was traditionally managed at School
 level. This served us well when the number of active researchers was modest. DMU adopted a
 new Research Institute Structure and, since 2018 research activity in the Unit has been
 managed by the Institute for Evidence-Based Law Reform (2018–2020) and its successor, the
 Centre for Law, Justice and Society (2020–). As the numbers of research-active staff has more
 than doubled over the census period, moving to this new structure has provided coherence.

 1.2 RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 1.2.1 Research strategy
 The research strategy as articulated in REF 2014 was designed to enhance research strength in
 the Unit at a time when there was significant growth in both student and staff numbers. The aim
 was ambitious: our strategy was designed to cement our reputation internationally as a School
 engaged in cutting-edge research across a wide range of legal specialisms. Senior staff
 contributed to the development of the University and Faculty research strategy over the same
 period and this helped ensure institutional alignment. The School strategy focused on:
 •   Fostering and preserving an exciting and supportive research culture at a time of increasing
     demands on staff time, largely due to sizeable increases in undergraduate recruitment.
     Strategic appointments have been research-focused and have included three additional
     professorial posts and 11 VC2020 lectureship / senior lectureships (see 2.1 for further detail).
 •   Retaining distinctive areas of disciplinary excellence within the research community. The
     School has a long-established reputation for world-leading research in criminal law and
     justice and many senior researchers (DBaker, EBaker, Bettinson, Dingwall, Hillier,
     Mackay, Rumney, Walsh) continue this tradition. The School also has a distinguished
     tradition in medico-legal research. Recent work (Akintoye, Mackay, Samanta)
     demonstrates that the distinctive contribution to the field made by researchers in the Unit
     endures.
 •   The establishment of the Institute for Evidence-Based Law Reform (directed by Hillier).
     While the Institute met its objectives, it was succeeded by a new Centre for Law, Justice and
     Society in 2020 (directed by Shaw) as it was felt that this more accurately reflected the
     overarching themes of scholarship in the School (see next section).




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.2 Research and impact strategy 2014–2020
 DMU introduced a new research governance model based around research institutes and hence
 the strategy post-2018 was determined by the establishment in 2014 of our groundbreaking
 Centre for Law, Justice and Society (formerly the Institute of Evidence-Based Law Reform). Our
 current strategy prioritises:
 •   Developing the work of the Centre for Law, Justice and Society (CLJS):
        o   the Centre has been reframed during 2020 under the new directorship of Shaw to
            provide a supportive environment for a wide range of diverse research activity.
            Interdisciplinarity characterises the Unit’s research and CLJS reflects the permeable
            boundaries of the normative intersecting with empirical and other disciplinary
            methodological approaches. For example, in the area of criminal law and criminal
            policy, our research embraces theoretical work about normative principles (DBaker,
            EBaker, Bettinson, Dingwall, Hillier, Mackay, Robson). Institute members also
            embrace interdisciplinary theoretical work with disciplines including environmental
            science (Antonopoulos, Wilkinson Cross), equine science (Merritt), the humanities
            (Shaw), psychiatry (Mackay) and psychology (Hillier, Pajon, Walsh). Four research
            clusters have emerged to encourage and support interdisciplinary research
            approaches: contemporary issues in criminal policy; critical interdisciplinarities –
            transcending legal boundaries; international law, transnational governance and global
            justice; and marginalised voices – gender, power and equality.
 •   Fostering international networks in areas of research specialism to enable academics to play
     an outward-looking and collaborative leadership role:
        o   notable examples of this activity include the DMU–China University of Political
            Science and Law Asian Law network (DBaker), the Sexual Violence and Domestic
            Violence Research Network (Bettinson, Croft), International Unregistered Marriages
            Network (Akhtar, Naqvi) and the Centre for Research and Innovation for Sport,
            Technology and Law (Merritt).
 •   Providing greater opportunity for visiting international scholars:
        o   the School was pleased to host Professor Vincenzo Pacillo (University of Modena
            and Reggio Emilia, Italy) and Professor Evan Stark (Rutgers, USA). Both visits have
            led to ongoing collaboration. The Unit is considering how to expand the scheme,
            including how to accommodate scholars at an earlier stage of their career and those
            without significant funding.
 •   Providing greater opportunity for Category A researchers to hold visiting positions at elite
     research institutions:
        o   during this REF cycle staff held a visiting fellowship at the British Institute of
            International and Comparative Law (Antonopoulos), a visiting scholarship in
            residence and an associate professorship at Georgetown University in Qatar
            (Akhtar), a visiting fellowship at the Abo-Akademi Institute of Human Rights, Turku,
            Finland (Shaw), a visiting professorship at the University of Modena and Reggio
            Emilia, Italy (Dingwall) and a visiting fellowship at the University of Sydney (Akhtar).
            All have resulted in continuing international collaboration. The Unit is reviewing how
            such opportunities can be extended to all colleagues including, crucially, those with
            circumstances which would render longer visits problematic or impossible.
 •   Continuing to host regular events designed to engage with thought-leaders in key areas of
     contemporary legal scholarship:
        o   recent examples include the Sino-British Cyber Law Criminality Conference 2019
            (organised by DBaker) and the Association of Law Teachers Conference 2019. The
            School adapted to the Covid-19 pandemic by moving a major international
            conference on Coercive Control: Offence or Defence (organised by Bettinson) online
            in 2020. This enabled the participation of world-leading scholars including Professor
                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            Elizabeth Sheehy (University of Ottawa) and Professor Julia Tolmie (University of
            Auckland).
 •   Seeking and consolidating interdisciplinary research partnerships through collaboration with
     other disciplines within and beyond DMU:
        o   significant examples of such an approach relate to work on European governance
            (EBaker, with Leicester Castle Business School), fitness to plead and diminished
            responsibility (Mackay, with Psychiatry), the Human Brain Project (Akintoye,
            Samanta, with Computer Science and Health and Life Sciences), modern slavery
            and the investigation of crime (Pajon, Walsh, with Criminology and Psychology) and
            Penal Policy (Dingwall, Hillier, with Health and Life Sciences).
 •   Creating the evidence-base to inform legal reform and legislative change and supporting
     researchers to answer important questions, regardless of the immediate availability of
     funding:
        o   scholarship from within the Unit has been cited in the US Supreme Court (DBaker)
            and in the UK Supreme Court (DBaker, Mackay). Reliance has also been made of
            research carried out in the Unit (Akhtar, Bettinson, Mackay) to develop international
            norms and UK legislation in breakthrough areas; for example, Bettinson’s research
            on domestic violence and coercion led to impactful change (as can be seen further in
            one of the Unit’s three impact cases). Research by a number of our researchers has
            guided UK and European policy and practice, particularly in the area of criminal
            justice (DBaker, EBaker, Bettinson, Dingwall, Hillier, Hirst, Mackay, Murray
            Edwards, Pajon, Robson, Rumney, Walsh).
 •   Creating a supportive environment for the securing of research funds to further enquire into
     important research questions and enable personal research and development to be self-
     sustaining:
        o   working in tandem with Faculty and University colleagues, regular introductory
            sessions on grant capture have been organised, a system of rapid internal review
            and mentoring is in place, and DMU’s Research Services Directorate (RSD) is
            engaged in horizon scanning and regularly alerts staff to new funding calls. In the
            past year, the Unit has been awarded two large external grants (Akhtar, Walsh).
            Staff are encouraged, and have been successful, in obtaining smaller external
            awards which have facilitated the development of international networks and the
            production of high-quality outputs, for example the award of two BA Seed Funding
            applications in the past year to an early career researcher (Naqvi).
 •   Supporting researchers to develop pathways to public engagement and impact for their
     research:
        o   in partnership with the Research and Innovation Office in the Faculty of Business and
            Law, our Unit has supported researchers to engage with stakeholders beyond
            academia to generate research impact. Researchers including Bettinson, Omiunu
            and Walsh have participated in research impact workshops where they have been
            supported to develop their impact cases.
 •   Recognising the University’s Status as a Global Hub for United Nations Sustainable
     Development Goal (SDG) 16 ‘People, Justice and Strong Institutions’:
        o   the University Strategic Plan published in 2018 stressed our commitment to SDG 16
            and the Unit promoted research and research-informed teaching that aligned with this
            institutional priority. Two examples of research (both forming impact case studies)
            which have made a demonstrable difference to remedying injustices are Bettinson’s
            work on criminalising coercive and controlling behaviour and Walsh and Pajon’s
            research into the investigation of human trafficking, modern slavery and ‘county lines’
            organised crime. The third case (Omiunu) provides a strong emerging platform for
            debate in Africa.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Extending Open Access and maintaining research integrity:
        o   the Unit is committed to research integrity and complies with DMU’s processes in
            relation to research ethics and integrity. We are also committed to open access and
            ensure that researchers deposit material in institutional repositories (DORA for text
            outputs and DMU Figshare for data). We will also use the recently created DMU
            Press as a means of making more research openly accessible.

 1.3 FUTURE RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY
 The strategic decision to focus our activity around a core research centre has served the Unit
 well in terms of delivering a high-performing research ecosystem. The four research clusters
 within the research centre ensures flexibility and space to develop interdisciplinary themes that
 can evolve to accommodate new research interests and synergies. Our Research and Impact
 Strategy going forward is to:
 •   Develop new synergies:
        o   the Director of the CLJS (Shaw) is working with colleagues to explore where
            research synergies might lie. She brings senior leadership and detailed knowledge to
            the development of our individual research and methodological approach. Through
            regular individual, cluster and Centre meetings, alongside dialogue with other
            research centre directors in the University, Shaw identifies spaces for
            interdisciplinary thinking and she will continue to nurture and enable our ECRs to
            develop new themes and synergies as the research clusters mature.
 •   Ensure research is sustainable:
        o   with seven professors (DBaker, EBaker, Bettinson, Dingwall, Mackay, Rumney,
            Walsh) who specialise in criminal law and justice, the Unit will maintain its position as
            a world-renowned voice in academic scholarship with the proven ability to influence
            policy and legal change at domestic and international level. Recruitment of further
            expertise to embed sustainability for research and succession planning will be key
            priorities. Support will be given to the other three research clusters (critical
            interdisciplinarities – transcending legal boundaries; international law, transnational
            governance and global justice; marginalised voices – gender, power and equality) to
            enhance their international reputation. We will mentor ECRs to become research
            leaders in these fields and encourage them to participate in the University-wide
            Future Research Leaders scheme.
 •   Nurture new research and grow practice-based research:
        o   a key priority for the Unit is to enable staff with a professional background to build an
            international research profile during the next REF cycle. A member of staff (Robson)
            who entered academia after a career at the Bar and who is now an established
            researcher is working individually and collectively with these colleagues. A mentoring
            scheme (overseen by Shaw) will continue to involve the whole Unit and ensure that
            all researchers have access to support to develop their methodological approaches,
            subject expertise, writing for publication, development of impact, and resilience in the
            grant bidding process. Staff wishing to move from a teaching focus to becoming a
            Category A researcher will be encouraged to participate in the University’s new Next
            Generation Researchers scheme.
 •   Develop research-informed teaching:
        o   as part of our continued belief in the synergy between research and teaching, all
            students will be exposed to high-quality research-informed teaching. The Head of
            School (Hillier), who has won institutional awards (with Dingwall) for his own
            research-informed teaching, drives this agenda. Postgraduate professional law
            students will understand how research can inform better practice in a way that has
            been absent in training legal practitioners. PhDs will become increasingly aligned to

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            areas of research strength with the aim of creating a more sustainable research
            infrastructure and recruitment from within our community of researchers.

 1.4 CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABILITY OF THE DISCIPLINE AND SUPPORT FOR
 INTERDISCIPLINARY RESEARCH
 Interdisciplinarity characterises most School research and was a driving factor in creating the
 CLJS (directed by Shaw) in place of the Institute for Evidence-Based Law Reform. Research in
 the Unit goes beyond the boundaries of the normative to intersect with empirical data and other
 disciplinary approaches. For example, in the development of criminal law and criminal policy,
 this embraces theoretical work about normative criminal law principles, which directly informs the
 Supreme Court (DBaker, Mackay), Chinese policy (DBaker) and European Union policy
 (EBaker). Scholars also embrace theoretical work in other disciplines including environmental
 science (Antonopoulos, Wilkinson Cross), the humanities (Shaw), psychiatry (Mackay) and
 psychology (Hillier, Pajon, Walsh). This theoretical work underpins policy development in
 general but articulates with strands of specific policy development which focus on the vulnerable
 in criminal justice systems, for example the victims of modern slavery (Pajon, Walsh), victims of
 domestic violence / sexual violence (Bettinson, Croft, Rumney), those unfit to plead or with
 diminished responsibility (Mackay) and those serving indeterminate prison sentences (Dingwall,
 Hillier).
 While many areas focus on UK jurisdictions, a conscious strategy has been to intersect this with
 comparative work and international debate through research events such as the Sino-British
 Cyber Law Criminality Conference (organised by DBaker) and the international conference on
 coercive and controlling behaviour (organised by Bettinson) and the key participation in formal
 networks such as the African International Economic Law Network (Omiunu), the Human Brain
 Project (Akintoye, Samanta) and the International Network of Researchers on Unregistered
 Marriages (Akhtar, Naqvi).
 Section 2. People

 2.1 STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 During the census period for REF 2021, the number of Category A staff has grown from 11 to
 24. We operate a full lifecycle approach to staff development and support. Research allowance
 is governed by the institution-wide Research and Innovation Allowance (RIA) system. This
 process provides feedback on short- and medium-term research plans and, coupled with the
 main appraisal system, identifies training and development needs along with mentoring
 requirements. All review panel members must complete equality and diversity training and panel
 composition should fully reflect staff diversity. In addition to a 10% scholarship time research
 staff are allocated between 320–640 hours per annum (equating to between 1.5–2.5 days per
 week).
 2.1.1 Recruitment
 Since 2014, DMU has created three positions that have been designed to attract and retain
 research talent. The specific roles are Vice-Chancellor’s 2020 Lectureship (VC2020), Early
 Career Academic Fellow (ECAF) and Associate Professor (AP). The VC2020 (REF5a) post is
 designed for researchers with a recently completed doctorate and potential for high-quality
 research to join the University with a 50% research allowance in their first year, a personal
 research budget (up to £5,000) and formal support from senior staff at both Faculty and
 University level.
 Eleven VC2020 lecturers / senior lecturers were appointed during the census period
 (Akanmidu, Akhtar, Akintoye, Antonopoulos, Enonchong, Lander, Naqvi, Nyamutata,
 Omiunu, Pajon (submitted to UoA4), Wilkinson Cross). All are being returned as Category A
 researchers. All bar Lander (who has left academia but retains an honorary position), remain at
 Leicester De Montfort Law School. The ECAF position is a one-year appointment for ECRs for
 whom a tenure track opportunity to a VC2020 position is possible; Nyamutata obtained his
 VC2020 lectureship through this process. The introduction of the AP Research role reflects a

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 transition to senior research roles for mid-career researchers who are working towards an
 application for a full professorial appointment. Two staff appointed to VC2020 positions have
 subsequently applied for APs (Akhtar, Omiunu). Strategic recruitment to foster pockets of
 research intensity and excellence, which would characterise a leading research institution, have
 been enabled through the focus on research-led teaching and on policy-informed research.
 2.1.2 Retention and promotion
 Opportunities and support are the pillars to the retention of researchers in UOA 18. As noted, the
 introduction of new positions (ECAF, VC2020 and AP) offers a clearly defined research career
 pathway. The annual professorial promotions process has resulted in a number of appointments
 (Bettinson, Samanta, Shaw). We have witnessed a welcome growth of women professors in
 the Unit, from one in REF2014 to three in this REF cycle.
 Given the number of new early career appointments, considerable thought has been given to our
 mentoring arrangements. All colleagues meet the Centre Director to discuss needs and she will
 allocate a senior colleague with the requisite methodological and subject expertise. The Faculty
 also has a designated VC2020 champion who acts as an advocate for these colleagues.
 2.1.3 Development and support
 New staff are assigned a research mentor and guidelines for mentor selection and
 responsibilities are harmonised into a Faculty-level policy that has support from the Head of
 School. With a new structure of research institutes at University level, it is expected that staff are
 aligned to an institute (though this does not preclude associate membership of another). New
 researchers in the Law School will therefore be integrated into the CLJS and may also join other
 research institutes or centres in the University. For example, Omiunu is also a member of the
 Centre for Research in Accountability, Governance and Sustainability.
 Research funding schemes operate at University, Faculty and Research Institute levels and
 focus on themes such as ECRs generating research impact, conferences, and data collection.
 The University Research Services Directorate supports ECRs through a diverse range of
 networking and support mechanisms to help researchers become established in their chosen
 field. The Early Careers Network has been established to create strategic alliances and provide
 space for colleagues across DMU to meet up, both virtually and at events and share their
 experiences.
 Bespoke Faculty training opportunities relating to research ethics and research funding
 complement the University provision. Notably, the mandatory training on research ethics
 approval has been delivered monthly throughout the Faculty since 2018 by a senior researcher
 in the Unit (Walsh) who, as Faculty Chair of the Research Ethics Committee, was instrumental
 in strengthening our institutional procedures. Regular residential, non-residential and virtual
 writing retreats are held within the Faculty to support researchers at all career stages. School
 staff have found the retreats a productive space for generative writing and developing grant
 applications and outputs.
 Within the Unit, training opportunities (directed by Rumney) in areas such as grant capture, data
 analysis and research collaboration are available for all Law School staff. Robson, a former
 practitioner who came to research through professional teaching and now has experience of
 journal publication, is working with colleagues from a similar professional background who want
 to develop their own research competencies. The School has been successful in identifying and
 supporting applicants for the University’s Future Research Leaders scheme which has been in
 existence since 2012. The scheme is designed to raise the strategic research competence of a
 specially selected cohort (12 staff per year) within the University. Staff from the Unit have also
 secured a place on the University’s Leading Researchers Mentoring scheme designed for high-
 calibre applicants that missed out on a place on the Future Research Leaders scheme.
 Despite the challenges of a significant increase in student numbers, the School has not only
 been able to maintain the protected teaching loads of VC2020 colleagues for their first year but
 has continued to retain reduced teaching loads into their second and third years to enable
 momentum and continuity for research paths which require a longer incubation period.

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.1.4 Events
 Research events within the Law School provide an opportunity for colleagues to share and
 celebrate our research within the University and broader academic community. Within this REF
 cycle, the School has hosted speakers of outstanding distinction including Professor Andrew
 Ashworth (Emeritus Vinerian Professor of English Law, All Souls, Oxford), Professor Evan Stark
 (Rutgers) and Lord Hodge (Deputy President, Supreme Court). Lady Hale (President, Supreme
 Court) hosted a conference at the Supreme Court to launch an international edited collection
 (edited by Mackay) where one of the speakers was Professor David Ormerod, the Criminal Law
 Commissioner. These lectures have been supplemented by a successful series of public
 professorial lectures (DBaker, EBaker, Dingwall, Mackay, Samanta). Each year the annual
 Faculty Research Conference ends with a ‘Research Oscars’ ceremony to celebrate research
 success across the Faculty, including researchers in law.
 The Unit has hosted several international conferences in the census period including a
 conference with colleagues from the University of Leicester and the University of Modena and
 Reggio Emilia, Italy in 2018 and the annual Association of Law Teachers conference in 2019.
 The School has a long association with the Socio-Legal Studies Association having hosted the
 annual conferences in 2009 and 2014, and a number of staff convene streams at the annual
 conference (Dingwall, Hillier, Rumney, Shaw).

 2.2 SUPPORT MECHANISMS, TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF POSTGRADUATE
 RESEARCH STUDENTS
 There are currently 16 PGR students registered in the Unit. Staff additionally supervise students
 registered elsewhere in the University. Five students joined the programme in October 2020.
 There have been 10 successful PhD completions since 2014. Several now hold academic posts
 around the world. DMU offers a competitive bursary scheme. Six were awarded to Law
 applicants in this assessment period.
 All research students are subject to the oversight and monitoring of the University’s Doctoral
 College which provides institutional training and administrative support for the doctoral
 programme, as well as ensuring the integrated development and governance of the research
 degree programme across DMU.
 At Faculty level, the Head of Research Students is responsible for applying procedures and
 represents the Faculty on the University’s Research Degrees Committee. Working with the
 Faculty Head of Research Students is the Faculty Head of Research Student Training and the
 CLJS’s Head of Research Students (Nyamutata). The Centre’s Head plays a key role in our
 research structure, perhaps most notably by making admissions decisions in conjunction with
 subject specialists and in providing bespoke research training for our PhD community.
 All supervisors are required to obtain the University’s Certificate in Research Supervision. All
 students have at least two supervisors, at least one of whom has already supervised to
 successful completion. Additional external or internal advisers can be added to the team; for
 example, one of our students has Dr Anita Dockley, Director of Research at the Howard League
 for Penal Reform, acting in this capacity. Registration for a research degree requires approval of
 a formal programme of study. Formal review within 12 months (full-time) requires students to
 prepare a substantial report outlining progress made since registration and setting out a
 timetable for completion. This is reviewed by an independent assessor from outside the
 supervisory team. Each student has to undergo an annual review by an independent reviewer
 and records of meetings are monitored centrally using an online system.
 The University’s Doctoral College provides training in generic research skills, as well as in areas
 such as intellectual property, publishing research findings, employability and research ethics. At
 Faculty level, doctoral researchers learn skills appropriate to their developmental stage. As well
 as classroom sessions, there are 4–5 Research Training Days per year that mix lectures,
 workshops, roundtables and seminars by both staff and students. These events expose PhD
 students to a variety of approaches to widen their horizons. Doctoral training is carried out


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 through an integrated Doctoral Training Programme (DTP). The DTP is delivered through online
 units, timetabled classes and the Research Training Days.
 The Faculty introduced the Postgraduate Research Forum in 2020 to promote further
 opportunities for the Faculty’s PGR community to come together, present their work in progress
 and receive constructive feedback from the wider academic community. Students are also
 invited to an expanded Faculty induction with sessions on managing supervisor–supervisee
 relationships and opportunities to meet with existing students and academic staff. We have seen
 improved satisfaction in the Faculty in the most recent PRES scores with positive feedback
 about the quality of supervisors (95.1% agreeing – a rise of 0.7 percentage points on 2018) and,
 in respect of research skills, the positive feedback score was 94.9%, a rise of 6 percentage
 points on the previous year and exceeding the sector average by 9.1%
 There are opportunities for doctoral students to undertake part-time hourly paid teaching subject
 to consent by the supervisory team and compliance with the stipulated maximum number of six
 hours for full-time students. The School holds an annual thematic conference for our students,
 involving external keynote speakers: most recently, Dr Thom Giddens (University of Dundee,
 2019) and Professor David Gurnham (Southampton University, 2020).
 Doctoral students share facilities with academic staff in the Hugh Aston Building and have
 access to study and networking spaces in our recently refurbished facility at Leicester Castle.
 The University library has designated PGR study areas and the Doctoral College was
 refurbished in 2018 to provide training rooms for PhD students. Doctoral researchers can access
 a Faculty support fund to help finance a variety of research-related activities such as presenting
 papers at international conferences and attending specialist methods workshops. In addition, the
 University offers students the opportunity to bid for up to £500 for conference attendance and
 research trips. Our doctoral graduates have secured academic positions in the UK, Turkey,
 Thailand and the United Arab Emirates.

 2.3 SUPPORT AND PROMOTION OF EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY
 As researchers we believe that a fully inclusive research environment produces better research.
 As such, issues of equality and diversity drive the Unit, and the institution’s strategy and
 practice.
 The School remains committed to making progress on a better gender and ethnicity balance in
 senior research posts. In this REF cycle, all three colleagues who were awarded personal chairs
 (Bettinson, Samanta, Shaw) are female. This means that the current professoriate comprises
 three women and four men, one of whom holds a fractional post. One man and one woman have
 applied for associate professorships. More needs to be done to promote BAME staff to the
 professoriate. The Faculty Associate Dean (Research and Innovation) – who is also co-chair of
 the University staff network DMU Women – encouraged the establishment of a Faculty Women
 in Research forum led by an ECR which brings together women in Law and in Leicester Castle
 Business School to reflect upon the needs of women in the Faculty and to develop Women in
 Research–friendly policies. The distribution of staff is given in Table 1.
 Table 1: UOA 18 (20 in REF 2014)
         Male    Female White BAME            Not       Profs/      Readers/    ECAF/      RF/
                                             dis-       Senior        AP/        L/SL      SRF
                                            closed       staff        PL
  2014   54.5%    45.5%     82%      9%        9%         64%          9%        9%        9%
  (11)                                                  F=9%;          F=        F=      F=100%
                                                       BAME=9%        100%      100%
  2021   50%       50%     62.5%    37.5%                33.3%        4.2%     62.5%
  (24)                                                 F=37.5%;                F=60%
                                                        BAME=                  BAME=
                                                         12.5%                  53%
 Note: VC2020 lecturers = 3; VC2020 senior lecturers = 5.


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Internal research grant budgets are monitored to ensure equality of support for women and
 BAME colleagues, as well as ensuring representation across career stages. All staff must
 undertake equality and diversity training and those involved in the allocation of research
 allowances must also receive training in unconscious bias. The selection of outputs and impact
 case studies conforms to the guidelines in DMU’s REF Code of Practice. We support all staff to
 engage with University- and Faculty-level initiatives to boost individual research careers,
 including the Future Research Leaders scheme, the Next Generation Researchers programme
 for those starting their research career, or wishing to build it following time spent outside
 academia, the Early Career Researcher Network, training programmes, writing retreats,
 mentoring and the creation of new research clusters.
 Our commitment to equality and diversity goes beyond the Unit and impacts on the discipline
 nationally. Naqvi was awarded a £3,010 grant by the Feminist Review Trust to support the
 organisation of a two-day workshop on publishing for 16 UK-based feminist ECRs, originally
 from the Global South. Our research touches upon inequality issues, such as violence to women
 (Bettinson, Rumney) and human trafficking (Walsh).
 All staff within the Unit are supported with flexible working arrangements consistent with
 University policies and guidelines. Family-friendly policies such as parental leave have been
 supported throughout the census period, ensuring arrangements are put in place to cover staff
 on leave schemes. Cover includes supporting PhD students under their supervision as well as
 teaching and administrative duties. The cover is arranged in a transparent manner so as to avoid
 bias.
 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 In the submission to REF 2014, the Unit reported a comparatively modest external income of
 £150,457, which increased to £170,744 in 2020. The University staffing strategy has been to
 prioritise the recruitment of ECRs, thus investing in future grant capture, which is beginning to
 prove successful. Through a process of strengthening institutional support, encouraging multi-
 institutional applications and encouraging staff, especially ECRs, to apply for smaller external
 grants to enable the development of larger funding applications, we have witnessed an increase
 in funding applications over the census period with awards announced for Akhtar, £220,000
 (Nuffield Foundation) and Walsh £177,000 (ESRC) in May 2020. Notable external grant
 applications in the pipeline include £886,000 (ESRC, Robson) and £323,000 (ESRC, Walsh).

 3.1 STRENGTHENING INSTITUTIONAL SUPPORT
 Changes to the institutional research structure are outlined later (3.4) but one of the key drivers
 was the desire to provide researchers with clear guidance at all stages of an externally funded
 research project – from the generation of research plans, to the identification and selection of
 potential funders, through the drafting, revision and submission of applications, project
 management and eventual dissemination of the findings. The Research Services Directorate
 provides training, proposal workshops and individual mentoring. This is supplemented by
 Faculty- and School-level mentoring by senior colleagues who have experience of obtaining
 large grants. Rumney took the lead at Unit level. A Research Development Officer is assigned
 to the Unit (0.2 FTE approx.) to support grant capture. All of these support mechanisms help
 explain the increase in external research income over the assessment period.

 3.2 ENCOURAGING MULTI-INSTITUTIONAL APPLICATIONS
 The Unit has had recent success in grant capture through collaborating with leading scholars in
 other institutions (see 3 above). This has allowed for the creation of multidisciplinary teams, able
 to address particularly challenging research questions. A notable example of a multi-institutional
 grant awarded during this assessment period is:
 •   Akhtar’s award of a £220,000 grant from the Nuffield Foundation (with colleagues from
     Exeter University and the Max Planck Institute, Germany) to research non-legally binding
     wedding ceremonies.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.3 ENCOURAGING STAFF TO APPLY FOR SMALL EXTERNAL GRANTS TO ENABLE THE
 DEVELOPMENT OF LARGER FUNDING APPLICATIONS
 The School recognises that successful large-grant capture often follows the award of smaller
 external grants. Smaller grants enable many projects to come to fruition, resulting in high-quality
 outputs and potential research impact. However, such grants can also serve a developmental
 function. Akhtar, for example, drew on her experience of smaller grant capture before the
 successful award of £220,000 from the Nuffield Foundation. The lessons learnt from small grant
 capture are disseminated throughout the Unit to the benefit of all colleagues. They can also help
 raise the profile of research clusters in the Centre. Taking the cluster for international law,
 transnational governance and global justice as an example, Enonchong has been awarded
 £28,000 by the BA/GCRF Humanities and Social Sciences (Tackling Global Challenges) fund to
 support research into restructuring judicial institutions for conflict transformation in the common
 law division of the Supreme Court of Cameroon in collaboration with High Court Judge Mr Ashu
 Eware. This work will not only produce valuable research outputs but will develop strategic links
 with key regional stakeholders, including senior judiciary.

 3.4 INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES PERTAINING TO RESEARCH AND RESEARCH
 IMPACT
 The Research Services Directorate is a professional services unit bringing together, under the
 directorship of the Pro Vice-Chancellor Research, all University research support. The alignment
 of the Research Development Office and the Projects Finance Team under the Head of
 Research Services provides end-to-end support to researchers in realising their research
 funding and project ambitions. Positioning the Research Governance Team alongside the
 Doctoral College under the leadership of the Head of Policy, Governance and Research Student
 Services, provides the structural and environmental framework necessary to facilitate an
 ambitious programme of coordinating University-wide researcher development. Training is
 delivered by colleagues based throughout the institution, including in the Faculty, in
 Organisational Development, Library and Learning Services, and Research Services.
 The Unit reports to the Faculty Research and Innovation Committee which reports to the
 University Research and Innovation Committee, chaired by the Pro Vice-Chancellor Research,
 and ensures that stakeholders at all levels of the University structure (including PGR students)
 have sight of our compliance requirements.
 Research leaders in the Law School work closely with the Faculty Associate Dean for Research
 and Innovation, the Faculty Head of Research Students and the Faculty Head of Doctoral
 Training among others. The following research management roles are held by staff in the Unit:
 •   Chair of the Faculty Ethics Committee (Walsh): manages the ethical review process for all
     research (staff and student) in the Faculty.
 •   REF 2021 UOA Coordinator for Unit 18 Law (Dingwall): provides leadership and direction
     working with the Associate Dean (Research and Innovation) in strategic approaches to work
     towards REF 2021.
 •   Deputy REF 2021 UOA Coordinator for Unit 18 Law (Bettinson): deputises for the UOA Unit
     Coordinator and has responsibility for working with the Associate Dean (Research and
     Innovation) to assess the quality of emerging impact case studies.
 •   Director of the CLJS (Shaw): responsible for the leadership, strategy and management of
     the Institute.
 •   Deputy Director of the CLJS (Omiunu): deputises for the Centre Director.
 •   Centre Head of Research Students (Nyamutata): responsible for doctoral students affiliated
     with the Centre.
 •   Research student representative: speaks on behalf of Law PhD students at the Faculty PGR
     Committee, chaired by the Faculty Head of Research Students.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Research Development Officer: a member of staff from the Research Services Directorate
     assigned to this Unit (0.2 FTE) to support research grant capture.
 The School of Law is housed in the Hugh Aston Building, a £35,000,000 facility opened in
 October 2010. The building contains a dedicated Law Library, a Moot Courtroom, client
 interviewing space, and state-of-the-art classroom and conference facilities. Doctoral students
 have designated space in the building and have additional study and networking spaces in our
 2017 £3,700,000 development of Leicester Castle.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 COLLABORATION AND PARTNERSHIPS
 Throughout this REF cycle, researchers have developed research collaborations and
 partnerships to undertake grant-funding proposals, to produce high-quality publications and to
 engage with non-academic stakeholders internationally. Key collaborations include:
 •   The International Network of Researchers on Unregistered Marriages (INSRUM) (Akhtar,
     Naqvi). The network has influenced global policy and informed legislative reform in
     jurisdictions including the UK and Qatar.
 •   The Asian Law Centre in partnership with the China University of Political Science and Law,
     the Japanese Police and the South Korean Police (DBaker, Pajon, Walsh). Outcomes
     include bringing together leading thinkers from China and the English-speaking world and
     direct input into Chinese legislative and judicial policy, as well as informing changes in
     investigative practice in the Japanese police force.
 •   Research with colleagues from the Universities of Cambridge, Nottingham Trent and Oxford
     into the reliability of voice recognition evidence and to develop best practice for the use of
     such evidence in criminal investigations (Robson).
 •   The Sexual Violence and Domestic Violence network, including conference hosting and
     funding a leading international scholar (Professor Evan Stark, Rutgers, USA) to visit and
     engage in writing and co-research to develop a new defence in relation to coercive control
     and domestic violence (Bettinson, Croft). Outcomes include driving legislative change in the
     constituent parts of the UK and informing international practice and debate.
 •   The Leicestershire Modern Slavery Partnership: the development of a national investigation
     model for modern slavery and international engagement on modern slavery (Pajon, Walsh).
     Outcomes include a working partnership problem-solving modern slavery issues in
     Leicestershire using leading-edge research, the deployment of a new model of investigation
     of modern slavery by police and informing legislative reform in the area.
 •   The senior judiciary and government on fitness to plead and diminished responsibility,
     explicitly acknowledged and commissioned by the Law Commission of England and Wales
     and informing government legislative intent (Mackay).
 •   Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, and the
     Howard League for Penal Reform on the release of prisoners serving Imprisonment for
     Public Protection (Dingwall).

 4.2 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY AND THE ECONOMY THROUGH IMPACT
 DEVELOPMENT
 Researchers in the Unit produce research that impacts directly on the lives of people
 internationally. Bettinson, as Deputy REF 2021 Unit Coordinator, has taken the lead on
 developing our impact case studies in conjunction with the University’s impact officers.
 An area of particular pride has been our collaborative work with partners in law enforcement
 which has improved the protection offered to vulnerable individuals. Notable examples include:
 •   Bettinson’s research on criminalising coercive control informed legislative reform in
     England, Wales and Scotland through written evidence submitted in response to
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     governmental consultation processes. Aimed at strengthening the enforcement of the newly
     enacted coercive control offences, she trained staff working in the Domestic Abuse
     Investigation Unit of Leicestershire Police, East Midlands Crown Prosecution Service and
     members of the London branch of the Magistrates’ Association. Her work was cited in a key
     expert report on the understanding of coercive control before 2011 by the Court of Appeal in
     R v Challen [2019] EWCA Crim 916. Bettinson’s research led to the formation of an
     International Coercive Control Legal Network.
 •   Research led by Walsh, Pajon and Lawson established a multi-agency slavery partnership
     in Leicester, Leicestershire and Rutland, leading to improved criminal investigations and
     increased public and professional awareness. During this period, there was a 260% increase
     in law enforcement operations and a 31% increase in the reporting of victims. The research
     team’s work has also directly informed police investigations into organised crime groups
     which resulted in the dismantling of over 31 ‘county lines’ operations in Northamptonshire
     and the rescue of over 50 victims. Further research enhanced the advice provided by the
     Anti-Slavery Commissioner in 2018 to companies which led directly to a 36% reduction in
     business non-compliance with modern slavery legislation.
 Economic justice is another area where Law School researchers have contributed to progressive
 reform:
 •   Afronomicslaw.org has empowered and developed marginalised African young people and
     NGO group voices in African economic governance processes. As an editor of
     Afronomicslaw.org, Omiunu’s research brought together a team of African young people
     who, under his leadership, designed a development-focused Covid-19 model trade clause for
     a United Nations toolkit used for international trade negotiations. His work has paved the way
     for novel thinking about economic integration by shaping the agenda for intergenerational
     debate at the Tana High-Level Forum, the leading peace and security forum in Africa and his
     work was key in establishing a consortium of African NGOs lobbing for economic justice.

 4.3 DEVELOPING IMPACT THROUGH COLLABORATION
 The Unit works with the Faculty strategy for developing engagement and pathways to impact for
 future case studies. Colleagues are engaged in planning impact activity that will be submitted in
 future REF exercises. Support for impact development is provided at Unit level in conjunction
 with University colleagues, including our impact officers. Faculty research funding embeds
 impact within its criteria for award, and there are dedicated events to support colleagues to build
 impact into their work. At University level, this is enhanced through greater use of Vertigo
 Ventures tracker for recording research activity, and we use this tool to create impact as habit,
 from project design, through the recording and dissemination of findings and engagement with
 stakeholders and the public. Projects which are already showing demonstrable impact include:
 •   Robson’s pathbreaking research into the reliability of voice recognition testimony in criminal
     investigations. Working with an interdisciplinary team based in Cambridge, Nottingham Trent
     and Oxford Universities, the research seeks to identify best practice in the use of such
     evidence and will inform legal development in an area where a lack of understanding could
     lead to unsafe convictions.
 •   Work by Akhtar and Naqvi in conjunction with colleagues based internationally is improving
     legal knowledge about diverse forms of marriage. Based on an innovative and meticulous
     evidence-base, the research will inform policy debate worldwide.
 •   Akintoye, in conjunction with colleagues across the University, is part of the ‘Human Brain’
     project, an EU-funded Future Emerging Technology project focusing on brain-related
     medicine, computing and neuroscience. She brings expertise in ethics and data protection to
     the research team.




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 DEVELOPING CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE ECONOMY AND SOCIETY
 The Unit has made a significant contribution to the economy and society beyond the impact case
 studies submitted. This section provides an indication of the breadth of our impact.
 Akintoye and Samanta have both played instrumental roles in the Human Brain Project, a large
 interdisciplinary project involving colleagues in neuroscience. As the project develops, significant
 clinical advances could ensue. Samanta has also worked with the Judicial College and Royal
 Colleges to develop guidelines as a proxy for tortious liability.
 Akhtar and Naqvi’s work has led to the reform of the processes for consideration of
 unregistered marriages in the UK and in Qatar.
 Work by the Unit’s criminal lawyers has been cited in the US Supreme Court (DBaker) and the
 UK Supreme Court (DBaker, Mackay). Mackay’s research on fitness to plead was
 acknowledged by the Law Commission and has influenced practice across the common law
 world. Walsh’s scholarship has led to changes in investigative practices in Japan and the UK.
 Working with Chinese academics and judges, DBaker has developed responses to cyber-
 criminality which is recognised as a major global threat. Dingwall, working with a retired Justice
 of the Supreme Court and the Howard League for Penal Reform, is developing strategies to
 expedite the release of prisoners serving Imprisonment for Public Protection.
 Omar is recognised internationally for his work in insolvency regulation. He has advised
 governments and international organisations and provided training to practitioners and
 government officials. Increasingly insolvency regulation requires global solutions and Omar’s
 comparative knowledge has informed best practice.
 Researchers also impact upon local communities. Orr, for example, was integral to the
 development of the Civic Space Project in Northern Ireland.
 Notable indicators of wider disciplinary influence include:
 4.4.1 Journal editorships
 •   Editor, Contemporary Issues in Law (Morgan Taylor)
 •   Joint Editor, Journal of Law, Social Justice and Global Development (Akhtar)
 •   Joint Editor, Feminist Legal Studies (Naqvi)
 •   Associate Editor, International Journal for the Semiotics of Law (Shaw)
 •   Case Note Editor, International Journal of Evidence and Proof (Robson)
 •   Editorial Board, European Journal of Crime, Criminal Law and Criminal Justice (EBaker)
 •   Editorial Board, Journal of Forensic Psychiatry and Psychology (Mackay)
 4.4.2 Committee memberships
 •   Chair, UK Sports Association (Gordon-Thompson)
 •   UK Representative on Insolvency, the United Nations Commission on International Trade
     Law (UNCITRAL) (Omar)
 •   Seconded Expert, the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (Desta)
 •   Member, European Commission’s Expert Group on EU Criminal Policy (EBaker)
 •   Member, Research Advisory Group, Howard League for Penal Reform (Dingwall)
 4.4.3 Advisory roles
 •   Adviser on SDG 16 and the Rule of Law, the United Nations Institute for Training and
     Research (Bampton)
 •   CARICOM/World Bank law reform (Pierce)

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   Chinese Judicial Commission on drugs and organised crime (DBaker)
 •   Advocacy Development for the Irish Bar (Murray Edwards, Robson)
 •   Adviser, Japanese Police Service Reform (Walsh)
 •   Adviser, West Indies Ministry of Justice / Commonwealth on Reform of Commercial Law
     (Pierce)
 •   Member, European Union Committee of Experts on Criminal Law (EBaker)
 •   Adviser, Her Majesty’s Inspectorate of Constabulary / Crown Prosecution Service Hate
     Crime Prosecutions / NPCC Innovations Committee/College of Policing (Bampton)
 •   Adviser, Jersey Law Commissioner (Omar)
 •   Adviser, Fitness to Plead, Law Commission (Mackay)
 •   Co-Academic Lead, Civic Space Initiative, Northern Ireland (Orr)
 4.4.4 PhD examining
 International: Gothenburg; Griffiths, Australia; Maastricht; Otago, New Zealand; Pretoria;
 University College, Cork.
 National: Bangor; Birmingham; Buckingham; East London; Essex; Keele; Leeds; Leeds Beckett;
 Leicester; LSE; Manchester Metropolitan; Northumbria; Nottingham; Portsmouth; Roehampton;
 Sheffield Hallam; Southampton; Sussex; Teesside; Warwick; University of the West of England.




                                                                                              Page 14
