Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Sussex

 Unit of Assessment: 30 (Philosophy)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overall Context

 Since 2014 the Sussex Philosophy Department has continued to develop its unique position
 within the sector as a department characterised by intellectual cosmopolitanism. Our open
 border tradition has long rejected the division between so-called ‘Continental’ and ‘Analytic’ or
 ‘Anglo-American’ philosophy and we embrace interdisciplinarity as integral to philosophical
 practice. As far back as 2006, Simon Glendinning wrote:

 “…a new configuration is emerging: departments that are not readily identifiable as either
 Analytic or Continental, departments which cannot be happily captured by those labels…There
 is one department that seems to me to have this new shape: the Department of Philosophy at
 Sussex University. The profile of the department is distinctive, original and interesting.” (Simon
 Glendinning (LSE), The Idea of Continental Philosophy).

 In this REF period we have worked to transcend further distinctions and intensify cross-border
 exchange - notably those between ‘Western’ and ‘non-Western’ philosophy, and between
 ‘practical’ and ‘theoretical’ scholarship. This has been done while embedding impact and public
 engagement within our research culture in a way that is inclusive, authentic and
 collaborative. We have re-imagined our interdisciplinary approach through new partnerships
 with Neuroscience and Cognitive Science, whilst further strengthening the existing collaborative
 structures that sustain our strengths in Social and Political Thought, and Philosophy and
 Literature.

 The unit comprises 12 members of faculty with a shared understanding of the nature and value
 of the discipline. Our recognition that Philosophy’s overall epistemic aim is to bring
 understanding of information we already have rather than the discovery of new information
 enables us to avoid hyper-specialisation into different sub-areas tasked to uncover new
 knowledge. Instead, we are actively challenging the ways in which the discipline has been
 historically sub-categorized and in so doing have generated new frameworks and
 understandings, working towards a more inclusive and socially relevant vision for Philosophy.

 Across the last REF-cycle we consolidated this identity through strategic faculty appointments
 and targeted PGR recruitment. Since 2014 we have expanded our boundary-crossing approach
 and have built on our intellectual traditions whilst responding to new opportunities. So, for
 example, Sawyer has worked on the Philosophy of Language (‘Theoretical’) and on Conceptual
 Engineering and Feminism (‘Practical’); Staehler has published on Phenomenology
 (‘Theoretical’) and midwifery (‘Practical’); Booth has written on Analytic Epistemology (‘Western’)
 and Islamic Philosophy (‘non-Western’); and Morris and Davies’ work has, separately, brought
 together abstract work in Metaphysics with contemporary Philosophy of Art and Photography.
 Our research is reflective of an inclusive, public-facing, open-borders attitude that informs
 everything we do.

 For most of the current REF period Sussex Philosophy was located in the multidisciplinary
 School of History, Art History and Philosophy (HAHP) and enjoyed strong intellectual ties with
 the School’s other departments. Philosophers took key management roles in HAHP including as
 Director of Doctoral Studies (Deligiorgi); Director of Teaching and Learning (Stock); Curriculum
 Officer (Sawyer); and Director of Student Experience (Davies).

 In the summer of 2020 Philosophy joined a new, and still more multidisciplinary, School of
 Media, Arts and Humanities (MAH). This was the result of a bottom-up merger proposed by
 HAHP, the Schools of English, and Media, Film and Music, and the Sussex Centre for Language
 Studies in 2019. It brings new opportunities for the unit - practically, financially, and intellectually.


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Prominent amongst these is the opportunity the new school offers for increasingly close
 collaboration with subjects such as English, Media and Film Studies and the momentum that it
 gives to our work with scholars in the digital humanities.

 Context, structure, and research strategy since REF 2014

 For REF 2014 our central objective was to consolidate our open borders identity. Our strategy to
 deliver this involved:

    •   The development and support of our research strengths across the boundaries of
        traditional demarcations in order to facilitate original, historically informed thought of the
        highest quality, and to build on the reputation of the unit (and the University) for multi-
        traditional, cross-disciplinary and interdisciplinary research.
    •   The fostering of stronger connections with other Humanities disciplines (especially
        History), the social sciences (especially Economics and Politics) and the sciences
        (notably Medicine, Psychology and Neuroscience), with the aim of furthering disciplinary
        interaction and interdisciplinary thinking in line with Sussex’s guiding ethos.
    •   The building of creative partnerships and links with non-academic institutions and user-
        groups which would benefit from faculty research, identifying new areas of collaboration
        as well as extending existing work.

 Since 2014 we have invested in and worked towards:

    •   Extending our open border approach into new areas of the discipline.
    •   Developing interdisciplinary research in embodied cognition with the particular aims of:
        (i)     Establishing connections with the interdisciplinary Sussex Humanities Lab and a
                renewed relationship with both the Sussex Sackler Centre for Consciousness
                Science and the Sussex Centre for Cognitive Science. These latter connections
                build on Sussex’s history of disciplinary innovation in areas such as Neuroscience
                (as the first UK University to offer a degree in the subject);
        (ii)    Bolstering our research strengths in Philosophy of Mind as well as in Kantian and
                post-Kantian philosophy.
    •   Embedding public engagement into all our research through training, mentoring and
        collective strategy.
    •   Supporting nascent and more established impact projects with time and resource.

 Our overall aim is to consistently challenge and disrupt, to transcend disciplinary borders, and to
 build partnerships beyond them in pursuit of new understandings, more inclusive ways of
 working, and intellectual openness. Our open borders strategy allows us to broker cross- and
 inter-disciplinary dialogues, to marshal systematic thinking for real world issues, and to unsettle
 received ideas and approaches - even where the consequences of doing so are challenging.
 Our two impact case studies offer key exemplars of this approach, but so too does Clark’s
 collaboration with Google and that of Booth and Chitty with Money Advice Plus. All this is
 congruent with Sussex’s determination to be ‘Disruptive by Design’. At the departmental level
 this approach underpins the vitality of our research environment, producing innovative research
 and an outward looking perspective.

 Achieving our strategic objectives

    •   Open Borders: Trans-Traditional. We have a strong tradition in what is sometimes
        called ‘Continental’ Philosophy, particularly in ‘Phenomenology’ and ‘Critical Theory’
        (Staehler, O’Brien, Davies, Clark, Chitty, Finlayson), but we have long resisted the
        ‘Continental’ vs. ‘Analytic’ narrative. This refusal is evident throughout our research
        culture. This REF-cycle began, for example, with a Mind-funded conference, organised
        by Booth and O’Brien, on ‘Revisiting the Divide’ (2014). Faculty have been characterised
        in ways that reflect this tradition-crossing: in recent literature, Chitty has been labelled an
        ‘Analytic Marxist’ and O’Brien an ‘Analytic Heideggerian’, terms that might seem like
        oxymorons in other Philosophy units. This REF period also saw the publication of

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Finlayson’s The Habermas-Rawls Debate detailing the fruitful exchange between
        ‘Continental’ (Habermas) and ‘Analytic’ (Rawls) philosophy: it was nominated for the
        prestigious American Political Science Association’s Robert A Dahl Prize for scholarship
        in democracy. The addition of Clark (fully at Sussex from 2019), with his expertise in
        ‘Embodied Cognition’ and his explicit use of Phenomenology to inform what is often
        considered an ‘Analytic’ kind of Philosophy of Mind, further cements our commitment to
        this approach and capacity to deliver.

        Our research is also engaged in reflections on the ‘theoretical/practical’ divide, the
        subject of some of our funding successes. One example is Besson’s project on ‘The
        Foundations of Epistemic Normativity’ (2018-20) – on which she collaborates with
        Hattiangadi (Stockholm) and to which Booth and Sawyer also contribute. This project, on
        epistemic norms and what we ought to believe, brings together epistemology and ethics
        to interrogate contemporary issues such as ‘Fake News’ and generated a major
        conference on ‘Epistemology and Post Truth’ at Sussex in September 2019. The project
        sits productively within the Southern Normativity Group (SoNG) co-founded by Booth in
        2014 alongside colleagues from the Universities of Southampton, Kent, Cardiff, and
        Bristol. The network has hosted several conferences – the annual SoNG conference was
        held at Sussex in 2016 – and specialises in bringing together work in ethics and
        epistemology.

        Our critique of the theoretical/practical divide underpins our impact strategy and has
        facilitated the emergence of other outward-facing research projects. These include
        Staehler’s research on phenomenology and midwifery; Stock’s research on the Gender
        Recognition Act; Sawyer’s research on conceptual engineering and feminism; Booth,
        Chitty and Deligorigi’s research on financial advice; Morris’ and Davies’ collaborative
        research on metaphysics and art with Brighton Art Galleries; and O’Brien’s research into
        phenomenology and the ethics of horseracing.

        Our willingness to move beyond traditional boundaries is also reflected in research that
        overrides the ‘Western’ vs. ‘Non-Western’ distinction in philosophy. We believe that the
        ‘decolonisation’ of the discipline demands more than the coverage of ‘non-Western’
        philosophy; an approach that can appear tokenistic, exacerbating existing inequalities.
        Instead, we challenge the very distinction, arguing that the two traditions need to be
        placed in fruitful dialogue so that one is not implicitly portrayed as inferior. At Sussex this
        approach was initiated by Ganieri’s work on Indian philosophy and Analytic
        Epistemology, aligning with the AHRC and UKRI ambition to ‘use research to foster
        understanding and recognition of human and cultural difference.’ It reflects our Equality
        and Diversity (EDI) approach, which seeks synergies between our intellectual interests,
        structures and everyday practices. Booth has further developed this focus through two
        monographs – Islamic Philosophy and the Ethics of Belief (2016) and Analytic Islamic
        Philosophy (2017). The latter innovatively brings together work in Analytic Epistemology
        and Islamic Philosophy. Booth was interviewed about this research for the popular blog
        3:16 am, and the interview was subsequently discussed within other philosophy news
        blogs such as Daily Nous, demonstrating our commitment to communicating our
        research to new audiences.

    •   Open Borders: Trans-Disciplinary. Through to 2020, HAHP provided a fertile home for
        our trans-disciplinary research. Faculty have regularly collaborated with colleagues at the
        £3.25m university-funded Sussex Humanities Lab (Clark on Artificial Intelligence and the
        Digital); The Centre for German Jewish Studies (O’Brien on Heidegger and the
        Holocaust); The Centre for Intellectual History (who co-run MA modules and co-
        supervise PhD projects with our Centre for Social and Political Thought); and the Middle
        East and North Africa Centre (whose steering committee Booth was on until 2019).
        Further collaborations will be enabled by the unit’s new position within the larger Media,
        Arts and Humanities School, which will encourage connections with research in Media,
        such as Berry’s work on Social Epistemology - Booth and Finlayson are jointly working
        on a project with Berry on Political Epistemology - and Fazi’s work on Continental

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Philosophy of Technology, where we have expertise (evidenced by O’Brien organising
        the major international conference Heidegger on Technology in 2016).

        The full appointment of Clark (a British Academy Fellow) in 2019 cemented our strategic
        commitment to trans-disciplinary philosophy. Clark has systematically targeted age-old
        dualisms (science and humanities, mind and body etc) to become one of the most
        influential philosophers working today. His book on embodied cognition, Being There:
        Putting Mind and Body Together Again has been cited 6715 times (one of the most cited
        books in Philosophy). He arrived at Sussex with a €1,391,134 ERC grant on ‘Expecting
        Ourselves: Embodied Prediction and the Construction of Conscious Experience’, and,
        working closely with colleagues in the School of Informatics – most notably Professor
        Anil Seth – has led the development of ambitious funding projects since his arrival (see
        section 3). Clark’s work on Embodied Cognition speaks to all subjects within MAH - Art
        History, History (particularly to strengths in the history of the emotions), Media Studies,
        and English, and provides the new school with fruitful connections between the
        humanities and the sciences; crucial if we are to re-imagine the Humanities for a post-
        Covid world.

        Our trans-disciplinarity continues to be bolstered through our two research centres. The
        Centre for Social and Political Thought has structural ties with Sociology, Law, Media,
        and Politics. It hosts a weekly Research Seminar, produces the European Journal of
        Social Theory (Sage) and the graduate journal Studies in Social and Political Thought. It
        hosted Sorensen (University of Copenhagen) as a visiting research fellow in 2015-16,
        during which time he completed the book Capitalism, Alienation and Critique (2019). The
        Centre also signed a memorandum of understanding with Wuhan University, China in
        2019 (detailed in section 4), increasing the global reach of our academic partnerships. It
        has hosted several conferences including the Adorno Studies annual conference (March
        2020), and, with the University of Brighton’s Centre for Applied Philosophy, Politics and
        Ethics, a conference on Critical Theory In (a Time of) Crisis (November 2019).

        The Centre for Literature and Philosophy also draws scholars together across
        disciplinary boundaries and complements a well-subscribed MA in Literature and
        Philosophy, co-taught with English. It was established by Deligiorgi in 2007 and directed
        by her until 2011, since when it has been directed by Stock. Alongside many other
        events, in 2017 it organised an interdisciplinary conference featuring Luce Irigaray and
        attended by philosophers, literary and media theorists, historians and scholars of French
        Literature. An edited volume – co-edited by O’Brien and Irigaray – was published in
        2018. Centre members have produced major monographs in this REF cycle, including
        Stock’s Only Imagine (2017) which advances the ‘extreme intentionalism’ theory of
        fictional content, and Morris’ Real Likenesses (2020) which brings theoretical work in
        metaphysics to bear on the philosophy of art and photography.

 Future Strategies

 Beyond 2020 we will look to further strengthen our commitment to trans-disciplinary and trans-
 traditional research by building capacity in the department, within the new school of MAH, and
 across the Humanities/Science divide. MAH’s new Institute of Research and Social Engagement
 offers a structure for developing interdisciplinary collaborations at scale and a platform from
 which to build increased visibility for Philosophy. The MAH Research Hub provides an inclusive
 research environment for the development of faculty and PGR research through a wrap-around
 support system that includes mentoring, funding and peer review. MAH’s digital platform -
 REFRAME - allows us to progress an open access commitment that complements our open
 borders strategy and will move well beyond the fulfilment of REF requirements. We will continue
 to work with the Sussex Humanities Lab to develop relationships that truly transcend the
 Arts/Science divide and invest in the future of the discipline through our service, and in the future
 of the Humanities through research excellence and a porous, open-borders approach.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Impact Strategy

 Open Borders: Philosophy for and with the Public

 Philosophy has the capacity to intervene decisively in real world problems. Our primary focus in
 the current REF-cycle has been to effect a culture shift so that both impact and public
 engagement is systematically grounded in our research and valued as an important activity.

 Our commitment to impact and public engagement is embedded in our conception of Philosophy
 as intrinsically a force for social and economic good, while still respecting the value of
 completely theoretical research. The challenge has been to find concrete ways in which this can
 be measured, given that Philosophy as a discipline proceeds at the highest degree of
 abstraction. Rather than adopting discipline-wide templates, our priority has been to develop our
 own experimental and innovative impact models. This has been challenging and exciting and
 demonstrates how Philosophy can have unexpected impacts. For example, Staehler’s impact
 case study shows how Philosophy can make a real difference to the practice of midwives and
 the experience of new mothers; Booth and Chitty’s work with Money Advice Plus mobilises the
 discipline to advise on debt management; Stock’s impact case study demonstrates how
 philosophical thinking can ensure due-process in proposed changes to the law; O’Brien’s work
 with the British Horse Racing Association has re-evaluated the ethical dimensions of the sport;
 and Davies work with Brighton’s Fabrica Gallery offers artists new perspectives on their work.
 On a global scale, Clark’s (embargoed) work with Google addresses the ethical issues
 pertaining to the growth of artificial intelligence.

 We value the process and outcomes of impact-related activity and support staff with teaching
 and administrative remission when pursuing this work and, particularly, when working on our
 impact case studies. The existence of a credible impact and public engagement plan is now an
 important criterion for allocating internal research leave. We have been strategic in supporting
 (with research leave, for example) the writing of trade books as well as more scholarly writing -
 for example O’Brien’s Martin Heidegger: A Tarnished Legacy (2019) and Stock’s forthcoming
 book on sex and gender: Material Girls: Why Reality Matters for Feminism (2021). We have
 used our HEIF and School Research Support funds to prime nascent projects and events, often
 dovetailing them with research seminars. By so doing we have integrated impact into our
 everyday research environment. For example, supported by HEIF funds, Booth and Chitty
 hosted a financial ethics roundtable early in this REF cycle at our departmental research
 seminar. This led to the formation of the Financial Inclusion Research Network whose partners
 include Money Advice Plus, Sussex Credit Union, Whitehawk Inn, and Step Change. Developing
 expertise in impact and public engagement figured strongly in our strategic decision to appoint
 Clark.

 We have developed our impact expertise and opportunities through training and expert
 guidance. This specialist provision, when combined with the advice available through the
 university’s Research and Enterprise Services team, has facilitated new contacts with research
 users, and enabled the creation of sustainable partnerships. We have also benefited from the
 ESRC Impact Acceleration funds. Both Staehler and Booth received awards (£1,600 and £1,500
 respectively) when their respective projects were at an early stage of development.

 2. People

 Appointment Strategy

 The appointment and recruitment strategy of the department is:

    •   To achieve a balance of interests across philosophical traditions by appointing excellent
        philosophers sympathetic to our multi-traditional ethos. O’Brien’s versatile (‘analytic’)
        expertise on Heidegger strongly complements Staehler’s expertise in phenomenology,
        for example, while at the same time enhancing the vitality of the unit as a whole.
    •   To achieve a balance of genders and levels of seniority.


                                                                                            Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   To enable early and mid-career philosophers to succeed in the profession by giving them
        the necessary training and support, career flexibility, and fostering an inclusive research
        environment that enables minority groups to flourish.

 There are 12 permanent faculty in the department: five Professors (Morris, Stock, Staehler,
 Sawyer; Clark); four Readers (Booth, Finlayson, Davies, Deligiorgi); and three Senior Lecturers
 (O’Brien, Chitty, Besson). Moving forward, our recruitment strategy is to strengthen our vitality
 and sustainability through the appointment of early career researchers (ECRs). Booth is
 currently Head of Department (2017 –2020); Staehler served as Head of Department from 2014
 – 2017.

 There have been two departures in the census period. Allais (a Kant specialist) who arrived in
 2008 as a Lecturer, left in 2014 for the prestigious Henry Allison endowed chair at the University
 of California, San Diego. Ganieri, who left Sussex in 2014, was elected as a Fellow of the British
 Academy the following year, and currently holds the Bimal Matilal Distinguished Professorship in
 Philosophy at the University of Toronto.

 These departures prompted us to pivot towards our strengths in Philosophy of Mind and Post-
 Kantian Philosophy by hiring Clark. Though Allais also worked on Philosophy of Mind, her work,
 along with Ganieri’s, was mainly in the History of Philosophy whereas Clark’s is much less
 historical. This strategic decision was taken to exploit our connections with the Sussex Centre
 for Cognitive Science, and the Sackler Centre for Consciousness Science (who, respectively,
 house Chrisely (a philosopher) and Seth (a neuroscientist with philosophical interests)). Clark’s
 reputation was established while a Sussex ECR, and his return is very much a home-coming.
 Further, Booth’s reputation in Medieval Islamic Philosophy, as well as O’Brien’s establishment
 as a senior scholar, allows us to sustain strengths in History of Philosophy (O’Brien, who was
 with us as an early career temporary lecturer in REF 2014, was hired as a permanent faculty
 member to replace Allais).

 We ensure that all Philosophy researchers are fully integrated into the unit. For example,
 Katherine Cuccuru joined us in September 2019, having won a British Society for Aesthetics
 Postdoctoral Fellowship (value £20,000) for her project, ‘The Problem with the History of
 Aesthetics Before Aesthetics’ (mentored by Morris). Miller is a postdoc with Clark’s Expecting
 Ourselves ERC project. His research investigates the implications of a leading new perspective
 on cognition, which conceptualizes the mind as an engine of knowledge-driven predictions. He
 works to integrate this body of work with the so called ‘4E cognition’ view, which emphasizes the
 role of embodied processes in constituting what we call a mind.

 During most of this REF cycle we have had 5 female faculty members in a department of 12,
 making the unit one of the most well-balanced in the UK in terms of gender. All faculty undertake
 recruitment training (involving unconscious bias training) before participating in hiring
 committees. Three women have been promoted to Professor (Staehler, Stock, Sawyer) and one
 to Senior Lecturer (Besson). Besson, an early career researcher at REF 2014, has flourished
 while at Sussex and has strongly consolidated her reputation as a rising star in logic and
 epistemology, receiving the 2014 Swiss Leurner Prize for ‘up and coming Philosopher’.

 Staff Professional Development and Equalities

 Our staffing policy supports faculty research and teaching careers, as well as facilitating general
 professional development. Departmental research is managed by a School Research
 Committee, whose remit is to make connections between existing research projects, and to
 encourage the development of fundable projects and other border-breaking activity. It also plans
 research leave schedules over a rolling five-year period, applying School-set criteria. The
 Committee has broad representation across all subject areas, including ECR representation.
 Leave allocation is designed to actively support departmental research strategies; to respond to
 the needs of faculty at different career points; to support the creation of high quality publications,
 funding applications, and work that addresses social, economic, cultural and environmental
 outcomes and impacts; to mitigate the impact on research activity for those taking significant

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 administrative roles; to create space for innovation and ‘blue skies’ thinking; and to be mindful of
 the importance of equalities and transparency.

 Research mentoring takes place in the context of: i) weekly research seminars, approximately
 half of which are given by faculty on current research; ii) annual, closed work-in-progress
 sessions in the summer term; iii) twice-yearly away-days, which contain a research component;
 and iv) informal reading of and comment on each other’s’ work. Staff appraisals, including the
 appraisal of research progress, grant-making and plans for the future are carried out annually.
 Since 2015 each member of faculty has maintained a five-year research plan, amended and
 discussed annually with the Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange (currently
 Langhamer).

 Staff are encouraged to enhance their skills via specialist training provided through University-
 wide and School-specific structures. Our Research Development Officer (currently Bowyer)
 enables strategic alignment with funder opportunities and helps to translate colleagues’ research
 aspirations into well-targeted funding bids. A School Ethics Officer retains oversight whilst
 support funds provide resources for conference attendance and other research expenses. A
 separate fund supports activity with an impact or knowledge exchange dimension and our
 impact consultant (currently Lee) provides practical support for the development of meaningful
 partnerships with non-academic actors. The development of the Financial Inclusion Research
 Network was a particular beneficiary of our targeted support for non-HEI collaborations.

 The department’s commitment towards EDI is evident in the provision of support for women
 faculty. There are supportive links between women academics both within the School and the
 wider University: regular lunch-time peer mentoring meetings are held for women in both
 contexts. HAHP invested in a bespoke coaching programme for senior women between 2017-
 19. A departmental Equalities Officer role was introduced in 2016, and we have embraced
 recommendations from the Society for Women in Philosophy towards creating a working space
 supportive of under-represented groups. These have often taken the form of small, but
 significant, changes in our working practice and research culture, such as ensuring that all
 voices are heard in meetings and research seminars through clear communication etiquette.
 Mentoring and sustained consideration of how we might amend our everyday practices to
 enhance EDI have been supported by improved structures and processes, including HAHP’s
 work towards an Athena SWAN submission in Autumn 2020.

 Within HAHP the School’s EDI officer sat on the Senior Management Team and the University’s
 Equalities and Diversity Forum acting as a conduit between university initiatives and
 School/Departmental initiatives. Within MAH, an Equalities Officer works alongside a Director for
 Race Equality and two Deputy Directors for Race Equality (one staff-focused and one student-
 focused). Diversifying our student and faculty base is a core goal for the department. A new
 undergraduate module on ‘Philosophy of Race and Racialization’ is one aspect of our strategy
 here; the future articulated strategic aim of hiring a scholar in the Philosophy of Race is its most
 critical aspect.

 The unit manages workloads according to family friendly policies as set out in the ‘Flexible
 Sussex Working Procedure’ at institutional level. Two faculty members currently work on family
 friendly hours. As a unit, it is now policy that no departmental meeting takes place after 15.00 to
 facilitate school pick-ups. We believe integrating EDI concerns into our everyday research
 practices in a way that is responsive to individual circumstance can be as transformative as the
 implementation of top-down policy.

 We also endeavor to support new starters with a reduced teaching load and no substantial
 administrative responsibilities during their first three years. Alongside the mandatory
 development of personal research plans, early career stage colleagues are also mentored by a
 senior faculty member who provides advice on career development, including publication and
 the preparation of internal and external grant applications. At department level we provide small
 teams of senior researchers to support the development of new research projects, and to work
 intensely with PIs in the final stages of grant preparation. Substantial teaching remission is

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 offered to faculty taking on management positions in order to promote career progression, to
 recognise the importance of service, and to ensure that such faculty continue to be research
 active.

 Research support for Teaching Fellows and Research Fellows is important for their career
 progression. All such staff, including on teaching-only contracts, are invited to deliver work in our
 research seminar series and are thus integrated into departmental research culture. They are
 entitled to apply to the Teaching Excellence Fund for support, and are mentored by a senior
 faculty member. Furthermore, the University has a process for internally moving from ‘Teaching
 Track’ to ‘Research Track’ appointments, further enabling career flexibility and EDI alignment.
 Several people have worked in such roles during this REF period - for instance O’Shiel
 (phenomenology), Molto and De Asis (philosophy of language and epistemology), Dunphy
 (Hegel and epistemology), Ivanov (perception and epistemology), Leckie (philosophy of
 language). Their energy and enthusiasm have been an invaluable contribution to our research
 environment, and we supported them to produce peer reviewed outputs during their time with us
 to ensure their continued career development.

 Our REF submission has been EDI audited and adheres to the university’s REF2021: Code of
 Practice. The provisional scoring of work remained confidential to the author (if they chose), the
 HoS, the UoA Lead, and the university REF team, with the contextual nature of judgements
 emphasised throughout.

 Post-Graduate Recruitment and Training

 PGRs lie at the heart of our research strategy and are critical to the vitality of our research
 culture. Supporting their intellectual development, well-being, and progression towards early
 career status is a key priority. We have maintained an ethical approach to recruitment at PGR
 level, recognising the currently saturated market for academic jobs but acknowledging that the
 skill sets of Philosophy PGRs equip them for jobs beyond the academy. We ensure that
 candidates are selected equitably, and that they have a realistic sense of career prospects in the
 profession. To ensure that EDI concerns permeate all aspects of our work with PGRs, selectors
 are trained in unconscious bias. As members of CHASE (Consortium for the Humanities and the
 Arts in the South East) we have hosted 8 AHRC funded studentships since 2014, including such
 projects as: ‘Revolutionary Epistemology’; ‘An Enquiry into the Nature and Limits of Normativity’;
 ‘Marx’s Concept of Alienation and Collective Intentionality’; ‘The Importance of Social Factors to
 Psychopathology’. We have also secured several competitive University of Sussex Chancellor’s
 International Awards (providing full scholarships to International Doctoral candidates) and
 currently have two students funded by that scheme: Johnbosco Nwogbo, from South Africa,
 working on African communitarianism and the concept of a minimum basic income; and Tamaz
 Tokhadze, from Georgia, working on epistemic permissiveness and disagreement.

 Supervisory workloads are shared across the department to ensure equal standards of care and
 support. The Research Committee monitors student progress through an annual system of
 review that includes interviews and the evaluation of research plans and supervisors’ reports.
 The HAHP Director of Doctoral Studies, and now the MAH Doctoral Studies Committee, ensure
 that departmental provisions are consistent with University standards.

 The department and school offer thorough skills training and career development. The University
 Doctoral School provides mentoring, one to one coaching, skills training and personal
 development workshops for our PGRs. They actively contribute to our research culture, the
 focus of which is the weekly Work-in-Progress seminar that provides a forum for discussion of
 new research not only by outside speakers but also by the students themselves. Postgraduates
 also actively contribute to the student-run Minorities in Philosophy Sussex chapter (established
 in 2018).

 Doctoral researchers present their research in the constructive environment of workshops and
 forums, including an annual department postgraduate conference. The Philosophy Graduate
 Convenor organises bespoke training sessions (e.g. on ‘how to publish articles in Philosophy


                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 journals’ and ‘how to ask questions in a Philosophy seminar’). Our graduate students have been
 successful in placing articles in prestigious journals such as British Journal for the Philosophy of
 Science, Synthese, Mind & Language, Journal of the American Philosophical Association and
 Review of Metaphysics; they have obtained prestigious post-doctoral and permanent faculty
 positions: for example Duff (Assistant Professor at Nottingham University from 2018), Dunphy
 (IRC funded post-doc at University College Dublin from 2019), and Lee (Juan de le Cierva post-
 doc at University of Murcia from 2020).

 Graduate students working in Political Philosophy and Ethics benefit from the presence of the
 Centre for Social and Political Thought; often organising conferences through its remit and
 serving on the editorial board of Studies in Social and Political Thought, which gives them vital
 training for a career in the profession. Graduate students working in epistemology and ethics are
 encouraged to engage in the Southern Normativity Group network, where all research events
 have reserved places for graduate student presentations, thus fostering graduate student
 engagement in the research life of the unit.

 Clark and Sawyer are named researchers on the Leverhulme Doctoral Training programme,
 ‘Sensation and Perception in Awareness’, one of twelve DSPs starting in 2018, funded in part by
 a £1M grant from the Leverhulme Trust. The programme brings together researchers and
 doctoral students from across neuroscience, robotics, psychology, and the arts, with the ultimate
 aim of advancing our understanding of interactions between sensing, perceiving, and awareness
 in humans, animal, and machines. For the next three years, we will recruit a cohort of up to
 seven doctoral scholars through this programme. We encourage undergraduates to apply for the
 university-wide funded, summer Junior Research Assistantships which give doctoral and early
 career researchers supervisory experience. JRA projects have included “Shame and Emotional
 Responses to Art: A Feminist Approach”; “Eliminativism about the Manifest and Common-sense
 Realism” and “Beyond Associationism: The Coleridgean Transition from Hartley to Kant”. Our
 success with this scheme has encouraged us to go further and open our departmental research
 seminars to undergraduates.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income Generation

 We have been awarded grants worth a total of £883,546 since the last REF. The unit’s income-
 generation strategy is to prioritise the preparation of funding applications that promote our open
 borders agenda, and bring together researchers from more than one academic domain – or
 philosophers with non-academic users – providing impact opportunities in line with institutional
 and research council priorities. Our strategy is paying off, and we have increased our research
 income substantially from the £199,851 that we recorded in REF2014.

 Clark’s appointment has brought greater expertise on successfully applying for and managing
 large grants within Philosophy. Clark’s million-plus ERC starting grant - ‘Expecting Ourselves:
 Embodied Prediction and the Construction of Conscious Experience’ - was one of very few such
 grants awarded to philosophers in Europe over this REF-cycle, and is fully embedded into the
 department, giving us the requisite experience for such projects to emerge from within other
 topics of expertise. It leverages recent work on the predictive brain as a way of illuminating the
 nature and possibility of conscious experience. A secondary, but crucial, aim is to relate the
 resulting story to existing conjectures concerning the neural correlates of conscious experience.
 The project invites regular speakers, events to which all faculty and post-docs are invited,
 alongside those working at The Sussex Centre for Cognitive Science and the Sackler Centre for
 Consciousness. This has created a vibrant place for the exchange of ideas across faculties and
 has led to the success in November 2020 of another very large ERC €10.3 million grant bid with
 Clark as P.I. (Sussex’s share is 1.7m). Called XSCAPE, this project is thought to be the largest
 ecological experiment on embodied visual perception ever attempted. It explores how the
 material structures of human settlements such as buildings, roads and artefacts change
 fundamental patterns of thought and attention and the way that minds process information.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 This research income builds on an upwards trajectory which includes Booth’s £1.2 million on
 Trusting Banks (which ended at the start of this REF cycle) and Besson’s more recent £257,499
 on the Sources of Epistemic Normativity, which investigates semantic, metaphysical, and
 epistemological questions that arise from the hypothesis that Epistemology is normative. The
 project demonstrates how seemingly very abstract questions in Epistemology and the
 Philosophy of Language can speak to contemporary concerns (as in the conference on
 Epistemic Norms and Post Truth). This has allowed us to bring scholars in Ethics and Political
 Philosophy and Mind, Language, World into fruitful dialogue.

 Alongside these substantial grants we have acquired smaller grants to facilitate particular
 projects and research stages. In 2020, the Philosophy Department received a £50,000 donation
 from an alumnus – supported by the University’s Development and Alumni office – to support a
 PhD project on Metaphysics (either from the ‘Continental’ or ‘Analytic’ tradition) and Katherine
 Cucurru was awarded a British Society of Aesthetics postdoctoral fellowship. We have also been
 successful in applications to the ESRC Impact Acceleration Scheme (for The Philosophy of
 Money Advice); and the Mind Association (for O’Brien’s To Be Born).

 An increase in sums awarded of well over 300% reflects our upward trajectory and developing
 expertise. We have also benefitted from University investment in facilities and infrastructure.
 These include an expansion of the Sussex University Library provision for specialist research,
 including a substantial expansion of its electronic holdings and a £3.25M investment in the
 Sussex Humanities Lab (of which Clark is an active member), which connects those working on
 digital technology and computational culture across the university.Our new location within MAH
 offers enhanced opportunities for the development and support of collaborative grant
 applications and projects. MAH has an accrued research grant income of £11,619,000 and well-
 developed plans to enhance income generating activities. Its Peer Review College will
 encompass research mentoring, application development, and post-outcome support. It offers
 Philosophy access to a much-enhanced pool of expertise and support in this area.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Our collaborative activities are framed around our commitment to pursuing philosophy with and
 for the public. Our aim is to embed public engagement in all of our research activities whilst
 continuing to intervene decisively within the discipline itself.

 We actively encourage research that lends itself to impact, opening up our work to the local
 community and building relationships that provide the context and opportunity for knowledge
 exchange. We conceptualise our public engagement activities in the following four ways: (i)
 presenting to the public; (ii) engaging young people; (iii) contributing to Philosophy in new media;
 and (iv) working together with the public to inform policy. We have systematically progressed
 through each component, with the expectation that activities falling under (iv) will develop from
 earlier elements naturally and organically. We believe this last point to be extremely important:
 we do not want to force public engagement; rather we want it to emerge organically out of faculty
 research such that the connections made are meaningful and sustainable.

 (i) Presenting to the Public

 The department has been proactive in presenting research to the public as a stepping-stone to
 further connections. Davies’ public talks culminated in a partnership with the Fabrica Gallery in
 Brighton in conjunction with The End of Life Commission, a five-year project involving artists,
 health professionals, and academics, including Davies. Key events included roundtable
 discussions and conversations designed to reflect a two-way approach to public engagement
 (philosophy for and with the public) and located in public fora around Brighton. A particularly
 successful example was 'A Consciousness of Finitude: a conversation between Davies and
 Raymond Tallis’ (Brighton, July 2015). This event accompanied Elpida Hadji-Vasileva’s,
 'Fragility', installation at Fabrica and Davies’ essay 'On Lingering with Beauty' was available in
 the gallery to accompany the installation. Other works that emerged from this collaboration

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 included Stephen Eastwood’s, 'The Interval and the Instant', exhibition (Fabrica, 2017)
 and Stephen Eastwood’s 'Island', a film premiered at the London Film Festival in November
 2017.

 We also use public presentations as a catalyst, and springboard, for collaborations with non-HEI
 professionals in other fields. Both Stock’s and Staehler’s impact case studies, and collaborations
 with Baroness Emma Nicolson at the House of Lords, and the Royal College of Midwives
 respectively, were kick-started by a series of public talks. For instance, Staehler organised a
 panel at the 2017 Brighton Fringe Festival under the heading ‘Sussex Birth Day: Talking about
 Birth Matters’; Kathleen Stock spoke at a Woman’s Place meeting in Brighton July 16th 2018.
 Stock has gone on to make presentations with broader reach on local and national radio - from
 BBC Sussex to BBC Scotland - and on the television (BBC’s Newsnight and Politics Live and
 ITV’s Good Morning Britain). Responding to the pandemic situation as it was emerging in March
 2020, Booth gave an interview on ‘Ethics and Coronavirus’ for BBC Radio 4’s The Moral Maze.

 We are keen to draw diverse publics into the university: the department’s research seminars
 (PhilSoc) are funded by the Royal Institute of Philosophy, and hence open to all. But we also
 endeavour to speak in venues that facilitate attendance from the public (e.g. at Brighton
 Waterstones or The Friends’ Meeting House) and are advertised in local publications (e.g. Viva
 Brighton) and through our social media channels. Further, we use this strategy to scope out new
 projects which have then led to further connections. Chitty, Booth, and Deligiorgi’s co-founding
 of the Financial Inclusion Research Network was the product of an initial roundtable discussion
 on Financial Ethics at the Philosophy Society in 2015; O’Brien’s 2019 research presentation at
 the Philosophy Society on horses and pain has become an ethics report for the British Horse
 Racing Association.

 In order to further increase reach, we are increasingly engaging with different constituencies on
 a more international level. For example, Finlayson gave a presentation on the philosophy of
 Jurgen Habermas at the Feria International del Libro (Guadalajara, Mexico) in 2019, and Booth
 gave a presentation on Liberalism and Political Islam to a public audience at the Fondation du
 Roi Abdul-Aziz (Casablanca, Morocco) in 2018.

 (ii) Engaging Young People

 Developing our commitment to outreach to young people from REF2014 (where we developed
 the online Philosophy Resource for A-level teachers of Philosophy and which constituted an
 impact case study) we have diversified the kinds of engagement we carry out in this domain. We
 organise and host an annual conference for Sixth Form teachers in Philosophy (which has
 continued to be hugely popular, often hosting over 70 delegates from Schools all over the UK).
 But we have gone further, often with the assistance of Sussex’s Widening Participation
 programme:
     • We go out to schools to deliver presentations: (e.g. O’Brien and Booth at Leighton Park
         School in 2016, Staehler to Hurstpierpoint College in 2019).
     • We invite schools and colleges onto campus (e.g. Brighton College in 2019, BHASVIC in
         2015).
     • We engage with philosophical leaning beyond traditional educational contexts (e.g. Booth
         hosted a delegation from Haywards Heath University of the Third Age in 2019; Morris has
         given regular talks within this REF period at the Sceptics in the Pub, Brighton; and
         Finlayson works with Stoicon-X - an initiative that uses Stoic Philosophy to improve
         mental health among young people).
     • We take part in initiatives to encourage students from non-traditional backgrounds onto
         campus: (e.g. O’Brien and Booth were part of the Sussex Stars scheme in 2015, where
         students from non-traditional backgrounds were invited to conduct a small research
         project in philosophy on campus over the summer, and then participate in a mini-
         graduation ceremony).




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These are part of our wider strategic objectives: to increase the number of minority groups that
 engage with philosophical research with the aim of sustaining the future of the discipline and
 extending its reach. The fact that Sussex Philosophy’s ‘value added’ score measuring non-
 traditional intake to University has continued to improve over this REF cycle demonstrates our
 commitment here. We aim to make our research more visible to the public at large, and to
 engage 6th Form teachers in particular with our unique model and vision for Philosophy, with the
 aim of informing their teaching practice.

 (iii) Contributing to Philosophy in New Media

 Extending the reach of our work has led us to explore the utility of new media and to find new
 ways of engaging diverse audiences. Clark’s appointment was particularly significant in this
 regard as he brought extensive expertise and experience of engaging the public with
 philosophical ideas. He has been prolific in giving public TEDx talks, the most recent of which
 has been in TEDx Lambeth in December 2019 on ‘Extended You’ (viewed over 2,000 times).
 Other members of the department have communicated their ideas through different media. In
 2017, Besson discussed the ‘Limits of Reason’ with a Theologian and a Buddhist teacher at an
 Institute of Art and Ideas event (it remains available on the IAI Player). Stock’s presentation at a
 Woman’s Place UK meeting in Brighton in 2018 has generated over 22k views and she has
 been interviewed about her research for the well-known podcast Philosophy Bites. O’Brien has
 recently been interviewed by The Forum for European Philosophy, whilst Sawyer appeared on a
 panel that they organised and filmed on the work of Hilary Putnam (available as a podcast).

 The department has also been experimenting with the use of social media channels for
 disseminating research. We now have an active Twitter feed (with 5,000 followers) managed by
 Booth. Stock’s work on the Gender Recognition Act has attracted significant attention on Twitter
 as have her public articles on Wordpress. We have also sought to communicate our research to
 a wider public through non-academic publications. For example, Clark has written in Nature
 magazine and edge.com on consciousness as controlled hallucination; Booth has published
 pieces on curiosity for Viva Brighton magazine and on extremism for The Conversation, and
 Stock has written for The Economist, The Conversation, Quillette, Standpoint, and The Article,
 has been interviewed in The Daily Telegraph, Times Higher Education, the German
 magazine Cicero, and the Danish daily newspaper Berlinske and her work has been reported or
 discussed in the Guardian, Times, Sunday Times, Daily Mail, The Spectator, and the New York
 Times.

 (iv) Working together with the Public to Inform Policy

 As a result of these activities we have begun to see the emergence of authentic collaboration
 between researchers and the public to inform policy. Two of these are detailed in our impact
 case studies: Stock’s work ensured due process and that missing voices are heard in the debate
 about the Gender Recognition Act; Staehler’s used Philosophy as a tool to inform changes to
 healthcare policy. Furthermore, O’Brien’s work on horses’ experience of pain led to his ethics
 report and invitation to serve as a member of the British Horse Racing Association’s ethics
 committee. Booth and Chitty’s collaboration with Money Advice Plus has led to the development
 of an illustrated book showcasing the ethical challenges faced by financial advice workers. The
 aim is for it to be an appendix to the national manual for training money advisors. Finlayson’s
 work with Brighton and Hove Council commemorating one-time local resident, and anarchist
 thinker Prince Petr Krotopkin continues with plans for an exhibition at Brighton Sea Life Centre.

 Contributions to the Discipline

 We have also played key roles in some of the UK’s most prestigious and long-standing UK
 philosophical organisations. For example, Morris was elected President of the Mind Association
 from 2019, the longest-established and most prestigious professional body in Philosophy. He
 gave the inaugural address of the Joint Session of the Mind Association and Aristotelian Society
 in July 2020 remotely (due to Covid-19), and his lecture was watched by 450 people. Sawyer



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has been a member of the Executive Committee of the Mind Association since 2014, and from
 2016 on the Executive Committee and Council of the Royal Institute of Philosophy.

 Our Open Borders: Multi Traditions agenda ensures that we are naturally orientated towards
 the philosophy of other cultures and countries. Our traditional expertise in ‘Continental
 Philosophy’ has been orientated, of course, towards work in Continental Europe. Our mission to
 challenge further boundaries than the ‘Anglo-American vs. Continental’ means we look beyond
 Western Europe too, especially towards countries whose philosophical traditions that have been
 overlooked in the dominant Anglo-American philosophical world.

 The Research Committee has prioritised funding projects that further our strategic international
 connections, such as Finlayson’s research trip to Wuhan University in China. This culminated in
 a memorandum of understanding between Sussex and Wuhan through which we have
 developed increased academic exchange, collaborative projects, and our journal, Studies in
 Social and Political Thought (New Series). Through the agreement: ‘Wuhan Philosophy will fund
 short term visits by student members of the SSPT editorial team, with a view to exchange of
 materials, ideas and expertise related to the journal.’ The scheme is open to faculty members
 and graduate students to visit (up to two per year funded by Wuhan) to present seminars, or
 participate in other conferences or workshops.

 During this REF cycle we have received in total over 100 invitations to speak internationally, in
 such places as Harvard (Finlayson, December 2014), Tokyo (Sawyer, September 2018),
 Barcelona (Stock, May 2016), Venice (Morris, July 2019), Al-Ain, United Arab Emirates (Booth,
 April 2019), Paris (O’Brien, January 2015), Leiden (Staehler, June 2019), Istanbul (Chitty, March
 2018), Stanford (Besson, March 2019), and Dublin (Deligiorgi, October 2015). Our research has
 been translated into 8 other languages (including Albanian, Arabic, Turkish, Spanish, and
 German), and we are on the editorial boards of several international journals including:
 Fronteras de la Filosofia Practica, Argentina (Booth); Baghdad Journal of Philosophy, Iraq
 (Booth); British Journal of Aesthetics (Stock). Sawyer is Associate Editor of the Australasian
 Journal of Philosophy and the Publications Officer of the Mind occasional series.

 While we especially prioritise engagements outside of the Anglo-American mainstream, we
 nonetheless have strong ties with institutions in the USA as evidenced by large numbers of
 speaker invitations there. Stock was a trustee of the American Society for Aesthetics until 2015,
 and has collaborated closely with colleagues at Claremont McKenna College, California, during
 this REF-cycle. Our international engagement activities have culminated in co-operation in
 successful international funding bids, such as Besson’s grant with the Rikbankens
 Jubileumsfond in Sweden.
                                                  ***

 Sussex Philosophy has done more than sustain its long-established reputation for innovation
 over the last seven years; it has re-invigorated it. Whilst in 2006 Glendinning lauded the ‘new
 shape’ of a department that was ‘not readily identifiable as either analytic or Continental’, in 2020
 we transcend many more distinctions. These include those between ‘Western’ and ‘non-
 Western’ philosophy, and between ‘practical’ and ‘theoretical’ scholarship. We are an inclusive,
 public-facing and intellectually open department that embraces the challenge of practicing
 philosophy in a changing world. We actively seek to engage diverse publics with philosophical
 ideas because Philosophy matters - not just within the university - but beyond.




                                                                                              Page 13
