Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: 34 Communication, Cultural and Media Studies, Library and
 Information Management

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 Media, Culture, Heritage (MCH) Subject Group is located in the School of Arts and Cultures
 (SACs) in the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences (HaSS). MCH was formed in 2016
 through a merging of the pre-existing Media and Cultural Studies Department (MACs) and the
 International Centre for Cultural and Heritage Studies (ICCHS). This combination enabled the
 creation of a unique multi-disciplinary space for world-class research and teaching on the
 relationship between media, culture and heritage. In this regard, the new Subject Group builds
 upon the successful submission of both departments to REF2014. At the REF census date, MCH
 had 38.8 FTE CAT A (Category A) staff whose focus crosses research in media, culture and
 heritage including a strong cohort of practice-based staff providing training and education in
 journalism, public relations (PR), and film making. This is a marked growth from REF2014, where
 MACs submitted 15 CAT A staff, meaning that the Subject Group has more than doubled in size
 and research capacity since 2014. With the exception of 2 staff, everyone being submitted to
 UoA34 is a member of staff in MCH.

 MCH’s mission is driven by the belief that how the past and present are mediated through a range
 of technologies and practices is key to understanding the political, economic and cultural
 challenges of the present moment and the imagined future. These technologies include print, film
 and digital media and practices of media consumption and production, journalism, public relations,
 and museum management and curatorship amongst others. From fake news and
 misrepresentation of the past in digital media, to the contested politics of memory in monuments
 and museum and gallery spaces, to the rise of far-right discourse on social media, staff in MCH
 recognise that understanding, analysing and intervening in these technologies and practices is
 key to producing a more just, equitable and fair world.

 As the largest Subject Group in SACs, MCH is uniquely positioned to achieve its strategy through
 a singular combination of interdisciplinary knowledge and expertise. MCH staff creatively combine
 theories and methods from humanities, creative practices and social sciences, supported by
 significant infrastructural investments in world-leading film making facilities to create original
 interdisciplinary forms of research-led knowledge, outputs and impact. The success of MCH’s
 unique interdisciplinary strengths is evidenced in outputs as diverse as internationally award-
 winning documentaries on racism, policy-challenging social science research on immigration
 within the EU and evidence that improves the protection of cultural property during armed conflict.
 In turn, this work demonstrates MCH’s (and the University’s) commitment to enabling socially
 conscious change for communities both within Newcastle and in a range of other international and
 global contexts.

 Recognising the importance of leading outward facing debates in academia and civil society
 around equality and inclusion, MCH is also focused on producing a research environment that is
 transformative for staff and students. To do this, MCH works to create a space that addresses
 issues of diversity and offers a research culture that is equitable and inclusive for all people,
 through actively seeking diversity in hiring practices, mentoring, promotion and progression and
 research support.

 Research Strategy

 The synergy of expertise and skill in the newly formed MCH has resulted in a series of major
 achievements in the current REF period, which build upon the strategy outlined in the 2014 REF

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 environment template. In 2014, we made a commitment to advance critical theory and further
 bridge divisions between theory and practice with research at regional, national and international
 levels; to foster collaborative and RCUK/EU-funded research and to respond with politically
 current and policy-relevant research to the major societal challenges that our work addresses.
 This commitment has borne considerable fruit, including the award of £2.76 million of research
 funding during the assessment period and significant international impact, which the Subject
 Group continues to build upon.

 As such, the Subject Group’s current research strategy is threefold:

    i)      to advance critical theory and further bridge divisions between theory and practice
            across media and cultural studies, heritage, film, and journalism and public relations in
            order to produce innovative digital and creative practice-based outputs.
    ii)     to foster interdisciplinary collaborative UKRI/EU-funded projects that produces
            innovative, discipline leading research.
    iii)    to respond to major societal challenges with interdisciplinary theory and method that
            creates politically and policy-relevant research at regional, national and international
            levels.

 To realise this strategy, the Subject Group’s research is organised around 4 key groups/themes.
 These groups/themes are organised to enable interdisciplinary research and collaboration
 between staff members with varying academic and professional backgrounds where that seems
 appropriate and productive.

    1. Media and Culture examines issues of digital and social media and politics and identity
       across a range of cultural practices. Specifically, staff working in the media and culture
       theme are world leading in their respective fields of expertise, producing pathbreaking
       research on digital media theory and practice (Ash, Hands, Chambers); disabled girls'
       online self-representation practices (Hill); gender, politics and media (Ross); leisure and
       blue spaces (Evers); gender and identities (Haywood; Longstaff); and culture, science and
       technology (Sikka). These phenomena are studied through the significant theoretical and
       methodological forwarding of perspectives including Freudian and Lacanian
       psychoanalysis; Critical Discourse Analysis; Digital Media Theory; Feminism and Critical
       Race Theory. Other staff include: Baldwin, Davenport, Mearns, Newman and Rush-
       Cooper.
    2. Heritage is concerned with all areas of heritage studies and is internationally renowned
       for its distinctive focus on issues around immigration and the politics of memory. The
       importance of the heritage group within the University has been recognised by its support
       of the Heritage NUCoRE, (Newcastle University Centres of Research Excellence).This
       work expands debates around politics and memory by considering these terms in a diverse
       sense, examining a range of specific periods and spaces, including difficult histories in
       Northern Ireland, Germany and Turkey (Bozoglu, Markham, Eckersley); migration and
       identities (Whitehead, Galani); belonging and memory (Sayner); built heritage (Coffield);
       community, museology and heritage spaces (Mason); and the protection and preservation
       of cultural property and artefacts (Mazel, Stone). These periods and spaces are examined
       from a number of different theoretical and methodological perspectives, including affect
       theory; postcolonial theory and feminism. Other staff include; Lanz.
    3. Film focuses on the production and theorisation of film, with a particular emphasis on
       documentary film making practice. Staff share a number of overlapping interests and have
       expertise in theorising documentary as a critical and creative practice; history of the
       documentary; intersections between the documentary and sociological / anthropological
       /cultural studies; independent film production and exhibition; documentary practices in
       India / South Asia; film festivals; and sports documentaries. These interests have resulted
       in award winning and genre defining documentary films on a diverse range of topics from
       Martin Luther King (McDonald and Jayaraman) to language education in Africa (Cole).
       Other staff include; Gharavi, Shail and Sidenova.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    4. Journalism critically examines the relationship between politics, journalism and PR
       practice and society. Topics under research in this area include the role of moral
       storytelling, propaganda, mythology and ideology in relation to a range of topics including
       gender; civil unrest, political party rhetoric, economic disasters, and terrorism (Kelsey,
       Khosravinik, Lavy, Peng, Zollmann); data visualisation and information graphics (Dick); the
       politics of local media (Baines); and celebrity journalism (Usher).

 Impact Strategy

 The Subject Group’s impact strategy is built out of its commitment to carry out research that
 creates a more just and equitable world. As such, the Subject Group’s impact strategy is closely
 linked to the ethos of how research and research funding applications are designed across the 4
 research themes. Research and impact strategies are linked through 3 core tenets that underlie
 research:

    i)      a focus on problem-driven research which studies social, economic, political and
            cultural phenomena by identifying what issues they raise for different groups in society
            and designing methodologies that can produce insights to enable change.
    ii)     a drive to design projects in collaboration with the communities, groups and
            stakeholders who are expert in the issues under study, or who can benefit most from
            the findings from such projects.
    iii)    evidence gathering and data collection that is designed to produce insights that can
            speak to policy change and other forms of societal transformation.

 This strategy was key to the development of the four impact case studies (ICS) submitted. For
 example, Stone’s ICS (34-4) was driven by the problem of cultural property destruction that
 occurred during armed conflict and he worked with US and UK military forces to develop policies
 to ensure their protection. Newman and Davenport’s ICS (34-1) on ageing and dementia worked
 directly with people living with dementia and local artists to develop opportunities for creative
 expression. Ross’s ICS (34-3) draws on decades of research and comprises a set of resources
 which provide pedagogical and practitioner-focused materials to enhance gender-sensitive
 journalism. Ash’s ICS (34-2) was based on data that was collected using innovative interface
 methodologies and which provided insight that directly informed the design of credit union-backed
 alternative digital platforms to high-cost forms of digital credit.

 A commitment to impact driven research, which is shared by teaching staff, technicians, students
 and professional services, results in an impact strategy focused on three goals.

    i)   Influence policy and regulation across local, national and international
         governmental and non-governmental organisations. In the Subject Group, staff
         produce knowledge that has informed evidence-based policy recommendations in a variety
         of realms. Evidence of these strategies in action include Stone’s UNESCO work with
         international militaries to protect cultural property (2015-ongoing), Ash’s ESRC (2016-18,
         £139K) funded project on high-cost credit and Newman’s AHRC (2013-17, £266K) work
         on Dementia.
    ii) Co-produce knowledge and education with charities and third sector organisations
         in order to inform different local, national and international groups. Staff working
         across all 4 themes work to co-produce knowledge that informs the strategies and activities
         of a range of charities and third sector organisations. Evidence of success here include
         Ross’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) ‘Not Acting Our Age’ network (2016-17,
         £11K) to promote the visibility of women in the city and Chambers’ ESRC project (2018-
         22, £14K) working with local mental health charities focusing on improving services for
         young people.
    iii) Work with local, national and international communities to change the environments
         and spaces in which they live. Researchers in all 4 groups directly work with a variety of
         communities, with a focus on altering how these communities live together and understand

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        one another. Evidence of this strategy includes Ever’s Macquarie University funded (2019-
        20, £2K) project on polluted leisure, which has generated community projects to rejuvenate
        disused spaces in North Tyneside and within journalism, Baines has worked with
        Newcastle charity Headliners on a Heritage Lottery funded project (2019-21) to enable
        young people in migrant groups to document their experience through news reporting.

 Strategic future aims and goals for the next five years

 Building upon the success of the current REF period, MCH’s aims over the next 5 years are
 fourfold.

    1. The Subject Group seeks to further build its interdisciplinary research profile through
       innovative methods and practices. Extending the success of networks built within
       Newcastle, such as the Heritage NUCoRE (see Institutional Level Environment Statement
       2.2), the Subject Group will create further links with other NUCoREs. This strategy is
       beginning to be realised. For instance, Newman is working with the Ageing NUCoRE to
       develop interdisciplinary research on dementia and ageing.
    2. The Subject Group will extend its research networks in order to enhance the international
       standing of our research and in particular work with institutions and organisations outside
       of the global North. The groundwork for this expansion is already developing, with
       members of staff actively pursuing research in the global South and Asia. For example,
       Ash has recently been awarded EPSRC funding to develop VR technology to aid maternal
       health in refugee camps in Kenya (2019-20, £18K award to University, £3K to SACs). Ross
       is one of the leads on an internally-funded network on women in development (2019-2021)
       and will be developing two projects focused on women entrepreneurs in India (2021) in
       collaboration with 2 Delhi-based NGOs and the Indian Institute for Mass Communication.
    3. The Subject Group will build upon its impact activities, with a particular emphasis on public
       policy influence. In the current period, impact across the Heritage and Media and Culture
       themes has been international (ICS 34-3, 34-4) national (ICS 34-1, 34-2) and regional. In
       the next REF period, the Subject Group will seek to create more joined-up impact, with
       regional research data feeding into national and international debates through
       collaboration with existing colleagues at other institutions and organisations.
    4. Recognising that a commitment to Equality Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) is an ongoing
       process, the Subject Group will continue to diversify its community of staff and students
       across all four research themes. We will achieve this through working to enable the transfer
       of staff from CAT B to CAT A, supporting women's progression to senior grades, continuing
       to decolonise curricula through ongoing review and using targeted studentships to diversify
       our Postgraduate (PGR) community.

 Open Research

 The Subject Group is an open research environment, rigorously engaging with Newcastle’s
 commitment to maximising research discoverability and impact. MCH research outputs are freely
 available on ePrints, the University’s online open access research depository. Moving significantly
 beyond the REF’s open access policy requirements, the Subject Group is part of the Plan S
 commitment. Plan S requires that publications arising from research funded through grants from
 cOAlition S members (e.g. the European Commission) are published in open access journals and
 platforms or made immediately available through open repositories without embargo.

 MCH leads the drive on open access data, as part of Newcastle’s key role in the development of
 the UK Concordat on Open Data. The Subject Group follows the principles of the Concordat to
 make research openly available for use by others wherever possible in a manner consistent with
 relevant legal, ethical and regulatory frameworks. The Subject Group is also committed to the
 effective sharing of research data, following the University’s FAIR (Findable, Accessible,
 Interoperable and Reusable) data policy. To support FAIR, datasets from MCH research projects
 are shared via data.ncl; Newcastle University's open data repository. The repository makes

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research data discoverable and enables new collaborations. Data deposited is preserved for at
 least 10 years and in most cases openly accessed. The commitment to Plan S and the UK
 Concordat on Open Data reflects MCH’s core mission to promote its research as widely as
 possible and ensure staff and student work is discoverable as soon as it can be.

 Alongside the University’s research strategy, the Subject Group supports a culture of research
 integrity, and ensures that research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal and
 professional frameworks. Such ethics are also integral to MCH’s research environment. For
 instance, those working within the Journalism theme subscribe to the NUJ code of conduct and
 those in Media and Culture, Heritage and Film proactively work to ensure their research is also
 responsible, with a particular focus on how research outputs might be negatively used or
 misused.
 Section 2. People

 Staff and Staffing Strategy

 MCH is a large academic Subject Group, consisting of 38.8 FTE CAT A staff (at the census date).
 This is a more than doubling of staff numbers from REF2014, and thus research capacity and
 expertise. 2 members of the submission come from other departments (Gharavi and Baldwin),
 while working within the MCH research remit. The increase in staff reflects a sustained and
 ambitious investment in the Subject Group from the University during this period. Further evidence
 of this investment is the institutional support for Stone’s UNESCO Chair for Cultural Property
 Protection & Peace, which was renewed in 2019 and demonstrates the University’s recognition of
 MCH’s research excellence in this sub-disciplinary area.

 Staffing strategy for the Subject Group is based on growing expertise across the 4 research
 themes in ways that enable further interdisciplinary engagement, with a particular emphasis on
 digital practice and theory. Digital technologies have become more and more pervasive in
 structuring all aspects of society, but also require unique interdisciplinary knowledge to study and
 understand. As such, MCH’s appointment strategy has resulted in unique interdisciplinary
 Lectureship appointments in Digital Media and PR (Peng 2019) and Digital Approaches to Media,
 Heritage and Cultural Studies (Eckersley 2019; Coffield 2019; Rush-Cooper 2019; Markham
 2020). This intentional investment has led to an increase in research funding in this area, such as
 the EU-funded En/Counter/Points project (Eckersley 2019-22, £213K) and ESRC projects on
 interfaces and gambling (Ash 2019-21, £254K) and high-cost credit (Ash). There is also an
 increased focus on practice-led research with new appointments planned in PR, data and
 journalism, which feeds into our research groups.

 To enable an outstanding research, teaching and impact environment for staff, all CAT A staff are
 provided with 40% research time in the work-load model and the Subject Group enables staff to
 set dedicated time aside for research each week and clearly communicates this protected time to
 other staff and students. Staff in the Subject Group are assigned a research mentor and each staff
 member goes through an annual review of their Personal Research Plan (PRP) and Performance
 and Development Review (PDR) and support is given for staff seeking promotion. The Subject
 Group recognises and rewards staff for carrying out research and for achieving impact. MCH
 follows HaSS faculty policy that all staff hours won through external grant funding are added to
 the work allocation model on top of their research allowance, ensuring staff have the time to fully
 deliver on projects. Staff winning external grants are allocated a proportion of the grant to their
 personal research account. Staff who were leading on developing an ICS were allocated 200 hours
 to work on the ICS in both 2019-20 and 2020-21.

 MCH is pathbreaking in its approach to research leave. All staff can apply for leave every 7th
 semester for 1 semester and sabbatical plans and end of leave reports ensure staff make the most
 of this important opportunity. Crucially, staff on teaching and scholarship (T&S) contracts are also
 on the sabbatical leave rota and this has enabled staff to complete research outputs that have
 enabled them to transition to teaching and research (T&R) contracts (Usher). In relation to early

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 career researchers (ECRs), the Subject Group implements the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers, ensuring that researchers work in an equitable and supportive
 environment, have the opportunity for professional development and are encouraged to apply for
 permanent posts (if on fixed-term contracts) and promotion, where appropriate.

 PhD and Postgraduates

 The growth and expansion of staff has attracted a larger, more diverse and vibrant PGR
 community, with the number of completed PhD students increasing from 32 during the REF2014
 reporting period to 54 for the period covered by REF2021 (44.29 supervisory allocation to MCH).
 The international reputation of MCH’s PhD offer is evidenced by the diverse nationalities of PhD
 students including those from China, Germany, Thailand, Saudi Arabia and the United States, a
 number of whom are in receipt of government-funded scholarships. The gender balance of
 completing PhD students is moving towards parity, with 46% Female Identifying (FI) (25 of 54).
 The number and quality of PhD students is matched by an increase in funded PhD studentships
 and a wider source of funders, including the AHRC Northern Bridge and NINE Doctoral Training
 Programmes and several foreign governments. The expansion of research themes in the Subject
 Group is also reflected in the range of PhD topics including death on social media in relation to
 music celebrity (AHRC funded, Culbert), queering the museum (Robenalt), documentary films on
 fan activism (Karydis) and neoliberal journalism in Taiwan (Lin).

 MCH is one of the only Subject Groups in the country that offers both ESRC and AHRC funding
 to media and cultural studies PhD students. This is enabled by MCH’s membership of the ESRC
 Northern Ireland/ North East (NINE) Doctoral Training Programme (DTP), which provides MA and
 PhD funding for exceptional social science students working on issues surrounding media and
 culture and the AHRC Northern Bridge DTP, which supports PhD scholarships for outstanding
 postgraduate researchers across the full range of Arts and Humanities subjects, including creative
 practice disciplines. PhD students also have access to a Faculty Research Training Programme
 (FRTP), which enables study towards a 60-credit Postgraduate Certificate in Research Training
 and has been recognised by the ESRC and AHRC as a relevant foundation for doctoral studies.
 In turn, the FRTP underpins the training provisions of the ESRC NINE and AHRC Northern Bridge
 DTPs. Together, these schemes offer further evidence that MCH’s unique research culture is
 nationally outstanding.

 PGR student progress is monitored through a range of processes. All PGR students must
 complete project approval within 3 months of the start of their studies (6 months for part-time).
 Further to this, annual progress reviews provide students with feedback and ensure their research
 is progressing according to the University’s expectations. Research supervision of PGR students
 involves a supervisory team comprising at least 2 Faculty, one of whom is identified as the primary
 supervisor, with students able to access alternative supervision and expertise as their project
 evolves or if other needs arise. The quality of the PhD programme in MCH is reflected in the
 destination of PhD graduates, with many going on to academic positions, or utilising their skills in
 relevant private and public sector organisations. Graduate destinations include lectureships and
 teaching and research fellowships at major universities and researcher positions at a range of
 international digital consultancies.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 SACs, in which MCH is situated, achieved an Athena Swan bronze award in 2018. Achieving this
 award was based on building systems that enable diversity, equality and inclusion in order to
 ensure all staff can fulfil their potential. Key work on EDI in MCH includes:

            i)      Addressing gender imbalance in hiring and promotion




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A majority of recent hires have been FI, contributing to a redressing of historical gender
 imbalances, with 37 CAT A staff in MCH and 2 in other Subject Groups at REF2021 census date
 (see Table 1).

 Table 1: Shift in gender balance CAT A Staff REF2014 to REF2021
                                 REF2014                    REF2021
  FI (Female Identifying)          5 (33%)                          18 (46%)
  MI (Male Identifying)            10 (66%)                         21 (54%)

 Also significant is a shift in the seniority of MI and FI staff, with FI staff now occupying more senior
 positions in the Subject Group than in REF2014. For example, in REF2014, Professorial positions
 were mostly held by MI individuals (2 MI 66.6%, 1 FI 33.3%). Professor level roles in REF2021
 are now 50% FI (3) and 50% MI (3), as are Lecturer level roles (8 FI, 8 MI). Further shifts include
 an increase in FI Senior Lecturers from 28% in REF2014 (2) to 44.4% (4) in REF2021 and an
 overall increase in FI staff at Lecturer level (3 FI staff in REF2014, 8 in REF2021). This shift has
 been created by proactive staffing, recruitment and promotions policies that work to enable diverse
 candidate pools, neutral wording of job adverts to not be exclusionary and ensuring recruitment
 and promotions panels are balanced in terms of both gender and career stage. Reflecting
 Newcastle’s position as a globally facing University, the Subject Group continues to employ a large
 number of staff from outside of the UK, maintaining a 33% ratio of international staff (5/15 in 2014
 and 13/39 in 2021).

            ii)     Recognising intersectionality

 MCH is composed of a diverse range of individuals from a range of international perspectives and
 backgrounds. At the REF2021 census date, 23% of staff describe their Ethnic Group as BME,
 which is higher than the sector average of 16% for BME staff, demonstrating that MCH is an
 attractive place for BME colleagues. At the same time the unit recognises that 69% of the
 submission still describe their Ethnic Group as White (remaining colleagues did not provide this
 information), suggesting there is still important work to done here. Mindful that diversity takes a
 variety of forms alongside gender, such as race, sexuality, cultural background, religion and
 nationality (amongst many others), a number of MCH staff are members of the SACs Inclusion,
 Diversity, Equity, Access (IDEA) Committee. In order to further address and develop the complex
 intersectional aspects of EDI, Newcastle University is a member of The Stonewall Diversity
 Champions programme, the leading best-practice employers' forum for organisations who are
 committed to Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgender (LGBT) inclusion. MCH is central to this
 intersectional commitment, with MCH staff member Longstaff leading the Rainbow Network, a
 cross University LGBT+ group. The Rainbow Network was established by and for University staff
 and students with the purpose of supporting LGBT+ staff and students; challenging
 heteronormativity and promoting inclusion of people of diverse genders, sexualities, and
 relationships. To do this, the group provides advocacy and work to influence University policy on
 all matters relevant to LGBT+ inclusion. Recognising diversity issues are not only a matter of
 gender or sexuality, the Subject Group is actively working to decolonise the curriculum. This is
 being achieved through seminar series and training sessions, such as a decolonising the museum
 seminar series (2018-2020) organised by PGR members of the Subject Group and supported by
 the School’s Strategic Research Fund (SSRF).

            iii)    Shifting staff from hourly paid to permanent contracts

 MCH provides outstanding support for a variety of career pathways for both part-time and fixed-
 term staff, where having job security is a basic condition the Subject Group aims to provide as
 standard. MCH’s commitment to ensuring that ECRs (and especially FI staff, who tend to be
 overrepresented in this category) have an opportunity to move to open ended contracts has
 resulted in 5 ECR staff moving from hourly-paid to open-ended contracts in the current REF period.


                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 MCH is also focused on staff who wish to develop research trajectories and 3 members of staff
 (Coffield, Markham, Usher) have been converted from T&S to T&R contracts as a result.

            iv)     Enabling diverse working and opportunities for research

 To support EDI, the Subject Group has an open approach to flexible and remote working, which
 is enabled by a range of University initiatives, including the provision of IT equipment for remote
 working and health and safety audits and adjustments of remote workspaces to ensure the health
 of staff. Staff can apply through the School for flexible working and this is well supported, with staff
 and timetabling requests taking individual circumstances into account. University resources are
 available to all staff remotely, including file systems and library and teaching applications.
 Furthermore, conference attendance and other necessary travel is facilitated for staff and research
 students with caring responsibilities, ill health or disability through multiple mechanisms. All staff
 have access to an allowance of £1.5K to support research and scholarship activities including
 conference attendance and travel and the University’s conference fund can provide additional
 support for staff who organise international conferences. For staff and students with additional
 needs, extra costs associated with travel are covered in the running budget of the School to ensure
 no disadvantage. MCH utilises the University’s Returners' Support Programme (RSP), which has
 been designed to reduce the impact of extended leave on the delivery of staff activities. The
 scheme provides funding of up to £10K to help colleagues maintain career development.

 As part of EDI, MCH recognises the crucial role technicians play in the production of a successful
 research and teaching culture in the Subject Group, and support staff to realise their own research
 and scholarship ambitions. The contribution of technicians in MCH has been recognised externally
 at a national level. Evidence of this is James Davoll’s nomination for ‘Outstanding Technician of
 the Year’ in the 2019 Times Higher Education awards and David De La Haye’s nomination in 2020.
 Davoll’s work was praised for ‘contributing to cutting edge interdisciplinary research in the fields
 of cultural studies, environmental humanities, creative arts, leisure studies, and media studies’. In
 terms of progression and further training, technicians are invited to develop PhD applications,
 which has resulted in 2 staff (Rushton, Roush) registering for PhDs in film in order to further
 deepen their subject expertise and enable career progression. Technician colleagues can also
 apply for internal funding support in order to further their research ambitions.

 To recognise the importance of EDI initiatives and ensure these principles are embedded in
 everyday working practice, from 2018 MCH has actively included ‘good citizenship’ service
 activities into the workload allocation model, ensuring that activities such as membership of EDI,
 Ethics and other committees; informal mentoring of colleagues and support for PGR student
 network activities are recognised as crucial aspects of the work we do.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Total research income for MCH in the current REF period stands at over £2.76 million with 33
 awards from international and national funders. Income includes funding from organisations
 including the AHRC, ESRC, European Commission, Leverhulme Trust, British Academy, EPSRC
 and Swedish Research Council. Major projects include EU-funded work such as the ‘CoHERE
 project’ (Whitehead, Eckersley, Mason, Galani, McDonald 2016-19, £551K award to University,
 £221K to SACs) and ‘En/counter/points’ (Eckersley 2019-2022, £213K); European Commission
 projects include ‘Women, Politics and Media Framing’ (Ross 2108-20, £156K); ESRC-funded
 projects include ‘Between Gaming and Gambling’ (Ash 2019-21, £253K) and ‘Digital Interfaces
 and Debt’ (Ash 2016-18, £139K); AHRC projects include ‘Knowing the Secret Police’ (Saynor
 2017-2019, £553K award to University, £221K to SACs), ‘Plural Heritages of Istanbul’s Land
 Walls’ (Whitehead 2016-18, £201K award to University, £141K to SACs). This is a marked
 increase in the number of awards and range of funding bodies awarding funding compared to

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2014. Further evidence of MCH’s research leadership is that staff from MCH lead the majority
 of projects they win, being Principal Investigators in over 75% of grants (25 out of 33) awarded in
 the REF period.

 Increased grant income and research leadership has opened significant opportunities to more
 quickly realise the Subject Group’s research strategy, grow and sustain the Subject Group’s staff
 and increase engagement and impact opportunities with a wider selection of national and
 international stakeholders. For example, Ross was PI on an EU-funded impact project, ‘Advancing
 Gender Equality in Media Industries’ (AGEMI) (2017-19, £94K), which was subsequently
 leveraged as the basis of further funding from the Council of Europe in 2020. The relevance of
 MCH work to wider society is also evidenced in £223K of commercial research income in the REF
 period, with staff providing expertise to 7 organisations, ranging from UNESCO (Stone £45K) to
 the European Commission (Ross £94K) to inform their practices and policies.

 To achieve this increased success, MCH has benefitted from a range of internal investment,
 including successful bids to the HaSS Faculty’s Bid Preparation Fund, which offers up to £10k to
 prospective PIs to help write and submit grant applications; the Faculty Research Fund (up to
 £4K), which has been used to help staff develop new research projects and outputs; the Faculty
 Impact Fund, (up to £5K), which enables knowledge exchange (KE) and impact activities that
 contribute to economic and societal development in the region and beyond; and the ESRC IAA
 Fund (up to £10K), to accelerate engagement and knowledge exchange activities. The award of
 these funds to MCH staff was instrument to the development of several major projects in the
 Subject Group, including Ash’s gambling and high-cost credit ESRC work and Whitehead’s AHRC
 Plural Heritages project.

 The Subject Group supports staff to develop the skills necessary to increase research grant
 income and develop impact from research. This is achieved through a range of activities, including
 regular research drop-in sessions and engagement with specialist colleagues including Faculty
 Research Funding Development Managers, Impact Officers and School Research Managers, all
 of whom offer important peer review of applications prior to submission. Mindful of the fact that
 junior scholars are under-represented nationally in successful grant applications, the Subject
 Group also draws upon the SACs SSRF, which is specifically aimed at providing seed-corn funding
 for ECRs. The Subject Group also has a £5K annual research environment budget that is used to
 invite speakers to visit, organise seminar series and develop collaborations.

 Facilities and Infrastructure

 The University has made a large investment in MCH facilities. For example, the Film research
 group has a new dedicated production and editing facility ‘Culture Lab’, which has been key to the
 group’s outputs and success. Culture Lab is housed in a Grade II listed building located in the
 centre of Newcastle’s city campus and includes the Ballroom, a performance and events space
 that can host up to 150 people; an industry-standard recording studio facility which includes an
 anechoic live room; a fully-fitted control room and multichannel monitoring facilities; and dedicated
 editing suites for video and film editing. This investment of over £1 million has transformed the
 research capabilities of film. Alongside infrastructural and technical facilities, Film@Culture Lab
 has also benefitted from the appointment of 4 additional technicians and support staff (Rushton,
 Roush, Robinson, Lynn) between 2017-2020, who offer specific expertise in film production to
 complement/collaborate on the research and teaching work of this research group.

 The environment for PhD study is enhanced by the Doctoral Training Suite, a purpose-built facility
 for lectures, workshops, seminars and computer access to specialist software. Each year we have
 2 student-led research postgraduate conferences. There are also a variety of prizes and awards
 to celebrate the successes of our students.

 Investment in facilities and infrastructure has helped MCH engage with more partners, both within
 and outside of academia. For example, the investment in Culture Lab has enabled the appointment

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of 2 3 year visiting professorships to award-winning documentary film makers John Akomfrah
 (2016-2019) and Nick Broomfield (2015-2018), supported with funding from the Newcastle
 University Institute for Creative Arts Practice. Deeply political film makers, their work explores
 racial tension in a range of settings. In turn, these appointments have fed back into the research
 culture of the Film group as a whole, contributing to both the technical and theoretical aspects of
 teaching and researching documentary film and the politics in, and of, documentary film making.

 MCH offers facilities to support a range of staff, especially ECRs. This includes courses such as
 Principal Investigator workshops, to help develop grant-writing skills, departmental mentoring and
 a ‘students-who-teach’ training programme. PhD students work as Research Associates (RAs) on
 funded research projects and give occasional presentations on their research to students and
 faculty, as well as support seminars in order to prepare them for an academic career after
 graduation. Recognising that empowering ECRs to produce world-leading research requires
 internal investment, all staff on fixed and open-ended contracts, including RAs, are provided with
 a yearly personal research allowance (£1.5K). This support enables ECRs to speak at
 international conferences, build research networks and complete small research projects, which
 have informed ECRs’ published outputs.

 MCH also benefits from a range of organisational infrastructural support which maximises
 research and impact. For PGRs, this includes support at both the School and Faculty level, with
 over 700 hours of Faculty-led training based on the RDF (Research Development Framework)
 principles. A dedicated Careers Service provides access to employer presentations and
 workshops to help PGR students prepare for careers both within and outside academia. A
 University and Faculty Press Office offers essential support to ensure research findings from
 research outputs and ICS (e.g. 34-2) are communicated nationally. This support has been key to
 MCH research featuring on national and local radio and in national and online newspapers and
 news outlets, including the BBC, The Times, The Conversation and BBC Radio 4.

 To ensure all MCH research meets and exceeds ethical standards, the Subject Group benefits
 from Faculty level ethics support, which ensures all research funding applications are carried out
 with the upmost care for respondents and participants. This support includes online ethics toolkits,
 dedicated Faculty level ethical approval committees and repositories that provide best practice
 examples of consent forms and information sheets.

 Library facilities to support MCH research and impact are world leading, with the Robinson Library
 providing online access to much of its catalogue and a significant off-campus research reserve,
 which gives staff access to over 400,000 titles. Library and IT staff are also key to the MCH
 research environment, providing subject expertise and ensuring all MCH research is open access
 and accessible through the University’s ePrint system. Within the past year, such staff have proven
 particularly invaluable to enable research at a distance and working from home given COVID-19
 restrictions.

 Events

 To bolster staff and student development and foster connection between MCH and other groups,
 there is an extensive and ongoing programme of events. Many of these events are community
 facing, including the Queer Media, Culture and Heritage (QMCH) Seminar Series, externally part
 funded by the Great Exhibition of the North (2018-Present), which works nationally with Tyne and
 Wear Museums, London Metropolitan Archives and the Globe Gallery Newcastle to generate
 debate around queer identify in both the region and nationally. Within the Subject Group, an MCH
 seminar series (ongoing) invites visiting speakers. In addition, staff also run a Critical Discourse
 Analysis seminar series (ongoing). PGR students are also involved in running their own annual
 conference (ongoing). Furthermore, staff regularly organise international conferences on new and
 emerging areas of research, such as Persona Studies (2019).




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 MCH is outward facing, collaborating and contributing to the international research base, economy
 and society in general. These contributions are organised around MCH’s research and impact
 strategies to produce world-class research across the broad disciplinary areas of media, culture
 and heritage, including their inter-relations, and ensure findings from this research can positively
 inform a range of constituents.

 Contribution to Research Base

 As a large interdisciplinary Subject Group, MCH is collaborating to lead debates in a variety of
 fields, for a variety of beneficiaries. Within academic discussion, advances have taken place in 4
 main areas:

    i)      Theoretical and Conceptual Contributions

 MCH is pathbreaking in producing and defining new fields of academic research that create
 synergies between existing fields of endeavour. Of particular strength in the research groups is
 the theorisation of digital media and technologies. In the Media and Culture group, staff lead
 theoretical understandings of digital media. In relation to interfaces and smart devices, Ash’s The
 Interface Envelope (2015), Phase Media (2018) and Hand’s Gadget Consciousness (2018) have
 already proven influential in the field. Chamber’s Cultural Ideals of Home: The Social Dynamics of
 Domestic Space (2020) and Changing Media, Homes and Households: Cultures, Technologies
 and Meanings (2016) have altered how digital media are studied through contextualising these
 technologies within a longer history of domestic space. In Journalism, Dick’s pathbreaking study
 on The Infographic: A History of Data Graphics in News and Communications (2020) provides the
 first monograph length examination of the rise of digital infographics and their effect on society.
 Ross’ three-volume International Encyclopedia of Gender, Media and Communication (2020)
 constitutes the first such international encyclopaedia in the field and makes an important
 contribution to the discipline.

 The Media and Culture and Journalism groups are key to the development of new academic areas
 of research, such as persona and celebrity studies (Kelsey, Usher, Longstaff). This is evidenced
 by the Inaugural International Persona Studies conference that was organised and held at
 Newcastle University in 2019 and included international participants from Australia and Denmark.

 Members of the Heritage group lead debates in Museum, Gallery and Heritage studies around
 conceptualisations of Europe, memory, museology and remembering. Through multiple funded
 projects (CoHERE, Plural Heritages, En/Counter/Points) the group has worked to bridge
 theoretical and empirical research to rethink Europe as a shifting and historically mutable entity.
 This work has resulted in multiple publications including monographs, edited collections and
 journal articles, including Whitehead, Eckersley and Bozoğlu’s edited collection Dimensions of
 Heritage and Memory: Multiple Europes and the Politics of Crisis (2019), Bozoglu’s Museums,
 Emotion and Memory Culture: The Politics of the Past in Turkey (2019), Mason’s edited collection
 Museum Studies (2019) and Galani, Mason and Arrigoni’s edited collection, European Heritage,
 Dialogue and Digital Practices (2019), which provides new frameworks for studying and
 understanding the effects of digital media on practices of memory and remembering. Theoretical
 and conceptual leadership in this area is also reflected in Eckersley and Whitehead’s roles as
 editors of a major Routledge book series Critical Heritages of Europe that explores the cultural
 and social politics of the European past in the present.

 The Film group make international contributions to the development of documentary film as both
 a research practice and discipline. Staff in film produce international award-winning work that
 melds research, practice and impact. Films such as the ESRC-funded Colours of the Alphabet
 (Cole 2016) investigated the mutually beneficial structures that enable academic-film and industry
 collaboration within feature documentary development and impact campaigning. FREEDOM, a 4

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 screen cinematic installation exhibited at The Great North Museum in Newcastle (2017) as part of
 the Freedom City 2017 commemorations, used archive and original footage to respond to the visit
 of Dr Martin Luther King to Newcastle in 1967. Blending artistic merit and pedagogical impact, it
 was awarded a Best Practice Research (Audio-Visual Installation) prize by the British Association
 of Film, Television and Screen Studies.

 PhD students in the Subject Group have also offered significant contributions to their fields, with
 many publishing work in top ranked academic journals and edited collections during their PhD
 study. In the Media and Culture group Jansen has published work in the European Journal of
 Politics and Gender. In Heritage, Farrell-Banks has published in Journal of Community
 Archaeology & Heritage and Ferrer-Yulfo in The International Journal of the Inclusive Museum.
 Evidence of excellence of PhD students in documentary film include Karvdis's 98, which scooped
 Best Documentary at the European Film Festival Mainstream and Underground in 2019. In
 journalism, as a PhD student, Peng has published work in the Chinese Journal of Communication.

    ii)     Disciplinary leadership

 The international recognition of expertise of MCH is reflected in the fact that members of all 4
 research groups hold notable positions in their respective fields. These include editorial board
 positions on journals including International Journal of Cultural Studies, Sexualities, and
 Masculinities (Evers), Journal of Critical Discourse Studies, Journal of Language and Politics
 (Khosravinik), Feminist Media Studies (Ross), Digital Geographies (Ash), and International
 Journal of Heritage Studies (Newman) among many others. Staff members hold leadership roles
 in national and international organisations, such as Executive Member of MeCCSA (2011- ) (Ross)
 and elected Treasurer of the British Society of Gerontology (Newman). Whitehead is the President
 of the British Chapter of the Association of Critical Heritage Studies. Newman sits on the advisory
 board for the Centre for Ageing and Dementia Research. McDonald was 1 of 3 jury members for
 the 2020 Moving Image award by the British Association of Film, TV and Screen Studies
 (BAFTSS). Staff in all 4 groups regularly edit and guest edit prestigious journals, such as ACM
 Journal on Computing and Cultural Heritage (Galani).

 Many members also sit on advisory boards and grant panels for a range of funding councils
 including the Irish Research Council (Ash); and European Research Council (Khosravinik); Ash,
 Chambers, Newman and Ross are members of the ESRC Peer Review College; Ross is on the
 PRC for the UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship Scheme, European Science Foundation and COST,
 and is a REF2021 sub-panel 34 member. Whitehead is an international advisor to the ‘Our
 Museum’ Danish national museums network. Members of staff also regularly sit on advisory
 boards and steering groups for funded research projects and organisations. For example, Galani
 was on the Advisory Board for the project Past Paths, funded by NESTA R&D (2014-15). Baines
 is secretary of the UK and Ireland's Association for Journalism Education and its representative
 on the council of the triennial World Journalism Education Congress (WJEC) and was rapporteur
 for the WJEC syndicate on Digital Global Collaboration (Paris, 2019).

 The international reach of research in the Subject Group is also demonstrated by regular
 invitations for visiting Professorships, including the University of Alberta (2015-16, Ross); Massey
 University, NZ (2007-2011; 2017-18, Ross), Honorary Fellowships at Potsdam (Eckersley) and
 permanent Honorary Professorship in Public Humanities at Australian National University
 (Whitehead). Staff are also awarded prestigious research prizes, including the ICA Teresa Prize
 for contribution to feminist scholarship (2013, Ross) and ICA Fellow (2017, Ross).


    iii)    Methodological Contributions

 MCH leads the way in developing new methods and methodological approaches to understanding
 digital phenomena. These take a variety of forms, involving both quantitative and qualitative data
 collection and analysis. Galani, as part of the CoHERE project, pioneered the first academic
 repurposing of Geostream aggregator tools to explore modes of visual representations of place

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on geosocial platforms. Through this innovative method, CoHERE was able to assess whether
 official heritage discourses are challenged by participatory online photo-sharing.

 Methodologically, MCH has also pushed forward approaches to understand digital social media
 utilising interdisciplinary approaches. In relation to Critical Discourse Analysis, research in MCH
 has led to the development Social Media Critical Discourse Studies (SM-CDS) (Khosravinik) and
 Techno-Discursive Design (Kelsey, Khosravinik, Peng, Sikka), resulting in major research outputs
 on discourses of national identity in the Middle East, Iran’s nuclear programme, misogyny in
 China, banking and social media and geoengineering. As a result, this theorisation has become
 influential within the field of critical discourse studies, journalism and the broader social sciences.
 Developed through ESRC research on high-cost credit and gaming and gambling, Ash has
 generated post-phenomenological methods for studying digital interfaces. The result of these
 methods has been data that has informed evidence-based policy advice on the regulation of
 interfaces in the high-cost credit and gaming industries.

 Research in MCH has been central to the creation of innovative digital tools and smart phone
 apps, which have enabled community participation and training. The AHRC CARE (Condition
 Assessment Risk Evaluation) project (Mazel 2013-14, £63K award to University, £34K to SACs),
 produced a non-invasive digital app (released in 2016) for gathering information essential to the
 long-term conservation of open-air Neolithic and Early Bronze age rock art in the UK and Ireland.
 ESRC research by Ash also produced a smart-phone app Indebted Life (2019) as part of an
 educational package to support those working in the debt advice industry to understand the power
 of digital interface design in debt decision making.

    iv)      Interdisciplinary Contributions

 In terms of interdisciplinary contribution, MCH has been path breaking. Examples of
 interdisciplinary partnership is the link between Film, Heritage and Media and Culture groups,
 which has produced award-winning results. For instance, produced as part of the CoHERE project,
 McDonald's film Who is Europe? explores the crisis of identity in Europe. International recognition
 of this innovative collaboration is evidenced through the shortlisting of the film for the AHRC
 Research in Film award and the Audience Award at the 2019 Refugee Film Festival in Berlin. As
 a result, a section of the film is permanently on display in the Museum of Classical Antiquities.
 CoHERE also led to a musical oratorio that was performed 3 times, including at the National
 Library of Latvia to an audience of over 400 (Bozoglu, Whitehead). Within Media and Culture,
 collaborations between practice-based film maker technician James Davoll and Media and Culture
 staff member Evers resulted in the film A Toxic Love Affair, focusing on the health effects of
 pollution, which won best Experimental Film at the 2019 ReelHeart International Film Festival.

 Interdisciplinary synergy also crosses between academic and non-academic staff. In relation to
 Film, technician Davoll won best Experimental Film at the Wales International Film Festival for his
 film Adlais. It was featured in Gwynedd Council's Dorothea World Heritage Site application and
 was shortlisted for the John Hefin Award at the BAFTA qualifying Carmarthen Bay Film Festival.


 Contribution to Economy and Society

 MCH’s research is pivotal in shaping policy and practice within society, across a range of
 international, national and regional contexts.

    i)    International Contributions

 Internationally, Stone has acted as a specialist advisor to the UK government regarding the
 identification and protection of cultural heritage in Iraq and delivered significant impact within
 NATO, UNESCO, European militaries, and the US Air Force. Stone is Chair of the UK Committee
 for the Blue Shield; the cultural heritage equivalent of the Red Cross (see ICS 34-4). Stone works


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with a range of international armed forces, including the US military and Navy to build new policies
 and training which have, since 2015, encouraged many armed forces to take the protection of
 cultural property during conflict seriously as part of their duties. In turn, Stone’s work has been
 central to coordinating activities across Interpol, the World Customs Organization, museums,
 leading auction houses and national governments to block the black-market trade in cultural
 artefacts in order to protect cultural sites. At a national level research undertaken by Stone led
 directly to the establishment of a new MoD Cultural Property Protection Subject Group to be fully
 operational by 2020/21. Stone also provided advice to civil servants, MPs, members of the Lords,
 and Ministers regarding the UK’s 2017 ratification of the 1954 Hague Convention and the UK’s
 2017 Cultural Protection (Armed Conflicts) Act. Also in Heritage, the CoHERE project has
 generated policy briefs that have been cited in cultural heritage policy document analysis by the
 European Commission.

 The ESRC-funded Colours of the Alphabet film project (Cole) had significant international impact,
 highlighting issues around local language education in Zambia. In turn, the project developed a
 continent-wide language subtitling and translation project, enabling the release of the film in thirty
 languages across the continent. As a result, the film reached 1.7 million users worldwide, and
 200K views of online content in Africa specifically. Furthermore, the project worked to train 54 new
 African language subtitlers and proof-readers, furnishing the development of a new network of
 African language translators; the African Film Translation Network (AFTN). Colours of the
 Alphabet also reached critical acclaim, winning Best Feature Film at the International Children’s
 Rights Film Festival 2018 and Best Documentary at Shungu Namutitima International Film Festival
 of Zambia 2018.

 The AGEMI project (Ross) drew on research findings to create resources to support teaching,
 learning and training in the broad area of gender and media. It is listed as good practice on the
 websites of two media unions (European Federation of Journalists and the Permanent Conference
 of Mediterranean Audiovisual Operators) and the European Institute for Gender Equality and was
 commended as good practice by the Council of Europe’s Gender Commission, as well as being
 used on a range of University courses in both Europe and further afield (see ICS 34-3). Ross gave
 oral and written evidence to the House of Lords Communications Committee on women in news
 and some of her recommendations were included in their final report Women in news and current
 affairs broadcasting in 2015.

 Members of MCH have been involved in a range of international public activities that are driven
 by research. These include festivals, exhibitions and art shows. Internationally, Ever’s and Davoll’s
 work on polluted leisure has formed the basis of art shows in Australia (Caring Better for the Seas
 at Sustaining the Seas Conference and Sydney Ideas Festival, University of Sydney and the
 Sydney Environment Institute), Sweden (Shadow Places, Fiskelback) and Paris (Fondation
 Maison des Sciences de l’Homme). Members of the Subject Group are also involved in
 international installations, such as The New Europe Living Lab digital interactive and architectural
 installation in Denmark, as part of the CoHERE project (VerdensKulturcentret cultural centre,
 Copenhagen, Denmark, 2017).


 ii) National Contributions

 Nationally, ESRC-funded work in MCH has had a direct impact on a range of charities and other
 organisations working in the money and debt advice sector. In particular, Ash’s ESRC project has
 led to the co-development and co-delivery of financial wellbeing sessions for practitioners and
 members of the public through partnership with Clean Slate Financial Wellbeing Services CIC,
 The Money Advice Trust and Citizens Advice, amongst others (see ICS 34-2). The research
 directly led to the reframing of an Institute of Money Advisers course for money advisors and the
 development of online training webinars for debt advisors. The project also produced reports and
 policy recommendations that have resulted in meetings with the Treasury in order to inform their
 Digital Money strategy and directly shaped the design of the Just Borrow online credit union
 platform, which works to provide affordable fast credit to vulnerable groups.

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Also, nationally, the AHRC ‘Dementia and Imagination’ (Newman 2013-17, £266K) project has
 produced important changes in the ways that arts/museums are used with older people living with
 dementia both individually (carers, care staff and artists) and within organisations (Arts Council
 England, care homes, museums and charities) (see ICS 34-1). This resulted in further national
 impact through the AHRC ‘Imagination Café’ project (Newman 2017-18, £4K), which created a
 touring exhibition with artist and care staff training. The project showcased the artwork made by
 research participants (people living with dementia), trained over 100 artists and care staff using
 the creative approach developed during the project, and raised awareness of dementia with a wide
 and varied audience, extending beyond the geographical focus of the original research. The
 project also toured with a specially commissioned art installation to Llandudno, Edinburgh and
 London.

 The European Commission funded ‘Active Ageing and Heritage in Adult Learning’ (Mason, Galani
 2014-17, £20K award to University, £16K to SACs) project has also had important health impacts
 both nationally and in the region. The project demonstrated the importance of open-air museums
 as sites for improving the learning and memory of older adults with dementia. In turn, evidence
 from the study was used to create new training courses to empower carers to continue this work
 in other spaces. This has resulted both in changes in attitudes towards those living with dementia
 amongst the general public and changes in how the public and care organisations utilise open-air
 museums.

 Within the Journalism group, Baines presented evidence to the Cairncross Review into the
 Sustainability of High Quality Journalism in the UK (2019) and was featured in the final report and
 recommendations. As a result, Baines sits on the advisory panel for the IMPRESS Taskforce of
 Independent Publishers, which seeks to strengthen public interest journalism in the UK and build
 on the work of the Cairncross Review.


    iii)    Regional Contributions

 Regionally, MCH works closely with partners to shape the environment of Newcastle and
 surrounding areas. For example, the installation film FREEDOM was exhibited at the Great North
 Museum in Newcastle as part of the Freedom City festival (2017) and at the Sallis Benney Gallery
 in Brighton in May 2018. In the Journalism group, Baines has worked with the local Headliners
 charity on a Heritage Lottery-Funded project ‘Tynesiders’ in which young people from home,
 migrant and transient communities use journalistic approaches to explore Tyneside's cultural
 diversity. Baines also set up a Hyperlocal news site Jesmond Local to produce news that is
 relevant to local people.

 Under the ‘WomenInNewcastle’ banner, Ross has been collaborating with Newcastle City Council,
 Newcastle City Library and Tyne and Wear Museums (TWAM) for several years to organise
 community-facing, research-informed activities to improve the visibility of older women through
 digital storytelling, community engagement and memory work. ‘NOT Acting Our Age: Older
 Women Challenging Stereotypes and Celebrating Life’ received ESRC IAA funding and created
 visibility and empowerment for local women through a variety of events, including flashmobs and
 pop-up choirs. Collaborative outputs include an archive of digital stories, 3 photographic
 exhibitions and 2 films: the photographic exhibitions of NOT Acting Our Age and JOY are
 permanently installed in Newcastle University buildings.

 Chambers leads the North East dimension of the ESRC ‘Emerging Minds: Action for Child Mental
 Health’ network on young people and mental health, hosting workshops with participants from the
 NHS, local charities and other organisations to improve mental health promotion and alter how
 mental health issues are represented in the press.

 In terms of public activities in the region, Galani’s digital interactive installation Sit with Me has
 been permanently installed in the Discovery Museum, Newcastle, since April 2016 and Evers has

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 produced work as part of the UK GeNErosity Festival (2019) and Rivers of Life Festival (2019),
 which has involved transforming a polluted space in North Tyneside into a public art gallery.

 Across international, national and regional impacts, the collaborations built between MCH and
 organisations as diverse as the US military, care homes and debt advice charities have fed back
 into and enriched the research environment of MCH in multiple ways. For example, Stone’s impact
 work with world militaries and Blue Shield was central to the establishment of UNESCO Chair in
 Cultural Property Protection and Peace at Newcastle (the only such Chair in the world) and the
 creation of additional research posts to support this position. Ross’s ESRC IAA work on flashmobs
 and women’s representation has directly fed into teaching practical workshops on the BA and MA
 programmes and Ash’s innovative digital interface methods developed through their ESRC project
 has directly informed the design of BA and MA teaching modules. In all these cases, research in
 MCH has inspired students to progress their interest in the field and to embark on further studies
 and research, with multiple BA and MA students going on to Masters and PhD study at institutions
 around the world.

 Summary

 MCH’s research environment enables and promotes world-leading research and produces
 international, national and regional impact on a variety of research bases, economies and
 societies. Through its unique interdisciplinary composition and successful collaboration between
 academics from a variety of perspectives, as well as engagement with community and policy
 stakeholders, MCH staff demonstrate a singular ability to think across and between a range of
 issues, societal problems and challenges and will continue to work to address these challenges
 into the future.




                                                                                           Page 16
