Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Huddersfield

 Unit of Assessment: UoA33B Drama, Dance and Performing Arts

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

      Huddersfield’s UoA 33B research is in the subject area of Drama, Theatre, and
 Performance (DTP). DTP is located in the Department of Media and Performance, one of two
 departments in the School of Music, Humanities and Media. At census date, DTP had 10
 permanent staff: one full-time Professor (Chamberlain), seven full-time Senior Lecturers
 (Calvert, Elliott, Freeman, Hetzler, Hoedt, Spatz, Taylor) and two 0.5 FTE Senior Lecturers
 (Middleton, Moore). DTP staff have research expertise across a wide range of areas, from
 disability and ageing in performance to horror and the gothic onstage, and are particularly known
 for their leading work on performance magic, mindfulness in performance, and developing new
 Practice as Research methods that make innovative use of digital technologies. All staff in DTP
 have doctorates and are Fellows of the UK Higher Education Academy. The subject area
 regularly hosts international research fellows, most recently from Brazil, Turkey, Poland, and
 New Zealand, with funding from the AHRC and the European Commission.

     Research in DTP is based in the Research Centre for Performance Practices (ReCePP),
 an interdisciplinary centre formed in 2018 that includes all members of DTP as well as selected
 staff and postgraduate researchers based in Music and Music Technology (MMT). The centre
 coordinates individual and collective research activities and organizes public seminars,
 performances, workshops, and exhibitions involving staff, PGRs, and guests. ReCePP is led by
 Chamberlain with a colleague from Music (Worthington) and places Practice as Research at the
 centre of its interdisciplinary critical and creative work. Its major ongoing projects include three
 open access journals linked to three distinct strands of field-leading research: Journal of
 Performance Magic, linked to the Magic Research Group led by Taylor; Journal of Performance
 and Mindfulness, linked to the Mindfulness and Performance Project led by Middleton; and
 Journal of Embodied Research, arising from Spatz’s work on audiovisual Practice as Research
 methods and developed alongside Embodied Research Working Group, which Spatz co-
 convenes within the International Federation for Theatre Research. ReCePP has a devolved,
 autonomous budget that is used to fund centre events as well as individual staff research. Since
 2015, it has organized the ‘Lines of Flight’ public research seminar series, hosting diverse
 presentations from staff and external guests, as well as nationally and internationally significant
 conferences on topics ranging from ‘performance and mindfulness’ and ‘rewilding across the
 disciplines’ to the aesthetics and politics of the audiovisual body.

      DTP research is strongly connected both nationally and internationally. Recent keynotes,
 invited talks, conference presentations, and research performances have been given by DTP
 staff across the United Kingdom (London, Manchester, Leeds, Brighton, Bedfordshire,
 Aberdeen, Cardiff, Kent, Coventry), Europe (Ireland, Finland, Greece, Germany, Belgium,
 Croatia, Lithuania, the Netherlands), the Americas (United States, Mexico, Panama, Brazil), and
 the rest of the world (China, Australia). DTP staff hold ongoing adjunct postgraduate supervisory
 positions in Australia, Finland, and Sweden, and during this REF period have externally
 examined PhDs in the UK (Exeter, Chichester, Goldsmiths, East Anglia, De Montfort, Kingston,



                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kent), USA (Lesley University), Finland (University of the Arts Helsinki), and Australia (Murdoch
 University, Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts).

 Staffing and research strategy during this REF period

     DTP at Huddersfield was not submitted to REF2014, but has made extraordinary progress
 since then, enabling us to make a strong submission for REF2021. This development has been
 made possible through the hiring of new staff and the completion of PhD degrees by staff
 already in post, as well as through a sustained commitment to three strategic priorities:
 sustained mentoring, internationalization, and innovation in Practice as Research.

     A strategic hire (Chamberlain) in 2012 launched a new phase of DTP’s research with a
 focus on Practice as Research, internationalization, and applied theatre. Chamberlain is a
 major figure in the field of Practice as Research, having been involved in the development of
 early standards in both the UK and Ireland. He is widely sought as an external examiner for
 PhDs and he edits the internationally taught Routledge Performance Practitioners book series,
 which now includes more than 20 introductory level volumes that innovatively integrate
 production history and biography with theory and practical exercises for students. Chamberlain
 has also collaborated with social care organizations both locally in Kirklees and nationally,
 including the Kirklees Adult Safeguarding Board, the Association of Child Protection
 Professionals, and Kirklees Children’s Services. Within DTP, Chamberlain’s dedicated
 mentorship of colleagues has supported a tremendous increase in the quality, reach, and
 significance of staff research, his breadth of expertise touching on many of the areas in which
 other DTP staff work and enabling the team to consolidate its strengths. Between 2012 and
 2015, DTP’s most significant research was clustered around psychophysical performer training,
 incorporating the practice-based research of Chamberlain, Elliot, Hetzler, Middleton, and
 Spatz. This focus included post-Stanislavski and post-Grotowski approaches to physical training
 (Chamberlain, Middleton, Spatz) as well as psychophysical approaches to emotion (Hetzler)
 and dance improvisation (Elliot). Chamberlain has also performed and published on the topic of
 improvisation, including in collaboration with Elliot and with colleagues in Music. At the same
 time, his work with local and national social organizations dovetails with the applied theatre
 practices of Calvert and Moore.

      Longstanding DTP staff member Middleton is the foremost authority internationally on the
 work of Nicolás Núñez and the Taller de Investigación Teatral (Mexico) and has published
 widely on the cultural and psychophysical practices developed by this unique intercultural
 performance laboratory. In 2015, Middleton and Chamberlain launched the Mindfulness and
 Performance project (MAP) to establish key principles in this area. MAP is the first
 comprehensive scholarly investigation into mindfulness and performance and enabled
 Middleton and Chamberlain to engage with mindfulness-informed practitioners from eleven
 countries, including leading international figures like Núñez and Lee Worley (USA). This led
 Middleton to identify an emergent field of ‘mindfulness-based performance practice’ in a 2017
 publication, which was subsequently published in Portuguese translation in Brazil. Research
 fellow Dr Daniel Plá (University of Santa Maria, Brazil) carried out postdoctoral research with
 MAP from 2015 to 2016, co-authoring a paper with Middleton in 2017 that analyses two case
 studies of mindfulness-based performance practice in detail. The MAP project launched with an
 International Symposium on Performance and Mindfulness (2016) and recently published an
 extensively expanded, open access edition of Núñez’s Anthropocosmic Theatre (2020),

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including more than two hundred pages of newly commissioned material on Núñez’s work, which
 has been downloaded more than 1000 times. In 2020, Middleton was awarded a Marie
 Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship (as PI), which will support the research of New Zealand
 based practitioner-researcher Laura Haughey, who will investigate ‘Embodied Mindfulness:
 Performance Training for Deaf and Hearing Actors’.

     As described in Middleton’s REF Impact Case Study, she has also been engaged by theatre
 companies in the UK and Mexico to provide mindfulness-based performance texts that allow
 companies to move into new, research-driven modes of engaging audiences; has received
 funding from Arts Council England and the British Council for work in Mexico and Panama
 (details below); and has forged an ongoing collaboration with the UK National Trust at
 Hardcastle Crags to develop mindfulness-based arts strategies for woodland engagement.

      A second strategic hire (Spatz) in 2014 has led to additional avenues of internationalization,
 with a focus on developing new methods for Practice as Research based in robust critical
 theory, including queer and critical race theory, and innovative uses of digital technology. Since
 the publication of Spatz’s first book, What a Body Can Do (2015), Spatz has built up a
 reputation as a leader in Practice as Research methods in the UK and internationally. Key
 elements of Spatz’s work include: publishing a series of articles and books that rigorously
 investigate Practice as Research epistemology and methodology; founding the Embodied
 Research Working Group within the International Federation for Theatre Research, which now
 has more than 100 affiliated members based in more than 20 countries including Brazil, China,
 India, Chile, Poland, Singapore, Australia, Japan, Serbia, Croatia, and Germany; founding the
 first exclusively videographic scholarly journal based in theatre and performance studies, Journal
 of Embodied Research; pioneering a new model for Practice as Research through the AHRC
 Early Career Leadership Fellowship project ‘Judaica: An Embodied Laboratory for Songwork’
 (2016-2018); and launching the Windows into Worlds project to explore new forms of audiovisual
 exhibition and participatory installation that bring Practice as Research methods to public gallery
 visitors. As described in Spatz’s REF Impact Case Study, these conceptual and methodological
 tools are now used by teachers, artists, and other specialist practitioners in over 25 countries
 across five continents, in contexts and sectors ranging from arts and culture to martial arts and
 sports, health and well-being. The demonstrable impacts of this research include: enhancing
 music, dance, and theatre pedagogy and performance in the UK, USA, Canada, Europe and
 Singapore; enabling the creation and expansion of registered charity organizations in the UK
 and USA, which together engage over 1,400 people each year; improving heritage practice and
 museum pedagogy in Switzerland; and expanding the use of video in mental health staff support
 at an NHS Mental Health Trust in Northwest England. The Judaica project itself culminated in a
 series of 2017 events at more than 20 venues in the UK, USA, and Poland, reaching more than
 600 people through performances, workshops, and talks, as well as ‘AVBODY: Symposium on
 the Audiovisual Body’ at Huddersfield in 2018. In 2019, the Windows into Worlds exhibition in
 Huddersfield welcomed more than 200 visitors to an audiovisual installation showcasing Spatz’s
 Practice as Research videos alongside that of theatre and dance companies in the UK, USA,
 Spain, Italy, Germany, and Poland. As a result of this intensive activity, Spatz has been invited
 to speak and present at more than thirty institutions in eleven countries.

    DTP’s two REF Impact Case Studies (focusing on the work of Middleton and Spatz)
 demonstrate the global reach and wide-ranging impact of DTP’s Practice as Research, which
 has a unique focus on embodied practice that directly serves the needs of professional

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practitioners in performing arts as well as healthcare, ecological awareness, and other areas.
 Our impact-focused activities have been well-supported by the School through both direct
 funding and the hiring of a dedicated Impact Support Officer (Elizabeth Pente). Additionally,
 ReCePP’s focus on Practice as Research means that all three of the open access journals
 founded and edited by our team members — as well as nearly all of the conferences,
 workshops, and other events we organise — bridge artistic, academic, and other communities,
 including local communities through a range of applied and professional artistic activities.

     Four of our staff members (Calvert, Hoedt, Moore, Taylor) completed their PhDs during this
 REF period. Taylor is a ‘Research Magician,’ working across theory and practice and with
 specialist expertise in bizarre magic, sideshow, séance and divination. He leads the Magic
 Research Group and in 2013 launched the Journal of Performance Magic, which remains
 cutting-edge as the only scholarly journal with that focus. Taylor also co-curates ‘Mr Punch’s
 Cabinet of Curiosities’, a dark museum of weird and haunted artefacts, and has advised local
 and regional institutions including the Thackray Medical Museum (Leeds) and Proper Job
 Theatre (Huddersfield). Calvert is an internationally recognized scholar of disability theatre,
 having co-convened the Applied and Social Theatre Working Group at the Theatre and
 Performance Research Association (2012-2016) and published a series of increasingly
 ambitious critical works dealing both with renowned disabled theatre companies, like Mind the
 Gap Theatre and Back to Back Theatre, and with the public perception of disability through
 popular media. Calvert maintains active connections with several local institutions, serving as
 Chair of Trustees for Huddersfield’s Dark Horse theatre company and as a trustee of the
 Holmfirth Arts Festival, a significant regional event that has supported and encouraged the
 development of art and music in Holmfirth and the Holme Valley since 2007. Having recently
 completed their PhDs by publication, both Calvert (PhD 2017) and Taylor (PhD 2020) are now
 well-poised to take advantage of both internal and external support for early career researchers,
 building on their extensive track records of professional practice and Practice as Research.

     Three additional recent hires have further expanded the team’s expertise in popular
 performance, the performance and reception of gender and ageing, and Practice as Research.
 Moore joined the team in 2016 as a practitioner-researcher, focusing on the ageing female body
 in performance. She is the founder of Passages Theatre, a company of performers over age 50
 that was Theatre Company in Residence at Theatre Delicatessen in Sheffield (2017-2019). The
 team further expanded in 2018 with the hire of Hoedt, through the University’s Research
 Excellence Staff Scheme, and Freeman, who replaced a departing Senior Lecturer (Moss).
 Hoedt was brought on through the University’s Research Excellence Staff Scheme, with
 dedicated funding (details below) to support her development as a researcher on the basis of
 her very high demonstrated output capacity. Her expertise in gothic and horror performance, as
 well as game design and immersive theatre, has generative synergy with Taylor’s work on
 performance magic. It also expands the team’s expertise in popular performance, which includes
 Calvert’s earlier research on British seaside Pierrot troupes and Rat Pack troupes in the USA.

      A further ongoing area of DTP expertise is in dance, particular contemporary dance
 improvisation and overlaps between dance and physical theatre. Elliot practices and publishes
 in this area and brings key expertise and supervisory capacity to the team, allowing us to attract
 MA and PGR students in dance, as well as having a significant impact on the place of movement
 training and physical theater undergraduate teaching. Secondary expertise in dance is offered
 by Chamberlain and Spatz and supplemented by the psychophysical practice and research of

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Middleton and Hetzler, much of which is movement-based and works with relationships
 between movement and acting/emotion at the borders of dance and physical theatre.

     The addition of Freeman to the team brought us another internationally recognized authority
 on Practice as Research and performer training, further consolidating our expertise and
 reputation in that area. Freeman has published extensively in US, Australian and European
 journals. His 2010 book Blood, Sweat & Theory: Research through Practice in Performance
 remains a best-selling title, on the reading lists of universities worldwide; his 2007 book New
 Performance/New Writing was updated and substantially revised in 2016; and his seventh book,
 Approaches to Actor Training: International Perspectives, was published in 2019. Freeman is
 currently exploring a collaborative project with the School of Foreign Studies at Xi’An Jiaotong
 University in Shanghai; is a member of the board of the University of Bologna’s book series
 Antropologia, Teatro e Tradizioni Popolari; and regularly contributes to the international acting
 school at Theatre of Changes in Athens, the Sibiu International Theatre Festival, the Koufar
 Festival in Minsk, and International Association of University Theatre events.

     As this REF period ends, DTP at Huddersfield is a strong and growing subject area with
 particular convergences of expertise and innovation in Practice as Research, popular
 performance, and the performance and reception of disability, age, and gender.

 Research Integrity and Open Research

    Research integrity and ethics are built into all research processes in DTP. Along with the
 rest of the School, DTP follows the principles of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity as
 enshrined in the University’s Code of Practice for Research. Compliance is overseen by the
 School Research Committee, whose meetings begin with consideration of research integrity and
 ethics business. The University’s Research and Enterprise team offers support to staff to help
 ensure appropriate ethics protocols are integrated into externally funded projects. The induction
 of PGR students involves training in research integrity, including compulsory completion of a
 Research Integrity training, and progression monitoring includes support with ethical issues.

     DTP is strongly committed to open access publication. Our staff are the founders and
 editors of three open access digital journals, two published by University of Huddersfield Press
 and one by Open Library of Humanities, a pioneering London-based initiative that received
 major Mellon Foundation support to develop an innovative, consortium-based funding model to
 support Gold Open Access scholar publishing. Alongside these journals, our staff have also
 published open access books through both Huddersfield University Press and the scholar-led,
 Brooklyn-based publisher Punctum Books. Additionally, all journal articles generated by the
 AHRC-funded ‘Judaica’ project have been published on a Gold Open Access basis with support
 from the UKRI/RCUK Open Access block grant. The Judaica project also explored the
 application of an ‘open data’ framework by publishing some of its raw video material online.

 Looking ahead

     The consolidation and strengthening of DTP research at Huddersfield during this REF period
 has put the team in an excellent position for major expansion during the next REF period. Elliott,
 Freeman, Hoedt, Moore, Taylor and Spatz are all working on monographs that will appear
 during the next REF period. Calvert, Hetzler, Middleton, Taylor and Spatz are also in the


                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 process of developing substantial external grant funding applications for submission to AHRC,
 Leverhulme, and ERC schemes. Chamberlain, Elliot, Freeman, Moore, Taylor and Spatz are
 all practitioner-researchers working across professional, cultural, and scholarly disciplines, and
 the continued innovation of interdisciplinary approaches to Practice as Research will be an
 ongoing focus of the ReCePP research centre. Practice as Research methods will be applied to
 future work on mindfulness and cultural identity in performance and to forms of popular
 performance, including the development of a ‘Magic Lab’, the ongoing growth of the Mindfulness
 and Performance Project, and the continued exploration of Spatz’s new audiovisual Practice as
 Research method, ‘Dynamic Configurations with Transversal Video. We are a diverse yet
 cohesive team, looking ahead to many new prospects in the next REF period.

     The shared intention of DTP and ReCePP is to advance the team’s capacity, profile, output,
 and impact across all of the areas mentioned above, with a particular emphasis on deepening
 collaboration within the team and across the University, both nationally and internationally.
 Working closely with colleagues in Music, Spatz has organized a more internationally-oriented,
 online iteration of the Lines of Flight research seminar series for 2021, taking advantage of the
 constraints imposed by the Covid-19 pandemic to invite participation from practitioner-
 researchers working in South Africa, India, and Singapore as well as London and Huddersfield.
 ReCePP has one Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellow scheduled to arrive in 2021 (Haughey) and
 two more applications to that scheme currently under review. With support from the School, DTP
 has released a call for a full fee-waiver PhD studentship that is designed to target areas in which
 there is new supervision capacity due to recently completed PhDs, such as disabled theatre
 (Calvert) and performance magic (Taylor). At the same time, ReCePP’s growing international
 profile as a site for advanced research in psychophysical performance, mindfulness-based
 performance, and intercultural digital performance has begun to attract more and stronger MA
 and PhD candidates from across Europe and South America, as well as the Middle East.

      To achieve our goals in the next REF period, we enumerate the following aims:

 A1     Further consolidate DTP research in performance practices, including through extending
        and expanding the interdisciplinary research already taking place.

 A2     Encourage more collaborative research amongst staff and create opportunities for the
        development of joint projects, joint funding proposals, and joint publications.

 A3     Expand our Practice as Research activities with a particular focus on non-academic
        impact, particularly in the areas of digital performance, cultural identity, and ecology.

 A4     Broaden the DTP research community by continuing to recruit international PGRs and
        increasing the number of postdoctoral research fellows and visiting researchers.

 A5     Increase external grant income by increasing the number of staff who develop and submit
        external funding bids, with mentorship from staff who have prior success in this area.

 A6     Raise the international profile of our research by expanding our professional networks to
        include more established research institutions and by hosting conferences that draw
        greater international participation and help to shape the future of the field.



                                                                                                    Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     DTP at Huddersfield has a long history of research-based practice and a unique constellation
 of expertise. It benefits from a strong sense of shared practice, developed in part through
 collaborative undergraduate teaching. ReCePP is well on its way to becoming an internationally
 recognized centre of critically informed, artistically compelling, socially engaged research.

 2. People

    DTP at Huddersfield grew tremendously, by all measures, during this REF period. In January
 2012, only 1 in 3 members of DTP staff held a PhD. This meant that both PGR supervision
 capacity and eligibility for external funding were severely limited. With all staff now holding a
 doctorate, DTP is in a much stronger position, with much greater capacity for PGR supervision
 and with all staff eligible to submit external research funding bids.

      During this REF period, DTP awarded just 3 PhD degrees (one each in 2017, 2018, and
 2019) and 12 MA degrees (rising from 1-2 per year in 2016-2018 to 4-5 per year in 2018-2020).
 By contrast, at census date in 2020 there were 10 PhD students and 6 MA students enrolled for
 postgraduate study with DTP, indicating that the next REF period will likely see a more than
 threefold increase in degrees awarded as compared to the period that has just ended. This very
 substantial growth in PGR numbers reflects both expanded supervision capacity and the
 expanded national and international recognition of research undertaken in the subject area. The
 strategic hires of Chamberlain (2012), Spatz (2014), and Freeman (2018), along with
 Middleton’s longstanding work and the linked research of Hetzler and Elliot, transformed the
 subject area into a centre of excellence in Practice as Research methods. At the same time, the
 hiring of Moore (2016) and Hoedt (2018), along with the completion of PhDs by Calvert (2017)
 and Taylor (2020), solidified the team’s expertise and supervisory capacity in other key areas.

 Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion

     Equality and diversity are areas of growing commitment both for DTP and for the School of
 Music, Humanities and Media. At School level, steps have been taken to formalize support for
 pregnant postgraduate students and to provide additional support, including extensions, for both
 PGR students and staff whose progress has been impacted by the Covid-19 pandemic.
 Research outputs selected for REF submission were reviewed according to the REF Code of
 Practice guidelines, including EDI considerations. The final ratio of submitted outputs (70% M :
 30% F) is slightly less than the gender ratio of staff members submitted (60% M : 40% F) and
 balances EDI considerations with the strategic aims of the UoA.

     In 2020, the School received the Athena Swan Bronze Award for gender equality, while the
 University renewed its institutional Bronze award status for the next five years. Also in 2020, the
 School’s Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Committee (EDIC) launched an initiative to develop a
 new and far-reaching anti-racism strategy that explores the longer-term implications of a shift
 from diversity to decolonization. Both the Athena Swan Bronze Award team and the EDIC
 committee are chaired by a DTP staff member (Calvert) and there is significant will within DTP
 and ReCePP to prioritize diversity and decolonisation strategies in the coming years.

 Support for staff research




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    The University of Huddersfield is committed to Vitae’s Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers and has successfully passed the eight-year review for the HR
 Excellence in Research Award. In the spirit of the Concordat, DTP staff have access to a wide
 range of support mechanisms for researcher development and wellbeing.

     DTP staff pursue a range of research projects in line with their varied interests and expertise.
 The philosophy of the subject area is to support the research independence and autonomy of
 staff while at the same time exploring areas of overlap and intersection that can lead to the
 development of larger-scale projects and initiatives. The Magic Research Group, the
 Mindfulness and Performance Project, and the former Centre for Psychophysical Performance
 Research, all of which now work within the remit of ReCePP, remain fluid yet vital mechanisms
 for coordinating such processes. All staff meet annually with the subject area Research
 Coordinator (Chamberlain) to discuss their research plans and priorities and to explore how
 these overlap with subject area, School, and University priorities, both in terms of how individual
 staff research may feed into larger streams of research and in terms of how institutional support
 can be arranged to maximize the success of individual staff members. The meetings are open-
 ended and supportive, proceeding on the basis that staff members are the primary authority on
 their own research areas and intentions, while recognizing the need for strategic planning at
 multiple levels to ensure the sustainability and long-term growth of the subject area.

      All full-time academic and research staff have the equivalent of at least one research day per
 week (0.2 FTE) that is reserved and set apart from teaching and administrative commitments, in
 their workload allocation plan, in order to focus on research. Additional time has been allocated
 to incoming early-career academics during the REF period, both formally through the
 University’s Research Excellence Staff Scheme (Hoedt) and informally (Moore, Spatz) through
 the Workload Allocation Model. This research time is organized in a variety of ways and where
 possible staff are allocated longer periods of time, especially during winter and summer holiday
 periods, for research. In the current REF period, staff research was primarily undertaken on an
 individual basis and ranged from the publication of internationally recognized articles,
 monographs, and Practice as Research projects to the completion of their PhD degrees. In the
 next period, emphasis will be directed according to the strategic aims outlined above,
 encouraging staff to expand their international networks, to undertake collaborative research
 projects with colleagues both within and beyond the University, and to develop approaches to
 Practice as Research that make full use of their professional and artistic expertise. In the current
 REF period, full-term sabbaticals were not implemented, in order to ensure that staff workload
 was manageable across the team and so as not to create a division between staff with and
 without PhDs. Instead, short research breaks were provided on a case-by-case basis, to enable
 specific outcomes. In the coming period, by contrast, a sabbatical rota will be implemented in
 order to give every staff member six months, out of every four years, to develop larger research
 projects and funding bids. The new sabbatical strategy is based on the fact that that all staff now
 hold PhDs and reflects the subject area’s increased prioritization of research going forward.
 Additional School funding for modular teaching release has been made available as part of the
 School’s REF strategy — for example to support the development and expansion of non-
 academic impact — and we expect this support to continue.

     Following the logic of autonomy and independent scholarship, DTP staff are allocated an
 individual research budget at the start of each financial year, which during the current REF
 period has ranged from £1200 to £2000 per staff member per year. These funds are used at the

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 individual staff member’s discretion, with guidance and approval from the DTP Research
 Coordinator and, for larger expenditures, the Head of Department. Expenses range widely and
 have in the past included travel for conference presentations, the organization and hosting of
 conferences and workshops, transcription services, various types of external consultancy, and
 the support of Practice as Research projects — all of which have led directly to research outputs
 and/or non-academic impact. In the distribution of these funds, no distinction was made on the
 basis of whether staff had completed their PhD, as it was considered equally important to
 support the research of those working towards the doctorate as those conducting postdoctoral
 research. As a result, all staff are ready to begin the next REF period with a significant track
 record of published research, including those who completed their PhD relatively recently.

      In addition to direct funding, DTP staff receive other types of support to develop and advance
 their research. Publication and funding proposal development is mentored by the subject area
 Research Coordinator, with additional mentoring from senior staff outside the subject area as
 needed, and directly supported by the University’s central Research & Enterprise team. Staff
 also have access to a suite of ongoing Professional Development courses ranging from the use
 of information and design software to funding bid development, best practices in postgraduate
 supervision, digital literacy and online course development, and more. Within the School of
 Music, Humanities and Media, there is a dedicated School Impact Officer who has extensively
 supported DTP’s impact activities to ensure their widest possible reach.

 Support for undergraduate and postgraduate research

     Research methods and concepts are introduced to undergraduate students as early as
 induction week and by their third year they are required to convene and deliver research papers
 in an academic conference format. Undergraduate students also have the opportunity to carry
 out independent Practice as Research final projects in their final year, offering a clearly defined
 research pathway for those who may wish to pursue postgraduate study, and have taken part in
 a variety of research-based extracurricular training and Practice as Research programmes. The
 University offers a competitive fee waiver and bursary scheme to excellent undergraduate
 students, allowing them to move directly into our MA by Research programme. Additionally, DTP
 offers one full fee waiver per year to a high-quality incoming postgraduate research student.
 Currently, DTP provides full or partial fee waivers to three PhD students, worth 2.25 FTE in total.
 Two further PhD students based in DTP are funded with stipends through nationally competitive
 scholarships: One holds the Duncan Druce Scholarship in Performance, funded by the Music
 and Music Technology subject area out of its QR revenue; another is supported by the North of
 England Consortium for Arts and Humanities (NECAH), of which the University is a member.

     Postgraduate students receive continuous and ongoing supervision throughout their studies.
 Within DTP, Chamberlain and Freeman are experienced PhD supervisors, examiners, and
 university consultants. Elliot, Hetzler and Middleton have also supervised PhDs to completion,
 while Calvert, Hoedt, Moore, Spatz and Taylor are expected to do so during the next REF
 period. PhD students have two or more supervisors on their panel, which sometimes includes
 members from outside the subject area, while MA students typically have one. In addition to
 regular supervision meetings with their primary supervisor, the research culture in DTP and
 ReCePP provides numerous opportunities for informal contact with members of staff outside the
 supervisory team and students are encouraged to take advantage of these opportunities.
 Supervision records are maintained in the online platform SkillsForge by both students and

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisors. In addition, progression monitoring panels are held at the end of the first and
 second years of study (for full-time students), giving students the opportunity to receive direct
 and detailed feedback from staff who are not otherwise involved in their supervision. The final
 viva voce examination for the PhD involves a panel of two academics with relevant expertise:
 one internal to the University, who is likely to have been involved in prior progression monitoring,
 and another external expert who represents a more distanced evaluation on behalf of the field at
 large. Supervisors may silently attend both progression monitoring and viva voce sessions, at
 the student’s request, in order to help the student integrate the feedback they receive. Staff
 members regularly receive training on best practices for the implementation of these processes.

     In addition to direct supervision and progression monitoring, research students have access
 to a range of support services and research opportunities. They receive training in core research
 and library skills from Library staff at induction and are then strongly encouraged to participate in
 DTP and ReCePP seminars, which have in the past included: focused sessions on specific
 topics related to methodology, ethics, and other issues; open “research workshop” sharing
 sessions, in which both students and staff present their current findings and questions and
 receive informal feedback from others; and public research seminars, including presentations
 from both DTP staff and external guests. During this REF period, these seminars were loosely
 organized across the year, but going forward we are planning to organize them more formally as
 biweekly sessions that bring together researchers across all levels and contribute to DTP active
 research culture. PhD students have also contributed in a variety of ways to staff-led Practice as
 Research projects and in some cases have co-authored peer-reviewed publications with staff.

     Our postgraduate students are often keen to gain teaching experience, which we support in
 a variety of ways, ranging from extracurricular workshops offered as part of a PGR student’s
 own research programme (often with undergraduate students as the majority of participants,
 which is another way for the latter to learn about research and postgraduate study) to co-
 teaching undergraduate modules with full-time staff on the BA Drama course. PGR students with
 fee waivers commit to a set number of hours of work in exchange for their financial support,
 which may involve teaching and/or other research support activities related to journal production,
 transcription, etc. On the other hand, fee-paying PGR students have been hired on a part-time
 basis as instructors on undergraduate modules, to the benefit of everyone involved. PGRs
 interested in developing their teaching skills are also encouraged to undertake the University’s
 central Teaching Assistant Preparation Programme.

     Financially, research students are supported to develop their careers by attending and
 presenting at conferences via School funding. Each doctoral student is entitled to access funds
 up to £800 during their studies to attend conferences or other events, including performer
 training courses where relevant. Additional funding is available to PGRs from the DTP research
 fund, which has supported student research ranging from Practice as Research productions and
 performances to travel expenses for international collaboration and access to specialized
 equipment. In the coming REF period, this type of support will be further formalized to ensure
 that DTP research students are aware of all relevant opportunities and able to take full
 advantage of available funding to increase their national and international experience across the
 duration of their studies. A positive side-effect of the Covid-19 pandemic, with potentially long-
 term implications, is the increased opportunity for PGRs to participate and present digitally at
 international conferences. There are also significant opportunities for interdisciplinary PGR
 collaboration within the School. As one example, a close-knit group involving two DTP PhD


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 students and three Music Composition PhD students emerged out of a 2017 conference on
 Vocality/Instrumentality, which was organized by one of the research centres that preceded
 ReCePP. This group went on to develop a series of collaborative performances that fed into
 each of their individual PhD projects in a variety of ways.

      Our undergraduate Drama curriculum is presently undergoing a process of revision, which
 will align it more closely with DTP research priorities and help to channel strong undergrad
 students into the MA by Research programme. Additionally, we are in the process of validating a
 new taught MA Acting: Psychophysical Practice, which we believe will have broad international
 appeal as well as creating an alternative route for those of our own undergraduate students who
 want to continue with us but need more structure than the MA by Research provides. We are
 also launching a new BA Performance for Screen course, which is intended to attract additional
 undergraduates who might then continue into either of the two MA courses. With these factors
 combined, we expect significant continued growth in PGR study over the coming years.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

     Because Drama was not submitted to REF2014, the unit does not have a formally allocated
 QR budget. However, as an area designed for strategic growth, and in order to prepare us for
 the current REF submission, we have benefited from continuous funding support from the
 School of Music, Humanities and Media throughout this REF period. The amount of direct base
 support for the DTP subject area has ranged from £16,000 to £25,000 per year, supplemented
 by additional income sources as explained in the following paragraphs.

      First, additional funding has been made available at both School and University levels
 through a variety of mechanisms including Early Career Researcher support, targeted support
 for impact-focused projects, support for external funding bid development, and competitive
 University Research Fund (URF). During this REF period, DTP benefited from a total of
 £140,814 in URF funding. This comprised £28,839 for capacity building linked to the Mindfulness
 and Performance project (Middleton), £7,550 for international networking visits in Australia,
 China, and Singapore (Freeman, Spatz), £40,000 to support the “fast-track” conversion of two
 excellent postgraduate students from MA to PhD courses, and £64,425 to support the research
 of an incoming early-career academic (Hoedt) via the Research Excellence Staff Scheme.
 Additional support from the School has included £4871 enabling early career academics to
 attend conferences internationally (Calvert, Hoedt, Moore); £4476 in support of public-face
 events under the Schools “Sound, Vision, Place” programme; and £2136 for other impact-
 focused activities (Middleton, Spatz).

     Second, DTP staff independently secured a total of £400,996 in external research funding,
 including £183,175 for an AHRC Leadership Fellowship (Spatz); £14,793 as part of an ESRC
 National Centre for Research Methods project (Spatz); and £202,998 to support a two-year
 Marie Curie-Składowska Action postdoctoral fellowship (Middleton) for the project ‘Embodied
 Mindfulness: Performance Training for Deaf and Hearing Actors’. During this period, DTP staff
 have secured funding from non-HESA sources. For example, Middleton received £3796 from
 the UK Arts Council and the British Council for work in Mexico and Panama, as well as €3510
 from the Kone Foundation (Finland), and was awarded funded residencies at the Vermont
 Studio Centre (USA) and the Saare Residency (Finland). Further expanding DTP’s external

                                                                                         Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funding income is a top priority for the subject area (see future goal A5 above), which we aim to
 accomplish both by mentoring staff who have not yet applied for such funding to do so and by
 developing bids for larger and more advanced funding schemes. The School plans to support
 this by providing targeted funding for teaching release (or additional hours, for those on less than
 full-time contracts) to develop substantial competitive external funding bids. Additional support is
 provided by the University’s central Research & Enterprise team, which handles costings and
 offers direct support for research data management and other aspects of bid development.

     As a result of overall low spending during the REF period that has just ended, DTP has a
 significant carry-forward budget that it can use strategically to accomplish the aims described
 above. These funds, along with future QR and external funding income, will be used to raise the
 quality and profile of DTP research; to establish the Lines of Flight research seminar series as
 an internationally recognized focal point for cutting edge Practice as Research methods; to
 expand impact-oriented activity conducted by all staff members; and to sustain and increase the
 quality of research undertaken across the board.

 Infrastructure and research facilities

     ReCePP, convened by the DTP Research Coordinator (Chamberlain) and a colleague in
 Music (Emily Worthington), acts as the primary infrastructure for research carried out within
 DTP. Through its parallel strands of activity — PGR seminars, open research workshops, and
 the public-facing Lines of Flight series — it brings together research undertaken at MA, PGR,
 and staff levels, as well as providing an interdisciplinary context for research that links DTP with
 staff and centres in Music and Media. Within DTP, the Research Coordinator is responsible for
 the annual budget and for both informal and formal mentorship of staff, ensuring that their time
 and funding is well-spent to advance both individual and institutional priorities. The full DTP staff
 team meets fortnightly, with a standing item devoted to research updates and discussion. The
 Research Coordinator is a member of the School Research Committee and the PGR
 Programme and Progression Boards, and continually relays relevant information back to the
 team for discussion and implementation. The Research Coordinator is also the Postgraduate
 Coordinator, allowing for the efficient integration of PGR and staff research concerns.

      DTP at Huddersfield is situated in a converted nineteenth-century chapel and school,
 formerly called the Milton Building, which was renamed the Sir Patrick Stewart building after
 University’s well-known, locally-born Emeritus Chancellor. This elegant building provides office
 space for all members of staff, most of whom work in single-occupancy offices. There is a
 separate office for part-time staff and PGRs. The building contains two large and flexible “black
 box” theatre studio spaces, one smaller studio, and two rehearsal rooms, all of which are
 equipped with theatrical lighting, sound, and dance flooring. Specialist technical support is
 provided by one full-time and one half-time member of staff, with expertise in all of the relevant
 theatrical and information technology. In addition to supporting undergraduate teaching,
 technical staff coordinate the building’s studio spaces to ensure that both PGR and staff have
 sufficient access to conduct Practice as Research. Students and staff at all levels are able to
 book studio space and technology items in the Patrick Stewart building seven days a week,
 using an online system. PGRs have additional access to information technology, audiovisual
 production technology, studio spaces, and office spaces in the Oastler Building, which was built
 for the School during the present REF cycle at a cost of £27 million and was shortlisted for the



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Guardian HE Award for Outstanding Building (2019). Researchers in DTP also make use of the
 excellent recording facilities in the Richard Steinitz Building, a £14.8M facility completed in 2008.

     Pandemic-related restrictions aside, the Sir Patrick Stewart building operates on an open-
 door policy and fosters a unique environment of collaborative practice and research, in which
 staff and students of all levels frequently meet and gather informally, developing vital social as
 well as intellectual and artistic relationships. During the Covid-19 pandemic, the University has
 rapidly implemented a Microsoft Teams system to handle teaching, staff meetings, and file
 sharing. DTP staff have taken great pains to organize class sessions, year-group meetings,
 postgraduate seminars, personal academic tutorials, and other forms of online connection, as
 well as diverse forms of digital performance, to sustain the social and artistically collaborative
 atmosphere of the subject area during this challenging time when physical contact is limited.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborative Relationships

       All DTP staff are engaged with international collaborations through their own research,
 networks, and collaborative projects. Of particular note are the Mindfulness and Performance
 project, led by Middleton and Chamberlain, which has developed significant research
 collaborations in Brazil, Chile and Mexico; and the Embodied Research Working Group, founded
 and co-convened by Spatz within the International Federation for Theatre Research (itself the
 major international professional organization for theatre research), which links more than 100
 affiliated members based in more than 20 countries. The research conducted by Middleton and
 Spatz has had measurable impact, as detailed in their respective REF Impact Case Studies, on
 organizations as wide-ranging as the National Trust (Hardcastle Crags), NHS Trust (Halifax),
 Temporary Contemporary (Huddersfield), Intercultural Roots for Traditional Embodied Arts and
 for Public Health (London), and Equal Voices Arts (New Zealand). Other DTP staff members
 have worked collaboratively with social and artistic organizations including the Kirklees Adult
 Safeguarding Board, Kirklees Children’s Services, the Association of Child Protection
 Professionals, Holmfirth Arts Festival, Theatre of Changes (Athens), Sibiu International Theatre
 Festival, Koufar Festival (Minsk), Thackray Medical Museum (Leeds), Proper Job Theatre
 (Huddersfield), Dark Horse Theatre Company (Huddersfield). Several of these relationships
 have been earmarked for development and expansion in the next REF period, including
 Middleton’s collaboration with the National Trust on mindfulness-based arts strategies for
 woodland engagement and Spatz’s participatory gallery exhibition Windows into Worlds, which
 was created in collaboration with the School of Art, Design and Architecture and the University–
 Local Council partnership organization Temporary Contemporary.

 Contribution to the Research Base

     In addition to individual staff research and impact, the three open access journals founded
 and edited by DTP staff made a significant contribution to the research base during the REF
 period. Journal of Performance Magic (ed. Taylor) has published 22 items beginning 2013,
 registering 4403 views and 2690 downloads; Journal of Performance and Mindfulness (eds.
 Middleton, Chamberlain, and Daniel Plá, Brazil) has published 21 items beginning in 2017,
 registering 3881 views and 2772 downloads; and Journal of Embodied Research (ed. Spatz)
 has published 10 items beginning in 2018, registering 10,400 views and 475 downloads.


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      In addition to these founding editorships, DTP staff edit two book series, Routledge
 Performance Practitioners (Chamberlain) and Advanced Methods with Punctum Books (Spatz),
 and multiple edited collections and special issues (Chamberlain, Spatz, Freeman). Members of
 the team sit on the editorial boards of the journals Performing Ethos; Theatre, Dance and
 Performance Training; Choreographic Practices; Text and Performance Quarterly; Emergency
 INDEX; and Performance and Spirituality. As invited peer reviewers, they have reviewed article
 submissions for the journals Theatre, Dance and Performance Training; Performing Ethos;
 Studies in Theatre and Performance; Performance Research; Performance Philosophy; Journal
 of Martial Arts Studies; Lateral: Journal of the Cultural Studies Association; Ruuka: Studies in
 Artistic Research; Transgender Studies Quarterly; Journal of Global Buddhism; Athens Journal
 of Humanities and Arts; manuscript submissions for Routledge, Palgrave, Bloomsbury/Methuen,
 Brill, and MIT Press; and funding proposal submissions for the major funding bodies AHRC and
 SSHRC (Canada). DTP staff have acted as external examiners for PhDs awarded at the
 following institutions: Exeter; Chichester; Goldsmiths; De Montfort; University of East Anglia;
 Kingston; Kent; University of the Arts Helsinki (Finland); Lesley University (USA); Murdoch
 University (Australia); and the Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts.

    During this REF period, DTP staff organized and hosted six conferences, drawing national
 and international participation from both scholars and practitioners: Yoga and Performer Training
 (2016); Rewilding Across Disciplines (2016); The Mindfulness Turn in the Martial Arts (2016);
 Performance and Mindfulness (2016); the joint SCUDD, NAMHE and DanceHE Conference
 (2017); and AVBODY: Symposium on the Audiovisual Body (2018).

     All of this was accomplished with no direct QR funding, building on limited annual support,
 supplemented by significant competitively secured income, with most of the team not yet eligible
 to apply for external funding. Building upon decades of professional, artistic, pedagogical, and
 scholarly expertise and networks, DTP staff have made significant contributions to the national
 and international research base and to local and regional economy and society. We are proud of
 our REF2021 submission and look forward to continued expansion and innovation in the next
 period. With reference to the aims listed above, we plan to develop and deepen collaborative
 work within and beyond the team, and to expand our research at all levels, generating research
 that has even greater reach and impact in the coming years.




                                                                                          Page 14
