Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: London Business School

 Unit of Assessment: 17 Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy




The UoA is constituted entirely by London Business School (LBS).

The School’s commitment to research excellence is fundamental to our research (1.2) and impact
(1.3) strategies and enables the School to achieve its vision: to have a profound impact on the way
the world does business and the way business impacts the world. Our strategic goals are strongly
aligned with our people strategy to recruit and nurture researchers of the highest standing in their
fields. Our faculty are expected to develop and maintain an excellent research record and for this to
have impact on business leaders and managers, public policy-makers and other researchers world-
wide. During the assessment period we remained a dynamic and vibrant research institution, as
demonstrated by our success, inter alia, in obtaining European Research Council (ERC) funds -
seven faculty received new awards from 0.8 million euros to 1.8 million euros; the doubling in size
of our internal annual research budget; and the opening of three new research centres and institutes
(RCIs) – the AQR Asset Management Institute (AQR AMI), the Leadership Institute (LI) and the
Wheeler Institute for Business and Development (Wheeler), with a combined funding commitment
from philanthropic donations of £21,250,000.

1.1 Context and Structure
The UoA consists of seven subject areas – Accounting, Economics, Finance, Management Science
and Operations (MSO), Marketing, Organisational Behaviour (OB), and Strategy and
Entrepreneurship (SE). All faculty and PhD students are members of one of the seven areas which
is chaired by a full professor on a three-year rotational basis. Responsibility for achieving the
School’s research strategy falls collectively on the faculty under the leadership of the Deputy Dean
(Faculty) and the seven Subject Area Chairs. The Deputy Dean (Faculty) is also a senior faculty
member who serves for a three-year term and reports to the Dean. These are strategic roles focused
on maintaining a healthy, diverse and dynamic research community and they are therefore key
members of influential School committees and boards. They receive training in employment law, the
Equality Act, and Inclusion and Diversity.

The subject areas are reviewed periodically by two external reviewers from peer schools, plus an
internal committee consisting of the Deputy Dean (Faculty) and two full professors from other subject
areas. Reviewers consistently compliment the quality and impact of the research in the subject areas
and provide recommendations on how to leverage the quality of the scholars in future recruitment
strategies, and strategies to support faculty attraction and retention through competitive
remuneration terms and research support.

In addition to the subject areas, the School has a number of research groupings – research institutes
and centres – which provide a framework to facilitate collaboration between faculty within and across
subject areas. They explore key global business issues and attract significant research funding from
a variety of sources including Research Councils, Charitable Foundations, companies and
philanthropists. They provide a way of supporting and showcasing faculty research in ways that
capture the attention of and has an influence on business leaders and managers, public policy-
makers and other researchers worldwide. Faculty may be involved in one or more research institute
or centre in addition to their subject area.

1.2 Research strategy during the period under review
The School’s strategic aim for REF2014 was for faculty in all subject areas, to be among the world’s
leaders in terms of the quality and impact of their research, supported by our People strategy (i.e.
highly selective recruitment and promotion processes and a competitive HR package including

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reduced teaching loads for junior faculty, larger internal funds) and infrastructure (i.e. extensive
research funding portfolio, Research Lab, auxiliary departments). The School expects research
findings to be published in top quality academic and practitioner-oriented peer-reviewed journals (A,
D, Q and P journals which largely overlap with the most highly rated ABS list of journals, see 5a,
p.1), and disseminated widely through active participation in academic, business, and policy-making
communities. The School monitors the publications and dissemination activities through its People
strategy. All submitted research outputs have been selected from current faculty (see 5a, p.5) and,
reflecting the faculty composition, the majority were published in top academic (A) and discipline (D)
journals with a smaller number of articles published in practitioner journals (usually authored by
management practice faculty).

In relation to specific actions listed in the REF14, the School focused on (i) achieving critical mass
in all subject areas, (ii) securing funding, and (iii) supporting cross-disciplinary research.

Critical Mass
The School has made progress towards achieving and maintaining critical mass (a minimum of 12
core faculty per subject area). The School typically targets recruitment at assistant professor level.
Through successful recruitment and retention, although the increase in headcount has been modest
(105 faculty in 2014 compared to 108 in 2020), six out of the seven subject areas are now considered
to be at critical mass. The School continues to monitor this closely and recognises the difference
that a few departures could make in the smaller subject areas.

As a testament to our commitment to developing and growing junior faculty, since 2014, the School
has promoted ten assistant professors to tenured associate professors (3 female and 7 male),
namely Savva and Yang (MSO), Lambrecht (Marketing), Ioannou, Crilly and Vakili (SE), Tahoun
(Accounting), Effron, Kesebir and Rattan (OB). In addition, 15 associate faculty have been promoted
to full professors (6 female and 9 male), namely Tuna, Vasvari (Accounting), Vig, Pavlova (Finance),
Papaioannou, Surico (Economics), Fernandez-Mateo, Vermeulen, Jacobides (SE), Gallien, Savva,
Tezcan (MSO), Botti, Lambrecht (Marketing), and Ku (OB).

Securing Funding
The School invests significant resources in the research activities of individual faculty as well as
subject areas. The funding is provided both internally and through fundraising activities, with the
latter enabling the School’s Research Fund, worth £2 million (as of 2020). In addition to supporting
individual faculty through Research and Materials Development (RAMD) Funds as discussed below,
the Research Fund is also used to support academic collaboration and dissemination by supporting
visiting faculty, academic conferences hosted at the School, and annual Junior Faculty Research
Awards. The School’s success in securing funding, its second focus as per REF2014, can be
evidenced by the following:
      • Individual Faculty Budget: The aggregate amount of this type of funding, sourced internally,
          increased to £1,113,000 by 2019, corresponding to £10,500/annum per fte. Faculty use this
          budget to cover research collateral costs. This funding is available to all tenure-track, tenured
          and management practice faculty (5a, p. 5).
      • RAMD Fund: The aggregate amount of this type of funding, covered by the School’s
          Research Fund, increased from £525,000 in 2014 to £1,100,000 by 2020. Eligible faculty
          are invited to bid for up to £20,000 each academic year (in addition to their individual faculty
          budget). These awards provide early-stage seed funding for projects. Some 65 to 70 are
          granted annually, which represents about 55% of those faculty eligible to apply. Post-award
          reporting demonstrates this funding effectively supports the development of publications and
          dissemination, e.g. awards from 2018/19 helped produce over 40 papers.
      • Subject Area Research Activities: The School spends approximately £50,000 per annum to
          support local subject area research activities such as seminar series. In the period under
          review, subject areas had more than 800 speakers.
      • Success in individual European Research Council (ERC) funding - seven faculty received
          new awards worth from 0.8 million euros to 1.8 million euros.



                                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Supporting Cross-disciplinary Research
The School’s progress in supporting cross disciplinary research is demonstrated by the success and
dynamism of the research centres and institutes. The Research Institutes are led by senior faculty
from two or more subject areas.

In the period under review, the School has continued to monitor and enhance its RCIs portfolio
leading to the opening of three new institutes (AQR AMI, LI, and Wheeler), where faculty from
Finance, Economics, OB, and Marketing currently serve as academic directors; and the recently
discussed merger of IIE and PE at LBS (to be renamed as the Institute of Entrepreneurship and
Private Capital). The journey of the IIE during the assessment period illustrates how our research
environment is suitable and adaptable to the evolving needs and research focus of our academic
staff and funding streams, as well as the closing of the Aditya V Birla India Centre, as a result of the
Centre’s natural financial and strategic lifecycle and departure of its Academic Director, Vilcassim
(Marketing faculty till 2017).

Further evidence of the School’s support for cross-disciplinary research can be seen in the PhD
innovation brown bag seminars held by IIE and involving PhD students from across the school,
contributing to the exchange of ideas and feedback in a cross-disciplinary forum of participants who
are all pursuing research in the broad areas of innovation and entrepreneurship.

RCIs’ outreach activities bring together our faculty, students and alumni with the business and policy-
making community. The Leadership Institute, for example, organised ‘Leading through complexity’,
a guest speaker event with Janet Napolitano, former US Secretary of Homeland Security and former
Attorney General of Arizona, a panel discussion featuring Sir Alex Ferguson and Paul McGinley on
Leadership Lessons from Sport, development and launch of the Institute’s Commercial International
Bank Egypt Case Study on Transformational Change and interview of the Chairman, by Peterson
(OB) and Chandy (Marketing) held at the School.

1.3 Future Research Strategy
Our fundamental research strategy will remain as follows: (i) focus research outputs towards
publication at the highest international level; (ii) disseminate findings effectively, and (iii) ensure
faculty engage visibly in both the academic and wider community. The realisation of this strategy is
closely dependent on our people strategy with continued efforts to reduce the teaching load of core
faculty to improve our competitive positioning, reach critical mass in all subject areas, develop our
research centres and institutes, and increase our endowment through a Capital campaign. However,
given the financial threat posed by Covid-19 and BREXIT to research funding streams, our current
focus remains on securing the sustainability of the School. Despite recent essential cost savings at
the School, internal research funding was ring-fenced.

1.4 Impact strategy
Impact is of paramount importance as evidenced by our evolved vision to have a profound impact
on the way the world does business and the way business impacts the world. Having rearticulated
and extended its vision in 2017, following the appointment of Ortalo-Magné as Dean, the School has
brought impact to the forefront of its research agenda building on the REF14 recommendation to
move from engagement to impact generation. As previously mentioned, core faculty are key in
achieving our impact strategy and as part of annual, periodic, and promotional reviews, the School
assesses their performance in four dimensions (teaching, research, internal contribution and
external visibility). The fourth dimension incentivises faculty to engage with multiple audiences in a
variety of ways and leads to wide impact on industry, policy makers and regulators, as well as the
academic community (i.e. citations, membership of learned societies, editorial posts, keynote
speeches and conference presentations) as demonstrated in the submitted case studies. In addition,
faculty have a wide impact reach through consulting; publication of books and managerial articles;
development of new electives especially with strong applied components supporting students to
change the policies and strategies of companies; and development of diagnostic tools used by
companies to assess their practices and introduce change.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our impact strategy, working in unison with our research strategy, is amplified through the extensive
work and reach of the RCIs including key business partnerships; training and transforming
individuals (degree education, open enrolment programmes and PhD students); transforming
organisations (custom executive education and consulting work); our Marketing and PR presence;
and specific projects led by faculty.

Teaching activities offer a powerful channel to deliver our impact strategy. Particularly aligned with
the School’s research strategy, core faculty are committed to train the next generation of excellent
researchers through the PhD programme which often result in ongoing and future collaborations. In
addition, all faculty are encouraged to design core and elective courses, as well as experiential
learning and executive education content, based on their research. In this way our world-class faculty
bring cutting edge research insights to class, engaging with students, participants and clients in
degree and executive education programmes. This dissemination multiplies its impact through
alumni, transforming learning experiences into ongoing journeys. The resulting exchange of ideas
stimulates further scholarly inquiry, which produces further research published in top quality peer
reviewed academic journals, and then subsequent further engagement with students, participants,
clients, and the wider community of policymakers, regulators and other stakeholders.

Executive Education offers a portfolio of open enrolment, online courses and customised learning
solutions with over 100 courses delivered annually to some 10,000 participants. These programmes
offer an important route for faculty research to reach and positively impact the business community.
They provide a platform for debate and feedback, ensuring the on-going relevance of the School’s
research. The open and online courses attract a diverse set of participants from a range of different
countries and organisations, while custom solutions are specifically tailored to the needs of individual
organisations worldwide. Some of our impact case studies (e.g. Birkinshaw and Cable) demonstrate
how successful an impact channel Executive Education can be for faculty research.

The School has used the Higher Education Innovation Fund (HEIF) to inform and develop the
executive education and degree programme portfolios, to develop digital initiatives that showcase
faculty research, and to strengthen the School’s marketing activities.

To achieve impact the School also attaches critical importance to relationships with business and
government supported by the Marketing and Communications department which aims to position
the School as a centre of excellence for thought leadership, disseminating faculty and PhD students’
research through five major channels: publications, strategic events, website, social media, and
public relations activity. The School produces a series of publications showcasing its research. Think
(previously London Business School Review), is the School’s flagship thought leadership publication
and positions faculty at the cutting edge of inspirational ideas, with its content aimed at the global
practitioner community and designed to be applicable in a real-world context. For example, in its
November 2020 issue, Think introduced the recently hired assistant professors and their research
as well as featuring research by longer-serving members of faculty. It also included a piece entitled
“A force for good in the world”, featuring five PhD students who, with the support of the Wheeler
Institute, are conducting research with significant impact. Think has around 250,000 online
subscribers. In addition to a bi-monthly email, two digital magazines are produced annually and are
also distributed to 4,000 libraries and academic institutions around the world.

School strategic events generate fresh thought leadership by bringing together faculty, business
leaders and decision makers at conferences, seminars and symposia. The School runs a series of
events every year to provide perspective from corporate and civil society leaders, as well as from
faculty, on critical issues affecting global business. For example, the AQR AMI Insight Summit was
held virtually in November 2020. The theme was “Investing in a low-rate environment”, where
speakers included Rey (Economics), Portes (Economics), Mohamed El-Erian, Anil Kashyap, Joshua
Rauh, and Keith Ambachtsheer. This event was attended by more than 800 people.

1.5 Future Impact Strategy



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The above impact strategy remains core to our vision: impact on academic and business
communities, teaching in degree, and executive education, reach of RCIs and the work of Marketing
and PR teams.

The vitality and sustainability of this strategy relies internally on our people strategy, departmental
infrastructure and investment, and how the School leverages impact through its students and alumni
community. Examples of this vitality and investment in creating impact through research include two
new initiatives which are taking shape: (i) “Amplifying Research Impact” led by Markides (SE) and
Tuna (Accounting, Deputy Dean, Faculty) and supported across the School (Associate Dean of
Advancement, Chief Marketing Office, Director of Strategy and Thought Leadership, and multiple
faculty members). This initiative aims to design and develop channels (and adapt existing ones) to
create and amplify impact from faculty research; (ii) the Bagri HIVE led by Tavassoli (Marketing),
which is a space for collaborative experimentation. Each experiment will be supported by champions
and endorsed by senior management.

1.6 Case Studies
The submitted case studies highlight the significant and diverse impact of individual faculty’s
research excellence.
The portfolio showcases:
    • Impact through changing business practices. These include Birkinshaw’s insights on
       management innovation resulting in simpler and more productive processes and associated
       improvement in revenues and employee morale, Cable’s work on how to activate staff
       seeking systems, which boost their morale, productivity and retention, and Edmans’ findings
       on executive pay design that contributed to the reform of company pay policies through their
       influence on the revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code;
    • Impact on policy makers, such as Surico's research demonstrating that large scale
       macroeconomic policy changes influence households with large mortgages the most, which
       underpinned the abolition of property tax on main dwellings in Italy and helped guide ECB
       to keep ultra-low interest rates; Chandy’s insights on the role marketing training programmes
       play in supporting economic development, shaping the allocation of funding by the World
       Bank; and Rey’s research showing decisions on US interest rates alter the flow of investment
       into and out of countries around the world, which influenced decision-makers at the Bank of
       England, European Central Bank, US Federal Reserve, and International Monetary Fund;
    • Impact through development of platforms, which support healthcare (such as Gallien’s
       computer simulations to track supply and demand of dozens of medicines in real-time in
       Zambia), and which support governments and businesses (such as Reichlin’s framework for
       now-casting, delivering high frequency, short-term forecasts for the world’s major economies
       in real time using a state-of-the-art econometric model).

 Impact        Impact           Impact                                       Impact
 Case          Audience         (What)                                       Channel
               (Who)                                                         (How)
 Birkinshaw    Companies    Increased morale, customer engagement and Executive
                            productivity                                     Education
                            Companies report 12% & 40% revenue growth
                            following framework implementation
 Cable         Companies    Improved staff wellbeing, performance and Executive
                            retention                                        Education
                            Wipro reduces staff turnover by 1/3 after field
                            project
 Chandy        Companies    Increased sales and employment.                  Partnerships
               and    World Extension of multimillion-dollar World Bank through         RCI
               Bank         training programmes to include marketing skills. (WB          &
               programmes 270 small businesses in South Africa charities)
                            increased sales by ~2/3, enabling recruitment
                            of 1 new staff per business;


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                           World Bank adds marketing training to $200m
                           investment in Nigeria
 Edmans        Policy      Changes to corporate governance                          Policy change
               makers and Research leads to changes in corporate                    Advisory work
               business    governance code (2018) and counter-acts
               leaders     short term thinking in CG
 Gallien       Healthcare  Improved drug distribution system                        Partnerships
               systems,    Inventory management through eZICS enables               (WB, UNICEF,
               workers and access to 40 life-savings medicines in 8                 UKDID, IBM)
               patients    districts in Zambia
 Reichlin      Policy      Improved estimates of GDP                              Industry   tool
               makers      Nowcasting Economics Ltd used widely by                development
                           financial institutions and state agencies              and
                                                                                  deployment
 Rey           Policy          Altered thinking and actions at the highest levels Influence   on
               makers          Yellen, Bernanke and Carney confirm reach policy makers:
                               and impact of Rey’s research                       Adoption     by
                                                                                  IMF & US
                                                                                  Federal
                                                                                  Reserve
 Surico        Policy          Changed monetary policy at national level          Policy change
               makers          Italy drops policy on property tax (2015) based Advisory work
                               on research




1.7 Research Ethics and Open Access
All faculty and PhD student projects involving human participants or the use of personal data at the
School are reviewed by the Research Ethics Committee (REC) to ensure they conform with the law
and are carried out in accordance with best practice. The REC was set up in 2010 as a result of the
growth in behavioural researchers needing their own apparatus for ethical reviews and approvals.
At the same time the School reviewed and updated its research ethics policy, a code of practice for
research and procedures for the investigation into allegations of research misconduct. These policies
are reviewed regularly and updated when necessary. The REC and the associated policies and
procedures conform to Economic and Social Research Council (ESRC) and UK Research Integrity
Office (UKRIO) guidelines for the establishment of research ethics committees within a school setting
and the practice of good research conduct.

The School’s institutional repository includes a copy of the School’s Open Access Policy and
Takedown Policy. The School’s institutional repository metadata is discoverable on CORE and
Google Scholar and is based on a Green OA model, unless mandated by the funder. When
applicable, the School goes beyond the REF Open Access Mandate in line with the OA principles of
discoverability, access and deposit.

The global researcher profile at the School brings varying degrees of familiarity with Open Access.
Faculty awareness was boosted by ‘act on acceptance’ messaging throughout the School, part of
the communications strategy for the institutional repository project. The School has an Institutional
Repository Audit Group whose aim is to improve current processes and responsiveness to changes
affecting OA.

Disciplinary challenges when considering the REF OA policy relate mainly to journal embargoes
which are often set at the maximum, as well as US-based publishers which tend to adopt an
exception route. Nevertheless, compared to the average of 19% outputs not being REF OA
compliant as stated in the Research England’s 2018 Report, the School has a non-compliant rate of

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
5%. The School continues to explore opportunities to out-perform the REF OA mandate and since
2019 has been a member of Datacite.

  2. People


2.1 People strategy
Our research strategy is achieved by fostering a community of scholars through a highly selective
recruitment process (recruiting, on average, 1 faculty for every 62 applicants), faculty development,
mentoring, tenure process, and sponsoring research and practitioner events organised by subject
areas and research centres and institutes. All this sustains a collegial and collaborative environment.

The School’s people strategy is therefore based on recruiting, developing and retaining top
academics and practitioners, and supporting a vibrant research environment where they can
succeed. Our tenure policy and process are equally highly selective and under constant review and
benchmarking. Assistant professors, also known as junior or “tenure-track” faculty, would normally
be considered for promotion to Associate Professor with tenure in their seventh year at the School,
and be evaluated based on their performance in research, teaching, internal contribution, and
external visibility. As a significant input to this consideration, the School requests 13 external letters
of reference from senior faculty of international standing in their field and a minimum of eight letters
are required. If unsuccessful, faculty must leave the School at the end of the following academic
year.

Core faculty (5a, p. 5) contribute to the School’s vision through (i) research, (ii) teaching, (iii) internal
contribution (e.g. membership of internal committees or taskforces), and (iv) external visibility
activities (e.g. presentations at conferences, visits to peer schools to disseminate research, editorial
roles at top journals, and consulting roles to advise companies, policy-makers, and governments).
These activities are the key enablers of the School’s research and impact strategies and
performance in all four is regularly assessed and informs all HR decisions such as recruitment,
annual performance and promotional reviews. The School’s people strategy has a strong
commitment to talent development through the support of ‘tenure-track’ faculty. Tenured faculty are
actively involved in mentoring them contributing to the development of the next generation of top
scholars.

The number of core faculty and research fellows has grown modestly since 2014 (98.83FTE in 2014
to 106.45FTE in 2020). Positive action following subject area reviews has led to an increase in senior
faculty, including Tezcan (University of Rochester, 2015), Mussweiler (University of Cologne, 2016),
Ibarra (INSEAD, 2017), Galeotti (European University Institute, 2018), and Alemany (ESADE
Business School, 2019). Once critical mass is achieved and healthy numbers maintained, the focus
changes to recruiting affiliated faculty to meet the teaching needs of the expanding degree and
executive education portfolios.

In support of the School’s strategic aims, our HR policies and practices are regularly benchmarked
against competitors so we can continue to attract and retain top scholars. Highlights include:
    • Increased focus on research productivity through reduction of the teaching load of core
       faculty by 11% in 2016/17; with assistant professors having an additional 1/3 reduction in
       teaching load in their first year, compared with tenured colleagues.
    • Increase of the Research Active Salary Supplement (RASS) for full professors from 1/9th to
       2/9th of their base salary, in line with assistant and associate professors. All full professors
       can apply for this supplement if they are research active and publishing. A total of 95 faculty
       were receiving RASS in the 2019-20 academic year. All new faculty have a guaranteed
       supplement for the first three years.
    • Leave of Absence Policy which helps faculty to pursue their research collaboratively with co-
       authors at other institutions. Tenured faculty took more leave than un-tenured faculty (25 and
       2 respectively between 2014 and 2020). Leave of absence on full-pay for a term is permitted
       providing faculty deliver their annual teaching load in the other two terms.


                                                                                                     Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Sabbatical provision. Faculty may accrue over-teaching to fund a year’s leave. A recent
       example is Papaioannou (Economics), one of the two academic directors of the Wheeler
       Institute, who spent the 2019/20 academic year at MIT Department of Economics as the Hal
       Varian Visiting Professor of Economics.

Collaboration with business and industry is strongly encouraged and recently several Economics
faculty, Surico, Rey and Stavrakeva, have undertaken research projects with the Bank of England,
one being funded by ERC. In order to assist this research, term contracts have been offered to two
research assistants who were then seconded, under formal agreement, to undertake research at the
Bank.

Core faculty (tenure-track, tenured and management practice faculty) are complemented by affiliated
faculty and research support faculty who are fully integrated into the research community, and
collectively they support the School’s impact strategy.

By the end of the assessment period, the School had a strong faculty body consisting of 108 core
faculty and 89 affiliated faculty (5a, p. 5). The former are permanent positions (55%), while the latter
are contractors (45%). In addition, there are two Research Fellows who support the research of
specific faculty.

2.2 PhD Programme
The mission of the School’s PhD Programme is to educate excellent researchers who are sought-
after in the world’s leading business schools, universities and research institutions. In the past five
years, students have obtained positions at: New York University; Harvard Business School, Yale
Business School, LSE, Imperial, INSEAD, Bocconi, Stockholm School of Economics, Duke
University, Columbia Business School, MIT, Princeton University, Stanford Business School, and
also at the Bank of England (Research Economist post).

In 2020, the programme welcomed 17 students 53% of whom are women. As with the faculty
recruitment process, this is a highly selective exercise recruiting 1 student for every 14 applicants.
There are currently 91 students at various stages of completion and this number may increase in
line with faculty growth. The programme represents a major investment in the future of management
teaching and research, costing the School around £4.5m per annum of general funds, mostly spent
on student scholarships and research training. The programme is fully funded, and students receive
a stipend to cover living costs as well as a budget to cover their research expenses (mainly attending
conferences).

The PhD Programme is led by a senior faculty member, currently Ku (OB), who chairs the PhD
Committee. Membership also includes a PhD Coordinator from each of the seven subject areas, and
the administrative director of the Programme. The PhD Committee monitors the academic quality of
the programme.

The PhD Programme constantly monitors and seeks feedback from students on the range and
quality of the professional development programme available. All new students attend an inter-
cultural workshop at orientation and an annual presentation skills workshop followed by one-to-one
feedback sessions with a professional coach. In 2019 an academic writing workshop was introduced.
Throughout the whole programme, students’ work is supervised by faculty in their subject areas with
whom they meet regularly. The PhD Programme is fully integrated into the School’s subject areas
and RCIs, allowing students to move freely between different types of research and receive a broad
training beyond their own specialism.

In keeping with the School’s support of scholarly collaboration and exchange, since 2001, the School
hosts the PhD Programme’s annual flagship Trans-Atlantic Doctoral Conference, attended by
approximately 120 PhD students from leading UK, European and US institutions. This is a student-
led initiative, providing the opportunity for participants to present their work to this unique audience,
meet faculty and discuss current research ideas, methodologies, and career issues. The informal
networks created are often a prelude to collaborative research relationships with other scholars and

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
they promote the School among PhD students seeking academic positions. This conference was
cancelled in 2020 due to travel restrictions relating to Covid-19.

2.3 Equality and Diversity
The School prides itself on being a diverse workplace and learning institution with leading
researchers publishing in this area. During the assessment period, the School made a strategic
decision to prioritise family-friendly policies, gender and promotions. In the summer of 2020, the
School added race equality to these priorities.

In relation to the objectives set in 2014, encouraging subject areas to select candidates from black
and ethnic minority groups as well as women, the School has made modest progress. The current
core faculty data shows that 29% of faculty are female and 23% of faculty are BAME. Of the 29% of
faculty who are female, 14 are assistant professors (constituting 36% of assistant professors) and
17 are associate and full professors (constituting 23% of associate and full professors). An analysis
of the ethnicity of faculty reveals that of the 23% who are BAME, the largest groups are Asian or
Asian British - Indian (8%), Chinese (6%) and Other Asian Background (5%).

The School recognises that with faculty turnover at only 4-5% a year, rapid change in its composition
is not achievable. The School’s approach has been to:
    • Ensure current assistant professors are fully supported in their tenure-track journey with
        enhanced support for parents and an extensive faculty development programme.
    • Take actions where practicable, such as using a positive action statement in advertisements
        to encourage more applications from women and other minority groups.
    • Continue with a target of at least 35% of female candidates invited to interviews (self-
        reporting mechanisms prevent the setting of targets for other minority groups).
    • Aspiring to devise an action plan to enhance recruitment of minority groups, with a focus on
        race equality.
    • Work on revising the student course feedback questionnaire in the 2020-21 academic year
        to mitigate gender bias.

The School undertook a review of its family-friendly policies, considering both forthcoming changes
to the statutory framework and the practices of its main competitors, strengthening our top talent
acquisition and retention. This resulted in the following enhancements:
    • Teaching Load Reductions: Since 2015, female faculty who take maternity/parental leave
        benefit from a 50% reduction in their teaching load (compared to a pro rata teaching load
        reduction calculated based on how much leave they took). Male faculty using parental leave,
        also benefit from pro rata teaching load reduction.
    • Tenure Clock Extensions: Since 2016, male faculty can also take a single one-year extension
        to their tenure clock upon becoming a parent (three have done so).

Part-time and fixed-term faculty receive the same benefits as full-time faculty and have access to
the same professional development opportunities appropriate to their role. The teaching load of part-
time faculty is adjusted on a pro-rata basis.

The School recently expanded its diversity data collection beyond age, disability, race and sex to
include all protected characteristics. In addition, the leadership at the School has placed a strong
focus on inclusion and diversity and the School has a large LGBTQ+ community represented by the
OUTIN Business Club, organised by students. Recently, a new student club, Black in Business has
been formed and both staff and faculty action plans are being devised to focus on racial equality.

It is not anticipated that any process resulting from the REF21 exercise will have an adverse impact
on BAME faculty and, statistically the ethnic and gender make-up of the REF taskforces reflects the
diversity of current faculty. From August 2019 the Deputy Dean (Faculty), who chairs both
Taskforces, is female. All processes at the School consider its diversity with regular monitoring being
carried out through the Inclusion and Diversity Advisory Committee (5a, p.3) which produces an
annual report.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4 Faculty development
Our commitment to recruiting and developing junior researchers goes beyond the School’s
organisational policies described above and include a wide range of in-house and external activities
supporting research, teaching and overall career development available throughout the year with an
annual budget of £100,000. Assistant and Associate Professors are expected to devise formal
professional development plans with their Subject Area Chair and annually report on progress. The
School’s procedures and practices are in line with the Researcher Development Concordat.

The following portfolio is reviewed regularly and adapted to suit emerging or specific needs of faculty
members:
   • Mentoring by a senior colleague providing support and guidance through the process of
        journal selection, manuscript submission, review, revision and acceptance.
   • Faculty orientation programme for new faculty which focuses on teaching and research with
        a follow-up session in the spring term.
   • In-house professional development seminars focusing on teaching (e.g. an introduction to
        executive teaching or writing case studies) or research (e.g. ERC funding, PhD supervision).
   • Ad-hoc research training usually on new research tools and systems for faculty and PhD
        students.
   • One-to-one coaching focusing on presentation skills, language skills and leadership
        development.
   • International Teachers Programme is available to two core faculty members a year.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities




3.1 Income
A combination of internal funding and sustained levels of external funding fuels faculty’s research
and impact agenda so is fundamental to achieving the School’s vision. As such, a significant amount
of School funds is invested to support faculty research and a dedicated Research Support Team
helps faculty identify, apply for and report on grants. In addition, the School subscribes to Research
Professional, the sector-leading platform for research opportunities.

The School’s Marketing and Advancement departments play a pivotal role in supporting faculty
showcase research and secure philanthropic donations to support RCIs’ research agendas. The
School has received just over £3,000,000 annually from the Research England (previously HEFCE).
In 2019-20, the annual external funding revenue was just over £2,200,000 compared to £1,500,000
in 2013-14.

 Source Name                                                         % of average annual
                                                                     research income
 UKRI Research Councils, The Royal Society, British Academy and The 18.2%
 Royal Society of Edinburgh
 UK-based charities (open competitive process)                       11.6%
 UK-based charities (other)                                          5.6%
 UK central government bodies/local authorities, health and hospital 3.4%
 authorities
 EU government bodies                                                55.3%
 EU industry, commerce and public corporations                       0.7%
 EU (excluding UK) other                                             1.5%
 Non-EU industry, commerce and public corporations                   0.3%
 Non-EU other                                                        3.6%




                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Diversity of Income Sources (FY 2013/14-2019-20)

In the REF2021 window, thirty-one external grant awards have been awarded to LBS faculty,
including as part of a consortium. Additionally, one grant was transferred into the School: Galeotti;
ERC CoG “Oligopoly Markets and Networks” (€706,800). Two PhD students were also the recipients
of external grant funding. Grant applicants and recipients are primarily senior faculty.

Other major research grants received during the period under review, include EU Horizon 2020
collaborative schemes, the Economic and Social Research Council, the Engineering and Physical
Sciences Research Council, the British Academy, and Innovate UK. Examples of how the School’s
research aligns with the national research agenda are Scott’s (Economics) £988,686 grant awarded
by ESRC to investigate the economics of longevity - investigating the ageing society is one of the
UK Government’s key 4 industrial strategies. Another example is Bunn’s (MSO) work in energy
supply chain management over several research grants addressing the Clean Energy Grand
Challenge.

ERC grants have proved particularly attractive to faculty in Accounting, Finance and Economics.
Since FY 2013/14, Faculty have won 7 grants worth €8.68 million (currently two ERC Advanced
Grant applications pending stage 2 evaluation) bringing the School’s total ERC funding since its
inception in 2007 to 14 grants worth €15.3 million (nine Starting, four Consolidator, one Advanced).

In terms of future priorities for external funding and the current research funding landscape in the
UK, the School will continue to support Faculty in competing for major national and international
funding as well as make use of international collaborative research grants.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
Since 2014 the School has expanded its Estates with the acquisition and extensive renovation of the
Old Marylebone Town Hall (currently Sammy Offer Centre - SOC), and the Royal College of
Obstetricians and Gynaecologists. The increase of 57% in floor space allows the School to expand
its educational and outreach activities.

There are three main elements of physical infrastructure supporting the research: The Library
(relocated to new premises at SOC), IT infrastructure and a fully staffed Research Laboratory.

The Information Services and Library Team supports digital provision with nearly 7,000 eBook titles
and nearly 35,000 e-journals, and access to business information databases such as Bloomberg,
Business Source Premier, Capital IQ, Factiva, FAME, Datastream, Ibisworld and MarketLine
Advantage. Since 2015, the Library Team has managed an annual information resources budget of
over £1m and based on the latest HE library benchmarking data (SCONUL return, 2017-18), the
School has the second highest national spend when it comes to information provision per FTE
academic staff and students. The team also offers one-to-one training for Faculty.

The School recognises the importance of a robust IT infrastructure in supporting faculty research
activities. Since 2012, the Faculty IT Group has been working closely with the IT department to
identify new technologies to enhance their research activities. In addition, the School has recently
procured a Current Research Information System (CRIS) to accurately record and promote
institutional research activity and output. This system supports data collection for the present REF21
submission.

The research laboratory has grown in size and capability to meet the needs of a growing number of
behavioural researchers. During the assessment period several behavioural faculty have regularly
used the research laboratory. Most of the studies result in publications in the OB and Marketing
subject areas. This facility is a key selling point when recruiting behavioural faculty and PhD
students. It is currently able to accommodate more than 100 participants a day, compared to 30
previously. The research software available includes MediaLab/DirectRT, Inquisit, Ztree as well as
an eye tracker (Tobii), Physiological measures (Biopac - Skin temperature, ECG, Pulse, Respiration,

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
EDA) and the survey software Qualtrics. The Lab team have a MTurk Prime and Prolific Academic
account to oversee data collection on other platforms. The Lab is a resource also used by PhD
students who have full access to running studies. PhD students are encouraged to run their own
studies within the Lab to support their own learning and development and are fully supported by the
Lab team. So far over 850 studies have been conducted from a pool of over 17,000 participants.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society




We collaborate at the School within and across Subject Areas. In addition to making a contribution
to the research base via their impact on academia, the faculty also contribute to the economy and
society in various ways, including through their activities under RCIs. In the following sub-sections,
we describe the Subject Areas and RCIs in further detail. We also provide examples of prestigious
recognition the faculty has received in terms of editorships and awards, which in our view provides
complementary external evidence that they contribute to the research base, economy and society.

4.1 Subject areas
Subject areas are vibrant research hubs combining individual research excellence and powerful
collaborative enterprises. Varying in size, composition and maturity, they are consistently praised for
their academic standing in their field as well as talent development of junior faculty and PhD students.
Each subject area develops its own research activities locally which include external seminar series,
internal seminar series (including “Brown Bag” type events), early research workshops, and research
retreats.

A summary of the Subject Areas’ research breadth and impact is included below.

The Accounting subject area has a strong interest in the application of the knowledge it produces; it
is committed to making the findings of academic research in the field of accounting applicable,
accessible and insightful for managers and other policymakers. It aims to make a major contribution
to improving resource allocation decisions by improving the understanding of financial information in
capital markets for valuation and contracting purposes both via research and teaching.

Specific topics include: corporate disclosure policies; equity valuation of public and private firms;
assessment of the performance of private equity funds, bankruptcy prediction and credit analysis;
detecting earnings management through financial analysis; audit quality; mergers and acquisitions
and corporate restructurings; the role of accounting numbers in bond and credit default swap (CDS)
markets; collateralised loan obligations, the role of management, analysts and regulators in the
communication of information to capital markets; the effect of financial information on policy makers,
international financial reporting, economic consequences of transparency and politics of financial
markets.

These topics are those prioritised for publication in the top-tier accounting journals and around which
an annual Accounting Symposium is organised. The Symposium brings together leading accounting
scholars in an informal setting to discuss a small number of high-quality research papers.

The following Accounting faculty have received external grants during the reporting period. Tuna
received an ERC grant (2010-2015) entitled “Corporate Governance” worth €1,110,980 aiming to
expand the thinking of corporate governance to include the human element in the design of
mechanisms and contracts and Tahoun received seven grants from the Institute for New Economic
Thinking (2014-2020) equating to US$342,500.

Through research, teaching, and outreach the Economics subject area strives to help corporates,
governments, and society understand and adapt to the changing business and social environment.
The group’s research uses a blend of theory, applied theory and data analysis. Research areas
include networks, strategic behaviour, behavioural economics, monetary and fiscal policy,
international financial systems, technology, longevity, and digital markets.
                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Economics faculty is renowned for applying cutting-edge research to problems facing
businesses and governments. A few examples include Rey who introduced the concept of the global
financial cycle and analysed the effect of US monetary policy on the cycle (Case study: “Nowcasting
real-time estimates of GDP”). This work has generated in excess of 2300 academic cites and
affected the thinking of the Central Banking Community and of international institutions. Scott is a
world leader in the study of ageing and longevity. His book The 100-Year Life (with co-author
Gratton) has won numerous awards. Galeotti has recently published a paper in Econometrica on
network intervention while Stavrakeva has a recent paper on bank regulation and fiscal capacity in
the Review of Economic Studies. Finally, Reichlin has a forthcoming paper on the dynamics of
inflation in the Review of Economics and Statistics; and Benoît has a forthcoming paper on belief
elicitation when more than money matters in American Economic Journal: Microeconomics.

The following Economics faculty have received external grants during the reporting period. Surico
received two grants from the British Academy: a one-year Mid-Career Fellowship grant titled: “A new
empirical framework for studying the heterogenous effects of macroeconomic policies” of up to
£124,952 (2014) and a joint three-year Newton Advanced Fellowship Scheme grant in 2016 with
Corbi (University of São Paulo) worth £75,700 titled “Fiscal Policy and Labour Market Outcomes,
quasi experimental evidence from Brazil”. In addition, Surico received two ERC grants: research
grant of €957,089 (2015) to fund a three-year research programme on ‘Uncertainty, Risk and
Inequality: The Role of Macroeconomic Policies and Institutions’ leading to four peer reviewed
publications and two workshops and most recently (2018), a grant worth €1,135,940 titled ‘New
issues in the Analysis of Business Cycles’ which will inform the public debate on the design of future
monetary and macro-prudential policy interventions and three co-authored working papers
published. Previously, Surico received an ERC grant (2010-2014, €698,945) entitled
“Macroeconomic Dynamics with Heterogeneous Agents” with various co-authored publications
within the current assessment period. In addition, Rey was awarded an ERC grant (2016) worth
€1,830,866 for a four–year research programme on “International Finance and Monetary Policy”.
Rey published a paper on ‘Monetary Policy in the Capitals of Capital’ in 2017. Other grant awards
won by the Economics faculty include Stavrakeva’s Houblon-Norman Fellowship award (2018) worth
£17,989 by the Bank of England and Ozdenoren’s collaborative ERC award (2014) worth €57,006
entitled “Systemic Risk and Feedback to the Real Economy”. The host institution is LSE and the total
award was €698,938.

Papaioannou received a £331,039 grant from PEDL (joint initiative of CEPR and FCDO) in 2013/14,
to fund a project on “The effects of land mines on development and entrepreneurship: evidence from
Mozambique” leading to various publications. He has also received an EPSRC grant (2016) worth
£328,987 titled “A Clear Road Ahead- Developing a Combined Technological and Socio-Economic
Approach to Freeing Affected Communities from Anti-Vehicle Landmines” (lead institution King’s
College London) resulting in a dedicated website, multiple publications including a co-authored
working paper (2019) entitled “Land Mines an Spatial Development”. More recently, Papaioannou
was awarded a four-year ERC grant worth €1,555,679 (2018). Malherbe (LBS Economics faculty till
2018) was awarded a Leverhulme Trust grant worth £124,696 in 2014, for an international network
on “The international aspects of banking crises: theory and implication for banking regulation”.

The Finance subject area produces impactful, high quality research that spans areas from corporate
finance (including governance, mergers, executive compensation, bankruptcy and distress) and
asset pricing (including micro/macro finance, econometrics, capital markets, credit risk), to
household finance (including households and pensions), and financial entrepreneurship (including
innovation, small business). Finance faculty are regularly invited to present their research to fellow
academics, companies, industry groups, regulatory agencies and government departments. The
direct link to industry and practitioners has been made mainly through affiliated faculty, the AQR
AMI, the CCG, and Private Equity at LBS. Several Finance professors are or have served as
Academic Directors of a funded RCI.

The following Finance faculty have received external grants during the reporting period. Franks was
awarded a joint grant in 2016, worth £124,929, from the Norges Bank - under the Norwegian Finance

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Initiative Research Programme aiming to facilitate financial economic research of the highest
academic standard in areas of particular relevance for the long-term management of the government
Pension Fund Global (GPFG). This was a three-year investigation into engaged ownership. Results
from this research can be seen in a co-authored working paper Corporate Governance Through
Voice and Exit which has won the best paper award at Drexel University’s Corporate Governance
Conference (2019) and was presented at The American Finance Association (AFA) Meetings 2020.
Further research into government programmes can be seen in Kung who was part of the project
FRAME (Framework for the Analysis of Research and Adoption Activities and their Macroeconomic
Effects) in 2017. FRAME aims to develop a new generation of models, using new data sources and
methodologies. Researchers have published several policy papers since and held two conferences.
In 2016, Vig received an ERC grant worth €1,498,947 for a five-year research programme on
“Understanding the Complexity of Modern Financial Systems” with results published in six peer-
reviewed articles and two conference proceedings. Edmans received an ERC grant in 2015 worth
€899,105 to research Long-Term Investment and has since published three co-authored peer-
reviewed articles. Previously, Pavlova received an ERC grant (2010-2015, €925,910) entitled
“Institutional Frictions in International Finance and Asset Pricing” with results published on CEPR
(2012) and Journal of Finance (2016) while Hennessy received a €1,103,996 ERC grant (2011-2016)
entitled “Dynamic Structural Corporate Finance: Linking Theory and Empirical Testing” resulting in
several publications and a research conference (2015).

The Management Science and Operations subject area aims to create and disseminate knowledge
relevant to all operational and quantitative decision-making challenges faced by individuals and
organisations. The group’s output ranges from theoretical and methodology-driven to practice-based
research and is characterised by their core pursuit for rigour and practical relevance combined.
Within this broad mandate, the current composition and activities of the MSO faculty reflect its
particular expertise in the application areas of health-care, supply-chain management, pricing and
revenue management, energy, customer service systems, product design, innovation, the
finance/operations interface, digital platforms and low-income settings. MSO faculty’s
methodological expertise spans operations research, optimisation, stochastic modelling, algorithm
design and analysis, data science, econometrics and machine learning. Most MSO faculty members
expand several research approaches and application settings, which creates a positive environment
for cross-fertilisation of ideas across faculty in the MSO area as well as in other subject areas. MSO
PhD students have obtained numerous research awards including First Prize, Second Prize and
Honourable Mention in Manufacturing and Service Operations Management (MSOM) Student Paper
Competitions, Sir James Ball PhD Award, and Finalist of INFORMS Finance Best Student Paper
Competition.

MSO faculty members and their work have received substantial recognition as evidenced by
numerous recent meritorious service awards (Jain, Yang, Tezcan, DeMiguel, Savva, Gallien). They
have also published cutting-edge cross-disciplinary work in prestigious journals of other scholarly
fields such as New England Journal of Medicine and Nature Medicine (Ramdas), Review of Financial
Studies (DeMiguel), Journal of Financial Economics (Yang) and PLoS One (Gallien).

The following MSO faculty have received external grants during the reporting period. Ramdas (MSO)
has been awarded an IZA-Institute of Labor Economics grant in 2020, worth €24,550 for COVID-19
research in low-income countries. The research, focussed in India, Nigeria and Ghana, will
investigate how the coronavirus pandemic asymmetrically affects male and female time use, and
what business can do about it. This is part of the Gender, Growth and Labour Markets in Low Income
Countries (G²LM|LIC) Programme. Bunn (MSO) partnered with 11 other EU organisations in a
~€2.9M European Commission (EC) funded programme (2013-2016) for district-level energy
efficient infrastructure modelling (FASUDIR: Friendly and Affordable Sustainable Urban Districts
Refitting), together with a further €4.7M (2015-2018) from the EC for a follow-up project on the same
topic, and with four new enterprises in a £0.75M (total award) project funded by InnovateUK looking
at digital energy communities (“Community Energy Dynamic Solution with Blockchain” 2017-18). In
2017, the pilot Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) “System Transition
to Digital Energy” award was followed by a larger (£900,000) consortium award on “Aggregators as
digital Intermediaries in Local Electricity markets” EPSRC (2018-19). The findings of the NewTrend

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Project (New integrated methodology and Tools for Retrofit design towards a next generation of
ENergy efficient and sustainable buildings and districts) were disseminated widely through a
dedicated website, newsletters, booklets, training sessions, conferences as well as scientific
conference papers and articles published in peer reviewed journals.

Research in the Marketing subject area is in two main areas: consumer behaviour and quantitative
marketing. The Marketing faculty have international experts recognised by fellow academics and
practitioners. Their research is published in top journals in marketing and in basic disciplines, and
they are invited to give seminars to non-academic audiences. A sub-set of the Marketing faculty,
their key research themes, and their impact, is below: Berman (ethics, pro-social behaviour). One of
his papers (Bhattarcharjeeet al. 2013) was republished in the Journal of Consumer Research
“Morality and the Marketplace” Research Curation. Chandy (innovation, entrepreneurship) is the
Academic Director of the Wheeler Institute. He is the co-editor of the forthcoming special issues on
“Better Marketing for a Better World Doing” (Journal of Marketing) and on “Business and Climate
Change” (Management Science). Hardie’s research (customer and marketing analytics) was
implemented as a “Big Data & Machine Learning” solution provided by Google Cloud. As of 16 April
2020, one of his papers (McCarthy et al. 2017) was the 80th most downloaded paper in the previous
twelve months across all SSRN networks. Lambrecht (digital marketing) has two papers (Lambrecht
and Tucker 2019; Lambrecht et al. 2018) featured in The Economist and Newsweek and selected
for INFORMS press release. Lambrecht spoke at the US Federal Trade Commission on Competition
and Consumer Protection and at a conference on “Big Data and Competition Law” in Brussels for
policy makers and practitioners.

The following Marketing faculty have received external grants during the reporting period. Botti was
part of an EU grant (2010-2016) named “The CONsumer COmpetence Research Training”
(CONCORT) set out to train a new generation of consumer researchers (14 in total), with long
reaching impact on their academic careers, policy and business environments. Vilcassim (LBS
Marketing faculty till 2017) received a DFID-ESRC Growth Research Programme award titled:
“Complementing Managerial Capital with Business Information: A Field Experiment on International
Consulting for Entrepreneurs in Uganda” which has been transferred to LSE.

Research in the Organisational Behaviour subject area is guided by the vision of conducting world-
class research to develop a better understanding of human behaviour in organisational settings. To
do so, the group’s research agenda focuses on three levels of analysis: (i) On the micro level, the
investigation of the psychological principles that govern leadership, judgment, motivation, decision-
making, negotiation and creativity; (ii) On the meso level, conducting research with a focus on
teamwork, group dynamics, organisational culture and personal identity; and (iii) On the macro level,
examining the sociological, cultural and institutional factors that shape organisational structures and
systems, inter-organisational relationships and networks.

Across these three levels, the OB group has a complementary set of broad research interests,
ranging from the individual psychology of the self to the social dynamics of negotiation and influence
between dyads, to exploring how people’s perceptions influence individual and team outcomes, to
the effects of organizational and cultural factors on individual and organizational outcomes. Despite
this breadth, several shared themes characterise the research of the OB group. First, in terms of
methodology, most professors within the OB group combine multiple research methodologies,
ranging from lab experiments to field experiments and field survey research to qualitative methods.
Second, in terms of research topics, there are a number of unifying themes that intertwine the
research of individual researchers. One emerging theme is the role of gender in organisational
settings, with a particular focus on the psychological and organisational dynamics that contribute to
gender inequality in the workplace. This research spans a wide scope of topics ranging from more
micro level dynamics such as the expression and confrontation of gender bias (Rattan) to meso level
dynamics of social networks (Brands) and implicit bias (Kanze) as well as macro level phenomena
such as maternity/paternity practices and remote working (Sherman) and the gendered nature of
language (Kesebir). Another emerging theme revolves around the psychological dynamics of
judgment, decision-making and negotiation (Mussweiler, Pillutla), ranging from influences on
individual person perception and decision-making (Sivanathan) to influences of social context such

                                                                                              Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
as power (Inesi) or team composition (Peterson) to the complex social dynamics of negotiations and
auctions (Ku). A final guiding theme is that of leadership and organisational development, including
cultural dynamics (Choi), socialization (Cable), career patterns (Ibarra) and adaptation to change
through creativity (Manucci).

The faculty in Strategy and Entrepreneurship are committed to the scientific method to study
individuals, firms, and institutions and the various forms in which they organise themselves,
embracing strategic management, organisation theory, and entrepreneurship. They strive to make
their research findings applicable, accessible, and insightful for executives as well as policy makers.

Contrary to other strategy departments that have chosen a multi-disciplinary approach, the SE
faculty research interests recognise and reflect that strategy is an inter-disciplinary field. This
composition of the area is critical for their ability to successfully encourage recombination and cross-
validation of concepts. They value the identity of being one cohesive group. As the three subfields
of strategic management, organisation theory, and entrepreneurship are quite large, they wish to
attract and retain faculty who can talk across the boundaries of these subfields. In terms of research
topics, Innovation and Entrepreneurship, are long-standing areas of strength for the group
(Birkinshaw, Dushnitsky, Kacperczyk, Markides, Stroube), but the faculty members’ research
interests include a wide range of topics such as Corporate Strategy (Magelssen, Vermeulen),
Organisation Design (Ethiraj, Jacobides), Corporate Social Responsibility (Ioannou, Kacperczyk),
Stakeholder Theory, Economic Sociology, Human Capital (Fernandez-Mateo), Global Strategy
(Balachandran), Business Model Innovation (Markides), etc.

The group defines research impact broadly and encourages SE faculty to attain external visibility
among academic audiences via leadership roles in the academy, such as serving as editors at the
top journals. The SE group also appreciates faculty engagement with practitioner audiences through
means such as writing books (Birkinshaw, 2017), executive education, consulting, and policy
advising (Cohen-Mohliver, 2014).

The School received €801,926 in 2019 from the ERC to support Crilly (SE), in delivering on a
research programme, entitled “Metaphor as the Purpose of the Firm” - specifically, how does
language reflect and shape beliefs as to whether firms should tackle societal challenges, such as
inequality, resource scarcity, and climate change, rather than merely create economic value for
investors. In supporting the open access mandate, this project is also participating in the ERC Open
Research Data Pilot, which supports the open access of digital research data generated from funded
research. This project has been used to showcase our first data deposit in the School’s repository.


4.2 Research Centres and Institutes (RCIs)
Research collaboration in the School’s research community is amplified by the activities of the RCIs
which constitute dynamic and vibrant hubs for research, with a cross-disciplinary focus, and help the
School showcase research, provide an effective channel for outreach and impact on business
leaders, public policymakers and other researchers worldwide. Two to three senior faculty, with the
endorsement of their respective subject areas and colleagues, form collaborative partnerships
through the establishment of a new RCI. The number of RCIs is deliberately limited, reflecting the
size and aligning with the strategy of the School, and in 2014 there were four compared with five
currently at the time of writing this statement.

RCIs explore key global business issues and attract significant research funding from a variety of
sources including Research Councils, Charitable Foundations, companies such as AQR and
philanthropists.

RCIs are a further source of research funding for faculty and PhD students, typically in the range of
£10,000 to £12,000 per recipient. Furthermore, in supporting the business and management
discipline, we have been successful in winning competitive funding for the Wheeler Institute (2020)
from the Department for International Development (DFID, £182,753); a competitive tender for the
Leadership Institute (2020), funded by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC, £41,000); and

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
government funding (2019) under the UKRI Red Fund Scheme (over £2.5m), to fund the Newton
Programme by faculty in IIE. RCIs swiftly adapted to the challenges posed by the pandemic and
most events proceeded virtually with the benefit of broader participation. RCIs are monitored by the
Research Centre Review Committee (5a, p. 3).

Since the last assessment, the Centre for Corporate Governance (CCG) and the Institute of
Innovation and Entrepreneurship (IIE) have continued to deliver on their strategic aims, with early
conversation between IIE and Private Equity at LBS about a potential merger of the two beginning
prior to the census date, and subsequently approved by Management Board.

CCG’s mission is to use rigorous research to influence the practice of corporate governance, which
is a highly topical area, encompassing responsible business, executive pay, investor stewardship,
stakeholder decision rights, investor distributions (share buybacks and dividends), and ownership
models.

The centre achieves its mission through featuring empirical research, which uses large-scale data
to guide both the diagnosis and treatment of existing practices and theoretical research (researchers
create a model of a firm, industry or economy to analyse the impact of new practices - including pre-
implementation stage - similar to a city simulator); the website which provides a platform for
practitioners to access the highest quality research on corporate governance (including articles
written by leading practitioners grounded in evidence; “Insight” articles by academics; podcast
interviews with practitioners; and governance around the world (with links to global corporate
governance policies); and lastly, high-quality, invitation-only events and virtual conference such as
‘Responsible business in a time of crisis” (May 2020) where Edmans (Finance) and Tom Gosling
examined how responsible businesses should react to the COVID-19 crisis, collectively drawing on
academic research and practical experience in an event that drew more than 1,400 academics and
practitioners participants.

CCG is currently led by Edmans.

IIE focuses on entrepreneurs, innovators and the leaders who design the ecosystems in which they
thrive. It aims to inform entrepreneurial practice and ensure that government interventions aimed at
stimulating entrepreneurship are evidence based and effective.

The IIE’s journey highlights how RCIs are agile, dynamic and constantly adapting to emerging needs
and acquired learnings. In 2019 this institute, previously called the Deloitte Institute of Innovation
and Entrepreneurship, entered a new phase. With new funding, the IIE created a new venture capital
training programme focusing on those with non-traditional (e.g. tech) backgrounds and to position
the institute as a central contributor and hub for the London entrepreneurship ecosystem by building
relationships with London-based Schools. This latest development triggered the merging, in 2020,
with Private Equity at LBS, founded by Talmor (Accounting), led by Cornelli (Finance), and more
recently by Vasvari (Accounting). Given that entrepreneurs receive significant funding from the ever-
expanding ecosystem of private capital funds, a merger with the PE at LBS has been proposed and
IIE is to be renamed Institute of Entrepreneurship and Private Capital. This merger will create a
unique platform bringing together entrepreneurs with their capital providers.

The IIE achieves its aims through the following activities: research and case study development
(funding around 50 projects around £400k since 2014); conference and events (six events in 2019-
20, including the Pandemic Webinar: How not to waste a crisis: sources of entrepreneurial
opportunity and start-up financing – with Alemany and Merson (SE)); the Resilient Founders series
(drawing on the experiences of founders who have seen and survived sudden shocks that threatened
to sink their ventures); sponsoring and organising entrepreneurship thought-leadership series and
TEDx conferences; entrepreneurial ‘start-up journey’ (open to other Schools) which compliments the
current portfolio of entrepreneurship electives and takes aspiring entrepreneurs through all the
practical steps required to create a professional and scalable venture (e.g. funding, IP, tax, branding,
legal, accounting); and the Incubator Programme Cohort, in its 10th year in 2019/20. The latter
included 11 start-ups who benefited from 20 incubator-specific events throughout the course of the

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
year. Aside from dedicated office space on campus, they can leverage an extensive package from
a full range of pro-bono Supporters. The Supporters list has been extended over the last 12 months
with the addition of Xero, HubSpot and Hootsuite. To date, this programme has supported 114
companies, raising a collective total of £70 million, and fuelling the creation of more than 650 jobs.

 The IIE was led by Alemany and Birkinshaw (SE) as of the census date, and by Alemany, Franks
(Finance), and Vasvari (Accounting) after its merger with Private Equity at LBS.

Since 2014, the School has launched three new institutes which complement the existing portfolio:
AQR Asset Management Institute (AQR AMI), the Leadership Institute (LI) and the Wheeler Institute
for Business and Development (WIBD).

The AQR AMI was established with a £10million commitment from AQR Capital Management, a
global investment firm founded on rigorous research that drives new insight. AQR AMI aims to
establish the School as the world leader for asset management-related research, education and
recruitment, and a centre for thought leadership. Its mission is to convene world-class scholars who
share a common interest in asset management, to produce research that advances the field and is
of value to individuals, industry practitioners, policy makers and regulators, and to disseminate
insights.

The AQR AMI achieves its mission through supporting researchers in various ways including the
funding of a wide range of datasets (receiving over 20 subscription requests since 2015) and the
2018 launch of the pre-doctoral researchers (PDR) programme (so far receiving over 40 faculty bids
for research assistance hours); two annual flagship events (the Academic Symposium and the
Insight Summit); and lastly through awards which recognise future stars in asset management (the
Young Scholars Awards; the PhD Fellowship Awards; and the Master’s Degree Awards).

AQR AMI is currently led by Pavlova (Finance), Portes (Economics) and Schaefer (Finance).

The LI has been supported by five major alumni donors to the tune of £1.25million. The LI aims to
have a profound impact on the world through supporting the generation and application of path-
breaking research on leadership. Its mission is to raise the standard of best practice in global
leadership by driving leadership research into practice; creating a generation of leaders (who have
a global view, a strong sense of community, and who lead from their heart, as well as their head)
and becoming a globally recognised destination for leaders (providing research, teaching, and
leading-edge practice on issues relating to leading and leadership).

The LI is an interdisciplinary research, thought leadership, and collaboration knowledge hub. The LI
aspires to spend between one third and two thirds of its budget on Faculty research grants and
outreach activities.

The Institute’s research is disseminated through outreach activities involving the School’s expansive
business community as well as featuring in the wider press, on social media and at prestigious
business events. Examples include strategic research partnerships with professional and
membership bodies (the Next Generation NED Network and the Governance Institute - ICSA); high
profile events (three virtual events hosted by Peterson since the onset of the Pandemic featuring
guest speakers who are well-known figures in the NHS and global business communities); case
study development (“Leading a Multinational Team of Individuals”, ‘Clarasys: Born agile by taking
groups seriously’, “The Maestro: Marin Alsop - leading "under a huge magnifying glass’”); sharing
published research and insights with the School’s Alumni network of 44,000 business leaders;
collaboration on student-led activities (Board Fellows programme, Student Leadership Incubator and
Out in Business club); TED talks (“Do narcissists have a role in bettering organisations?”, Peterson,
TEDx London Business School, 17 July 2017 counting with 20.5K views on YouTube); and a podcast
series hosted by Peterson.

Commentary and research funded by the Institute is often featured in top academic publications,
business magazines and newspapers including Harvard Business Review, Sloan Management

                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Review, The Economist, The London Telegraph, Financial Times (“Paul McGinley Swaps the
Fairway for the LBS Classroom”, 8 May 2016), The London Times, Forbes and The New York Times.

The LI has also deployed creative methods to continue with a significant research commission
awarded to them in January of 2020, exploring the theme of Board Dynamics with Chairs and board
members of FTSE organisations.

The LI is currently led by Peterson (OB) and Tavassoli (Marketing).


The WIBD was created to research and amplify the role of business in tackling some of the hardest
challenges in social and economic development. It is named for Tony (MSc05) and Maureen
Wheeler whose £10 million commitment has powered the work of this institute. There have also been
several smaller gifts. The Wheeler institute aims to improve lives through identifying what needs to
change; identifying, linking and applying relevant business research and expertise; and through
accelerating the adoption and scaling of solutions.

The institute facilitates collaboration between local communities, business, policy makers, and
researchers in identifying and promoting solutions. In line with its vision, the Institute aims to create
positive change through three mutually reinforcing activities that address these challenges: (i)
Conducting Rigorous Research such as, part-funded, publication Anderson, Rajesh and Zia (2018)
Pathways to Profit. The Impact of Marketing Versus Finance Skills on Business Performance,
Management Science; (ii) Forging Communities of Practice: Develop frameworks for collaboration
that promote systemic change and progress (two-day conference: Academic Day and Policy Day:
Business and Fragile States combining insights from academia, policy institutions and business to
better understand the challenges of fragile states and how business can contribute to address them,
November 2018); (iii) Shaping business education: informing and influencing learning so that the
business leaders of tomorrow are long term agents of positive change.

In support of its aims, the Institute has initiated collaborations with policy making, social sector, and
commercial entities in the development space who share its focus on business and development.
Examples include: FCDO (Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office), formerly DFID on the
factors driving the scale up of digital innovations for development; CDC Group, the UK’s
development finance institution, on private sector leaders’ perceptions of business climate and
“business for good” in Uganda, Zambia, Tanzania, Ethiopia and the Democratic Republic of Congo;
the Medicines Company and the University of Zambia on supply chain challenges in low-resource
settings; measuring the impact of COVID-19 on rural Indian households and livelihoods (in
collaboration with the BMW Foundation, EY, Shell Foundation, Unilever and Dharma Life); and
Dharma Life Labs: A rural innovation lab with a focus on driving inclusive progress. A collaboration
between Dharma Life, the Institute and Siriti, the Lab leverages local relationships, digital
connectedness and real-time insights to drive impact at scale.

The WIBD is currently led by Chandy (Marketing) and Papaioannou (Economics).

In addition to the RCIs discussed above, faculty have rich research networks within the School as
well as outside. The list below provides some examples of the regular and fruitful collaborations
across subject areas within the School and the recognition they have received:

   •   “Leaning Out: How Negative Recruitment Experiences Shape Women’s Decisions to
       Compete for Executive Roles” by Brands (OB) and Fernandez-Mateo (SE), published in
       Administrative Science Quarterly in 2016, winning four awards namely, the 2018 Best
       Published Paper Award, Academy of Management, Organization & Management Theory
       Division; the 2018 Outstanding Publication Award, Academy of Management, Organizational
       Behavior Division; the 2020 Sucheta Nadkarni Award for Outstanding Publication on Women
       Executive Leadership, Strategic Management Society; and the 2020 W. Richard Scott Award
       for Distinguished Scholarship, American Sociological Association, Organizations,
       Occupations and Work Division.

                                                                                                Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   "The 100-year life: living and working in an age of longevity" by Gratton (OB) and Scott
       (Economics) published in 2016, which was the winner of Knowsquare Business Book of the
       Year Award, in Spain (2017) and shortlisted for the FT and McKinsey Business Book of the
       Year Award in 2016. It was also the runner up Japanese Business Book of the Year 2017.
       Scott was invited to deliver a keynote as part of the UN celebration of the International Day
       of Older People in October 2019. Gratton and Scott continued to collaborate, and a second
       book, “The New Long Life, a manifesto for better later years”, was published in 2020.
   •   "The Corporate Implications of Longer Lives", by Gratton (OB) and Scott (Economics),
       published in MIT Sloan Management Review, which won the 2018 Richard Beckhard
       Memorial Prize as it was regarded as the most outstanding MIT Sloan Management Review
       article in 2016-17.
   •   “Stop doubling down on your failing strategy: how to spot (and escape) one before it's too
       late” by Vermeulen (SE) and Sivanathan (OB) published in Harvard Business Review (2017).


Faculty have rich research networks outside the School which foster research collaboration and
dissemination as evidenced by their prolific publications with international co-authors. In addition to
attending and presenting and/or discussing papers at various conferences in their field on a regular
basis, faculty also have access to opportunities created via the vibrant external seminar series,
funded by the School, where distinguished speakers from around the world present their work and
form associations with the School’s faculty. In addition, faculty also organise conferences which
attract leading scholars to London Business School. Since 2014, faculty have organised more than
76 conferences, where Accounting Symposium, now in its 18th year, and the Sumantra Ghoshal
Strategy Conference, in its 13th year, organised by the Accounting and Strategy and
Entrepreneurship subject areas respectively, are two well-established examples.

The School encourages and sponsors subject areas to host distinguished academics as visiting
faculty on a regular basis. In the past six years 35 professors visited the School resulting in the hiring
of Ibarra (INSEAD, 2017) in the OB subject area. In 2014, Rattan (OB) supported the appointment
of Jampol as a visiting academic as part of the School hosting a Newton International Fellowship
(awarded to Jampol) worth £63,333 for a project titled “White Lies in the Workplace: Consequences
for Women & Practical Interventions”.

Many of our faculty across all three ranks (assistant, associate, and full professors) serve as
members of editorial boards at numerous top tier academic journals in their fields. Having been
recognised as leaders in their respective fields, many of our faculty have served as editors at some
of these top academic journals, which is a testament to their standing in academia. The list below
provides some examples that the School considers to be among the most prestigious (mainly A
journals), in alphabetical order of the journal:

   •   Management Science (Fernandez-Mateo)
   •   Manufacturing and Service Operations Management (Gallien, Ramdas)
   •   Organization Science (Dushnitsky)
   •   Review of Accounting Studies (Richardson, Shivakumar)
   •   Strategic Management Journal (Ethiraj)
   •   The Accounting Review (Shivakumar, Tuna, Vasvari)
   •   The Review of Economic Studies (Galeotti)
   •   The Review of Finance (Edmans)

In addition, the list below provides some examples from the prestigious academic journals where our
faculty have served as associate editors (or in similar roles) mainly at A and Q journals:

   •   Econometrica (Galeotti, Papaioannou)
   •   Economic Journal (Papaioannou, Scott)
   •   Journal of Accounting Research (Tahoun)

                                                                                                 Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Journal of Economic Theory (Myatt)
   •   Journal of Financial Economics (Edmans)
   •   Journal of the European Economic Association (Papaioannou, Surico)
   •   Journal of Consumer Psychology (Botti)
   •   Journal of Marketing (Botti)
   •   Management Science (Chandy, Gallien, Kacperczyk, Ramdas, Savva)
   •   Manufacturing and Service Operations Management (Savva, Yang)
   •   Marketing Science (Lambrecht)
   •   Operations Research (Gallien, Tezcan)
   •   Organization Behavior and Human Decision Processes (Pillutla)
   •   Organization Science (Kacperczyk)
   •   Production and Operations Management (Savva)
   •   RAND Journal of Economics (Myatt)
   •   The Review of Economic Studies (Papaioannou)
   •   The Review of Financial Studies (Pavlova)
   •   Strategic Management Journal (Crilly, Ioannou)


A number of faculty are Fellows of the British Academy, (Birkinshaw, Chandy, Ibarra, Portes and Rey),
Fellow of the Academy of Social Scientists (Birkinshaw), Fellow of the Academy of International Business
(Birkinshaw), Fellow of the German National Academy of Sciences Leopoldina (Mussweiler), and Fellows
of the Econometric Society (Benoît and Reichlin), which acknowledge the distinction of their scholarship.

Our faculty regularly receive a variety of awards and recognition for their research and service to
academia, some examples of which are listed below:

   •   Academy of Management Best Entrepreneurship Paper Award (Kacperczyk, 2018, 2019)
   •   Distinguished Scholar-Practitioner Award from the Academy of Management (Ibarra, 2018)
   •   Elected Council member and executive committee, Econometric Society (Rey, 2019)
   •   Elected foreign correspondent of the Académie des Sciences Morales et Politiques (Rey,
       2018)
   •   Elected Foreign Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (Rey, 2016)
   •   Foreign Honorary Member of the American Economic Association (Rey, since 2020).
   •   Inaugural Carl Menger Preis, Austrian, German, Swiss National Banks and German
       Economic Association (Rey, 2014)
   •   INFORMS Pierskalla Best Paper Award (Pauphilet, 2020)
   •   Journal of Accounting Research Best Referee Award (Tahoun, 2016)
   •   Mahajan Award for Lifetime Contributions to Marketing Strategy Research (Chandy, 2018)
   •   Norman Humboldt Fellowship, Bank of England (Stavrakeva, 2018)
   •   President of the Manufacturing and Service Operations Management (MSOM) Society
       (Ramdas, since 2019)
   •   Marketing Science Institute Scholar (Botti, 2018)
   •   Marketing Science Institute Young Research Scholar (Berman, 2019)
   •   Member of the Group Thirty (Rey, since 2019)
   •   MSOM iFORMS SIG Best Paper Award (Yang, 2020)
   •   O.B.E., for services to Economics (Rey, 2016)
   •   Paul E. Green Award, Journal of Marketing Research (Lambrecht, 2014)
   •   The Prix de la Fondation Édouard Bonnefous de l'Institut de France, Académie des Sciences
       Morales et Politiques (Rey, 2015)
   •   The Prix Maurice Allais de Science Economique (Rey, 2017)
   •   The Prix Turgot (Grand prix d’honneur) (Rey, 2020)
   •   The Robert Ferber Award, Journal of Consumer Research (Botti and Faro, 2014)


                                                                                                Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Treynor Prize: Institute for Quantitative Research in Finance Award (‘Q-Group’), (Schaefer,
       2016)
   •   William F. O’Dell Award, Journal of Marketing Research (Lambrecht, 2018)
   •   Young Scholar Award, Society of Personality and Social Psychology (Rattan, 2019)


As an instrumental channel through which they contribute to the economy and society, faculty also
engage with businesses, policymakers, and regulators in various ways. Some examples are listed
below:

   •   Chair of the Bank of England Houblon-Norman-George Committee (Scott, since 2014)
   •   Chairman of the UK Government’s panel for the capacity market (Bunn)
   •   Council member of the World Economic Forum – Health Aging and Longevity (Scott)
   •   Honorary Appointee of Guy and St Thomas’ NHS Trust (Savva)
   •   Member of the Advisory panel of the Office for Budget Responsibility (Scott, since 2010)
   •   Part of the Cabinet Office Honours Committee (Science & Technology) (Scott, since 2017)
   •   Special Advisor to House of Commons Select Committee (Bunn)
   •   US Federal Trade Commission hearings on Competition and Consumer Protection in the 21st
       Century testimony (Lambrecht, 2018)

In total, in 2018-2019 faculty have delivered 903 days of consulting to a wide range of clients.

Some of our faculty have also been recognised for their influence on management thinking and have
been included in the Thinkers50 Global ranking, which lists the top 50 management thinkers every
two years. In alphabetical order, Birkinshaw, Gratton and Ibarra have featured in the rankings since
2013 and Jacobides has recently joined them in 2019.




                                                                                                   Page 22
