Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 0B   Institution: University of Aberdeen


 1B   Unit of Assessment: UoA 5: Biological Sciences


 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1A. UNIT STRUCTURE

 This submission brings together a select group of 17 researchers (total FTE = 16.5) from the
 Schools of Biological Sciences (SBS) and Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition (SMMSN)
 at the University of Aberdeen with common interests and internationally recognised expertise in
 aspects of systems-wide integrative physiology.


 The School of Biological Sciences (SBS) has a broad research portfolio that incorporates
 theoretical, empirical and experimental studies that span from gene to global scales on animals,
 plants and microbes with a cross-cutting theme of understanding the biological consequences of
 environmental change. For UoA5, researchers are drawn from the Integrative Physiology
 research cluster, which emphasises the integrative processes and functions of organisms at all
 levels of structural complexity from gene to whole organism. The key research groupings include
 internationally recognised research on the causes and consequences of variation in animal
 energy expenditure (Bize, Derous, Mitchell, Speakman), fish immunology and physiology
 (Holland, Martin, Secombes, Wang), physiological and immunological interrelationships
 between parasites, pathogens and hosts (Bowman, Sternberg), the behavioural and
 evolutionary consequences of varying nutrition for individuals, populations and species
 (Morimoto) and comparative genomics of functional, behavioural and phenotypic variation
 (Manfredini, Wenzel).


 The School of Medicine, Medical Sciences and Nutrition (SMMSN) is comprised of multiple
 research Institutes with cross-cutting research programmes. For UoA5, researchers are drawn
 from the Institute of Medical Sciences’ Infection and Immunity Programme, with specific focus on
 using systems biology approaches to understand the molecular mechanisms underpinning gene
 expression, RNA modification and protein synthesis in eukaryotic cells (Stansfield), post-
 transcriptional control mechanisms and spliced leader trans-splicing in C. elegans and other
 parasitic nematodes (Connolly, Pettit), molecular processes in oomycete pathogens (van
 West) and host-pathogen proteome interactions (Stead).


 Across SBS and SMMSN there are several areas of major research synergy and cross-School
 collaborations which have been developed through joint research grants, partnership within the
 BBSRC-funded EastBio and NERC-funded QUADRAT and SUPER Doctoral Training
 Partnerships (DTPs) and interactions mediated through national Research Pooling initiatives
 including the Scottish Alliance for Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA) and
 Marine Alliance for Science & Technology for Scotland (MASTS). These have helped shape
 areas of clear research strength where we enjoy international profile for leading-edge science
 that is translated into applied impact. The submission includes world leaders in animal
 energetics research and fish immunology and fish health.


 Our Animal Energetics grouping is at the forefront of research on animal energy balance.
 Animal energetics is spearheaded by Professor John Speakman FRS and has expanded
 through the REF period with the strategic recruitment of Bize, Derous, Mitchell and Morimoto.
 Their work spans from ecological studies of the role of energy balance in free-living animals, to
 studies of the drivers of body weight regulation, and the phenomenon of calorie restriction. They
 operate the largest lab facility in the world for the study of free-living energy demands using the
 doubly-labelled water method, which Speakman developed, and are the international partner of
                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 choice for such investigations; almost half of all such studies in mammals have been performed
 in association with this lab. A characteristic feature of the work of the group is to generate
 paradigm changing ideas about energy balance and its consequences across multiple fields.
 These include the heat dissipation limit theory pertaining to limits on metabolic performance, the
 “drifty gene” hypothesis regarding body weight regulation and the “clean cupboards” hypothesis
 regarding calorie restrictions effects on lifespan. The reach and significance of Speakman’s
 research has been recognised by him being one of only 28 scientists in the world to be
 simultaneously a Fellow of the Royal Society (elected 2018), the US National Academy of
 Sciences (elected 2020) and the Chinese National Academy (elected 2019).


 There has been strategic investment in staffing around Speakman to both extend and expand
 the scope of animal energetics work: Bize dovetails the role of mitochondrial function and
 oxidative stress in metabolism and energetics in wild living birds and mammals; Derous works
 at the nexus between metabolism, environmental stress and health to identify novel health
 markers in marine mammals in applied veterinary contexts; Mitchell focusses on the
 relationships between energy expenditure, obesity and health in mice; and Morimoto examines
 the eco-ethological and evolutionary consequences of varying nutrition among individuals.


 Our Fish Immunology and Fish Health research grouping, centred on the Scottish Fish
 Immunology Research Centre (www.abdn.ac.uk/sfirc) (directed by Martin) and the International
 Centre for Aquaculture Research and Development (www.abdn.ac.uk/icard) (directed by Van
 West) delivers leading-edge research on fish immunology in relation to fish health, vaccine
 research, physiology and immune system evolution. This work has contributed directly to both
 fundamental knowledge and applications that have positively impacted the aquaculture industry.


 The group has pioneered studies on the molecular basis of fish immune responses (Secombes,
 Martin, Holland, Wang) and are recognised as the world leader for cytokine discovery and
 function, which continues now with functional annotations of the whole genomes available for
 multiple fish species using RNA-seq, ATAC-seq and ChiP-Seq following immune challenge. Key
 advances have been made in lymphocyte and leukocyte differentiation, which is central to
 vaccine efficacy and immunological memory. Highlights include the demonstration of IL12 as a
 central molecule for induction of immunological memory and IL22 as a potential marker for
 protective responses at mucosal surfaces (Wang). This knowledge gained mainly in salmonids
 is being transferred to other farmed fish species through our international links. The group has
 been the first globally to develop a gene knockdown platform for salmonid cell lines for
 investigation of antiviral signalling using crispr/cas9 approaches, leading to novel insights of
 regulatory mechanisms in species with a recent whole genome duplication. Research on the
 relationship between fish nutrition and systemic immune function is another core research area
 (Martin, Secombes, Wang) with novel hypothesis being tested around nutritional programming
 and early intestinal immune tolerance. Applied areas for health-related research include the
 impact on mucosal health, microbiota communities and post-smolt performance in the marine
 environment. To facilitate much of the basic research, state-of-the-art aquarium facilities within
 the zoology building contain recirculating freshwater and saltwater systems, additionally there is
 a pathogen challenge room where both vaccine trials and disease challenges are carried out.


 Van West leads the largest research lab globally studying fish pathogenic oomycetes. A major
 research focus is to investigate the infection processes of oomycetes of farmed fish and
 shellfish, develop new ways of reducing the impact of these diseases (see impact case study)
 and novel immersion-based vaccination strategies of farmed fish. In 2015 the International
 Centre for Aquaculture Research and Development (ICARD) was strategically established
 (directed by van West) to provide a hub to facilitate interaction with the aquaculture industry.
 ICARD includes 25 PIs from a range of disciplines across the University including biology,
 medicine, economics, social science and engineering to provide a unique “farm to fork”


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 interdisciplinary approach to identify research questions, develop collaborations and execute
 research in farmed fish health, disease and nutrition.


 1B. RESEARCH STRATEGY


 Research activity and strategy within SBS and SMMSN Institutes is overseen by dedicated
 research committees comprising Directors of Research, the Heads of School, and research
 active staff at different stages of career including ECRs. These respective research committees
 meet regularly for information exchange, horizon scanning activities, and peer review grant
 applications and papers. There is an emphasis for promoting collaboration and innovative
 research ideas by distribution of discretionary research funds to pump prime emerging
 opportunities. Both the School Directors of Research sit on the University Research Policy
 Committee chaired by the University Vice Principal for Research, which is a crucial conduit for
 inputting into the institutional research vision and overseeing research governance and ethics
 procedures (section 3D).


 Research Strategy REF2014 – REF2021


 For REF2014, the University made a broad submission to UoA5 that included 89 FTE from three
 major research institutes with research centred around whole-organismal biology, medical
 sciences and nutrition respectively. 83% of our overall research activity and profile, 100% of our
 impact portfolio and 100% of our research environment was considered world leading or
 internationally excellent (4*/3*). Since 2014, the University has undergone major organisational
 and strategic restructuring with the previous College structure being replaced by an organisation
 structure at the level of individual Schools. This has enabled significant realignment of research
 focus to reflect the interdisciplinary research pillars central to the University’s 20-year strategic
 plan (abdn.ac.uk/2040/) and around which major research investment and teaching and learning
 activity will be built. Reflecting this, for REF2021, the University made the strategic decision to
 focus our UoA5 submission around research excellence in integrative physiology, and move
 researchers previously submitted to REF2014 UoA5 with emphasis on clinical biomedical
 science into REF2021 UoA1 and others with environmental sciences profile to UoA7. This has
 allowed for more concerted and engineered delivery of the stated objectives for UoA5 from
 REF2014:


 1) Integration of ‘omics technologies: The Unit has traditional strength in using transcriptomic,
 proteomic and genomics-based approaches to characterise the immunogenome and immune
 response (Bowman, Holland, Martin, Secombes, Speakman, van West), understand the
 mechanics of mRNA processing in pathogenic and other nematodes (Connolly, Pettitt,
 Stansfield), identify responses of organisms to parasites and pathogens (Bowman, Holland,
 Sternberg) and monitoring physiological responses to varying calorific intake and energy
 expenditure (Mitchell, Speakman, Bize). This critical mass has been extended by the targeted
 recruitment of new staff into the Unit who also bring new expertise in the use of multi ‘omics
 approaches and bioinformatic analyses in the context of nutritional intake (Derous), social
 behaviour (Manfredini) and genotype-phenotypic interaction (Wenzel).


 The Unit’s capacity for developing and exploiting ‘omics approaches has been further enabled
 by continued investment in the University’s Centre for Genome Enabled Biology and Medicine
 (www.abdn.ac.uk/genomics). This offers the research infrastructure and bioinformatics support
 to facilitate leading edge research across a broad taxonomic range of animal, plant and
 microbial systems. There has been targeted investment around emerging single cell genomic
 and transcriptomic analyses and third generation DNA sequencing technologies to ensure that
 the latest approaches for leveraging ‘omics data are available. In parallel, there has been

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 focussed investment in the University Proteomics facility (led by Stead). To maximize the use of
 ‘omics technology and ensure staff obtain maximum benefit from facilities, regular workshops
 and technology roadshows are run to provide upskilling opportunities and training for staff.
 Pump-priming financial support for researchers to kick-start genomic analysis is available and
 has been used by Unit staff to generate whole genome sequences and other genomic resources
 that underpin subsequent larger grant applications (e.g. Wenzel’s work supported by BBRSC on
 the genomics of enigmatic slime moulds).


 2) Bioinformatic, quantitative and modelling capacity: the unit recognises that the rate at which
 ‘omics data can be generated is far greater than the capacity to analyse it to leverage
 biologically meaningful insight. As such, the unit has invested to enhance our bioinformatic and
 analytical capability. We strategically recruited bioinformaticians during the REF period
 (Manfredini and Wenzel) with focus on expertise that encompasses both model- and non-model
 species systems and experience of dovetailing bioinformatics with statistics and complex
 predictive models. Moreover, there has been a major upgrade our high-performance computing
 capacity (see section 3C) and staff training opportunities to underpin the move towards big data
 analytics.


 Research Strategy REF2021 ONWARDS


 The research strategy is centred on enhancing research grant income, research student
 numbers, publication citations, facilities and partnerships and international collaboration. There
 are several cross-cutting objectives that underpin our strategic research moving forward:

 1) Interdisciplinarity: The University’s new 20-year strategic plan (www.abdn.ac.uk/2040)
 identifies challenge-led, interdisciplinary research as central to our ambition. Both fundamental
 discovery research and pathways to impact demand interdisciplinary solutions that will emerge
 from broad collaborations, increasingly with the dovetailing of social science perspectives. This
 activity will gain added impetus through the University-prioritised Health, Nutrition & Wellbeing,
 Data & Artificial Intelligence and Environment & Biodiversity interdisciplinary themes, which will
 provide a springboard through which different disciplines can integrate to magnify their impact
 and generate new synergies. In the context of UoA5, these themes provide a nexus for
 combining food security, aquaculture, obesity, genomics and disease mitigation aspects of our
 research portfolio.


 2) Translational research and pathways to impact: The Unit enjoys close interrelationships with a
 range of government, industry and other stake-holder groups through which we identify research
 needs, forge collaboration, translate our research and leverage influence and impact. Our
 strategy is to consolidate existing partnerships and exploit new collaborative opportunities. This
 is being mediated through initiatives such as ICARD that provides an interface between the
 aquaculture industry and university academics. This momentum will be further enhanced
 through the University interdisciplinary themes which offer a vehicle for dialogue between
 science and end-users to identify and address relevant questions, and translate science to
 deliver real economic and societal impact. We will also develop closer links through our existing
 DTP collaborations and interactions, using student training and placement as a conduit to closer
 research links.


 3) Capacity building: We will continue to place people at the heart of our strategy, ensuring that
 our newly appointed staff have the support to build collaborative networks, focus their research
 around leading edge questions linked to societally relevant issues, secure research funding and
 effectively translate research to impact. We will look to build on our existing DTP and EU ITN
 networks to forge new collaborations to provide more critical mass around key research


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 challenges. We will also continue our tradition of attracting and supporting independent research
 fellows who align with existing research strengths and where we can develop careers.


 4) Robust, reproducible and open research: The Unit’s research and impact strategies are
 directed to all aspects of research integrity and governance, transparent, robust and
 reproducible research practice and open data and publication. This enables the delivery of the
 highest quality research, maximises dissemination of research findings to facilitate both
 academic and non-academic impact, and leverages future collaboration and interaction. We will
 continue to ensure that all our research practice conforms to the policies and practices laid down
 in the University’s Research Governance Framework that itself complies with Universities UK
 Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the UK Research Integrity Office Code of Practice
 (section 3D).


 1C. IMPACT STRATEGY


 Translating research excellence into non-academic impact is central to the Unit’s research
 strategy. The two impact case studies within this submission exemplify the type of translational
 research activity undertaken and illustrate the Unit’s impact strategy in practice. These, however,
 represent only a portion of our activity that is benefitting the awareness, attitude, behaviour,
 policy, process and understanding of various end-user groups, from local community to
 government and industry.


 Other examples of ongoing research that is having positive impacts across a range of REF-
 defined areas, but are not yet fully realised for a formal impact case study include:


 Martin’s research developing functional fish feeds used by the aquaculture industry. These are
 more sustainable than traditional fish feeds based on marine sourced protein and exploit
 alternative raw materials. These diets are also designed to improve fish health via nutrition and
 enhanced immune function, improving robustness of the fish at critical life history stages.
 Working with industrial multinational feed manufacturer partners (e.g. Alltech, BioMar, Skretting,
 Cargill, Mowi) functional feeds have been developed for reduced sea lice burden, recovery
 following viral infection, improved antiviral responses and enhanced immunological memory for
 vaccines. Ongoing research is focussing on the emerging theory of nutritional programming and
 how first feeding diets can impact growth efficiency during later life.


 Bowman’s work on honey-bee health focuses on control strategies for the main global pest of
 the bees and cause of colony collapse, the Varroa destructor mite and the associated deformed
 wing virus. Research involves parallel strands that include: 1) gene knockdowns to identify
 druggable targets in varroa. One target (Target-VX) that now underpins patent applications
 (WO2015001336A2 & WO2016110691A1) is susceptible to repurposed human pharmaceuticals
 causing >95% varroa mortality within two days but is benign to bees. Further, a low cost health
 food supplement kills varroa via Target-VX that is safe for humans, bees and the environment so
 is a stand-out treatment for the beekeeping community; 2) specific volatile kairomone (“smell”)
 profiles from bee larvae are required to induce varroa egg laying and that these can be artificially
 manipulated in hives to induce inappropriate varroa egg production. This innovative intervention
 is now being used in bee breeding programmes across multiple countries.


 Sternberg’s research on protozoal disease and vector exposure immunodiagnostics has led to
 translational validation studies of novel rapid diagnostic tests for Human African
 Trypanosomiasis (HAT). The work carried out with the Foundation for Innovative New
 Diagnostics demonstrated the sensitivity and specificity of the “SD Bioline HAT” rapid test
 (https://www.finddx.org/pricing/sd-bioline-hat/) that is now being used as a first line diagnostic
 screen in West Africa. Following similar immunodiagostic approaches to vector challenge as
                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 public and animal health surveillance tools in the control of South American trypanosomiasis
 (Chagas disease).


 Our strategy to maximise impact is structured around the following routes:


 1) Maintaining and enhancing our high-quality research portfolio addressing key societal issues
 and industry needs: Our long-term interactions with a range of non-academic partners ensures
 that our research activity aligns with industry needs, and recursive interaction is enabled through
 research interactions mediated through initiatives such as ICARD. In 2019, a major University-
 wide research mapping exercise used machine-learning approaches to align all the University
 research outputs within the REF period to UN Sustainable Development Goals to broker inter-,
 multi- and transdisciplinary collaboration that were previously refractory. This is being used to
 coordinate researchers across disciplines and provide horizon-scanning capability for emerging
 research opportunities that ensures that research emphasis is underpinned by societal need.
 This activity is helping consolidate the “farm-to-fork” multidisciplinary research approach of
 ICARD by identifying new collaboration with social scientists and law.


 2) Researcher training: Impact training is embedded in staff development programmes for
 researchers at all levels. A Researcher Development Unit provides tailored training for staff on
 how to consider and deliver impact from development through execution of a project. It provides
 workshops and networking opportunities across disciplines with focus on knowledge exchange,
 communicating research to the public, interacting with end-users, entrepreneurship and research
 commercialisation.


 3) Engagement with stake-holder and decision making groups: The Unit recognises that impact
 is maximised through effective and recursive interaction with key end-user groups. This ensures
 that the research being undertaken is relevant to address stake-holder needs, and that Unit staff
 are positioned to influence research priorities and future research agendas. In many cases our
 relationships with end-users are based upon successful, long-term interactions. Strategic
 initiatives such as SFIRC/ICARD have been established to maximise communication, where
 research has industry links. We ensure relationships are maintained by inclusion of end-users in
 student supervision and as collaborators on research grants, by researcher and student
 placement in end-user organisations, and by funding research showcasing events, meet-and-
 greet sessions and workshops relevant to policy makers and practitioners. We support staff to
 participate in Boards, Committee and Advisory Groups where there are clear opportunities for
 end-user engagement and to leverage impact (see section 4).


 4) Knowledge exchange and public engagement: The unit is supported by: (i) a Public
 Engagement in Research Unit (PERU) which has a remit to promote and implement an active
 researcher-led public engagement programme. Unit staff exploit local, national and international
 opportunities to disseminate results and impact. Our efforts in this area have been recognised
 through awards to staff such as Pettitt’s Genetics Society JBS Haldane Prize Lecture award
 (2020), which “recognises an individual for outstanding ability to communicate topical subjects in
 genetics research, widely interpreted, to an interested lay audience”; (ii) A dedicated Knowledge
 Exchange and Transfer Fund to promote impact and KE and pump-prime projects that enhance
 relationships with industry, public or third sector partners. Unit staff have benefitted from
 >GBP20K support from this fund which has helped develop two patents (to van West and
 Stansfield) and nine disclosures (including Bowman, Dooley, van West, Pettitt, Secombes
 and Wang) (iii) a dedicated Communications Team (CT) which forms the critical link between
 researchers and the public through local, national, specialist and international media. The CT
 issues ~ 400 press releases a year, in addition to regularly placing stories with key media, and
 identifying researchers for expert comment. Key examples where the CT has enabled worldwide
 exposure for high impact research include Bowman’s work on the effects of varroa destructor

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 mites for vectoring deformed wing virus in honeybees and subsequent colony collapse. This
 research has featured in over 40 popular science and newspaper articles, six television
 interviews, nine radio interviews and a significant social media footprint.


 5) Exploitation of commercialisation potential: The Unit is supported by a Research and
 Innovation (R&I) team (www.abdn.ac.uk/business-info/research-innovation/) of business
 development and commercialisation professionals who help translate research excellence into
 commercial application and knowledge transfer activities. There are dedicated R&I staff in
 Schools to ensure the most appropriate routes to impact are identified and exploited. They help
 develop a researcher’s Pathways to Impact plans and provide administrative and logistical
 support to ensure its implementation, which includes protection of intellectual property, patent
 application and spin-out companies. As examples, R&I supported all aspects of translational
 aspects of Bowman’s research on the control Varroa mite infestation in bees that has led to two
 patents being filed (WO2015001336A2 and WO2016110691A1). R&I also coordinated the
 commercialisation of Secombes’s fish immunology research through the spin-out of Vertebrate
 Antibodies Ltd (VAL) that develops antibodies, recombinant proteins and AI approaches for
 epitope targeting to key protein targets for use in immunoassays.


 Section 2. People
 2A. STAFFING STRATEGY AND STAFF DEVELOPMENT
 The REF period has seen focussed appointment of staff that are aligned with research priorities
 and strategy (section 1). Our recruitment policy has been to target early career researchers on
 an upward trajectory towards becoming future research group leaders. This is coupled with a
 strong commitment to the development, training and mentoring of researchers at every stage of
 their career. Underpinning all this is ensuring we nurture and maintain an environment that
 promotes opportunity, equality, diversity and inclusion.


 SBS has recently undergone a major recruitment campaign involving six new lectureship
 positions, and eight Academic Fellowship positions. Two are directly aligned with UoA5 research
 strengths, including lectureships in fish immunology (Holland) and functional genomics
 (Manfredini). Our Academic Fellowship initiative is to support early career postdoctoral
 researchers transition into faculty positions aligned with current research strengths. These
 positions mirror research fellowship schemes offered by UKRI, providing the support yet
 academic freedom for the Fellows to undertake independent research and develop their own
 research groups, with proleptic appointment onto academic staff. Submitted to this Unit are
 Derous, Morimoto and Wenzel.


 All new academic staff prepare a three-year plan of objectives with an assigned mentor, which is
 reviewed annually and forms part of a 36-month probation. Staff identify training needs from the
 outset, and these are filled through the course of probation. New staff are given lighter teaching
 and administration loads to allow them to establish their research groups. They are also
 provided with dedicated laboratory space and start-up funds to pump-prime applications and
 develop research networks. All new start staff are prioritised for a PhD student within their first
 year via one of our DTP or directed studentship schemes.


 All staff have an assigned Academic Line Manager (ALM) who coordinates an annual appraisal.
 This exercise provides opportunities for staff to reflect of research activity over the previous 12
 months, identify impediments to progress and consider target setting for the coming year. It also
 strategically informs research, teaching and administration loads and identifies requirements and
 opportunities for staff development for which there is a dedicated budget. A Framework for

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academic Expectation model is provided to enable staff to benchmark their research activity and
 performance with colleagues, and shape equity in teaching and administrative loads for different
 stages of career.


 The recruitment of independent research fellows (IRF) is a key part of our research strategy.
 There is an established framework for mentoring postdoctoral staff and we offer an application
 development and mentoring programme for potential fellowship applicants that involves a “traffic
 light” system to ensure individuals are directed to appropriate funding opportunities and provided
 with bespoke support for application and career development. Over the REF period we have
 hosted a number of highly prestigious independent fellows across various schemes funded by
 Royal Society, NERC, EU (Marie Curie) and Wellcome Trust. Wang is an example of support
 for independent ECR via an industrial route, part-supported by Vertebrate Antibodies Limited.


 The University is a signatory of the Researcher Development Concordat with an action plan to
 address the principles and obligations around research environment and culture, employment
 practices and professional and career development policy and practice for research staff. Our
 approach for the transparent and robust assessment of research quality for any and all purposes
 is compliant with the principles and practices that laid down within the San Francisco Declaration
 on Research Assessment (DORA), of which the University is a signatory, and the Leiden
 Manifesto. As such no reference to citation metrics or impact factor are included in job
 application review, promotion documentation or annual review and appraisal.


 We retain a number of Teaching & Scholarship lectureships to strategic areas. These positions
 are not intended for research active staff but enhance our research activity by freeing up time to
 enable high profile researchers to maximise research application, output and impact. The
 success of this strategy is evidenced by three members of SBS academic staff with long-term
 reduced teaching loads being awarded major academic honours, most notably Speakman being
 elected as a Fellow of the Royal Society of London, US National Academy of Sciences and the
 Chinese National Academy during the past REF period.


 All research staff are supported through the Aberdeen Grants Academy (AGA) during all
 stages of a research grant life cycle. The Grants Academy is run by a team of business
 development and commercialisation professionals whose role is to flag new funding
 opportunities for staff, stimulate discussion and generate new ideas for grant applications
 through meetings such as the Conversations on… sandpit meetings and Grant Foundry events,
 offer training in effective grant writing, support in the development of grant applications, organise
 internal peer-review of applications, provide interview preparation where required, develop open
 data management plans, facilitate the effective translation of research excellence into non-
 academic impact, and enable knowledge transfer activities, patent application and spin-out
 companies. AGA also manages several internal funds to pump-prime research and knowledge
 exchange activities associated with GCRF applications, the Wellcome Trust Institutional
 Strategic Support Fund, a core facilities voucher scheme, and a Research Enhancement
 Scheme for external grant applications that were highly graded by funding panels but remained
 unfunded, and where specific improvement can be targeted prior to resubmission. These have
 provided support of over GBP55K to Unit staff during the REF period.


 2B. SUPPORT TRAINING AND SUPERVISION OF PhD STUDENTS.


 The training and development of PhD students is a fundamental component of our research
 strategy. The 17 staff submitted to UoA5 supervised a total of 83 FTE students since 2014. The
 Unit is a partner in three UKRI doctoral training partnerships (DTP) and two Centres for Doctoral
 Training (CDT). The BBSRC EastBio DTP is a partnership between the Universities of
                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh, St Andrews and Stirling, delivering doctoral training across the
 biosciences. EastBio-DTP (originally devised and led by Connolly) supports 60 studentships per
 year and is now in its third cycle of funding after renewal in 2015 and 2019, which is a testament
 to the high quality of training delivered. The NERC funded QUADRAT-DTP is a new partnership
 between University of Aberdeen and Queen’s University Belfast supporting 20 students per year
 for five years in the areas of environmental and natural sciences. This provides a major impetus
 for collaboration and a cross-School cohort of students providing critical mass in interdisciplinary
 research. The NERC funded SUPER-DTP involves eight Scottish University partners, with a
 research focus on the broad themes of environmental dynamics, biodiversity and challenged
 ecosystems.


 We also recruit students through joint funded strategic partnerships such as with Marine
 Scotland Science (MarCRF), Scottish Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC;
 www.sustainableaquaculture.com/) and through Scottish Government research pooling
 initiatives including Marine Alliance for Science and Technology Scotland (MASTS;
 www.masts.ac.uk) and Scottish Universities Life Science Alliance (SULSA; www.sulsa.ac.uk).
 The University has improved the international reach of its PGR programme with its Elphinstone
 Scholarship initiative, which provides a full international tuition fee waiver to allow the best
 students from across the world to train at the University. SBS and SMMS also support industrial
 funded PhD studentships using various models for co-funding. These have been especially
 productive for enabling collaboration with the aquaculture sector, with companies including
 BioMar, Skretting, Mowi, Alltech, Elanco, Cargill, Scottish Sea Farms and Xelect all co-funding at
 least one studentship during the REF period.


 The University Graduate School oversees all aspects of PhD student appointments, training and
 monitoring of progress. Candidates are selected based on strict criteria that include the
 academic calibre of the student, motivation and potential ability to complete a PhD programme
 and engage as part of a broader postgraduate cohort. Each student has a minimum of two
 supervisors, and an advisor to provide independent advice. Supervisors must undertake training
 on effective supervision, and hold weekly formal meetings with students. Student progress is
 monitored through six-monthly reviews, which provides an opportunity for students to reflect on
 achievement and map out future plans. These are reviewed by the School Postgraduate Officer
 and the Graduate School. A formal 9-month review of student progress is made by written
 report, oral presentation and a viva with two members of staff. Students may be confirmed for
 entry into year two, recommended for a remedial programme of work or halted from progression.
 In year 2 students submit a written report in the form of a draft manuscript and present a poster
 at an internal “Research Day”. In year 3 students give a longer oral presentation at an annual
 postgraduate symposium run within each School. At 27 months students submit a thesis plan
 and progress is reviewed until completion. The success of our training environment is evidenced
 in our thesis submission rate of 94% for the REF period.


 All PhD students follow a “T-shaped” training model, whereby they develop disciplinary
 excellence around a specific research project but also gain a breadth of knowledge and a
 diverse, transferable core and generic skills base to ensure that they graduate with a broad
 outlook and are competitive for a range of different career paths. Development of research and
 transferable core skills are defined in a student’s Personal Development Plan. Mandatory
 training courses include an induction workshop on scientific conduct, research ethics and
 governance, health and safety, project design, scientific writing, data handling, statistics,
 presentation skills, entrepreneurship and knowledge exchange. Central to training is the
 provision of non-academic placement experience for students. This is a formal part of training
 across the DTPs and involves a 3 month secondment with a research partner not directly
 associated with the student’s project. This provides students with an opportunity to develop skills
 and experience away from an academic environment. We also provide Research Experience
 Placements for undergraduate students from STEM subjects outwith biological sciences as part
 of our DTPs to facilitate multidisciplinary interaction and widen participation.

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 An integral part of our PhD student DTP training is around professional development, leading to
 a Chartered Management Institute (CMI) level 7 Certificate in Strategic Management and
 Leadership (QUADRAT DTP) or a PG Certificate in Researcher Professional Development
 (SUPER DTP). We encourage all students to gain professional accreditation where appropriate
 (e.g. Royal Society of Biology, associate fellowship status with Advance HE); present and
 discuss their research at international conferences; participate in internal and external seminar
 series; lead journal clubs and research discussion groups. This is exemplified by the Aberdeen
 Study Group, a student organised and student-led network who interact to share and develop
 coding skills (R, Python, Perl) and facilitate co-working.


 2C. HOW THE UNIT SUPPORTS AND PROMOTES EQUALITY, DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION
 Inclusivity is central to the University’s 2040 strategy (www.abdn.ac.uk/2040), and the promotion
 of equality, diversity and inclusion remains core to the activity and strategy of the Unit. Schools
 have an Equality, Diversity & Inclusion committee, and a separate Athena Swan committee
 leading the Schools’ next stage of accreditation from current bronze status. All staff and students
 undertake EDI training and refresher exercises. We blend formal accreditation with informal
 approaches to raising awareness and providing support around EDI issues. This has been
 informed by a series of staff surveys that consider how policy and practice could be improved.
 Input has led to changes in working practice that include: gender-balanced interview panels for
 all appointments at any level; inclusion of an EDI question as part of the interview process;
 including a male and female point of contact for any job adverts; policy that meetings, seminars
 and events occur within core working hours of 10:00-16:00; gender balanced seminar speaker
 programmes; monitoring and adjustment of all electronic and printed material for gender balance
 and ethnic diversity; family-friendly social events; encouraging ECRs to join and lead
 administrative and strategic committees; increased awareness of bullying and harassment
 procedures; formation of networking groups for LGBTQ+, female, early-career and BAME staff.


 Staff returning from periods of leave, including parental leave or other caring responsibilities, or
 after long-term ill health attend a ‘return meeting’ with their line manager to aid the return to work
 process. Long term ill health effects are managed with the help of occupational or reasonable
 adjustments, for example phased return, altered start and/or finish times or a period of
 homeworking. To help staff with disabilities the University is committed to making a wide range
 of adjustments, including for example flexible working and workplace adjustments.


 The University has a dedicated Health, Safety and Wellbeing Committee and have put in place a
 range of policies and practices to support the wellbeing of staff. These include: mandatory
 health, safety and wellbeing training for all staff and postgraduate students; a commitment to
 consider proposals from staff to switch to flexible working and job sharing; an annual leave
 purchase scheme, allowing up to two weeks additional leave to be secured; wellbeing
 coordinators and mental health champions within Schools; mental health first aid and mental
 health awareness training for staff; mental health support services; and free off-peak
 membership at Aberdeen Sports Village. Supervisors are encouraged to foster supportive
 relationships whereby they can offer both academic and pastoral support, including directing
 students to central-level support if needed.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3A. INCOME
 Staff submitted to this UoA have generated over GBP26.5M in research incomeduring the REF
 period. This has been awarded from a diverse range of funding agencies reflecting ability to


                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 attract funds that cut across conventional discipline boundaries, with ca. 38.% coming from UKRI
 and 23% from industry.


 Internationalisation and collaboration are key strategic priorities and we have prioritised
 expansion of our international collaborations during the REF period. This has resulted in more
 than GBP2.1M of new international funding via EU H2020 collaborations centred around
 Bowman’s work on bee health and tick-borne infections (totalling GBP518K) and Martin’s and
 van West’s work on fish health (totalling GBP1.6M). These projects involve over 20 EU
 countries and Norway. Staff are also engaged in multiple UKRI networking partnerships,
 including Canada, India and China (Martin) and Brazil (Morimoto).


 3B. INSTITUTIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
 The University provides support for researchers at all stages of the research process:


 The Aberdeen Grants Academy (AGA) provides support developing research ideas and
 identifying funding opportunities. This is facilitated through the Grants Foundry programmes run
 within Schools where staff are invited to present nascent research ideas to help hone
 experimental design, identify collaboration and recognise appropriate sources of funding.


 The Research Financial Services (RFS) team then undertakes project finance planning with the
 Research & Innovation (R&I; www.abdn.ac.uk/business-info/research-innovation/) team
 supporting grant review and submission, formation of collaboration agreements, development of
 pathways to impact plans, creation and protection of intellectual property and patent application.

 The Public Engagement with Research Unit (PERU) coordinates downstream knowledge
 exchange and public engagement. This includes the University Communications Team (CT)
 which forms the critical link between researchers and public through local, national, specialist
 and international media. CT issues ~ 400 press releases a year, in addition to regularly placing
 stories with key media, and identifying researchers for expert comment.


 IT services support all aspects of research data management and archiving, with 2TB being
 automatically provided for all staff and individual projects. The Library, Special Collections and
 Museums directorate coordinates aspects of Open Research, running the Aberdeen University
 Research Archive (AURA), our open access repository for data, plus coordinating green or gold
 route open access for publications (section 3D).


 3C. FACILITIES


 The University provides world class core analytical facilities for researchers, organised through a
 suite of Technology Hubs. Each hub is managed by an experienced facility manager partnered
 with an academic to interface with internal and external users, and provides research advice,
 training, support and service delivery around key areas. Equipment upgrade and renewal is
 delivered through a combination of external grant funding and institutional support. The
 genomics, cytometry, chromatography/spectrometry, microscopy/histology, proteomics and
 antibody/peptide library screening technology hubs (see below) are key elements in delivering
 the Unit’s research strategy, and these have seen overall investment in infrastructure and
 facilities of over GBP7M since REF2014.


 Genomics research is supported through the Centre for Genome Enabled Biology and
 Medicine (CGEBM; www.abdn.ac.uk/genomics). This has seen major investment in staff to
                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provide increased bioinformatics capacity, and updated/expanded multi-‘omics hardware, which
 includes Illumina MiSeq, NextSeq500, Ion Torrent proton and Oxford Nanopore GridION
 sequencers and a 10x Genomics Chromium system for single cell sequencing applications. To
 support increased bioinformatics and biostatistical analysis there has also been an upgrade of
 the Maxwell high-performance computing cluster, giving researchers access to 1240 CPU cores,
 12TB of RAM and 1PB of storage.


 The Cytometry technology hub provides a range of Becton Dickinson and Attune NxT
 cytometers and a BD Influx cytometric cell sorter, a BioPlex 200 for multiplex bead analysis, and
 an Image Stream for single cell image cytometry (which is one of only two in Scotland).


 The Microscopy and Histology technology hub delivers confocal laser scanning microscopy;
 LSM 880 with Airyscan LSM170 confocal, and a spinning disk, UltraVIEW 3D live cell imaging
 system, a range of fluorescent upright and invert microscopes, with JEOL transmission and
 Zeiss scanning electron microscopes, plus Skyscan 1072 and Nikon XT225ST Computed
 Tomography systems. Recent investment has delivered a Carl Zeiss GeminiSEM 300 high
 resolution Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscope (FESEM) with secondary electron,
 backscattered electron and cathodoluminescence detectors.

 The Proteomics/Mass Spectrometry hub has available a range of ICP-MS, LC-ICP-MS.
 Routine techniques including MPOES, FAAS, HG-AAS, FIA, GC-FID/ECD and TOC are
 available as is a field deployable field Picarro. Recent investments in analysis include a
 quadrupole-Orbitrap Thermo Scientific Q Exactive tandem mass spectrometry system, a mass
 spectrometer for stable isotope ratio measurements, MALDI Imaging Mass Spectrometer, and
 Biacore SPR. These are supplemented with automated sample digestion units.


 Other facilities supporting research across the Unit include the Scottish Biologics Facility,
 providing antibody and peptide library screening services; and the Medical Research Facility,
 providing a rodent and Xenopus model organism facility. We also have outstanding aquarium
 facilities following a GBP1.5M refurbishment that includes freshwater and seawater systems, a
 separate biosecure freshwater pathogen challenge facility and isolated zebrafish tanks for use
 with GM models.


 The University has invested GBP38 million in a state-of-the-art Science Teaching Hub facility
 (opening Spring 2022) where there will be a consolidation of all science laboratory classes.
 While this will mainly be for teaching and learning, the ground floor of this building will be a
 dedicated space for public engagement and science outreach. It will also offer a unique space
 for research skills training for both staff and PGR students. This facility will also enable focussed
 investment to transform previous teaching and learning laboratory spaces dispersed across
 Schools into multiple group occupancy laboratory space designed and fitted for specific research
 activities/sub-disciplines. This will future-proof research needs aligned with current strategic
 research priorities, enhance capacity, widen applications, upskill the technical and research
 teams and activate new multidisciplinary collaborations.


 3D. RESEARCH INTEGRITY AND GOVERNANCE, UNDERPINNING ROBUST,
 REPRODUCIBLE AND OPEN SCIENCE


 The University’s Research Governance Framework underpins all aspects of research integrity
 and governance, robust and reproducible research practice and open data and publication. This
 framework complies with standards and practices set out in Universities UK Concordat to
 Support Research Integrity and the UK Research Integrity Office (UKRIO) Code of Practice to



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 deliver the highest standards of excellence, honesty, integrity, rigour, transparency,
 accountability, care and respect and foster both disciplinary and interdisciplinary approaches.


 The University’s Research Policy Committee (RPC), chaired by the Vice Principal for Research,
 has overarching responsibility for ensuring rigour and consistency in our research ethics and
 governance arrangements, which reports upwards to University senior management and Court.
 There are clear mechanisms in place to monitor research governance practice involving
 independent scrutiny and assessment by the University Deans and Vice-Principle for Research.
 An annual exercise is also undertaken whereby the data provenance of a random selection of
 publications is verified by research Directors.

 Research involving animals is governed by the Advisory Group to the Establishment Licence
 Holder and the Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body (AWERB) which carries out robust
 ethical review on all research proposals submitted to the Home Office as part of personal and
 project licence application. There is a Biological Safety Committee that oversees research using
 genetic modification and wild-type organisms, a separate ethics committee for research involving
 interaction with the public and external bodies through questionnaires, and a Nagoya Protocol
 oversight group to ensure compliance around any biodiscovery activity.


 The University recognises the importance of open research, incorporating the FAIR (Findability,
 Accessibility, Interoperability, and Reusability) principles which are being applied to Open
 Access, Data and Platforms/Tools. The University has a policy for Research Data Management
 and all PIs include a data management plan in research proposals. We comply with the UKRI
 open data mandate as described in the Concordat for Open Data and deposit all data and
 metadata into EIDC, BODC and relevant online repositories such as Genbank, Array Express
 and Ensemble. The Unit supports and encourages publication of R Markdown, PERL and
 Python scripts via DRYAD, figshare, GitHub and equivalent open repositories. These open data
 resources are all mirrored on the Aberdeen University Research Archive (AURA) our Institutional
 open access repository managed by the Library, Special Collections and Museums directorate.
 Unit staff have published 115 datasets on AURA since 2014.


 The strategic use of the UKRI/Wellcome block grant enables gold-route publication of high-
 impact publications with green-route publication for all other manuscripts. The Unit supports and
 encourages pre-print submission onto BioRXiv.

 Training is undertaken for all aspects of research ethics, open research and research integrity
 and governance that is mandatory for tenured staff and part of the induction activity for new start
 researchers. This training is also embedded within the core and generic training modules for
 PhD students within the Quadrat and EastBio DTP.


 2B   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society.
 4A. COLLABORATION
 We have an outstanding track-record of international and national collaboration. Since 2014
 successful collaboration (defined as joint peer-reviewed scientific papers, joint doctoral student
 supervision and joint active grants) by the 17 staff has involved over 900 different external
 research institutions across industry, universities and governmental organisations). Our
 sustained interactions with salmon aquaculture industry partners ensures our collaborations
 delivers major economic benefit. This is exemplified by the impact case study by van West
 where industry partners detail annual cost savings of >GBP1M through reduced salmon loss
 with control the Saprolegnia pathogen.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 In many cases our relationships with end-users are based upon successful, long-term
 interactions (e.g. Marine Scotland Science (MSS), Centre for Environment, Fisheries and
 Aquaculture Science (CEFAS), Scottish Salmon Producers Organisation). We ensure
 relationships are maintained by staff involvement in science advisory boards (section 4C);
 inclusion of end-users in student supervision and as collaborators on research grants; by
 researcher placement in end-user organisations; and by funding research showcasing events,
 and workshops relevant to industry, policy makers and practitioners.


 Collaborator networks and multidisciplinary research activity are enhanced through Scottish
 Research Pooling initiatives including the Scottish Universities Life Sciences Alliance (SULSA)
 and Marine Alliance for Science & Technology for Scotland (MASTS), and doctoral training
 partnerships (BBSRC EastBio, NERC SUPER, NERC QUADRAT). These fold in 11 HEI and 27
 non-HEI partners.


 Examples of long-term strategic partnerships include those with the Chinese Academy of
 Science (CAS), with Speakman being seconded part time to work at the Institute of Genetics
 and Developmental biology in Beijing, and the Shenzhen Institute of Advanced Technology. This
 has led to multiple collaborations between CAS and University of Aberdeen, and a formal
 agreement to establish a dual degree programme for PhD students. Secombes has long term
 collaborations with CAS Institute of Hydrobiology in Wuhan and is currently honorary associate
 Professor at Universities of Qingdao Agricultural University, Shanghai Ocean University and
 Fujian Agriculture and Forestry University. Secombes and Martin also have strong links through
 British Council with University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Lahore University, Pakistan
 and Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies, Kerala, India.


 4B. AWARDS


 The reach and significance of Speakman’s research has been recognised by a series of high-
 profile awards. He was elected Fellow of the Royal Society (2018), the US National Academy of
 Sciences (2020) and the Chinese National Academy (2019) and is now only one of 28 scientists
 globally who simultaneously hold fellowships for UK, US and Chinese National Academies. He
 was the first Briton to win the Chinese Academy of Sciences International Collaboration award
 (2015), and the first non-Chinese recipient of a Novonordisk ‘Great Wall’ professorship. He has
 won several international awards including the Scholander-Irving prize and the Osborne-Mendel
 prize by the American Nutrition Society.


 Other awards for the Unit include Fellowship of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (van West);
 Royal Statistical Society (Derous, Morimoto, Speakman); Linnean Society (Morimoto); Royal
 Society of Arts (Morimoto); Royal Entomological Society (Morimoto); Genetics Society (Petitt
 as Honorary Secretary).


 4C. SCIENTIFIC ADVISORY ROLES


 A key indicator of the wider influence of our research is the range of key science advisory roles
 held by Unit staff. Selected examples include: Scientific Panel of the CNRS Hubert Curien
 Pluridisciplinary Institute (Bize); Scottish Government Varroa working group (Bowman);
 BBSRC/NERC Aquaculture Research Hub UK (Martin); IAEA scientific advisory panel
 (Speakman); BBSRC Network in Biotech and Bioengineering (Stansfield); International
 Commission on Trichinellosis (Connolly)

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4D. PEER REVIEW


 Participation in the scientific peer review process is an expectation of all staff, with involvement
 reflecting experience. Several staff have chaired or participated on major national and
 international grant award committees, including Norway – Norwegian Research Council
 (Bowman, Martin, Van West ); Canada - Genome Canada (Bowman, Martin); Romania -
 Executive Agency for Research, Development and Innovation (Bowman); Chile - Concurso de
 Proyectos (Martin); France - Appel à projets générique (Martin); Germany - Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft (Pettitt); Austria - FWF der Wissenschaftsfonds (Martin); EU -
 Scientific Expert Panel (Martin); Portugal - Animal and Veterinary Sciences and Agro-Food
 Biotechnology Evaluation Panel (Martin); Poland - Innovation in Politics Institute (Morimoto);
 UK - Royal Society (Speakman); Royal Society of Edinburgh (Speakman); BBSRC
 (Speakman, Stansfield); British Ecological Society (Wenzel).


 4E. EDITORIAL ROLES


 Staff are encouraged and supported to be editors of journals. These include Science
 (Speakman), Frontiers in Ecology & Evolution (Bize, Morimoto), Frontiers in Immunology
 (Martin), Genes (Martin), Brazilian Journal of Entomology (Morimoto), Insects (Morimoto,
 Wenzel), Neotropical Entomology (Morimoto), Fish & Shellfish Immunology (Secombes).


 Similarly, staff are actively engaged in editorial review boards of international journals including
 Parasitology (Bowman), Frontiers in Immunology (Holland), Frontiers in Physiology (Derous),
 Journal of Comparative Physiology (Speakman); Biology Letters (Speakman); Molecular
 Metabolism (founding board member) (Speakman); Journal of Genetics and Genomics
 (Speakman); Physiological and Biochemical Zoology (Speakman); Annals of Human Genetics
 (Speakman); International Journal of Obesity (Speakman); Life Science (Speakman);
 Philosophical transactions of the Royal Society (Speakman).


 4F. CONFERENCE ORGANISATION


 To promote collaboration staff have been involved in the organisation of major international
 conferences including Society of Experimental Biology (Derous), EAFP International
 Conference (Holland), Mucosal Health in Aquaculture (Martin), International Congress on
 Integrative Salmonid Biology (Martin), Translation UK (Stansfield), International Society of Fish
 and Shellfish Immunology (Secombes).




                                                                                               Page 15
