Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 33B - Music, Drama, Dance, Performing Arts, Film and Screen Studies:
 Drama
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Drama, Theatre and Performance (DTP) is comprised of a distinctive concentration of scholars
 and artist-scholars with distinguished research profiles in theatre and performance studies,
 extending to other disciplines and distinct sub-fields: feminist and queer theory, art history and
 curatorial practice, ethnography, television studies, radio drama and sonic arts, live art, site-
 specific performance, installation and experimental theatre, global theatre, performance
 philosophy, creative writing and new dramaturgy. Our three overarching areas of research
 expertise and affinity, sustained between 2014 and 2020 – Contemporary Theatre and
 Performance Practices; Situated, Mobile and Socially Engaged Performance Practices; and
 Writing, Memory and History – have been intensified and broadened by the advanced initiatives
 of longstanding staff and through judicious research-focused new appointments consolidating our
 specialisms. Work on Contemporary Theatre and Performance Practices has advanced: feminist
 and queer performance (books by Hill on immersive, socially engaged practices, Palladini on the
 politics and erotics of 1960s New York theatre, essays by Roberts on feminist lineages in visual
 art performance and Skantze on gender and sexuality in spectating); and curatorial practice
 (Heathfield’s practice-research in exhibitions). Work on Situated, Mobile and Socially Engaged
 Performance Practices has interrogated: the politics of performance as social practice (essays by
 Bayly on meeting and assembly in corporate or political contexts, and Wilkie’s monograph on
 mobility and performance); global localities and ethnicities (books by Odom on Yorùbá
 performance and Szeman on Roma communities, belonging and ‘lived citizenship’); and site-
 responsive interventions (practice-research by Forster and Heighes exploring pedagogic
 institutions and intangible heritage, Hill’s in situ environmental science collaborations on ‘plant
 life’). Work on Writing, Memory and History has focused on: questions of adaptation for radio,
 screen and stage (numerous radio adaptations by White exploring the performance of witness
 and a subject’s relation to memory and history, an edited book and essays by Greenhalgh on
 Shakespeare's circulation, reception and citation in television and live broadcasts to cinemas);
 and critical practices for performance (books by Kelleher on the politics of spectatorship, Hill on
 the historiography of first wave feminism and suffrage, and Orley on creative-critical writing).
 DTP’s REF2014 submission identified three strategic aims for this period, to develop:
    •   our profile and distinction in world-leading culturally engaged research in theatre and
        performance studies;
    •   our postgraduate research; and
    •   large collaborative research projects and funding bids involving national and international
        partners, with emphasis on culturally engaged work and knowledge exchange activities.
 These aims were met and exceeded through the careful support and facilitation of staff research
 activities, particularly work on field-leading monographs, large-scale international practice-
 research projects and discursive interventions through edited books; frequent knowledge
 exchange activities in public arts contexts locally, nationally and globally; and approaches to
 funding bodies and the successful management of grants. A thorough enrichment of postgraduate
 culture and a doubling of PhD completions since 2014 has been attained through the expansion
 of supervisory capacity and Director of Studies pool; broad participation of staff in supervisory
 teams and dynamic public fora; increased global profiling of our doctoral provision; focused work
 developing funding applications through proposal feedback; and outreach to key cultural sector
 partners for collaborative supervision. DTP research leadership increased the total funded
 research expenditure by 46% from c. £555K in REF2014 to c. £795K. While this represents a
 modest average annual increase, the number and scale of bids has been enhanced, bidding has
 been widespread across the staff body, bid quality has been improved through rigorous internal
 review, and we have increased our re-submission of applications.

 Pursuing our aims since 2014, DTP has made collaboration with cultural sector partners a strategic
 priority. These engagements have been realised on a national and global level by individual


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 researchers, and at a local level through our energetic Research Centre for Performance and
 Creative Exchange (RCPCE). Through targeted seed funding, grant application support, teaching
 relief and sabbaticals, DTP has prioritised and resourced projects with potential for significant
 cultural or social impact. Considerably expanding its organisational partnerships, DTP has
 conducted globally renowned large-scale projects with esteemed arts organisations enacting vital
 shifts in cultural perception, influencing the careers of leading artists, and affecting the practices
 of major cultural institutions. Our Impact Case Studies on performance art curation and adapted
 audio dramas exemplify this approach. In these existing areas of high research efficacy, DTP has
 deepened innovation and extended impact. Each area has received culture-sector commissions
 with large-scale public resources. Through these partnerships we have furthered the national and
 global outreach of our creative research, considerably scaling up its cultural reception and
 interpretation. At the same time, DTP has seed-funded and sought larger resources for other areas
 of its research with considerable impact potential in the future: site-responsive performance,
 socially engaged art and political theatre, and work with specific communities across the Global
 South.

 Research strategy has been steered collaboratively through staff discussion at regular Research
 Advisory Group (RAG) meetings and termly departmental committees. All research-active staff
 participated in RAG, which conducted regular reviews of attainments such as postgraduate
 completions, funding applications, awards and impacts considered against collectively agreed
 aims. Between 2014-17 research strategy was led by White and, after his appointment as Head
 of Department in 2017 following the departure of Jennifer Parker-Starbuck, by Heathfield. The
 Research and Knowledge Exchange Lead implemented strategic initiatives whilst monitoring
 research development, driving forward impact, funding initiatives and liaison with external
 organisations. All research involving collaborative work with human subjects was scrutinised by
 DTP’s ethics officer (Greenhalgh, then Palladini) who advised on ethical protocols, mentored
 applicants and conducted first stage evaluations of ethics applications. All DTP staff received
 mandatory training on the University’s Code of Good Research Practice, and those conducting
 funded or collaborative projects met the terms of the Concordat to Support Research Integrity in
 advance of commencement. Issues regarding ethical and professional conduct and standards
 were reviewed by DTP’s RAG annually.

 The selection of 33 outputs submitted for review is a representative sample of DTP’s overall
 outputs, foregrounding our book-length contributions, practice-research and an array of essays in
 edited books and journals. Beyond the selected outputs, DTP has produced 64 chapters in books,
 alongside 29 article contributions to peer-reviewed journals. Writing by DTP staff has been
 translated into 8 languages and staff have spoken or performed in 24 countries. Numerous
 practice-research projects from small- to large-scale have been mounted locally, nationally and
 internationally including: Forster and Heighes’ site-specific interventions into the architectures
 (and histories) of King’s College and Wimbledon College of Arts; Orley’s national touring of a
 performance on memory and family histories, science and imaging; Heathfield’s month-long
 durational work in Sydney and his multi-faceted creative work with Anna Halprin and Janine Antoni
 in San Francisco and Philadelphia; and Hill’s development and touring of a site-specific work
 concerned with human-plant ecologies, realised in numerous outdoor locations internationally.
 DTP generated world-leading practice-research in exhibition curation and playwriting:
 Heathfield’s Taiwanese Pavilion at the Venice Biennale, supported by the Ministry of Foreign
 Affairs and Ministry of Culture, Republic of China (Taiwan) and seen by over 100,000 global
 visitors; and White’s three dramatic adaptations of literary works and an original verbatim play
 broadcast to millions of listeners nationally on BBC Radio 3 and 4, and subsequently through
 Amazon’s Alexa smart speaker app. The latter two projects had cultural impact of considerable
 reach and significance globally, respectively making dynamic shifts in their fields of practice and
 directly affecting distinct beneficiaries, arts audiences, artists and organisations.

 Besides the national and global initiatives of individual staff, the vibrant programme of RCPCE has
 been the driver in London’s research culture of DTP’s proudly interdisciplinary public-facing
 activities. Staff presented and developed research in fora hosted by the Centre, attended by
 postgraduates and staff across the University, alongside many artists and researchers within the

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 capital. RCPCE is a forum for the exchange of creative research and critical ideas on histories,
 theories, and practices of theatre, performance and live art. It seeks to animate cutting edge work
 and new relations across disciplinary boundaries and to ask how shared strands of thought can
 be catalysed, circulated, revised and augmented. Through its twelve years of programming,
 RCPCE has generated an open environment where different publics encounter advanced thinking
 and making. Since 2014, it has specifically sought to extend its cultural engagements, profile and
 publics through collaborations with a number of local organisations: Sadler’s Wells, The Function
 Room, October Gallery and Chelsea Theatre.

 Led by Skantze, Kelleher, Roberts and Hill successively, RCPCE has hosted an array of
 international visiting scholars and artists, mounting regular multi-form events: performances,
 lectures, seminars, screenings, postgraduate laboratories, study days, salons, symposia and
 workshops. RCPCE has enhanced each of our three areas of overarching expertise and affinity
 through a distinctive city programme privileging critical urgencies in extended public study events.
 Our work on Contemporary Theatre and Performance Practices was enhanced by the symposium
 Durationality, Identity and Performance (led by Roberts). Discourse on Situated, Mobile and
 Socially Engaged Performance Practices was stimulated by three unique symposia: Domestics of
 Performance (led by Palladini), Congruence and Contestation: Contemporary Feminism and
 Performance (led by Gorman) and Traditional Asian Theatre in/and Modernity (led by Odom).
 The area of Writing, Memory and History was deepened through engagements in a two-day
 workshop on Creative Critical Writing (led by Orley and Skantze) and the one-day performance
 event Of Two Minds: Duet Collaboration (led by Postdoctoral Fellow Laure Fernandez and Visiting
 Artist Karen Christopher).

 These intensive studies formed part of RCPCE’s much broader public programme, with 57 distinct
 events hosting presentations from 93 guests, including international visitors from Australia, Brazil,
 Canada, France, Germany, Ghana, Greece, Holland, Hong Kong, Italy, Nigeria, Singapore, Spain,
 and across the USA. Key contributions from international scholars to our wide research agendas
 on transdisciplinary performance included: Sarah Bay-Cheng (York University Toronto), Chiara
 Bottici (New School), Daphne Brooks (Yale University), Soji Cole (University of Ibadan), Stefano
 Harney (Singapore Management University), Amelia Jones (University of Southern California),
 Suk-Young Kim (UCLA), Erin Manning (Concordia), Terry Bright Kweku Ofosu (University of
 Ghana), Ryan Takata (Simon Fraser University), Fred Moten and André Lepecki (NYU), and
 Felipe Ribeiro (Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro). RCPCE has also made an important
 contribution to the UK research base, providing opportunities for the circulation of the work of 27
 UK-based academics from 18 universities. Particular emphasis was placed on programming talks
 from ECRs who were also given registration fee waivers at day-long events.

 A broad set of international and UK-based guest artists – performance makers, sculptors, film
 makers, painters, sound artists and choreographers – have presented work in RCPCE’s events,
 animating relations between making and thinking, furthering the interpretation of contemporary
 practices. RCPCE’s facilitation of early-career and renowned artist’s relations with staff has often
 acted as a catalyst for subsequent sustained dialogues. Diverse guests have included: Burrows &
 Fargion, Season Butler, Romeo Castellucci, Lucia Farinati (Sound Threshold),
 GETINTHEBACKOFTHEVAN, Chris Goode, Sophie Grodin, Kathy Hall (London Jing Kun Opera
 Association), Virgile Ittah, Vesta Kroese, Ekua McMorris, Andrea Milde, Oscar Murillo, Colin
 Poole, Amaara Raheem, Susanna Recchia, Tobias Sturmer, Grace Surman, Richard Wentworth
 CBE. These critical engagements with, and public disseminations of, artists’ work enrich their
 careers and logics of practice, fostering new opportunities for research and impact.

 DTP has made concerted efforts to ensure research is openly accessible. Aside from their
 participation in numerous online publications, DTP staff self-publish open access work online:
 Kelleher’s Among the Actor-figures and Gorman’s Reading as a Woman blogs provide regular
 discursive forays and original interviews with arts practitioners, Heathfield’s site gives PDF access
 to numerous publications less accessible in print, whilst Orley, Hill, and Forster & Heighes’
 websites give access to documentary materials from their creative research. Pursuing principles
 of an open access research environment, DTP has secured wide public engagement through

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 RCPCE’s extensive public programme of talks and events, and global outreach through many
 events in diverse cultural sector contexts. Its world-leading creative research has produced
 exhibitions and radio broadcasts with major cultural organisations reaching distinct audiences on
 a significant scale.

 New research publications beyond the census date, such as Gorman’s single-authored book
 Women in Performance: Repurposing Failure (2020), Hill’s collection Devising Theatre and
 Performance: Curious Methods (2021), and Heathfield’s collection Things That Go Through
 Your Mind When Falling: The Word of Forced Entertainment (2021), indicate the continuing
 vibrancy and productivity of staff. Four doctoral graduations, a TECHNE award of £9,995 for
 Roberts, and DTP collaborators’ work on a Queer Feminist Currents conflux signal the continuing
 sustainability and vitality of DTP’s doctoral training initiatives and culture.

 DTP aims to enhance the quality and distinctiveness of our world-leading scholarly research in
 line with the University’s Research and Knowledge Exchange strategy by further expanding our
 subject areas’ interdisciplinary connections. Central to this ambition will be the opportunities
 afforded by new, integrated research cultures and affinities across the new School of Arts and
 collaboration with the social and life sciences. DTP staff aim to increase research income through
 targeted small and medium scale research funding, with a view to supporting strategic large-scale
 bidding led by research leaders and sustainable collaborations with national and international
 external partners. Through increased external research and knowledge exchange income, DTP
 has two core aims: 1) broadening the cultural diversity of staff and postgraduates, in alignment
 with our already highly diverse undergraduate body, through targeted appointments, particularly
 the creation of new ECR opportunities, including Postdoctoral Fellowships and Lecturer roles; 2)
 building the social significance, reach and impact of our culturally engaged practice-research,
 making more visible the numerous public cultural engagements of our staff and animating them
 through further connections with cultural sector partners, artists residencies, and knowledge
 exchange activities.

 2. People

 DTP’s research strategy has been to maximize the opportunities available to all staff to realise
 their individual research potential through the protection of sustained research time, the fostering
 of an inclusive, vigorous culture within which to articulate their work, and the provision of rigorous
 support and development systems. Seven of sixteen academic staff hold 40% research workload
 allowances. Robust and consistent research facilitation has been present throughout the period:
 a minimum 30% research workload allowance; project-responsive research expenses; sabbatical
 every six semesters; two annual research mentoring meetings with senior staff; impact seed
 funding; tailored funding administrative support and annual appraisals. These factors have
 enabled DTP’s staff to conduct sustained large-scale monographic, editorial and practical projects
 whose impact is derived from a vibrant culture with a history of international research leadership
 and a cohesive ethos of professional, cultural engagement.

 Extending and intensifying our social engagement work, staff have conducted significant strategic
 collaborations globally with cultural organisations of diverse scale and purpose: from local
 community centres and charities, through national museums, media corporations and theatres, to
 international art and performance festivals. Through these dynamic relations, staff have been at
 the forefront of a broader shift in the field toward interdisciplinary and culturally applied work and
 have radically built on and extended the strategic focus and sustainable development embedded
 and recognised in our REF2014 submission. DTP’s staff have consistently pursued performance
 and hybrid arts practices as a means of knowledge-making, elucidated by social, political,
 aesthetic and philosophical questions drawn from diverse disciplines, with direct consequence for
 and impact upon broader cultural practices. Seven of our sixteen academic staff have distinct
 cultural profiles as curators or artists. We promote the exchange of staff between academia and
 appropriate professional contexts through the flexible use of sabbatical time, the ability to explore
 fractional posts, and the use of honorary fellowships. We also have mechanisms to support those
 entering higher education, through the provision of a year-long Professional Development

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Allowance, which can provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition
 to a research career. Our seminar series and Graduate School training programmes also include
 practitioner or professional speakers to encourage mutually supportive networking. Research
 Impact Officers also support these relationships once established and prioritised by Research and
 Knowledge Exchange Leads.

 Recognition of the accumulating research potential of DTP, evidenced in RAE2008 and REF2014,
 catalysed investment through the expansion of an existing PT post and two new research-focused
 posts in 2017-18 (Hill and Palladini). Our submission has consequently grown from 11.4
 (REF2014) to 13.9 FTE. These appointments strengthened the international reach of DTP’s
 research, consolidated our capacities and sustainability in terms of postgraduate provisions, and
 enhanced the nature and extent of our cultural engagements, knowledge exchange work and
 impact. DTP’s 13.9 FTE submission is derived from sixteen current research-active staff (seven
 male, nine female), all of whom are on permanent contracts: four Professors (Heathfield, Hill,
 Kelleher, White), seven Readers (Bayly, Gorman, Odom, Orley, Skantze, Szeman, Wilkie),
 one Head of Ethics and Interdisciplinary Development (Greenhalgh), two Senior Lecturers
 (Palladini and Roberts), and two Senior Creative Research Fellows (Forster and Heighes).
 Submitted outputs reflect a representative selection of the different modes of our research
 production (monographs, edited collections, practice-research in multiple forms, essays and
 articles).

 Recognition of research and its strategic importance is supported through the distribution of staff
 development funding. Our reward for research performance is primarily delivered through
 promotion, which is benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles. Since Autumn
 2013, DTP staffing has been marked by dynamic progression, with seven staff promoted in
 recognition of their research achievements: Roberts (to Senior Lecturer); Odom, Orley, Szeman,
 Wilkie (to Reader); Parker-Starbuck and White (to Professor). These career trajectories have
 been nurtured in a culture of international leadership and dynamic exchange, responsive
 resources, and careful mentoring. DTP has facilitated considerable successful mid-career
 progression and promotion criteria have actively recognised the diversity of critical, creative and
 cultural practices that constitute advanced research profiles. DTP’s gender balance (56% female,
 44% male) has been maintained in its senior appointments (Readers and Professors). Three new
 female full-time research-focused appointments were made to consolidate and diversify our critical
 agendas – Lecturer (Roberts), Senior Lecturer (Palladini) and Professor (Hill) – following the
 departure (and career advancement) of three full-time staff (Josh Abrams, Johanna Linsley and
 Jennifer Parker-Starbuck) and one part-time staff retirement (Ernst Fischer). As an ECR,
 Roberts received enhanced conditions for research (through teaching reduction and accelerated
 sabbatical allowance) and has undergone career progression. Two postdoctoral ECRs have also
 been supported: Onder Cakirtas through a one-year Scientific and Technological Research
 Council of Turkey award and Laure Fernandez in a two-year appointment through European
 Council funds. 4 FTE (Gorman, Greenhalgh, Heathfield and Wilkie) will leave DTP in 2020/21,
 whilst future staffing across the School of Arts will focus on ECR investment to invigorate our
 research cultures and their sustainability.

 A rigorous individual research planning and mentoring system has been in operation since 2014,
 with researchers meeting twice yearly to work with a designated senior mentor who provides an
 experienced reflection on the individual’s priorities, dissemination strategies and funding
 applications. Written research plans from these meetings are reviewed by the Research and KE
 Lead annually and feed into research, teaching and administration workload management. Staff
 research development has been aided by careful distribution of teaching and administrative loads,
 flexibility around emergent projects and funding applications, annual formal appraisal processes
 by senior colleagues, alongside anonymous feedback on outputs from internal and external peer
 reviewers. All new staff are supported through their probationary period with clear objectives in
 relation to research, and additional workload allocations to support their integration in the unit.
 Meetings with research mentors and line managers support probation and annual appraisals,
 which offer structured opportunities to discuss career development and resources to support it.
 Through its established sabbatical system, DTP has supported 30 semester-long staff leaves (with

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 equitable gender distribution) in order to realise projects and publications. This provision has
 facilitated DTP’s high level of monographs, large-scale practice submissions, and its prolonged
 collaborative work with cultural organisations. DTP has also sustained staff research activities
 through targeted expenses, additional teaching relief and strategic resourcing and administrative
 support of impact initiatives.

 In line with its strategic aim, DTP has driven up its doctoral completions from 14 in REF2014 to 29
 in the period under review. DTP thus consolidated its standing as a leading London centre for
 international postgraduate study in the theatre and performance studies field, with a broad
 reputation for interdisciplinary perspectives, a culturally diverse international postgraduate body
 and a strong focus on practice-research. Eleven of sixteen research staff are qualified as Directors
 of Study and fifteen staff have participated in supervisory teams. A third of our recent doctoral
 graduates have gone on to full-time academic positions in the UK and abroad at the universities
 of: Sussex (Corrieri); Liverpool Hope (Alifuoco); Brunel (Paramana); the Norwegian Theatre
 Academy Norway (Eeg-Tverbakk); ArtEZ Netherlands (Kountouriotis and Greil); Yalova Turkey
 (Cizmeci); Connecticut USA (Song); Los Andes, Colombia (Arboledo-Lozada); and Coimbra,
 Portugal (Amalio), while numerous others have taken up part-time or short-term posts. Some have
 already made significant publishing interventions in the field, for instance Corrieri’s book In Place
 of a Show or Greil’s Choreo-Graphic Figures. DTP sees the cultural significance of doctoral study
 as extending far beyond the academy into broad areas of cultural production. Many of our doctoral
 graduates, such as Amalio, Argyropoulou, Corrieri, Craveiro, Davey, Gaspar, Greil, Haikala,
 Kountouriotis, Manco, McQuinn, Orfanou, Pinaka and Song, have gone on to develop exciting
 careers as independent artists with their research-driven creative outputs enriching the British and
 European theatre, performance and visual art scenes.

 Development of doctoral provision was led by the Research Degrees Convenor (Kelleher). PGR
 recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, and PGRs are able
 to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory teams. All PGR applications
 are supported by the Research Degrees Convenor and the Head of Department. PGRs are only
 recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research strategy. In a challenging and
 competitive postgraduate funding context, DTP made a substantial investment in the growth and
 sustainability of our postgraduate community: acquiring three AHRC competitive round or
 research grant scholarships, and nine TECHNE consortium scholarships, in addition to three
 university match-funded, and eight Vice-Chancellor’s, full PhD scholarships. Gorman was chair
 of the TECHNE Doctoral Training Programme Group (2014-16) and worked to establish funding
 for training initiatives and student congresses. DTP also received a TECHNE Collaborative
 Doctoral Award affiliated with Live Art Development Agency. It was the recipient of a £9,982
 TECHNE award to support a series of six subject-specific PhD study days with renowned
 international guests, ‘Art, Performance & …’, developing the research training of its postgraduates
 and others in the community. Our doctoral researchers were also successful in acquiring a £1,000
 student-led training initiative grant from TECHNE. Other external doctoral funding has included
 scholarships from the Onassis Foundation, the Gulbenkian Foundation, the Ministry of Education
 Taiwan, and the Portuguese Fundação para a Ciência e a Tecnologia. We have a strong strategy
 to maintain and diversify our doctoral provision and culture, through enhanced marketing; annual
 applications for collaborative doctoral awards; research project funding applications containing
 doctoral provision; and applications for further TECHNE training initiatives.

 Our current cohort of 14 doctoral researchers (PGRs) hail from Austria, Germany, Ireland, Italy,
 Portugal, Taiwan and the UK. 7% identify as BAME and 86% as female. DTP is proud of its
 diverse, collegial and vital postgraduate culture. Our PGRs benefit from being members of a cross-
 University community, through the training and events offered by the Graduate School. DTP staff
 work closely with PGRs to identify and re-evaluate their training needs throughout their
 development and contribute extensively to the Graduate School’s programme of professional
 development and research skills sessions. TECHNE embeds a cohort approach to research
 training, creating networking opportunities for an interdisciplinary community of doctoral scholars.
 Working with the creative industries, through research partnership and co-supervision, also
 provides clear pathways to academic and non-academic employment. Aside its own TECHNE

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study days, DTP annually contributes a number of subject-specific training sessions. DTP’s PGRs
 are allocated a minimum £600 towards expenses, with TECHNE-funded researchers able to
 access £2,000 additional expenses and potential scholarship extensions of between six and
 twelve months. DTP provides a dedicated, computer-equipped study space for doctoral
 researchers and priority access to a performance studio for practice-research. All of our PGRs are
 members of RCPCE and actively participate in its numerous events. Practice-researchers are
 encouraged to show work within TECHNE study days and independently in our studios, and to
 contribute to a range of fora including the TECHNE DTP annual interdisciplinary congress (rotating
 between institutions) and the University’s annual Research Student conference: self-organised
 exchanges are often used to rehearse future conference presentations. Our PGRs have regularly
 been supported to present their research at conferences globally and at the London Theatre
 Seminar in a year-long programme of national and international speakers. They also co-convened
 the Society for Theatre Research's New Researchers’ Network annual symposium at Roehampton
 (2017). Each PGR is given annual opportunities to shadow and be mentored by staff teaching on
 an undergraduate module, and any available paid teaching experience is open to all doctoral
 researchers as a professional development activity. PGRs in teaching positions are required to
 take a Postgraduate Certificate for Teaching in HE or the University’s SEDA-accredited
 Introduction to Teaching course. PGRs actively contribute to teaching and research culture
 management through discussions with supervisory teams, and through an elected student
 representative. DTP’s RAG is also a space for staff discussion of strategic issues in relation to
 postgraduate provision and for pertinent reflection on supervisory processes. Staff and PGR
 wellbeing support is delivered through our college system. All researchers are affiliated to one of
 our four colleges, who provide research events, community building opportunities, and dedicated
 Wellbeing Officers for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training
 in 2020, whilst dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on
 mental health.

 DTP is eager to address the chronic lack of racial diversity in the performing arts scholarly
 disciplines and the inequalities surrounding women at higher grades in university employment.
 DTP’s research-active staff is balanced in relation to gender: 56% are women, and women
 constitute 55% of the DTP’s senior appointments with five female promotions having taken place
 in the period. Our selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality and diversity
 analysis to capture any adverse effects on staff with protected characteristics. 52% of our 33
 submitted outputs are attributed to female staff, 3% to staff who declared a disability, 3% to BAME
 staff and 21% to staff identifying as LGBTQI+. We have strived for an inclusive submission by
 authors of all career levels, with 39% of our submission attributed to Professors, 30% to Readers
 and 12% to Senior Lecturers. However, DTP lacks a comparable degree of racial diversity. The
 research investments of DTP staff in de-colonising critical and pedagogic practices infuse their
 approaches to postgraduate supervision, doctoral culture and RCPCE’s public program. DTP staff
 have championed agendas around sexual politics and diversity in the research cultures of the
 university and the field and is committed to addressing racial inequality in its workforce through all
 new appointments. Priority areas for new research specialisms in the staff body include:
 indigenous, diasporic and de-colonised theatres and performances; postcolonial theory, black
 studies and performance; world performance traditions and contemporary practices; sub-altern or
 minoritarian aesthetic traditions and practices; transnational circulations in world theatre;
 intersectionality, diversity politics and performance; neuro-diversity and disability arts. Since 2017,
 DTP has made efforts to promote cultural diversity in advertised PhD scholarships. DTP hopes
 that these initiatives go some way in addressing systemic inequalities and the underrepresentation
 of BAME candidates at postdoctoral and ECR levels of employment, but it recognises that this
 work must be sustained in the long-term to address profound structural change.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 DTP achieved its strategic aim of developing large collaborative research projects and funding
 bids involving national and international partners, with emphasis on culturally engaged work and
 knowledge exchange activities. Externally sourced research expenditure of c. £795K has been
 attained through an array of support structures that have diversified participation in, and enhanced

                                                                                                 Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the number and scale of, funding applications, whilst focusing and refining the quality of our
 bidding. Established infrastructures such as research workload weighting, sabbatical provision
 and targeted seed-funding have played a significant part in this development, but the continuous
 support of dedicated arts and humanities Research Development Officers has enabled greater
 advance bid planning and a DTP bid rota secures strategic priorities whilst enabling collective
 transparency and parity. Bid quality has been improved through rigorous advance internal peer-
 review of application drafts by senior colleagues with grant attainment track records. Impact
 activities associated with received awards have been supported by an arts-dedicated Impact
 Officer. Expenditure of research awards totalled c. £573K (72.1% of all expenditure) with research
 projects driven by Bayly, Heathfield, Abrams, O’Connor (an AHRC funded Creative Fellow) and
 Orley.

 DTP has had particular success in advancing leadership capacity with staff with funding track
 records. Bayly, who was previously the recipient of an AHRC Creative Fellowship, developed a
 number of funded projects in the period. From September 2013 to March 2014, he worked on ‘Co-
 created and Immersive Stories’ with the support of a £15,000 Creativeworks London award. The
 project was a collaboration with Stellar Network, a new research and development agency working
 with emerging talent from the theatre, film, television and games sectors looking to create cross-
 platform projects with commercial, arts and heritage organisations. Bayly designed and ran a six-
 month training programme in transmedia project design for 20 selected professionals from the
 fields of theatre, film, software development, game design and creative technology, initiating and
 managing collaborations with several partner organisations, including the National Trust, the
 London International Festival of Theatre and HarperCollins, with participants designing and
 prototyping projects in response to briefs set by these organisations. Impacts included the
 enhancement of individual artists’ career trajectories and new organisational affinities. In 2016,
 Bayly was awarded a Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship (October 2016 - June 2018,
 £46,724) for the project ‘Acts of Assembly’, exploring meetings, gatherings and assemblies as
 performative genres within a range of contemporary contexts. Working with Linsley as a Research
 Associate, the project brought perspectives from theatre and performance studies into contact
 with those drawn from psychoanalysis, political philosophy, social anthropology and organisation
 studies to develop an innovative transdisciplinary framework for considering the meeting as
 pervasive genre of group interaction that has only recently emerged as a distinct object of study.
 Outcomes to date have included journal and book chapter publications, live performance and a
 two-week theatre workshop collaboration with children aged 9-11 from The Hackney Pirates (a
 UK charity working with creative approaches to literacy) and the Arcola Theatre’s youth
 programme, in partnership with the international branding agency Sunshine. Key impacts of this
 work were the transformation of internal organisational practices of partners.

 Similarly, Heathfield, whose previous medium-scale research grants and follow-on funding from
 AHRC continued into the period, developed a successful larger scale project with international
 culture sector partners. From January 2014 to December 2016, he conducted the ‘Curating the
 Ephemeral’ project, funded by a €392,423 (£326,295) Marie Curie International Outgoing
 Fellowship from the European Commission. The investigation of diverse curatorial approaches to
 immaterial art and performance practices within and outside of international art institutions,
 resulted in writerly and curatorial research activities, four significant curatorial works, six essays
 and three interviews in books and catalogues, and twenty knowledge exchange events in cultural
 sector venues and universities internationally. Key curatorial outputs in the period were: 1) Co-
 curation with Prof. André Lepecki (New York University) of Afterlives: The Persistence of
 Performance, a three-day public event at Museum of Modern Art and FIAF New York as part of
 the Crossing the Line Festival, 25th – 27th September 2015; 2) Curation of ghost telephone, a
 one-month long chain performance, commissioned by the Biennale of Sydney as part of the
 Embassy of Spirits at the Art Gallery of New South Wales, Sydney, 15th March – 15th April 2016;
 3) Independent Curation of an exhibition, Ally, by Janine Antoni, Anna Halprin, Stephen Petronio,
 taking the form of performances, installation environments, video, and sculptures at Fabric
 Workshop and Museum, Philadelphia, 21st April – 31st July 2016. The research included the
 editing of a book, Ally, arising from the exhibition and the co-direction, co-editing and writing of
 Spirit Labour a forty-minute audiovisual essay on spirited affinities made in collaboration with

                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 photographer Hugo Glendinning. 4) Co-curation with the freethought collective of the Bergen
 Assembly, 1st – 30th September 2016, including the Infrastructure exhibition and The
 Infrastructure Summit. These numerous collaborations with an array of culture-sector partners,
 involving diverse forms of public engagement and extensive audiences, had considerable
 influence in critical arenas and impact upon individual artists’ career trajectories, arts
 organisations’ curatorial practices and arts spectators’ perceptions and values.

 Throughout 2017, Heathfield worked on the initial research for Things That Go Through Your
 Mind When Falling. The Work of Forced Entertainment (2021) supported by a British
 Academy / Leverhulme Small Research Grant of £7,500. The funding facilitated image research
 and archival assistance for an edited anthology on the UK’s most renowned experimental theatre
 company. The volume, published after the census date, is at once a comprehensive visual
 document of this body of work, a definitive critical address to the company’s oeuvre, and a forceful
 intervention in the discourse on contemporary performance, theatre and visual art. In 2018
 Heathfield began work on ‘Art, Performance & …’, a doctoral research training programme of six
 intensive study days over two years, supported by a TECHNE Conflux award of £9,982. The
 project, hosted by DTP but open to TECHNE students at all TECHNE partnership institutions and
 other interested PhD students, staged intensive training days around key concepts in critical
 theory that have impacted upon the study of art and performance: materiality, the sonorous, free
 association, political imagination, and the act. Sessions were run by DTP staff with a research
 specialism pertaining to the concept, in collaboration with an internationally renowned visiting
 academic or artist.

 Other staff at the beginning of accumulating academic research funding profiles had success in
 attaining small-scale project awards. From March 2014, Abrams worked on ‘Cooking in Time: The
 World Dinners’ with the support of a £9,130 Creativeworks London award exploring restaurants
 and cuisine as spaces of performance intervention. In 2016, Gorman received an award from Ede
 and Ravenscroft Research Fund of £1,000 to support a UK based research project on feminist
 performance. In 2019, Orley was the recipient of a £1,000 TECHNE award to realise a doctoral
 study day around creative criticism and its relation to the transformation of research
 methodologies. PhD candidates were also successful in acquiring small awards: in 2018 Bettina
 Knaup received a £2,500 award from Santander to pursue research on performance curation in
 South America; in 2019 Georg Docker received a £1,000 TECHNE training award to organise a
 study day around performance politics.

 DTP staff were frequent participants in awards from arts organisations, charities and foundations,
 making a significant contribution to international cultural provision and the individuals’ and DTP’s
 research impact. These included: Forster and Heighes receipt of £6,720 from Wimbledon Space
 Gallery to support their practice-research Trig Point (complemented by £2000 of seed funding by
 DTP); Heathfield’s work with Janine Antoni and the Fabric Workshop and Museum on Ally’s
 successful Pew Charitable Foundation award of US$360,000 (2014-16); for Hill and her company
 Curious, an Arts Council England Grant of £25,000 (2018-19) a Stanford Woods Institute for the
 Environment Vision Award of US$50,000 (2017-19) and hosting/commissioning fees of £5,000
 from Norfolk & Norwich Festival, £3,575 from 2 Degrees Festival, £3,000 from the City of London
 and £2,000 from Home Live Art; Linsley’s receipt of an Arts Council England Grant of £15,000
 (2016) for Stolen Voices, and her Silver City Stories Commission of £15,000 (2017) funded by
 Aberdeen City Council, Visit Aberdeenshire and University of Aberdeen; for Orley a Guernsey
 Arts Commission Award of £2,800 for the curation of a site-responsive group exhibition and
 performance event. Responsive university support and resourcing in each instance was brought
 to facilitate organisational collaborations, public engagement, knowledge exchange and a diverse
 array of impacts on arts organisations and spectators.

 DTP’s strategic aim of developing its postgraduate research culture was secured through the
 attainment of significant internal and external funding in highly competitive contexts. Externally
 attained postgraduate scholarships totalled c. £281K in the period. This resource was enhanced
 by inward investment from the University’s multiple rounds of PhD scholarships under the Vice-


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Chancellor’s and Sacred Heart schemes, totalling £394,267, significantly boosting doctoral
 completions and research culture.

 The University’s capital investment, including a RIBA award winning library, new conference
 facilities, and specifically an upgraded Sir David Bell Media Centre, which houses a cinema, film
 studio, sound recording studio, edit suites and exhibition space, provide housing and a catalyst
 for a range of research and performance activities, benefiting our researchers at all levels. An
 organisational partnership with Live Art Development Agency on a Collaborative Doctoral Award
 has facilitated sustained access to its unparalleled archive of performance art documentation and
 critical thought, feeding into funding applications in development. DTP also benefits from
 significant investment in technical support for performance, maintaining a dedicated fully-equipped
 Performance Research Studio available for use in staff and doctoral researcher’s projects,
 alongside four other theatre studios and a design workshop. New breakout spaces, and a new
 technically sophisticated sound recording booth have also been added to DTP’s research facilities.
 The Performance Research Studio has proved invaluable in fostering DTP’s cultural engagement
 projects, for instance Karen Christopher (2014-16) and GETINTHEBACKOFTHEVAN’s (2012-15)
 periods as Visiting Artists, in which they produced new performance works through funded
 residencies with us, later seen at Sadler’s Wells and Spill Festival. In this way, our research
 infrastructures contribute to scenes of cultural production, whilst enhancing public engagement
 and knowledge exchange activities. These facilities enable routes to impact in larger scale projects
 but given the cultural location of that impact and its global reach, it largely takes place within
 external infrastructures. In this regard DTP, is enmeshed with and dependent upon the resources
 and facilities of the cultural sector. Our major impacts were attained through the infrastructures of
 an international museum and a broadcasting corporation.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 DTP sees collaboration as the primary driver of its academic and cultural engagements: since
 2014 it has made cooperative outreach a strategic priority, resourcing approaches to a diverse
 range of activities through numerous means: teaching relief and sabbaticals for engaged research,
 targeted seed-funding to develop impact-oriented projects, grant applications that embed cross-
 sector organisational collaborations, and expenses funding to develop professional networks and
 public dissemination of research. Consequently, the reach, scale and number of our academic
 and cultural engagements has considerably expanded. On the one hand, this has seen staff
 participating in more pronounced and extensive ways within national and international academic
 networks, research councils and professional associations, delivering a panoply of international
 public keynotes, taking up influential work in international publishing initiatives, and playing
 research advisory, examining and appointment roles for an array of academic institutions. On the
 other hand, it has involved a marked advance in our organisational partnerships, leading to large-
 scale public research projects with esteemed museum, arts sector and university partners. These
 activities have seen DTP staff making singular, influential interventions within the global
 discourses of theatre and performance studies. They have also made significant creative-cultural
 contributions that have reached diverse large-scale international audiences and new beneficiaries,
 enacted vital shifts in cultural understanding, and materially informed cultural production by
 enhancing the careers of leading artists influencing the practices of major cultural institutions. Our
 goal has been to create sustainable collaborations with artists and major organisations globally
 that hold future potential. At the same time, we have striven to broaden and intensify cultural
 engagements within our locality, deepening our regular partnerships, community affinities and
 London-based audiences through RCPCE.

 Staff have been active academic community participants through a range of professional roles,
 and have led, organised and curated numerous international critical arts events. Our contributions
 to academic infrastructure and international leadership have seen staff working within the steering
 committees of the Association for Theatre in Higher Education (ATHE) and Performance Studies
 International (PSi), as well as convening ongoing working groups such as Linsley (2016-19) and
 Roberts’ (2019-present) stewardships of ‘Documenting Performance’ (Theatre and Performance
 Research Association) and Wilkie’s convening of the major conference PSi: Fluid States:

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Performing Mobilities (Melbourne, 2015). We are the home of former Presidents and Vice-
 Presidents of professional associations and staff are active members of a diverse set of 16
 organisations globally.

 Staff facilitate the production of high-quality research through regular evaluations for key research
 and arts funding bodies: Leverhulme Trust; Arts and Humanities Research Council; Arts Council
 England; Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada; Fulbright. Our voices
 have been heard through innumerable papers and speeches at international academic
 conferences. The spread of keynote hosts, which indicates the depth of this contribution to the
 international research base, includes: School of the Art Institute of Chicago, Uniarts Helsinki, Freie
 Universitat Berlin, Akademie Der Bildenden Kunste Vienna, Amsterdam University of the Arts,
 Kunstakademie Dusseldorf, Clark Art Institute Williamstown, University Grenoble Alps, l'Université
 de Paris, California Institute of Integral Studies, Stanford University, Latvian Academy of Culture
 Riga, Faculty of Dramatic Arts Belgrade, Freie Universitat Berlin, Research Pavilion (Venice
 Biennale), New York University, University of Stockholm, Katholische Universität Eichstätt-
 Ingolstadt. Meanwhile, staff have been dedicated to the furtherance of the work of others in
 affiliated communities through the peer reviewing of innumerable books for key publishers in the
 field. DTP staff also contributed many article peer-reviews in an extensive set of journals within
 and adjacent to our field. The considerable academic labour of editing field journals has been
 conducted by Szeman for Feminist Review, Odom for Studies in Theatre and Performance, and
 editorial board work by Parker-Starbuck for Theatre Journal and Gorman, Linsley and Wilkie for
 Contemporary Theatre Review. Kelleher is the series editor of Thinking Through Theatre for
 Bloomsbury Methuen. This wide field influence was also reflected in many instances of senior staff
 acting globally as evaluators of Professorial and tenured appointments. They have also fulfilled
 the roles of postgraduate programme advisors, guest teachers and doctoral examiners in
 Amsterdam, Barranquilla, Bogotà, Grenoble, Helsinki, Leipzig, Madrid, New York, Paris, Riga,
 Stockholm, and at many UK universities.

 The period witnessed numerous research projects enacted in partnership with major cultural
 organisations (involving large-scale budgets and many cultural sector employments). Two of these
 are submitted as impact case studies: White’s collaborations with BBC commissioners on
 adaptive and original audio dramas connecting with millions of listeners over multiple media and
 broadcasts; Heathfield’s two-year placement with Columbia University School of the Arts and
 through this fellowship his collaboration with Taipei Fine Arts Museum to realise the Taiwan
 Pavilion at the Venice Biennale, leading to engagement with over a hundred thousand spectators.
 The case studies evidence the global and cultural diversity of their audiences, alongside the ways
 this research furthers the strategic objectives of partner organisations and funders. These highly
 culturally engaged works took place against a context of many other medium-scale projects that
 have generated significant social and economic impact. Hill’s work with Curious on Wild Longings
 produced by long-term collaborators Artsadmin with the aid of the Stanford Woods Institute for the
 Environment and the Plant Biology Department at the Carnegie Institution for Science continues
 to tour global sites. In its first three iterations working with around 600 participants, it raised
 resources for the Woodland Trust and increased public awareness of local conservation spaces
 and environmental stewardship techniques. Heathfield’s work with performance curators at the
 Museum of Modern Art in New York on the popular Afterlives events around performance in the
 museum engaged an audience of 800 people live, and subsequently c.39,000 plays of its online
 documentation. The relation led to three subsequent essay publications by Heathfield for the
 Museum.

 These engagements were accompanied by an array of other collaborative relations locally,
 nationally and internationally. In London, Bayly developed processes and events with The
 Hackney Pirates (a charity working in the field of literacy with young people) that enhanced cultural
 appreciation for struggling school students; Gorman ran a daylong workshop on documentation
 with Lisa Watts at the John Hansard Gallery as part of her Not a Decorator exhibition; Heathfield
 worked with Rich Mix Cinema on a daylong screening and symposium of his performance
 dialogues films; Kelleher worked with the Barbican Gallery to curate a daylong artist-led event
 alongside its Ragnar Kjartansson exhibition, including an engagement project for fourteen 18-25

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 year olds. Other projects included staff events at ten theatres and galleries in London and
 nationally at: Common Guild Gallery (Glasgow); Snape Maltings (Aldeburgh); SPILL Festival
 (Ipswich); Helix Arts (Newcastle); East Durham Creates (Peterlee); Aberdeen Performing Arts;
 Station House Media Unit Youth Media, Anatomy Rooms (Aberdeen); Arts Bournemouth;
 Guernsey Gatehouse Gallery; Norfolk and Norwich Festival; Home Live Art (Hastings); Colchester
 Arts Centre; Summerhall (Edinburgh); Nottingham Contemporary and the Edinburgh Festival. On
 international stages our work placed critical frameworks in relation to diverse creative formats in
 many public arenas: Kelleher co-ordinated a day-long public event of artist discussions for the
 opening of Kunstenfestivaldesarts (Brussels); Palladini and Kelleher presented readings of works
 from Palladini’s ‘Affective Archives’ project; at Volt (Bergen) Heathfield mounted a dialogue event
 with choreographer Wendy Houstoun; Kelleher created dialogues between scholars and artists
 on approaches to writing at Hauge National Poetry Centre (Ulvik); Palladini engaged in a public
 dialogue with director Rolf Abderhalden at Museo El Chopo (Mexico City); Skantze staged textual-
 visual interventions into several opera productions for National Theatre of Croatia (Rijeka). Staff
 have influenced public opinion and enriched cultural discourse through keynotes at renowned
 international arts venues including: Royal Shakespeare Company, Stratford (Greenhalgh); Art
 Gallery of New South Wales Sydney, Dancehouse Melbourne, Statens Museum for Kunst
 Copenhagen, Hebbel am Ufer Berlin, Haus Der Kunst Munich, Azkuna Zentroa Bilbao, Hong Kong
 Arts Centre, Nationaltheatret Oslo, Judson Memorial Church New York (Heathfield); Centro de
 Danza Teatros del Canal Madrid, Het Veem Theatre and Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam,
 Santarcangelo Festival, Birmingham Repertory Theatre, National Museum of Wales Cardiff
 (Kelleher). Each of these engagements brought advanced critical thought into contact with
 creative practices in public engagement contexts, improving societal understandings and
 appreciations.

 A unique dynamic of our cultural engagement has been our ability to sustain longstanding critical-
 creative relations with key cultural figures that have led to significant cultural outputs. These
 include Hill’s decades-long collaboration with Helen Paris in their company Curious. Kelleher’s
 long-term dialogic relation with Chiara Guidi, Claudia and Romeo Castellucci of Societas Raffaello
 Sanzio, which led to public dialogues at Malta Festival (Poznan), the Spring Festival Utrecht and
 a doctoral study day at Roehampton, alongside Kelleher’s contributions to schools for young
 artists convened by the company in Italy. Kelleher has also mounted repeated collaborations with
 Simon Vincenzi including his contribution to Kelleher’s aforementioned Barbican event with a
 group of young creatives aged 18-25; and with Kinkaleri on the project ‘All for All!’ resulting in
 Kelleher’s essay in the eponymous book. Heathfield has sustained curatorial and publication
 realisations with Tehching Hsieh, the Live Art Development Agency, Forced Entertainment and
 Janine Antoni. Palladini has frequently collaborated with Mapa Teatro. Gorman has conducted a
 sustained research dialogue with GETINTHEBACKOFTHEVAN during their commissioned
 residency in DTP. Each of these relations has led to multi-form processes and outputs, enriching
 the quality of the artists’ work, advancing their career development and extending their audiences
 and readerships. While each of the specific engagements detailed above may carry intangible and
 deferred impacts, for DTP, cumulatively, they represent an extensive, vital and tangible global
 impact on individual participants, audiences, artists and arts organisations.




                                                                                            Page 12
