Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:

 Leeds Trinity University

 Unit of Assessment:

 31 Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 [Note: Category A staff (3) in the Unit in bold. Category A staff (4) in the Unit who left the institution
 prior to 31.07.2020 underlined. Research students and other staff outside the Unit in normal text.]

 The Theology and Religious Studies (TRS) Unit at Leeds Trinity University (LTU) has benefited
 from specialist academic expertise in various contributing disciplines including philosophy, ethics,
 religious studies and theology, leading to a vibrant interdisciplinary research environment. The
 Unit’s research focus has been on building strong links with the third sector, which plays to LTU’s
 strengths as a University with strong links to the local community, and its Mission, vision and
 values centred on respect, dignity and inclusion, social and economic wellbeing (Mission, vision
 and values - About - Leeds Trinity University).

 The three category A staff included in REF2021 are Dr Suzanne Owen, Dr Ann Marie Mealey
 and Dr Shyane Siriwardena. Owen specialises in the study of religion, with a focus on indigenous
 religion and contemporary paganism. Mealey specialises in moral theology and social justice,
 whilst Siriwardena specialises in metaphysics and causation. TRS category A staff members who
 were in the Department during the assessment period but have since left were Prof Kirsteen Kim,
 Dr Hannah Hunt, Dr Patricia Kelly and Dr Anna Piela.

 Prior to 2019, TRS were part of the Department of Humanities, with History and English, the
 leading research Department in LTU, with the three areas continuing to work together in co-
 supervision of research students and through the Leeds Centre for Victorian Studies (LCVS).
 In 2019, TRS moved to the Department of Children, Young People and Families (CYPF) within
 the Institute of Childhood and Education (ICE). This has enabled the team to build on previous
 University collaborations and, through synergies within ICE, begin to develop new ones,
 externally, in the areas of social justice and education, and to enhance inclusion and the
 teaching of religious education in schools (see strategic aims below).

 TRS staff have had regular representation as members of LTU’s research committees helping
 to shape the University’s research strategies. Both Kim and Owen have sat on the Research
 and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC). Owen was Chair of the School of Arts and
 Communications Research Ethics subcommittee until 2019 and is currently a member of
 RKEC and the Research Degree subcommittee. Siriwardena is currently serving as an
 external member on the School of Communications, Business and Law Research Ethics and
 Integrity subcommittee. In addition, Owen is a member of LTU’s two Research Centres (more
 below).

 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact during the assessment period

 LTU’s institutional research strategy up to the year 2018 was to have more staff contributing
 research outputs across the academic disciplines and to support staff toward gaining a PhD,
 while the 2018-2021 research strategy has focussed on research and research impact through
 a range of collaborations outside the University sector. The strategy also involved recruiting and
 supporting PGRs and by the census date there were 26 completions, including 5 from this Unit
 (and two further completions in TRS by the end of 2020).

 The REF2014 research strategy for TRS had five aims, which dovetailed with the institutional
 strategies. All of these aims have been achieved by TRS.

                                                                                                    Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (1) to encourage high-quality publications and grant applications.

 The Unit’s current staff have produced a significant corpus of high-quality outputs enabling a
 strong selection to be made for the current submission. Former TRS staff and the Unit’s PhD
 students had also produced a number of quality publications during the current REF
 assessment period. Current and former staff had also received small grants from various
 external bodies, including charities, to support their research (detailed in section 3).

 (2) to make use of research networks and to host one major conference.

 TRS hosted the annual conference of the British Association for the Study of Religions (BASR)
 in 2019 at LTU, co-organised with members of the International Research Centre for Interactive
 Storytelling (IRIS), a Research Centre based at LTU (see more in section 4). It was attended
 by staff and PhD students in TRS and Media and had over 60 participants, including
 international presenters from Ireland, Hungary, Germany, Iran, Columbia, Japan and the USA.

 TRS has invited external speakers for interdisciplinary research seminars at LTU, enriching
 the research environment at LTU, such as Dr Alana Vincent (Chester, strengthening links with
 TRS in a fellow Cathedrals Group University). We also had a number of public lecturers
 organised in collaboration with the chaplaincy at LTU, including one given by Prof Mark Wynn
 (University of Leeds, strengthening links with the TRS Department there) and one by Prof
 Linda Woodhead (University of Lancaster, in 2016), who also gave an additional talk about the
 REF and applying for research funding to LTU staff.

 (3) to develop links with churches and other charitable bodies.

 For REF2014, the Impact Case Studies submitted both came through links to churches and/or
 charitable bodies – Kim primarily with the World Council of Churches and Hunt primarily with
 Monos, a charity for fostering a monastic spirit within Christianity – and this focus remains the
 case for REF2021.

 Mealey has developed solid and active links with churches as part of Leeds Citizens and the
 Living Wage campaign, where her research has made an impact (see Mealey’s ICS). Social
 justice is a key theme in Mealey’s research developed in collaboration with Leeds Trinity
 institutionally as well as with staff in CYPF. This led to a volume Everyday Social Justice and
 Citizenship (Routledge, 2019) co-edited by Mealey with staff members in CYPF. Mealey is also
 co-chair of Leeds Citizens: “an alliance of faith, education and community organisations, working
 together for the common good of Leeds” (https://www.citizensuk.org/chapters/leeds), of which
 Leeds Trinity University is a principal member.

 Owen has several ongoing research projects which develop her collaborative links and
 partnership with faith bodies, one in cooperation with the Anglican Church of Canada Central
 Diocese of Newfoundland and another with the Druid Network, a registered charity, which has
 had an impact on how the Pagan Federation plan to frame their next application for charity
 registration (see Owen’s ICS).

 Several former staff in TRS had also forged links with churches and the third sector. Piela
 collaborated with the Muslim Women’s Council as a research consultant 2014-15. Kim was
 consultant at the Archbishop of Canterbury’s Theological Retreat Group in Canterbury in
 December 2016. Hunt had several invitations to speak at meetings organised by Orthodox
 Christians in Romania and in Russia.

 (4) to build a centre for excellence for mission and world Christianity, which would
 contribute to internationalisation of the University.

 Kim was spearheading this research strategy before she left (in 2017) and had attracted three
 high-quality PhD students in the area of mission studies. She was the editor in chief, assisted

                                                                                            Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 by one of her PhD students (Gary McKee), for Missions Studies: Journal of the International
 Association for Mission Studies while at LTU. In addition, she was academic advisor for the
 International Association for Mission Studies general conference in Seoul in August 2016. Her
 success was recognised in her offer of a post as Professor of Theology and World Christianity at
 Fuller Theological Seminary in California.

 Owen has continued elements of this strategy with her research into Anglican missionaries’
 encounters with the now extinct (c.1829) Beothuk Indians in Newfoundland. In December
 2020, Owen and her collaborator from Newfoundland presented a paper for the Leeds Centre
 of Victorian Studies (LCVS) research seminar at LTU on the involvement of an early 19th
 century Anglican missionary in the capture of one the last known Beothuk Indians, which is
 being developed into a journal article (more on this research below).

 (5) to use the increased national and international standing of its staff to attract more
 research masters and PhD students.

 TRS has been able to attract PhD students of a high calibre, four of them receiving fully funded
 studentships from LTU (see more about them below in section 2). By December 2020, TRS
 staff had supervised a quarter of Leeds Trinity’s total completions (7 out of 28). TRS has also
 attracted several Masters’ by Research students, two of whom are currently co-supervised
 with Psychology and a third with Computing, which links to TRS’s research strategy for the
 next period, to build interdisciplinary collaborations.

 Strategy for impact during the 2014-2020 period

 In relation to impact, TRS has focussed in particular on its 3 rd aim above of developing links
 with churches and the third sector. Of former staff in TRS, Kim received funding for teaching
 replacement for research on Christianity in Korea, building on her REF2014 ICS and links with the
 World Council of Churches, while Piela received funding for research in collaboration with Muslim
 women in Bradford (see more on these in section 4).

 Mealey has been building and nurturing partnerships with organisations such as Leeds Citizens
 and participating in the Living Wage Campaign (Mealey’s ICS) and Owen’s links with the Druid
 Network for research on “religion” in contemporary Druidry was picked up by the Pagan Federation
 as they were preparing their charity application and also in the media on whether Ethical Veganism
 could be regarded as a “religion and/or belief” under the Equality Act (Owen’s ICS).

 Details of future strategic aims

 TRS is contributing to LTU’s aim of achieving Full Degree Awarding Powers through application
 to award Research Degrees in the next cycle by demonstrating appropriate vitality and
 sustainability in the research environment at institutional and disciplinary levels. The focus will
 encompass both applied research and associated knowledge exchange and research impact
 activities. In particular, TRS’s strategy for impact in the next period is to build on its links with
 charitable bodies and a newly emerging aim to influence teaching of religion, ethics and
 philosophy in schools and in higher education, strengthened by the relocation of TRS into the
 Institute of Childhood and Education.

 TRS’s 2021 research strategy has these four aims:

 (1) Build on existing interdisciplinary collaborations within LTU and develop new ones.

 LTU encourages interdisciplinary collaborations across disciplines, which maintains and
 develops the sustainability and vitality of the research environment. TRS will build on existing
 interdisciplinary collaborations and extend them, both within LTU and beyond.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Mealey, as Senior Teaching Fellow since 2020 and the Coordinator of the PGCert in Higher
 Education, is developing new connections within the Institute of Childhood and Education,
 including in the area of pedagogical research in Higher Education. Her work with Leeds Citizens
 also has potential to bring in staff from other disciplines. Mealey is also continuing to bring in
 other colleagues in CYPF and elsewhere to contribute to research into social justice issues,
 this time on ways of bringing them into educational contexts, building on earlier collaborations
 that resulted in the volume Everyday Social Justice and Citizenship.

 TRS links with colleagues in the School of Communications Business and Law continue with
 Owen participating in the Leeds Centre for Victorian Studies (LCVS) Research Centre with
 her research on Anglicans in Newfoundland (the activities of LCVS are included in the
 submission for UoA 27). At the end of 2020, Owen also became a member of LTU’s
 International Research Centre for Interactive Storytelling (IRIS), building on collaborations that
 began with the organisation of the 2019 British Association for the Study of Religions
 conference (the activities of IRIS are included in the submission for UoA 33). Owen and
 members of IRIS are in the early stages of developing a project combining the study of religion
 with documentary filmmaking.

 (2) Secure at least one major research grant.

 One benefit of developing interdisciplinary collaborations is the underpinning of work aimed at
 securing research funding. Each of the category A staff belong to networks within LTU (in ICE and
 LTU’s two Research Centres) and externally, either with the third sector or academics at other
 institutions both nationally and internationally for this purpose.

 One funding application in progress is Owen’s for the final stage of research on Anglicans and the
 Beothuk with a collaborator in Newfoundland, connecting it to the reconciliation work of the
 Anglican Church of Canada, in particular through the Truth and Reconciliation’s aim of “addressing
 the ongoing legacies of colonialism that have had destructive impacts on Aboriginal peoples”
 (principle 4) by examining the role of the Anglicans in the years leading to and the ongoing legacy
 of the demise of the Beothuk Indians in Newfoundland and recovering the stories of named
 Beothuk individuals. This research builds on Owen’s British Academy Small Grant award for
 “Remembering the Beothuk in Newfoundland” in 2013 and funding from the Anglican Church of
 Canada Central Diocese in Newfoundland in 2018-2019 (see section 3 below).

 (3) Build on links with churches and the third sector.

 Owen and Mealey both continue to engage with elements of wider society as part of TRS’s
 strategy for impact. Thus, part of TRS’s research strategy for 2021 is to strengthen these links
 further. Mealey’s research on social justice continues to inform her connections to Le eds
 Citizens and the Leeds Church Institute while Owen’s research on contemporary Druids and
 Pagans continues with links to the Druid Network, a registered charity. It is supportive of Owen’s
 research for a forthcoming publication on the social impact of often negative or stereotypical
 representations of Druidry and Pagans in the media and popular culture. In addition, Owen is
 continuing her collaboration with the Anglican Church in Newfoundland with a journal article in
 progress and plans for a monograph.

 (4) Make an impact in the field of education (in schools and in higher education)

 Making use of TRS’s location in the Institute of Childhood and Education, Mealey is reshaping
 the Postgraduate Certificate in Higher Education at LTU and mentoring new staff, which is
 leading to new collaborative research opportunities in the area of pedagogy. In addition, as a
 member of the network for Catholic Religious Education Development Opportunities (CREDO)
 and building on her expertise in Catholic social teaching, Mealey is bringing ethical
 considerations and social justice issues into Catholic education at all levels, including non -
 governmental organisations.


                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Owen was invited by the Commission for Religious Education for a series of consultations
 hosted by Religious Education Council (REC) consultations June 2020 because of her
 research on the category of religion in 2020. Further events connected to their Worldviews
 project include CPD for teachers and REC members (educators and representatives of faith
 groups). Owen will continue to develop these links as a strategy for impact.

 2. People

 The three full-time permanent staff in TRS specialise across the three areas of Philosophy,
 Ethics and Religion and contribute interdisciplinary expertise within TRS and beyond. Two
 were promoted from Grade 8 to 9 (Mealey and Owen) during the 2014-2020 period and one
 new staff member was appointed to her first substantive academic post (Siriwardena).

 Dr Ann Marie Mealey has been at Leeds Trinity since 2006 and in 2020 was promoted from
 Senior Lecturer to Senior Teaching Fellow for her work on the University-wide ethics and
 society undergraduate provision and the development of the Postgraduate Certificate in
 Higher Education for staff and research students, which includes a research component. She
 supervised one Theology PhD to completion and is also a mentor for new staff. Mealey has
 been involved in the Living Wage campaign, of which Leeds Trinity was an early supporter,
 and her edited volume on Everyday Social Justice and Citizenship, to which she contributed
 several chapters, underpins her impact case study (Mealey’s ICS).

 Dr Suzanne Owen arrived in 2008 and was promoted from Senior Lecturer to Reader in 2018.
 She was lead supervisor for four postgraduate completions at LTU and was the internal examiner
 for three others in TRS. Owen was also an external examiner for one PhD at the Oxford Centre
 for Mission Studies. She has collaborated with Druid and Pagan groups on her research, in
 particular with regards to their applications for charity registration which relates to Owen’s
 impact case study (Owen’s ICS). This research produced two of her outputs, one in
 collaboration with Teemu Taira “The Category of ‘Religion’ in Public Classification: Charity
 Registration of the Druid Network in England and Wales” (2015) and the other “The Problem with
 Paganism in Charity Registration in England and Wales” (2018).

 Dr Shyane Siriwardena arrived in 2019 for philosophy after holding a postdoc at Leeds and
 a teaching fellowship in Cambridge. An early career researcher, she is contributing to the
 REF for the first time.

 Previous staff in TRS also contributed a number of outputs during this REF period. Hunt wrote
 A Guide to St Symeon the New Theologian (Wipf and Stock, 2015). Kelly has a chapter in
 Faith and the Marvellous Progress of Science (New City Press, 2015). She also completed her
 PhD at Durham University in 2016. Kim has a number of publications from the time during
 which she was at LTU, including a chapter in Korean Church, God’s Mission, Global Christianity
 and Ecumenical Missiology: Changing Landscapes and in New Conceptions of Mission (both
 published by Regnum Books International, in 2015 and 2016 respectively), and a chapter in The
 End of Theology: Shaping Theology for the Sake of Mission (Fortress, 2016). In addition, she is
 the editor of Mission Studies. She was also keynote speaker at the International Symposium on
 Theology and Pedagogy (Romania, 2016) and at the meeting of the Christian Meditation Trust
 (Leeds, 2016). Piela edited Islam and Media: Critical Concepts in Sociology (Routledge, 2016)
 and, having contributed an article for them in 2015, she became an editorial board member (in
 2017) of Hawwa: Journal of Women of the Middle East and the Islamic World. She also has a
 peer-reviewed journal article in Youth and Society (2015) and in New Media and Society (2016).

 Research students

 Investment in postgraduate students has been a key part of LTU’s research strategy and LTU
 offers excellent support for them, funding studentships and generous research support for
 them to attend conferences and carry out fieldwork. This has greatly benefited the PhD
 students within TRS who have received studentships and attended international conferences

                                                                                          Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with the support of Leeds Trinity as well as having their fieldwork costs covered. The institution
 also runs training support for postgraduate students for viva preparation, getting published and
 various skills-related training, e.g. in IT, or more specialised training according to need, such
 as film editing. In addition, they can access research training offered by the accrediting
 institution, University of Leeds, via Vitae, and (through the relationship with Guild HE) offered
 by the University of East Anglia.

 TRS has attracted and selected high-quality PhD students, demonstrated by the fact that four
 of them (Dr Jung Soo Jo, Dr Eleanor Wort, Dr Ilaria Vecchi and Dr Angela Puca) had received
 fully funded three-year studentships (includes fees – the international fee in Jo’s case – and
 a standard stipend) from LTU while one (Dr Edwin Arthur) received external funding from
 Wycliffe Bible Translators. Kim was the lead supervisor for Jo, Wort (Owen from 2017), Dr
 George Otieno (Mealey from 2017), Dr Edwin Arthur (until 2017) and Dr Gary McKee (Owen
 from 2017). Owen was the lead supervisor for Puca and Vecchi and for one new PhD student
 who started in October 2020.

 TRS staff have encouraged their PhD students to attend conferences and three of them – Wort,
 Vecchi and Puca – had received full conference bursaries (covering registration, accommodation
 and meals) from the British Association for the Study of Religions to present papers at its annual
 conferences, while Puca had also received one from the European Association for the Study of
 Religions to present a paper at its conference in Bern in 2018. This has aided the development of
 their careers and as part of the TRS approach to invest in the academic future of the subject area.

 The five (by headcount) TRS PhD completions within the census period have all published
 papers and progressed into careers related to their research, contributing to the development
 of TRS as a subject area nationally and internationally – Dr Jung Soo Jo is now lecturing in
 the Global Leadership School at Handong University in South Korea, Dr Eleanor Wort is a tutor
 for the Church Army in the UK, Dr Edwin Arthur is Theological Researcher for Wycliffe Bible
 Translators, Dr Gary McKee is Director of Advancement and Administration at Westminster
 Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Newcastle, while Dr George Otieno is senior lecturer at
 Msalato Theological College of St John’s University of Tanzania .

 Two current TRS postgraduates (Vecchi and Puca – both have since completed their studies
 after the census date) became Visiting Lecturers for the subject area in September 2020, with
 one (Vecchi) gaining a lectureship at Leeds Trinity at the end of 2020, adding to the vibrancy
 and sustainability of the research environment.

 Dr Ilaria Vecchi’s research is highly interdisciplinary, situated within TRS and Media. Her PhD
 research at LTU included a documentary film on a group of female spirit mediums in Japan.
 From September 2020 she was a Visiting Lecturer in both TRS and Media, collaborating with
 several colleagues in both subject areas, particularly as part of the International Research
 Centre for Interactive Storytelling (IRIS). She ran a seminar on documentary filmmaking with
 LTU’s Dr Stefano Odorico at the British Association for the Study of Religion conference in
 2019 at LTU. Segments of her documentary film on the Itako mediums of Japan were
 screened during the conference as well. The completed film, Tohoku Monogatari (Tohoku
 Story), has been selected for the Moscow International Festival of Visual Anthropology “Mediating
 Camera” in May 2021. Vecchi has also contributed a peer-reviewed article for the Journal of
 the British Association for the Study of Religions (2019) and one for a special edition of the
 journal Implicit Religion (2020), co-edited by Owen and Teemu Taira, on the impact of
 Timothy Fitzgerald’s book The Ideology of Religious Studies (2000). Vecchi became a
 Lecturer in Media at LTU at the end of 2020 and continues to contribute to the TRS research
 environment.

 Dr Angela Puca’s research is on contemporary shamanism and folk magic traditions in Italy.
 She was also employed at LTU as a Graduate Teaching Assistant for TRS until September
 2020 when she became a Visiting Lecturer for the subject area. She has already published
 several peer-reviewed articles on her research for the Journal for the British Association for

                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Study of Religions (2018), the International Journal for the Study of New Religions (2018)
 and the Journal of the Irish Society for the Academic Study of Religions (2019). She became
 the social media officer for the British Association for the Study of Religions (BASR) in
 September 2020 and will be co-editing with Owen the volume Paganism in Five Minutes for
 Equinox Publishing (forthcoming). Her research on folk magic traditions in Italy is already
 making an impact, which greatly enhances the international reach of TRS at LTU.

 The research students who have completed their studies have also published papers recently:
 Arthur has an article in Mission Round Table (2017) and a chapter each in Prosperity Theology
 and the Gospel: Good News or Bad News for the Poor (2017) and in Churchman (2019). Jo has
 a peer-reviewed article in the Asian Journal of Religion and Society (2019). Wort has an article
 in Ecclesial Practices (2020), while McKee has a peer-reviewed article in Studies in World
 Christianity (2018) and one in Mission Studies (2020).

 TRS plan to offer a Taught Masters as a strand within the programmes offered in the
 Department of Children, Young People and Families (CYPF), where research methodologies
 can be a core module and options offered across the different MAs as well as subject-specific
 ones in our respective programmes, as one route toward recruiting future research students.

 Equality and Diversity

 As per LTU’s Code of Practice, all staff involved in the Unit’s decision making for REF2021 have
 completed REF-specific Equality, Diversity and Inclusion training. During the census period one
 Category A staff member was appointed with protected characteristics that are traditionally
 underrepresented (LGBT+, BAME, international, female).

 The Unit also has a good percentage of international staff and half the research students in TRS
 were international and also balanced in terms of gender (4 male and 4 female PhD students,
 including the one who started in 2020).

 TRS are located within the Children, Young People and Families (CYPF) department of the
 Institute of Childhood and Education (ICE). Promoting and practicing inclusion is part of the
 mission of ICE and underpins its approach to research and impact activity in education and has
 prioritised social justice and social work, which connects especially to Mealey’s current research
 on social justice and pedagogy in higher education.

 Owen and Siriwardena are also interested in research in pedagogical issues in higher
 education, especially in the area of decolonisation as well as equality and diversity more
 broadly. Both are members of the University’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Committee’s Curriculum Team to decolonise the curriculum and Siriwardena is also a member of
 the EDI Committee’s Curriculum Team and Assessment Team. In addition, Siriwardena
 participates in the BAME and LGBT+ Networks at the University. These efforts have helped
 LTU      achieve     the    Race     Equality   Charter      Bronze      Award     in     2020
 (https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/news/archive/2020/leeds-trinity-university-receives-race-
 equality-charter-bronze-award.php).

 Connected to the aims of the EDI Committee, Owen is currently involved in the Worldviews
 project of the Religious Education Council (at events in June 2020 and January 2021) with a
 particular interest in how it may help to decolonise Religious Education (RE) by bringing in
 more diverse views, e.g., perspectives from indigenous peoples (see also in section 4).

 Overall, EDI infuses and provides structure and support for the Unit’s research on social
 justice, Muslim women, non-Western Christianity and indigenous and pagan groups.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research income

 Kim received £7655.25 as Principal Investigator for “Critical Assessment of the Christian
 Impact on the Shaping of the First Republic of Korea, 1945-1948” (receiving $15,000 in total
 from the Academy of Korean Studies, 2015-6). The funds went toward replacement teaching,
 travel costs and some materials such as books.

 The income from hosting the British Association for the Study of Religions conference at L TU
 in 2019 was £9188.45.

 TRS was also awarded three standard fully-funded LTU PhD studentships during the current
 REF period, and one international fully-funded LTU studentship that began in the previous
 REF period and was completed in the current REF period.

 Other research income independent of LTU:

 While she was at LTU, Piela received a Small Community Research Grant of £3000 as
 Research Lead/Consultant for the Muslim Women's Council in Bradford, which was used toward
 recruitment of participants for the “Engaging Islamic Niqab Wearers in Yorkshire” project, 2014-
 2016 (part of this research was published as an article for the Journal of American Academy of
 Religion in 2019.

 Owen and her collaborator in Newfoundland received around £5500 (CA$10,000) from the
 Anglican Church of Canada, Central Diocese of Newfoundland, to cover travel,
 accommodation and subsistence costs for research in Oxford and Newfoundland in the
 summers of 2018 and 2019 to research Revd John Leigh’s and other Anglican missionaries’
 involvement with indigenous people in Newfoundland in the early part of the 19 th century (see
 more below in section 4).

 Research Ethics

 The research ethics process is normally handled at School level. TRS research students had
 all had their research ethics applications approved by the School of Arts and Communications
 Research Ethics subcommittee as had Owen’s most recent application, which was for
 conducting a survey with Druids on “Perceptions of Druidry” (Ethics Code SAC/17 -18/066) in
 June 2018. Although TRS was relocated to the Institute of Childhood and Education in 2019,
 it would still be the case that applications would go to the relevant committee by subject area.
 All research-active staff, and all PGRs access research ethics and integrity training as an LTU
 requirement.

 Library and facilities

 LTU has an excellent central library and IT facilities which includes electronic access to a wide
 range of journals and specialist qualitative and quantitative data analysis software as well as the
 opportunity to access further material via inter-library loans. Each subject area is supported by a
 dedicated liaison librarian and has a budget allocated for purchases and subscriptions. In addition,
 LTU staff and postgraduates have access to University of Leeds resources (as the validating
 institution for research degrees).

 In recognising the benefits to the public and external stakeholders of unrestricted access to
 research outputs, TRS observes the LTU’s default Open Access approach
 (https://www.leedstrinity.ac.uk/media/site-assets/documents/key-documents/pdfs/open-access-
 policy.pdf), primarily via the green open access route linked to LTU’s acquisition of the PURE
 repository. Such practice ensures that the Unit’s research outputs are openly available and
 accessible while facilitating rapid dissemination.


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff and PhD students also have access to the Media Centre’s equipment and facilities - the
 media centre has industry-leading production spaces and equipment. Staff and students can
 benefit from equipment hire, bespoke media training, and help and support from the Media Loans
 and Helpdesk team. In general, LTU provides free use of rooms for conferences and seminars,
 free IT facilities and technical support.

 Staff development

 All LTU staff have twice-yearly professional development reviews (an annual one and a “light
 touch” review in between). In this meeting, research roles and training needs are discussed with
 implications for the Workload Planner.

 Owen and Piela were awarded research leave for a term each between 2015-2016. Staff have
 also been supported financially by LTU to attend conferences, which has enabled Owen and Kim
 to attend the American Academy of Religion meetings in the US and for Owen to attend European
 Association for the Study of Religions conferences in Europe, which strengthened their
 international research networks, adding to LTU’s profile for research. Both Owen and Kim have
 provided research mentoring to early career staff in TRS (previously for Piela and Kelly, and now
 for Siriwardena).

 Each month, via the Research and KE Office, the Director of Post Graduate Researchers hosts a
 postgraduate supervisors’ forum and provides training sessions, e.g., on good supervision
 practice, drawing on materials from our accrediting institution, University of Leeds, where key. In
 addition, the University of Leeds runs supervision and internal examining training that LTU staff
 can attend. Owen is a “Model 1” PhD supervisor having attended these sessions and supervised
 at least at least three PhDs to completion.

 LTU also hosts annual research days for staff development and showcasing of recent research.
 They have also invited speakers to present talks on their research journey or provide workshops
 for grant applications. LTU staff have run research writing support groups for the past couple of
 years and workshops to support grant applications. In June 2020, Owen ran a CPD session for
 ICE staff on ways of getting published: as a Grade 9/Reader she undertakes a mentoring role for
 junior academic staff and early stage researchers in CYPF and ICE as well as TRS.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Owen, who has been developing her research and publications for over ten years leading to her
 promotion as Reader, has published widely on the study of religion, indigenous religion and
 contemporary Druidry. She has been leading the development of the study of religion through
 such publications and as a major contributor to the principle subject associations for the study of
 religion in the UK, Europe and North America. A member of the British Association for the Study
 of Religions (BASR) since 2003, Owen became the coordinating editor of the Journal of the British
 Association for the Study of Religions (JBASR) in 2012 when she also became a member of the
 executive committee for the BASR. In 2009-2015 she was co-chair of the Indigenous Religious
 Traditions Group for the American Academy of Religion (AAR), remaining on their steering
 committee until 2018. In this role, she organised the call for papers and their selection for panels
 for the annual meeting of the American Academy of Religion, helping to shape the study of
 indigenous religions and ensure its sustainability. She has since (from 2018) been serving as a
 Book Award for Excellence Juror for the AAR.

 In recognition of her authority in the study of religion, Owen has been invited onto the editorial or
 advisory boards of several international peer-reviewed journals: Method and Theory in the Study
 of Religion, Implicit Religion, Bulletin for the Study of Religion and the Italian journal Civiltà e
 Religioni. Owen has also received several invitations to speak about her research to academic
 audiences. In 2018, she was invited by the North American Association for the Study of Religion
 to present the lead paper in a panel discussing Religion, Class and Economy at their annual
 meeting in Denver, Colorado (publication of the papers is forthcoming). In 2019-2020 academic

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 year, she was invited to deliver research seminar papers in the Centre for Religion and Public Life
 in Leeds (October 2019), in Mansfield College, Oxford (January 2020), and in New College,
 Edinburgh (March 2020).

 Owen is also involved in a significant collaborative research project with her collaborator Revd Dr
 Joanne Mercer in Newfoundland on Anglicans and the last Beothuk Indians in Newfoundland. This
 research was initiated in 2016 when Owen and Mercer carried out archival research in St John’s,
 Newfoundland, on the correspondence of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel at the
 time of the last Beothuk Indians (they were extinct by the mid-1800s). This developed into a project
 called “Unreconciled: The Beothuk and Anglicans in Newfoundland”, which led to the provision of
 storyboards about John Leigh and the Beothuk for the 200 th anniversary of Leigh’s arrival in
 Twillingate in 1816. First exhibited in St Peter’s Church in Twillingate, the storyboards then went
 on tour in Newfoundland for parishioners and visiting tourists. The Central Diocese of the Anglican
 Church in Newfoundland funded this research as part of fulfilling the principles of the Truth and
 Reconciliation Commission in Canada toward historical research into the Church’s role in the
 mistreatment of indigenous people as a step toward reconciliation. Owen and Mercer received
 further ad hoc funding from the Central Diocese to cover expenses for archival research in Oxford
 in 2018 and fieldwork in 2019 to investigate some of the other Beothuk who had been captured in
 Central Newfoundland. This research will lead to a report for the Central Diocese and a peer-
 reviewed journal article. Owen is also in the process of writing a funding application supported by
 LTU to write up the findings of this research into a monograph.

 Owen also collaborates with Dr Teemu Taira (Helsinki, Finland), which began with research on
 the Druid Network’s successful application for charity registration (published as a co-authored
 chapter in 2015 and submitted as an output for REF2021). In 2016, Owen, Taira and Dr Steven
 Sutcliffe (Edinburgh) organised a panel on religion as a category in public discourse at the
 European Association for the Study of Religions (EASR) in Helsinki (Owen’s paper led to an article
 on Paganism in charity registration cases, published in 2018, also submitted for REF2021) and in
 2019, Taira and Owen organised a couple of panels for the EASR in Tartu, Estonia, on the
 influence and impact of Timothy Fitzgerald’s The Ideology of Religious Studies (2000), which led
 to the publication of a special issue of the journal Implicit Religion in 2020, co-edited by Taira and
 Owen, to mark the twentieth anniversary of the publication of Fitzgerald’s book.

 Aware of her article “The World Religions Paradigm: Time for a Change” (2011), Owen was invited
 by the Commission on Religious Education to participate in a series of consultations in 2020 with
 the Religious Education Council of England and Wales toward understanding and utilising
 “Religion and Worldviews” as a replacement for “Religious Education” in schools. This has
 continued with Owen being invited by the Religious Education Council to participate in CPD for
 their members in January 2021 on “worldviews”, provisionally titled “What’s the Fuss?”. She also
 presented a paper on “worldviews” in relation to dismantling the “world religions paradigm” and
 decolonisation of the RE curriculum for the British Association for the Study of Religions in
 2020 and is developing it into an article. This is aligned strategically with ICE.

 As mentioned in previous sections, Owen is a member of LTU’s two Research Centres (LCVS
 and IRIS) bringing together staff from across the disciplines. With Dr Stefano Odorico (submitted
 to UoA 33), the Director of the International Research Centre for Interactive Storytelling (IRIS),
 Owen organised the annual conference of the British Association for the Study of Religions at LTU
 with the aim of developing collaborations between religious studies, visual ethnographers and
 documentary filmmakers. The conference theme was “Visualising Cultures: Media, Religion and
 Technology” and included contributions from IRIS members Prof. Graham Roberts (submitted to
 UoA 33) as well as PhD students Ilaria Vecchi of TRS and Tom Pollard who showcased their
 documentary films relating to the study of religion. Odorico and Vecchi also ran a workshop for the
 BASR on documentary filmmaking to encourage more interdisciplinary collaborations. Having
 completed her PhD in TRS, Vecchi, now a Lecturer in Media, is developing research projects in
 IRIS bringing together documentary filmmaking and the study of religion.



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As a Reader, it is part of Owen’s role to support other staff in research. When TRS was in the
 School of Arts and Communications (until 2019), she co-organised a series of research seminars
 with invited speakers. Since early 2021, she has been leading one of LTU’s weekly writing groups
 for staff and research students. Within TRS and as part of ICE she encourages colleagues working
 toward publications (such as the session on “Ways of Getting Published”) and in individual
 discussions about research plans.

 Dr Ann Marie Mealey co-chairs the Leeds Citizens group of which LTU is a founder. She has
 collaborated on research with Pam Jarvis of the Department of Children, Young People and
 Families (CYPF) at LTU, resulting in her co-edited volume on Everyday Social Justice and
 Citizenship (Routledge 2018). Mealey is also on the theological reference group for the Catholic
 Agency for Overseas Development (CAFOD) and wrote a paper for the Catholic
 Theological Ethics in the World Church network on “Feminism and Ecology” (2015) in which she
 promotes ecofeminism within Christian theology, based on her chapter in Just Sustainability
 (2015). Her focus has been on developing impactful links with employers and the third sector and
 is looking ahead toward interdisciplinary pedagogical research with colleagues in ICE as a Senior
 Teaching Fellow (Grade 9) and a member of the Catholic Religious Education Development
 Opportunities (CREDO).

 Dr Shyane Siriwardena has continued to collaborate on research into metaphysics with John
 Divers at the University of Leeds (now at Trinity College Dublin), where Siriwardena had held a
 postdoctoral fellowship, and also Max Jones at the University of Bristol. Her research on causality
 and metaphysics has so far produced an article on causal discourse. As a new appointee and
 ECR, she has an emerging research profile, which TRS is supporting, guided by Prof John Leach
 as Director of ICE and Chair of the Race Equality Charter Self-Assessment Team (RECSAT)
 providing opportunities for research and career development, including her (developmental) role
 since 2020 as external member of the School of Communications Business and Law’s Research
 Ethics and Integrity subcommittee.

 Vecchi, having completed her PhD in TRS and as a new appointment in Media (since December
 2020) is developing her interdisciplinary research profile through publications and national and
 international collaborations with a view to contributing to the next REF.

 Situated within an anchor institution, its high-quality learning led provision underpinned and
 enriched by impactful, innovative research, the Unit has succeeded its research aims combining
 research toward publications with a national and international reach and a strategy toward impact
 by working with local groups such as Leeds Citizens, Muslim women in Bradford and British Druids
 and Pagans, supported by LTU’s links with the local community and its work on achieving Equality
 and Diversity and Internationalisation.




                                                                                            Page 11
