Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University

 Unit of Assessment: 5 - Biological Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Structure of the unit and context
 This Biological Sciences Unit of Assessment (UoA) submission is made by academic staff from
 the Section of Natural and Applied Sciences, one of four Sections organised around disciplines
 in the School of Psychology and Life Sciences, which sits in the newly formed Faculty of
 Science, Engineering and Social Sciences (see REF5a). This Faculty contains over half of all
 the active researchers in Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU) and as such, is seen as a
 major driving force of research. Formed in 2020, the School of Psychology and Life Sciences
 derived most of its staff, including those in the Section of Natural and Applied Sciences, from the
 School of Human and Life Sciences. This submission therefore covers staff who have been part
 of the same unit, the Section of Natural and Applied Sciences, for the entire REF period and who
 are now part of the large and highly research-active School of Psychology and Life Sciences.
 In REF2014, the Section’s staff were returned to UoA 6: Agriculture, Veterinary and Food
 Science, with this submission focussed on the work of the Ecology Research Group, a grouping
 with research priorities in biodiversity and plant science. Progress within the 2009-2013 period
 and the success of the REF2014 submission led to significant growth in staffing of the Section
 during 2013-2016, with the Section’s staff numbers increasing from 11.5FTE to 19.5FTE. This
 growth in the vitality of the Section’s research led to a strategic review in 2015, and to the
 formation of a new Biomolecular Research Group, with research priorities in reproduction,
 cancer biology and stress responses. In recognition of the growth and diversification of the
 Section, the decision was also made in 2015 to work towards a REF2021 submission to
 Biological Sciences (UoA 5) as this more accurately reflected staff expertise. This submission
 therefore builds on the foundation of the UoA 6 REF2014 submission, whilst representing a
 substantially larger group of staff with a broader set of research interests.
 1.2 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact
 The 2015 review of the research, knowledge exchange (KE) and consultancy activity of the
 Section identified aims for the newly created Biomolecular Research Group, and otherwise
 confirmed the aims outlined in the REF2014 submission. Work within the REF2021 period has
 achieved these aims. Specifically, the UoA has:
     • Successfully expanded the number of both academic staff (aim 1a) and of post-graduate
        research (PGR) students (aim 1b). This is evidenced by the 50% increase in staff
        submitted to the REF (13 in REF2014, 20 in REF2021), and the 70% increase in PhD
        completions within the REF period (7 in REF2014, 12 in REF2021). These increases are
        the result of strategic appointments designed to strengthen key research areas (see
        section 2), an increase in external funding (see below and section 3) and in CCCU
        investment in research facilities and infrastructure (see section 3.2). This growth has also
        been supported by key promotions within the UoA (see section 2).
     • Increased external income (aim 2). Here, work to mentor and support staff in order to
        improve the quality and quantity of research bids, and to increase funded collaborations
        with external stakeholders has delivered a more than 560% increase in income within the
        REF2021 period (£113,225 in REF2014 compared with £634,288 in REF2021) (see
        section 3).
     • Delivered the major goals of the two research groups by increasing the quality and
        quantity of research outputs and by increasing both internal and external collaboration
        (aim 3). In this REF period, staff produced more outputs, with these evidencing greater
        collaboration (see section 4) and being assessed, by both internal and external review,
        as being of a higher quality. Central to this success were enhanced processes to support
        research, to develop staff, and to both support and incentivise collaboration (see section
        2).



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key to the delivery of all of these aims was work undertaken to support the UoA’s early career
 researchers (ECRs) in establishing their research programmes. This was a critical need as 7 of
 the 10 staff submitted to REF2014 were ECRs (see sections 1.3 and 2.2). This REF cycle has
 therefore seen the majority of the UoA’s staff establishing themselves and their research, with
 key successes being the dramatically increased external income, and the greatly increased
 numbers of PhD students (see section 3). The REF2014 strategy also emphasised the
 importance of enhancing research impact. Success here was achieved by continuing the UoA’s
 strategy, as formalised in the REF2014 submission and agreed in the 2015 strategic review, of
 delivering impact by building understanding of the specific needs of beneficiaries and
 stakeholders, and then by addressing those needs via coordinated and sustained research
 activity. Specifically, this approach to impact involved: (i) targeting research towards impactful
 questions; (ii) maximising stakeholder ownership of the projects; and (iii) developing virtuous
 impact circles through strong relationships with users. This approach is exemplified by the
 submitted impact case studies, where the key partners have been engaged throughout the life of
 the work, and is also seen more broadly in the other work of the UoA (see sections 3.3 and 4.1).
 This REF period has also seen the approval, design and construction of a substantial new £65m
 STEM building, the Verena Holmes building, that houses CCCU’s specialist laboratory facilities.
 This development results from the University’s Strategic Framework 2015-2022 that signals a
 greater investment in research, particularly in STEM subjects, and has led to a £150m Estates
 Master Plan that seeks to transform the campus into a truly modern site for teaching and
 research. The Verena Holmes building therefore represents an £8-9m investment in laboratories
 for the biological sciences, doubling the UoA’s research laboratory space (section 3.2). Within
 the Verena Holmes building, the Section will be located alongside the new Kent and Medway
 Medical School, other lab-based disciplines from within the School, and the University’s new
 School of Engineering, Technology and Design. This development therefore represents a key
 part of our future strategy (see section 1.3).
 1.3 Future strategic aims and goals
 The creation of the School of Psychology and Life Sciences, together with the University’s
 investment in STEM, represents a future strategic aim to enhance the interdisciplinary, applied
 and impactful nature of our research. As a more mature unit, and with a more established staff
 complement (70% of the Section’s staff were returned as ECRs in REF2014, compared to 10%
 in REF2021), the next phase of the UoA’s development is to support these, now established,
 researchers to become leaders in their respective fields and to fully develop their international
 reputation. This will require the translation of the science that has been undertaken in this REF
 cycle, and by recently completed PhD studies, into further peer reviewed publications and grant
 applications. In turn, this will translate into increased amounts of external funding, which will
 increase the size of research groups by supporting additional PhD students and post-doctoral
 researchers.
 Central to this strategy is the maturation of the research mentorship programme (see section
 2.2), as the benefits from this, in terms of outputs and outcomes, are not yet visible. Within this
 context, the UoA has identified three strategic aims for the period 2020-2025. These are to 1)
 enhance the quality and impact of the UoA’s work in the research priority areas of the Ecology
 Research Group and the Biomolecular Research Group, and 2) expand the reach of our
 research by increasing interdisciplinary collaboration. In combination, these will deliver our
 broader aim of 3) building the academic standing of the UoA.
 In order to achieve this set of interlinked aims, we will:
     • Continue support for the research priorities of the UoA’s research groups as a means to
        set specific developmental pathways for individual’s research programmes, and to define
        the future capital equipment and infrastructure needs of the UoA;
     • Prioritise and support existing relationships with external beneficiaries and stakeholders
        to develop long term and impactful research programmes and leverage impact from
        completed and ongoing work;




                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Develop new interdisciplinary relationships and extend existing ones from the colocation
        in the new Verena Holmes building with Kent and Medway Medical School, Engineering,
        Sports Science and Psychology;
    •   Support academic staff at all career stages in the development and delivery of personal
        research plans with short and long-term goals that capture all aspects of the research
        process.

 The UoA is also committed to ensuring that our science is as widely accessible as possible,
 seeing this as a critical way to increase the reach and impact of our work. This commitment is
 evidenced by our 100% compliance with the open access requirements of the REF. In addition
 to this, and going significantly beyond the University’s commitment to green open access (see
 REF5a), nearly 60% (28/49) of our submitted outputs (REF2) were published via gold open
 access routes, and therefore were available to everyone from the point of publication. The UoA
 also promotes and encourages the use of preprint options to allow earlier access to research
 outputs and the archiving and deposition of data in ways that promote use and re-use. UoA staff
 have also played key roles in discussions at an institutional level to allow the ResearchSpace
 repository system to host datasets as well as outputs. Continuation, and extension, of this
 commitment is seen as a core part of ensuring the widest possible access to both papers and
 data in the future.
  The combined effects of delivering against these aims is expected to produce additional
 synergistic benefits for the UoA’s environment. For example, increases in funding and support to
 develop staff will allow more research to be undertaken and will further increase opportunities for
 more impactful studies. In turn, this is expected to continue to improve output quality by
 increasing the significance of the work, with the ultimate aim of producing more outputs that
 make more influential contributions to the discipline, and hence that allow further support to be
 sought.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy
 The overall staffing strategy of the School of Psychology and Life Sciences has three aims,
 these being: firstly, to recruit staff, particularly ECRs, to available posts strategically, such that
 they bring specific expertise and skill sets, that they can work with one of the research priorities
 of the UoA (see below) and to promote staffing stability (see below and section 2.2); secondly, to
 develop and promote staff internally (sections 2.2 and 2.3); and thirdly, to increase staff time for
 research (see below and section 2.3). This strategy mirrors that seen in the former School of
 Human and Life Sciences during the majority of the REF2021 period and, in combination, these
 goals aim to provide a supportive and collaborative research and enterprise environment where
 staff can flourish and develop their research careers.

 Since the 2014-15 review, the Section’s staff appointments have been strategically designed to
 strengthen key research priority areas within the UoA. For example, the appointment of Syed
 (2014) supported plant science, of K Harvey (2014) supported reproduction, of Trim (2014) and
 Wilson (2015) supported cancer cell biology, and of Stastna (2018) supported stress
 responses. Other appointments have been targeted to bring in additional key skills. For example,
 Rahman was appointed in 2019 to complement Leslie’s bioinformatic skills and Ahmed was
 appointed in 2019 to bring additional skills in industrial biotechnology, and to support our
 strategy for delivering impact. This growth in staffing has resulted in 20 staff being returned in
 this REF, compared to 13 (10 from the Section) in REF2014 (delivering aim 1a from section 1.2),
 increasing UoA vitality and building critical mass in the key research priority areas of the unit.
 The success of building strong priority areas is also evidenced by the increased submission and
 success rates of collaborative ventures, with most grants and industry-funded projects in the
 REF period involving multiple UoA staff. Although many research outputs from projects funded
 during the 2014-21 period are not yet visible, more than 15% of the outputs returned to this REF
 also have multiple authors from within UoA. In contrast, no staff returned outputs with co-authors
 from CCCU to REF2014.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Key to the promotion of staff stability is that all academic staff within the Section are employed
 on permanent (open-ended) contracts that include both research and teaching responsibilities,
 i.e., no academic staff are employed on either fixed-term contracts or in teaching only roles. All
 academic staff are also independent researchers, having both identified research time within
 their workload (this varied between 20 and 40% of staff time across the REF period), and the
 expectation that they will produce REF submissible outputs. Formalised in 2019 as part of
 CCCU’s code of practice for the selection of staff to be submitted to the REF (see REF5a), this
 criteria for REF submission, that staff have significant responsibility for independent research
 mirrors the expectation used within the Section since 2008. This is therefore an inclusive and
 supportive strategy that is reflected by the fact that 83% of Section’s staff were returned to
 REF2014 (10 of the 12 biological sciences staff in the Section) and 100% of staff being returned
 in this submission (20 of the 20 biological sciences staff within the Section). This career stability
 gives staff the time and intellectual space in which to develop their careers (delivering aim 3 from
 section 1.2).

 The growth in staff numbers has been supported by key promotions within the UoA, by targeted
 support for staff, and by strategic efforts to mentor all members of the Section. Within the REF
 period, key promotions have seen S Harvey promoted to Professor in 2018, and K Harvey and
 Syed promoted to Reader in 2020. This period has also seen systematic investment in
 internally-funded PhDs (17 started in this REF period), and work to develop externally-funded
 PhDs (6 started in this REF period, with 4 funded directly by industry and 2 from grant income)
 (delivering aim 1b from section 1.2). Critically for staff development (section 2.2), the growth in
 PhD numbers has been strategically directed to support the UoA’s ECRs in establishing their
 research, with significant effort put into the development of these PhD students (section 2.3).
 This means that the majority of academic staff within UoA (90%) are, or have been, first
 supervisors of PhD students. This growth in the number of staff and PGR students has been
 supported by investment in research facilities and infrastructure (section 3.2).

 2.2 Staff development
 In line with CCCU policy (see REF5a) the UoA provides support for career development across
 the entire range of academic grades. Key to this development of staff is the research mentorship
 programme. This was established in former School of Human and Life Sciences during the REF
 period, formalising approaches to mentoring staff that had developed and been implemented
 independently in the different UoAs from this School. With the formation of the new School of
 Psychology and Life Sciences, and the larger resource base this offers, the programme has now
 been further extended. An example of this approach is the use in annual appraisals of individual
 research plans that cover both short- and long-term research planning and that were initially
 developed and implemented in the biological sciences during the REF2014 period. This
 approach was subsequently adapted and used by other units in the University and is now a
 formalised part of the School’s research mentorship programme, with the review of these
 research plans guiding the allocation of internal research funding and allowing support for
 individuals to develop and work towards long-term plans. This formalised programme within the
 School therefore integrates the formal appraisal process and a range of informal mentoring and
 support opportunities. As such, the research mentorship programme represents an ongoing and
 supportive dialogue that considers short- and long-term goals, explicitly covering plans for
 income generation to support work, output production, and how the impact of completed,
 ongoing and planned work can be maximised. This provides a formal way for staff to discuss,
 and ultimately agree, both their short-term goals and their long-term plans, and for them to be
 supported in their career progression.

 Staff at all levels also have the opportunity to discuss their research and knowledge exchange
 plans with the School Director of Research and Knowledge Exchange Environment and the
 relevant UoA Coordinator, and to have a suitable research mentor within or external to the
 University. This dual support – formal via the appraisal process, and informal via the mentoring
 and discussion options available – ensures that staff at all levels have access to support for all
 stages of their research careers. Outcomes across these processes are also collated to provide

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 a profile of the team and to monitor progress, allowing collective needs to be identified. The
 mentorship programme also formalises processes for improving output quality by using internal
 pre-submission review of funding bids and of papers. This integrates with the University’s
 processes for developing funding applications (see REF5a) and primarily seeks to improve the
 originality and significance of research (via the review of funding applications), and the rigour
 and reproducibility of resulting publications (via the review of both funding applications and
 papers).

 During the early part of this REF period, much of the work to support staff development within
 the Section was focussed on ECRs. All ECRs are given a 20% reduction in teaching load for
 their first two years in post (this time being additional to that already allocated for research), are
 supported with start-up funding, are prioritised for supervision of internally-funded PhDs, and are
 mentored to work alongside more experienced colleagues. As the REF period has progressed,
 and as the UoA’s ECRs have started to establish their research at CCCU, the focus has
 broadened to ensure continued support. Here, a key element is the role of the research
 mentorship programme (see above) in developing a plan for promotion and career progression.
 As part of this, staff are encouraged and supported to engage with the training opportunities
 provided directly, or supported by, CCCU’s Department of Human Resources and
 Organisational Development. Within the REF period this has involved: supporting an early
 career researcher in attending CCCU’s SPARC (Supporting Progression in Academic Research
 Careers) programme (Stastna); supporting multiple more senior staff (K Harvey, Mylona and
 Trim) to attend Aurora leadership training (Advance HE’s leadership development initiative for
 women and those who identify as women); and supporting senior staff (Forsyth, C Harvey and
 S Harvey) in attending internal training in Leadership and Management, and in Coaching and
 Mentorship. The success of this approach is shown by the subsequent appointment of the staff
 involved to more senior roles within the University. For example, K Harvey was appointed
 Faculty Athena SWAN Champion, C Harvey was appointed School Director of Learning and
 Teaching Environment, Trim took on a leading role in the management of the Section’s
 teaching, and Forsyth was promoted to Director of the Section. Success is also evidenced by
 the promotion within this REF period of three people from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer (K Harvey,
 Mylona and Rintoul), two people from Senior Lecturer to Reader (K Harvey and Syed), and
 one person from Reader to Professor (S Harvey). Staff have also been supported in taking
 secondments either in industry or in other parts of the University (see section 4.1), with such
 secondments being seen as important for the promotion of collaboration and research impact
 and for the career development of the individual.

 2.3 Support mechanisms for, and training and supervision of PGR students
 The REF period has seen a considerable expansion in PhD student numbers within the UoA,
 with 17 starting in this REF period and 12 completing (in comparison to 7 completions in
 REF2014). This has been delivered both by innovative use of internal resources to allow
 increased numbers of funded places and importantly by securing a diverse range of externally
 funded PhD positions. For example, over the REF period 4 PhD students have been funded
 directly by industry and 2 from grant income, with 4 more on projects with a significant in-kind
 contribution from industry. For internally-funded studentships, most within the REF period have
 been part-time (and hence have supported students who were not expected to complete in this
 REF period) and have been combined with part-time University Instructor roles. These teaching-
 support roles not only allow the student to gain experience of teaching, but have also, across the
 REF period, made a significant amount of staff time available for research. For example,
 covering elements of laboratory practical demonstration with University Instructors has, across
 the REF period, reduced staff teaching by approximately 9,000 hours.

 A key element of the development of staff (2.1) has been work undertaken to ensure that PhD
 student supervision involves all staff. As a result of this, 90% of academic staff within UoA either
 are now, or have been, first supervisors, a figure notably higher than that seen in the REF2014
 submission where only 3 staff were first supervisors. This growth in supervisory capacity has
 meant that support has also needed to be provided for first-time supervisors in order that they
 develop the skills necessary to support, train and supervise their PGR students. This has been

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 achieved by support of supervisory panels, which contain suitably experienced supervisors,
 assisting both first-time supervisors and the PGR student, with additional support provided by
 the University’s Graduate College.

 Training for PGR students is via the Researcher Development Programme, organised by the
 Graduate College. This programme includes both science specific skills training and wider
 training, structured according to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, to prepare
 students for both academic and non-academic careers. Staff from the UoA now deliver sessions
 on the Researcher Development Programme, providing PGR students with access to expertise
 of staff beyond their supervisory panel. Support for PGR students also includes a School PhD
 Forum where PhD students and developing researchers will present developing work, i.e.,
 before conferences or to gain opinions on data before paper development. The research
 seminar series both within the Section, where subject-specific speakers present to staff, PGR
 students and undergraduates, and more widely within the School, where a broader range of
 topics are covered, also assists in fostering a supportive and intellectually challenging
 environment for PGR students.

 2.4 Equality and diversity
 The UoA is fundamentally committed to equality and diversity. This is evidenced by: the
 balanced sex ratio of academic staff in the UoA (50:50); that all staff within the Section have
 significant responsibility for independent research and are submitted to this REF; the ongoing
 support of the research of all staff; and by the representation of female staff in senior roles within
 the Section (4 of the 7 such roles are held by female staff). Beyond this, UoA staff have been
 central to the University’s broader equality and diversity initiatives. For example, the unit’s
 REF2014 Environment template committed to securing Athena SWAN accreditation, the first
 such commitment made by the University. S Harvey and Bertolo then served as key members
 of the five-person Athena SWAN implementation working group that led to the commitment by
 CCCU to join the Charter. K Harvey was then part of the team that produced the successful
 institutional application for an Athena SWAN Bronze award and then became the Athena SWAN
 Champion for the Faculty of Social and Applied Sciences, driving the development of School
 Athena SWAN award applications. The former School of Human and Life Sciences, in which the
 Section sat at the time, was then the first School in CCCU to achieve a Bronze School Athena
 SWAN award, with K Harvey and S Harvey leading on the application. The School of
 Psychology and Life Sciences is now positioned to be the first School within CCCU to apply for a
 Silver award (application due in 2022), with K Harvey serving as Co-Chair of the Athena SWAN
 self-assessment team (with the Head of School as the other Co-Chair) and S Harvey a member
 of the team.

 The School’s mentorship programme (see section 2.2) also provides an increased ability to
 monitor equality, diversity and inclusion considerations. This therefore delivers against a specific
 action in former School of Human and Life Sciences’ Athena SWAN Bronze award and is part of
 the wider body of equality, diversity and inclusion work underpinning the School of Psychology
 and Life Sciences’ planned application for an Athena SWAN Silver award. In relation to the REF,
 and in all other situations where staff outputs are considered, the UoA is also committed to the
 responsible use of metrics and to the assessment of research on its own merits. The UoA
 Coordinator for this submission is also a personal signatory of the San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment. These commitments extend to all appointment (short-listing) decisions
 and to appraisal discussions.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 The UoA’s research activity is supported and funded by a range of commercial, public, private
 and charitable organisations, and is also supported directly by CCCU. Increasing external
 income, and the amount of research activity supported by such income, was a key aim for the
 REF period. This aim was achieved, with noteworthy successes including major funding from the
 Leverhulme Trust (3 research grants awarded, including the first such award made to CCCU),

                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the European Union (as the UK academic lead) and from multiple industry partners. These
 successes were delivered as a result of the UoA’s support for staff (section 2.1 and 2.2) and for
 industry partners, with this support provided in accordance with the UoA’s strategy of
 stakeholder and beneficiary engagement (see section 4).

 Research income during the REF2021 period totalled £634,288, a 560% increase from
 REF2014 (£113,225). This represents a step change in funding levels and has been driven by
 more UoA staff securing more grants, and by the size of these being, on average, much larger.
 Importantly, the number of UoA staff securing external funding has also increased, with the
 internal peer review of grant applications and active support for collaborative bids (section 2.2)
 supporting many of these ECRs to secure their first funding. Specific successes within the
 REF2021 period have been: the award of three Leverhulme Trust research grants (to Ahmed, to
 S Harvey/Byrne and to Syed) that supported post-doctoral researchers and PhD students;
 success as the UK academic lead on an Interreg 2 Seas European Union project (Rintoul); and
 multiple large industry funded projects awarded (funding obtained by K Harvey/S Harvey, S
 Harvey/K Harvey, and by Leslie), with these projects covering staff time, consumables and
 supporting PhD students (with fee income for these students not appearing as research income).
 Smaller grants and projects have also been awarded from funders such as the Royal Society,
 Natural England and Kent Cancer Trust (Buckley, Burman, C Harvey, Mylona and Trim). In
 conjunction, this means that: the majority of staff within the UoA have received external funding
 within the REF period (delivering aim 2 from section 1); many staff have had continuous
 externally derived funding for much of the REF period; and that significant income is already
 secured for the post-REF2021 period as many grants and contracts extend beyond 2020.
 Beyond this directly funded work, the REF period has also seen a greatly increased level of
 income-in-kind deriving from industrial collaborations (principally derived from the work of Byrne,
 K Harvey, S Harvey, Leslie, Mylona, Trim and Wilson, and estimated at a value of more than
 £520k). Importantly, the smaller grants and the income-in-kind are seen as routes to greater
 future growth as staff graduate from smaller to larger grants, with support from colleagues with
 experience of the latter. This also means that new staff appointed within the UoA will be coming
 into an environment where the expectation of securing external funding is an embedded part of
 the culture.

 The UoA has also benefited from strategic investment by the University. Distributed to Faculties
 via a single Research and Enterprise Support Funding (RESF) stream, which integrates quality
 related (QR), Higher Education Innovation Fund and institutional PhD bursary funding (see
 REF5a). Over the REF period, this has meant that income derived from the UoA’s submission to
 REF2014 has been used strategically to support staff and post-graduate students within the
 UoA. Distributed via the UoA, the majority of this income has been used within each year to
 support direct costs of staff research (e.g., consumables, equipment and travel), with remaining
 funds used to provide bursaries for PhD students within the UoA. This therefore serves the
 critical purpose of supporting infrastructure and preliminary studies that underpin applications for
 external funding. The success of this approach is clear as the great majority of successful bids,
 and hence the majority of the income reported here, are linked to such preliminary internal
 support. Across the REF2021 period support distributed in this way has totalled £416,947. This
 represents the majority of the QR income coming to CCCU as a consequence of the UoA’s
 submission to REF2014, i.e., across this REF period the bulk of QR income has not been used
 to directly support academic staff salaries. As staff within the UoA have established their
 research (see section 2.1 and 2.2 for discussion of how the UoA’s strategy has facilitated this)
 the focus of this will change and a greater proportion of RESF funding will be used to support
 staff time. QR funding for direct costs will however remain available, particularly for the support
 of ECRs and for pilot studies.

 Overall, the greatly increased funding available within the UoA has been important in increasing
 the quality of research undertaken, by allowing access to more consumables and equipment,
 and hence allowing more significant studies to be undertaken. This improved support has also
 allowed the quantity of research outputs produced to be increased by supporting both post-
 doctoral positions and PhD students.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Additional to the funding discussed above, within this REF period CCCU has provided significant
 support to develop and upgrade the UoA’s research infrastructure.
 This support has included 1) the establishment in 2015 of the Life Sciences Industry Liaison Lab,
 a strategic development to facilitate industrial collaborations, that was formally opened in March
 2016, and 2) the design and construction of the Verena Holmes building, the £65m home to the
 University’s specialist facilities that opened in January 2021. Both of these infrastructure
 developments are part of the University’s £150m Estates Master Plan with planning for these
 developments starting in 2014.

 The establishment of the Life Sciences Industry Liaison Lab involved significant investment
 within the REF period in the rental and refit of laboratory facilities at Discovery Park, in the
 Enterprise Zone based at the former Pfizer site in Sandwich, one of Europe’s leading science
 and technology parks. The establishment of the Liaison Lab proceeded in parallel with planning
 for the Verena Holmes building, with the Liaison Lab being a more externally focussed and
 impact-orientated space, aiming to drive collaborative research and KE between the University
 and the biotechnology related industries at Discovery Park. To date, the Liaison Lab has
 successfully extended existing collaborations and has built new links, leveraging a significant
 amount of income (more than £267k can be linked to Liaison Lab activity to date) and income-in-
 kind (more than £500k to date). The success of this initiative is also demonstrated by the use of
 the Liaison Lab as a model for the University’s EDGE Hub initiative (REF5a), which has
 attracted significant external funding supporting both the development of the Verena Holmes
 building, and our expanding network of industry hubs across Kent and Medway.

 Planning and design of the Verena Holmes building was started in 2016. Discussion of the
 UoA’s research needs and strategies, as defined in REF2014 and subsequently modified, at
 Research and KE meetings at School, Faculty and University levels, fed into this planning
 process during 2016. Early parts of these discussions also involved key external stakeholders
 such as Discovery Park. Specific discussions between the Section (represented by the UoA
 Coordinator and the Section Director), the University’s Master Planning team and the project
 architects were then initiated in April 2016 and continued during 2017 and 2018. At this stage,
 the research needs of the UoA, specifically in terms of space required for planned growth in
 researchers and in postgraduate students, was used to define the plan for the parts of the
 building to be occupied by the Section. This resulted in a doubling of the UoA’s research
 laboratory space.

 Beyond these major infrastructure developments, the University has provided more than £240k
 in internal support for capital equipment purchases in the REF period. This included: £50k for
 cell culture and analysis equipment and £60k for fluorescence microscopy in 2015; £40k for
 incubators and constant temperature facilities in 2016; £70k for gas chromatography–mass
 spectrometry in 2017; and £20k for embryo culture equipment in 2018. These developments
 allowed access to tools and approaches that previously would have had to be sourced
 externally, allowing increasingly sophisticated work to be undertaken at CCCU. The UoA has
 also benefited from improved research support within the School that has been delivered via the
 appointment of additional non-academic staff to support research activity. Specifically, this
 involved the appointment of additional technical staff in all three UoAs within the School, and by
 the creation of School-wide administrative roles to monitor research budgets and support
 purchasing. The UoA directly benefited from this, as it allowed the creation of two research
 technician posts to support research across the UoA.

 3.3 Support for research impact
 Within the UoA, the two research groupings, by design, seek to deliver different types of impact.
 With a focus on biodiversity and on plant pathogens, much of the work of the Ecology Research
 Group’s aims to deliver impact on the environment. In contrast, the Biomolecular Research
 Group, with its focus on health and its closer links to industry, is focussed more on health and
 welfare and on income generation. These different approaches can be seen in the case studies

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submitted in REF3 and in the details of other work by the groups provided above and mean that
 elements of how the groups seek to deliver impact, and in how they are supported in this differ.

 In line with the University’s impact strategy, both groups work towards, and are supported in
 delivering, deep local and regional impact. For the Biomolecular Research Group, this support is
 seen most obviously by the establishment of the Liaison Lab at the Discovery Park Enterprise
 Zone (see above). Here, support has been targeted on collaborative work with industry and the
 UoA has supported this via funding for PhD students, and by providing staff time and
 consumables. Such collaboration is exemplified in the Venom case study where UoA staff have
 worked closely with the SME Venomtech Ltd. for a number of years. This research has delivered
 significant value for Venomtech Ltd., providing critical local and regional impact.

 More generally, the approach is also seen in other developing case studies such as that arising
 from work with Genea Biomedx, an international company with a branch at Discovery Park. This
 project links the work of two CCCU staff (K Harvey and S Harvey) and is designed to meet
 specific industry challenges and has now been expanded to cover work that links the needs of
 Genea Biomedx with those of JSR Genetics Ltd. and Topigs Norsvin, leading national and
 international swine genetics companies. Initially supported by a CCCU-funded PhD student, with
 in-kind support from Genea Biomedx and JSR Genetics Ltd., this research area has now
 secured external funding from Genea Biomedx and from Topigs Norsvin and is laying the
 foundational groundwork for future national and international impact via improved manufacturing
 processes, both from research and development changes at Genea Biomedx, and from
 international changes in pig production and stock breeding at JSR Genetics Ltd. and Topigs
 Norsvin.

 Although differing in detail, the same strategy is seen in the work of the Ecology Research
 Group. For this group, local and regional impact is delivered via close and long-standing
 collaborations with stakeholders such as Kent Wildlife Trust and Natural England. These links
 are then used to leverage relationships and projects that allow the delivery of national and
 international impact. For example, significant early parts of the underpinning research for the
 pheromone case study reported here were conducted locally by Burman, with the impact then
 deriving from the extension of this work nationally and internationally. This strategy is also seen
 in the way that Rintoul’s Interreg 2 Seas European Union project links a local partner, Kent
 Wildlife Trust, into a collaborative project with 12 additional partners from across Belgium and
 the Netherlands. Similar to some other elements of the UoA’s research, significant elements of
 the work of the Ecology Research Group is ‘far from market’ (e.g., Syed’s work on alternative
 splicing), and therefore it is to be expected that, even as this work matures, it will still be some
 time before impact is realised.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

  4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Members of the UoA collaborate with a wide range of external organisations and communities.
 This is shown in the outputs returned in REF2, with 88% of outputs with authors from outside
 CCCU and 76% resulting from international collaborations. Collectively, and excluding papers
 with 15 or more authors, these submitted outputs include external co-authors from 69 different
 organisations. Importantly, 16% of these collaborations are with co-authors at non-University
 institutions, evidencing the UoA’s commitment to working collaboratively with stakeholders. In
 combination, this demonstrates the UoA’s strong and productive, links to academic and non-
 academic external organisations, with some of these spanning the entire REF period. An
 example of this is Bertolo’s collaboration with the Bioscope research group, based at the
 Universidade Nova de Lisboa in Portugal. This research focussed on functionalised gold
 nanoparticles, that have potential applications as drug delivery agents in cancer treatment. This
 collaboration has resulted in three research papers and one review article over the REF period.
 Similarly, S Harvey and Stastna’s long standing collaboration with the Laboratory of
 Nematology at Wageningen University and Research (WUR, Netherlands) is evidenced by the
 presence of WUR staff as co-authors on five of the outputs submitted here.

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Beyond collaborations where outputs are currently visible, there are ongoing funded
 collaborations with many other external organisations that are expected to produce outputs in
 the next REF cycle. For example: Rintoul’s Interreg 2 Seas project links academic and research
 institutions such as the Flemish Institute for Technological Research, University College Ghent,
 Delphy BV and Avans University Applied Science with government bodies such as Province of
 West Flanders, non-profit organisations like Kent Wildlife Trust and Pro Natura, and companies
 including Vanheede Landfill Solutions NV, Millvision BV and Innec CVBA; Buckley has been
 collaborating on two projects with the Rivers Trust; Ahmed and Burman are collaborating with
 Algaecytes Ltd. on algal carbon capture; C Harvey has been working with researchers at NBAF
 Sheffield on NERC funded work looking at the population genetics of the shining ramshorn snail;
 and K Harvey and S Harvey’s are working with Genea Biomedx, JSR Genetics Ltd. and Topigs
 Norsvin.

 Active collaborative work is also evidenced by the joint supervision by UoA staff of PhD students
 based at other Universities. For example: Vega is currently supervising a student at University of
 Greenwich on a project of looking at the molecular ecology of African giant pouched rats
 (Cricetomys); Ahmed is supervising a student at the Birla Institute of Technology and Science
 (India) on a project investigating the relationship between rheology and microstructure of Biofilm;
 Wilson supervised two PhD students at the University of Liverpool in this REF period; and S
 Harvey is currently a member of the supervisory panel for a student at WUR that is looking at
 thermal stress responses and supervised a student who completed a joint PhD at CCCU and
 WUR in 2019 (with the student completing theses for, and obtaining awards from, both
 institutions).

 The UoA also supports staff to work on secondments to both academic and non-academic
 partners, seeing this as a critical way to build relationships with collaborators and research
 users. During the early part of the REF period, this support was seen with the three-year
 secondment of Burman to a 0.4FTE research project coordinator role at Thanet Earth, Britain's
 leading glasshouse complex. More recently, Mylona has been seconded to a 0.5FTE role
 managing CCCU's Stem Cell and Advanced Bio-Engineering Laboratory (SCRABEL) since
 2019. Part of the University's Institute of Medical Sciences and based at the Medway campus,
 SCRABEL focuses on regenerative medicine and musculoskeletal tissue engineering, with
 research driven by collaboration with clinicians and performed by SCRABEL staff. Although
 outputs and outcomes from this work are not yet visible, such work is generating proof-of-
 principle data for grant applications and validating the Biomolecular Research Group’s model for
 academic/clinician collaboration that will form a key part of this research group’s approach to
 collaborative interdisciplinary work in the new building.

 This wide engagement with both academic and non-academic partners is a key part of the
 responsive and applied nature of the work undertaken by the UoA. Such non-academic and
 academic links are supported and fostered as they deepen and broaden the range of expertise
 available to the UoA and extend opportunities for use of infrastructure, equipment and
 resources. These links therefore serve multiple purposes, specifically to strengthen the UoA’s
 research and teaching activity, and the links between, and integration of, these activities. Staff
 also work closely with other Schools and research centres within CCCU. For example, UoA staff
 have collaborated with colleagues in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Education in work to
 promote STEM uptake, and with colleagues in the Business School to facilitate KE activity.
 Strategic initiatives designed to increase internal collaboration within the UoA and with staff in
 other parts of the University have also increased research quality, principally by increasing the
 scope of the work undertaken. Only limited outputs from such internal interdisciplinary work have
 been published to date, but this strategy has resulted in S Harvey publishing on placebo effects
 with staff from Sport, Exercise and Rehabilitation Science (this included collaboration on an
 international consensus statement on the application of the Placebo Effect in Sport that was
 published in a leading Sports Science journal in 2018). More recent extensions of this have
 included a large multidisciplinary application linking the UoA with Sport Scientists and
 Psychologists that would support the establishment of a Research Institute for Placebo Effect

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research. The UoA also continued its support for interdisciplinary work undertaken with external
 partners and the continued success of this is seen by the submission of outputs here from
 Bertolo and McIntosh that link across to chemistry and physics, respectively.

 4.2 Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences
 Key to research within the UoA is the strategic development of collaborative research projects
 with stakeholders, with projects developed in response to user-defined needs that are then
 further supported by the targeting of fundamental level research. Within this REF period,
 investment in facilities and infrastructure, and in staff development have also been crucial (see
 section 3.2). The Section has also greatly benefited from work undertaken to foster a collegiate
 research community and to improve collaboration (see section 2.2). This approach means that a
 wide range of non-academic user groups benefit from the work of the UoA. In recent years these
 have included government agencies (e.g., Canterbury City Council, Environment Agency and
 Natural England), charities (e.g., the Aspinall Foundation, and Kent Wildlife Trust), and
 commercial companies (e.g., Algaecytes Ltd., BCP Ltd., Genea Biomedx, JSR Genetics Ltd.,
 Topigs Norsvin and Venomtech Ltd.). In most cases, as per our strategy for developing impact,
 user groups are involved directly at each stage in the process and hence activity is specifically
 directed to meet the users’ needs. Importantly, these relationships represent some of the most
 significant achievements of the UoA’s research groups during the REF period. For example, a
 key success for the Ecology Research Group was the completion of a major project on the
 conservation and reintroduction of the Shining Ramshorn snail by C Harvey and Buckley that
 was linked to, and supported by, Natural England. Similarly, for the Biomolecular Research
 Group, the most significant achievement within the REF period is the establishment of the Life
 Sciences Industry Liaison Lab (see section 3.2 for details), the first of the University’s industry
 hubs where research is embedded with local industry partners.

 Key to the development of these relationships is the flexibility of UoA staff and the focus on
 adding value for the external partner. In some cases, this involves funded work (see above for
 examples of such projects), but also involves work that is either not currently funded, work that
 serves to broaden our relationship with that partner, or projects that are not designed to produce
 academic publications but that provide some other benefit. Examples of such interactions
 include: Vega’s work with the Aspinall Foundation on the conservation genetics of endangered
 western lowland gorillas, and with the Sussex Peregrine Study on the population genetics of
 peregrine falcons on the south coast – both projects that have been internally supported and that
 will generate both outputs and future grant applications; Bloemink’s collaborative work with
 Algaecytes Ltd. on the effect of EPA-ethyl esters, isolated from algae, on sarcopenia, which
 serves to extend our existing relationship with this company (via Ahmed and Burman) and
 seeks to generate both outputs and future grant applications; Wilson’s work with Anton Paar
 that has generated application notes for their Nanoparticle tracking system validating it’s use in
 novel applications; and Buckley’s long standing consultancy work with Kent Wildlife Trust, the
 Environment Agency and with Natural England. In combination, relationships such as these
 ensure that the UoA’s work delivers substantial benefit to our partners.

 4.3 Wider activities and contributions to the research base, economy and society
 UoA members have served and sustained the discipline as members of a wide variety of subject
 associations and learned societies, through peer-review activity (including reviewing both
 national and international grant applications, and by acting as reviewers for a wide range of
 journals), and through engagement in institutional consultancies at a number of universities in
 the UK and abroad. Members of the UoA have also served as external examiners of PhD theses
 within the REF period internationally at institutions such as Erasmus University Medical Centre
 (Netherlands), La Trobe University (Australia), Mario Negri Institute (Italy), University of Porto
 (Portugal), and WUR (Netherlands), and nationally at institutions such as King’s College London,
 the University of Santiago de Compostela (Spain), the University of Kent and the University of
 Oxford.

 Another key part of our strategy is to provide and develop opportunities to bring multiple
 stakeholders together. For example, external stakeholders are routinely invited to speak as part

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of the research seminar series. Established in 2012, the UoA also developed the HortAg Forum
 to provide an annual meeting for agricultural stakeholders in the region. With an initial remit that
 included research and KE, this forum eventually broadened its scope to target education within
 the plant sciences. As such this the HortAg Forum, in association with Rural PLC (Kent), has
 organised plant sciences public engagement activities involving local schools, colleges and the
 farming community. Further to this, the UoA has also hosted a number of important international
 and national conferences, meetings and events, with illustrative examples being the three
 international conferences organised by staff from the ERG that ran at CCCU in this REF period.
 UoA staff were also critical to the organisation of the 2019 spring meeting of the Primate Society
 of Great Britain meeting that ran at the Powell-Cotton Museum and at CCCU.




                                                                                              Page 12
