Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Northumbria at Newcastle

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


 Overview
 Through critical examination and innovative forms of practice across its Arts and Design subject
 areas, Northumbria’s submission to UoA 32 is united by core principles of social engagement
 through creativity, collaboration, participation, and cross- and interdisciplinarity. These principles
 have shaped distinctive research outputs emerging, for example, from investigations of transglobal
 exchange in visual and material cultures; experimental forms of exhibition making and curation;
 human computer interaction and participatory design. They have given rise to unique interactions
 and partnerships across fields of fine art, science and technology; design innovation; digital and
 health-care contexts; and between BAME communities and cultural studies’ academics in the
 interpretation and policy implications of cultural heritage. As a result, the submission has increased
 from 41 FTE submitted in REF 2014 to 105 FTE. Notable impacts from the Unit’s research have
 emerged, for instance, within voluntary sector organisations; multinational manufacturing
 corporations; at popular genre film festivals in Europe and amongst international societies
 supporting survivors of conflict and trauma. Finally, these principles have informed its current and
 future research and impact strategy, the nature of its evolving staff and PGR community, and the
 character and importance of its regional, national and international engagements across non-
 profit, public and commercial sectors.


 Research strategy
 Aspirations identified in 2014 were: extending and diversifying research income; strengthening the
 impact of partnership-based cross- and interdisciplinary research and public engagement;
 investing in new and strategically located academic appointments; and further developing a
 scholarly and practice-based PGR community focused on collaboration with partners and
 stakeholders. In line with these ambitions there has been substantial investment in existing and
 new highly research-active staff. Consequently, the almost threefold increase in the number of
 researchers returned here constitutes 74% of staff. The 41 FTE submitted in 2014 comprised 34%
 of staff and in RAE 2008 just 29.40 FTE were submitted collectively in UoAs 63 and 64A. Building
 on a strong performance in 2014 in Research Power (joint 9th of 84 Art and Design institutions
 nationally), this cycle has seen considerable growth in research capacity with the appointment of
 75 new colleagues at all levels across the staff base. This ensures strong leadership and, relatedly,
 ongoing peer-support for capacity building, while also underpinning new and emerging areas of
 research strength.




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Unit’s success in expanding its external funding streams has resulted in a total of £4.45 million
 in RGCI. Funding has been drawn from AHRC, EPSRC, ESRC, STFC, British Academy and
 sources beyond UKRI including industry, UK Government, European Commission, charitable
 institutions and other public bodies. Collectively these have supported an output submission which
 includes 61 practice portfolios, 24 monographs, 81 journal articles, 37 peer-reviewed conference
 contributions, 12 edited collections and 8 patents.


 Demonstrating a flourishing postgraduate research culture, PhD awards have increased from 39
 reported in REF 2014 to 87 in 2021, of which 20 were awarded in the final year of this cycle. That
 overall figure includes seven staff researchers from primarily professional/ practice backgrounds
 - itself an indicator of the impact of the Unit’s research environment. 48% of the staff body now
 have doctorates compared to 34% in 2013-14. Underpinning this is sustained focus on aligning
 the postgraduate community with the Unit’s cross and interdisciplinary research expertise and
 commitment to partnership-working and collaboration. A longstanding reputation in supporting
 practice-based doctoral research has been a considerable factor in this achievement. From 2014,
 the Unit led the AHRC consortium Centre for Doctoral Training in Arts and Design (CDT) with the
 University of Sunderland and partners BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art and the National
 Glass Centre, Sunderland. This was one of just seven CDTs then funded by AHRC nationally.
 That award built upon previous success in the AHRC’s first round of Block Grant Partnership
 funding (2008-2013). The CDT has contributed enormously to the development of vibrant new
 networks and collaborations for both PGRs and staff across the Unit. Continuing in this spirit, in
 2019 Arts and Design joined the AHRC Northern Bridge Consortium (DTP) for the recruitment and
 training of PhD students alongside six other University partners in North-East England and
 Northern Ireland.


 Through investing in new and strategically positioned appointments, the Unit has advanced its
 capacity to carry out world-leading research across and between disciplines, with important
 developments in its Multidisciplinary Research Themes. (MDRT). The first MDRT IDEATE (led by
 Cockton) increased an international reputation for design-led research from 2014-19. Working
 across Design, Social Science, Psychology, Business and Computing, and in collaboration with
 an extensive network of external partners, IDEATE projects harnessed creative approaches to
 deliver new understandings of social, political and environmental issues and to develop valuable
 new services and products. That investment facilitated a productive environment for research, with
 new appointments and new interdisciplinary research spaces created for academic staff, post-
 doctoral and postgraduate researchers to collaborate in and involve externals.


 Following University reviews of strategic direction, the new (2020) MDRT Human & Digital Design
 (H&DD), extends the achievements of IDEATE. This is one of six MDRTs operating across the


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 University specifically ‘aligned to societal and global challenges and complementing disciplinary
 expertise which will contribute challenge-led research to support critical mass and collaboration,
 and address regional economic strategy (NE LEP), UK Grand Challenges and UN Sustainable
 Goals’. H&DD responds to the need for practical examples and demonstrators of digital
 technologies designed and built in ways that account for the requirements of diverse populations.
 H&DD members provide research and insights that embed social responsibility and ethical
 practice into the development of digital products, services and systems, to ensure benefits are
 maximised. Closely linked, and to support the next generation of researchers, the appointments
 of Rogers and Taylor have brought to Northumbria the ‘OpenDoTT Marie Skoldowska-Curie
 Innovative Training Network’ (2019-22) which, with accompanying in-kind resources from Mozilla,
 funds Early Stage Researchers (ESRs) from outside the UK. OpenDoTT (Open Design of Trusted
 Things) will produce a cohort of leaders fluent in design, technology, society and policy issues to
 explore, create and advocate for more open and trustable approaches to the Internet of Things.
 Another vitally important development is the establishment in 2020 of the ‘Centre for Digital
 Citizens’ (CDC) involving Vines, Rogers, Taylor and Wallace. Funded from EPSRC, the
 universities of Northumbria and Newcastle and partners, the CDC takes an inclusive and
 participatory approach to the design and evaluation of new technologies and services intended to
 support ‘smart’ ‘data-rich’ living in urban, rural and coastal communities, co-created between
 academics, industrial, public and third-sector partners.


 Advances in internationalising research across the Unit include the enhanced capacity for critical
 investigations of non-western forms of visual and material culture brought by the new ‘International
 Research Centre for the History and Culture of Nanzhao and Dali Kingdoms in China’ (Nanzhao
 and Dali Research Centre). The Centre embodies commitment to international partnerships, to
 investment at all levels of research leadership and sustainability - from Professorial to ECR posts,
 Research Fellowship and PhD studentships - and to new infrastructure and facilities. That the core
 academic posts related to the Centre are occupied by women (Tythacott, Bellini, Fuentes) also
 reflects Unit-wide concern for maintaining gender balance across the staff base.


 To further support researchers of the future and expand cross-disciplinary collaborations, the Unit
 has benefitted from the appointment (via University and external funding sources) of exemplary
 Research Fellows. Most recently, for example, Mulholland, a Vice Chancellor’s Fellow (VCF)
 based in Fine Art Conservation working in the field of cultural heritage and international conflict;
 Pitsillides, Senior VCF in Design researching the intersection of design, technology, death and
 bereavement; Harrison, VCF working in digital health, well-being and personal informatics with a
 design, computer science and social science background; and Talhouk, a Global Challenges
 Fellow in Design collaborating with researchers in Northumbria’s ‘Centre for International
 Development’ in integrating refugee communities within digital health and community service


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networks. With a University policy that Fellows transition to permanent academic appointments,
 these colleagues bring a wealth of academic and professional networks and are located in key
 research areas, or those identified for growth. Through developing the impact of their research,
 they make critical contributions to the Unit’s strategy of addressing international, ethical and user-
 focussed research problems in collaborative ways.


 Having achieved the aspirations identified in 2014, the Unit is extremely well-placed to meet what
 continue to be its strategic ambitions beyond REF 2021, i.e. it will continue to:


    1. develop capacity in cross- and interdisciplinary research and knowledge exchange with its
        regional, national and international partners, stakeholders and connected communities
        across diverse cultural organisations, institutions, public, commercial and voluntary
        sectors;
    2. uphold the principles of equality, diversity and inclusion at every level in its activities and
        continue to extend its research in related areas of investigation;
    3. ensure consistent support for the next generation of researchers (postdoctoral fellows and
        ECRs) and the staff base overall through mentoring, development opportunities and
        continually improved infrastructure;
    4. draw upon these mechanisms to secure larger and more diverse forms of external funding
        to extend opportunities for research with collaboration and participation at its core, as
        related to the Unit’s disciplinary expertise;
    5. build upon its successes (e.g. AHRC BGP2 CDT and the Northern Bridge Consortium
        DTP) in securing funded PhD students, but draw from sources beyond research councils
        too, e.g. from cultural and industrial partners through match or full funding;
    6. embed support and investment in activities relating to the social, economic and cultural
        impact of its research;
    7. build on existing synergies between Arts and Design researchers, as demonstrated in the
        context of CDT training and co-supervision of PGRs. The Unit will pursue further
        opportunities for collaborative research and funding, drawing, for example, on shared
        expertise and experiences in socially engaged practice and co-production;
    8. foster yet greater participation across research centres, institutes, groups and themes.
        These provide the intellectual infrastructure for the Unit and through these it delivers its
        strategy; communicates existing and future research plans; draws in and shares networks,
        partners and stakeholders.


 All staff and PGRs are aligned to research groups or to themes related to their individual areas of
 interest and expertise. Equally, all are encouraged to engage across these wherever common
 concerns arise. Certain groupings have been in existence since REF 2014, others have formed in


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 response to the focus of new staff and/or emerging research imperatives. In each case they
 include both practice-based and scholarly researchers. As relevant, they hold meetings, seminars,
 workshops, exhibitions and performances, invite external speakers and organise public facing
 events, symposia and conferences within the University and beyond. All have benefitted from
 major investment in new appointments; produced new and distinctive collaborations or
 partnerships and delivered world-class and internationally significant research.


 Research groupings in Arts
 BxNU Institute of Contemporary Art (BxNU). The Unit’s emphasis on socially engaged forms of
 public-facing research and dissemination with stakeholders across cultural and creative sectors is
 exemplified in the partnership (established in 2012) with BALTIC in the BxNU Institute. Harnessing
 skills and expertise from across the Unit and the University as a whole, BxNU is a dynamic forum
 for public, practitioner and professional communities’ dialogue over the role of arts and cultural
 organisations and for forging new networks and research opportunities. With Borland as first
 BALTIC Professor (2012-2017), BxNU brought the relationships between art, science, technology
 and ethics to public audiences through symposia, exhibitions and talk programmes. These
 collaborations continue, but the Institute has since built new synergies and expanded
 interdisciplinary capacity in tandem with national and international arts and cultural organisations.
 Led since 2017 by Phillips, its concern is with the function of cultural institutions and cultural
 producers in socio/political and educational contexts. Within BxNU’s Experimental Studio, a
 contemporary arts hub established in 2018 at B39 in Newcastle city centre, PGRs, ECRs and staff
 from across the University share their work informally through workshops, conferences and
 symposia with BALTIC curators and invited specialists and community members.


 Visual and Material Cultures (VMC). In existence prior to 2014, the group’s current concerns
 encompass the negotiation of political, national, racial, ethnic and gendered identities in art history
 and art criticism; museum and periodical cultures (Potter, Horne, Ashley); ethnographies of arts
 practices and human non-human relations (Crawshaw, Hudson); cultural landscapes and
 environments; contested spaces and collective memory (Ashmore, Holt, Hudson, Johnston,
 Johnson and Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, Fisher); and in a developing focus on non-western
 fields, the visual and material culture of Asia in transcultural and trans global exchange (Tythacott,
 Kramer, Bellini). Through investigations of materials and techniques, Fine Art conservators join
 academic researchers in specialist engagements with museums and art collections (Brown,
 Colbourne, Theodorakopolous, Fuentes and Mulholland). Conservation researchers are also
 aligned to the Nanzhao and Dali Research Centre, referenced above, the result of considerable
 University and philanthropic donor- investment. Led by Tythacott, Woon Tai Jee Professor of
 Asian Art, with Bellini and Fuentes, the Centre is a collaboration between Yunnan Provincial



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Museum in South-West China, the Woon Brothers Foundation, Singapore and Northumbria, and
 builds upon the establishment in 2018 of the University’s Woon Gallery of Asian and Buddhist art.


 The Cultural Negotiation of Science Group (CNoS) unites fine artists (Crisp, Borland, Lee,
 Bowen), researchers from animation (Goodfellow, Dolan) and art and technology historian
 (Sloan) who critically engage with expert cultures across a broad spectrum of fundamental, bio-
 medical and climate science, as well as the fields of genetics, geology, botany and museology.
 Challenging the tendency amongst the sciences to use art as an instrumental or illustrative device
 to interpret science, the group adopts a performative approach to the production of knowledge
 and new models of understanding and relating. A key example here is the dialogue with scientists
 and the exhibitions, symposia and publications arising from Crisp’s Leverhulme Fellowship
 supported research ‘Material Sight: Re-presenting the Spaces of Fundamental Science’ (2016-
 18).


 Collaborative and Curatorial Practices (CCP) explores, predominantly, Fine Art researchers’
 interests in definitions and forms of curation, and collaborative and collective practices in
 contemporary art through a focus on exhibition making, installation, live events and performances
 with text, video, sculpture or audio (Campbell, Rohtmaa Jackson, A. Hughes, Danby, Liston);
 investigations of art school pedagogy (Butt, D. Hughes, Thomas); of potential forms of social and
 political reorganisation within artistic and curatorial culture (Phillips); of how cultural matter
 produces us as social subjects (Sworn); the politics of locality (O’Sullivan and Tatham); and the
 conditions of popular and experimental cultural production in the regions (Butt, Campbell). All
 researchers exhibit and curate nationally and internationally and the majority, including Campbell
 with artist collective ‘Common Culture’, co-author critical texts to accompany major exhibitions.


 Moving Image, Popular Media and Culture (MIPMC). Uniting existing Film and TV Studies
 researchers with recent appointments, this new group focuses on the analysis, production,
 circulation, history and reception of ‘popular’ forms of print and audio-visual production in British
 cinema and TV genres (Leggott); on national and international horror genres (Hunter, Walker,
 Jones); genre film festivals, cult and independent cinema (Hunter, Sexton, Jones, Egan); music
 cultures (Sexton, McLaughlin); concepts of moral philosophy and identities in violence and
 pornography (Jones); sexual identities and representations and the use of on-line pornography
 (Smith); and the professional experience of unpaid workers in the film and TV industry (Percival).
 Practice-researchers collaborate on feature film and animation production with social groups,
 community and health organisations, often with non-professional actors (Stenbom, Land,
 Cottage, Collin). Indicative of the range of this group’s research are Collin’s multi-award winning
 film Sanctuary (2016), produced with intellectually disabled actors in Ireland and an impact case



                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 study for this UoA; and Walker’s AHRC Early Career Fellowship (awarded Nov 2020) ‘Raising
 Hell: British Horror Cinema in the 1980s and 90s’.


 Spaces of Appearance in Theatre and Performance (SoATP) has evolved from the ‘Performance
 and Identity’ group of 4 Theatre and Performance researchers at Northumbria in 2014 to now 12
 researchers. The group investigates the interdisciplinarity and cultural urgency of the practices,
 methods and theories through which new socio-political ‘spaces’ are crafted in performance. Their
 research spans ‘Theatres of Witness’ (Arnfield); the philosophy of performance (Power);
 historical and contemporary contexts of conflict, crisis, trauma and genocide (Duggan, Arnfield,
 Gilroy); socially applied performance for and with communities (MacPherson, Hargrave,
 Hepplewhite, Taylor); physical performance practices (Lennox, Pavey); scenography and
 costume (Hann); and transgender studies and queer theory in contemporary performance (Hann,
 Pearlman). Representative of SoATP’s concerns is Duggan’s AHRC COVID-19 Response
 project, ‘Social Distancing and Reimagining City’. Awarded in Nov 2020, this project will work with
 strategic decision makers, artists and arts organisations to investigate the value of performance
 theory and practice in addressing the impact of the pandemic on how we live and work in cities.


 Research groupings in Design
 The Unit’s Design researchers engage in developing new and innovative practices within design,
 and in innovation and research through design. They interact within the University through the
 research group CoCreate and three research themes: Design + Wellbeing; Design + Business
 and Publics, and Design + Making and Materials. These themes intentionally cut between specific
 design subjects, areas of expertise and methodologies to support collaborations and align
 research strengths across multiple domains and problem spaces for the development of
 multidisciplinary and cross-institutional funded projects.


 CoCreate investigates societal challenges and cultural experiences through participatory and
 design-led research, emphasising the intersections of digital interaction, social design and creative
 practice. The group has a core community of 12 academics (Holmquist, Marshall, Rogers,
 Strohmayer, Taylor, Vines, Wallace, ECR Gatehouse and VCFs Pitsillides, Dylan, Harrison,
 Talhouk), seven post-doctoral researchers (working on externally funded projects with
 academics) and 19 PGRs, all located in its research space; and a wider membership of six
 academic staff (Briggs, Blythe, Gibson, Mason, Richardson, Yee) who contribute to its
 activities. Members engage across the themes and initiatives outlined below and, as with BxNU,
 build capacity for cross-disciplinary research throughout the University. Regular CoCreate
 activities include a fortnightly digital design research series with internal and external speakers;
 craft futures forums exploring aspects of emerging making cultures and practice-led design



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research; and annual public-facing ‘digital disruption’ events to demonstrate on-going projects and
 build University-Industrial-Public sector collaborations in emerging technologies.


 Researchers allied to Design + Wellbeing (D&W) examine how designed artefacts, services and
 systems can promote wellbeing, broadly defined, and the benefits of engaging in making,
 collaborative design and creative practice. Investigations include the role of design in improving
 health and care service delivery and intervention design (Warwick, Lievesley); designing new
 systems and technologies to enable physical and mental health and wellbeing promotion for
 individuals living with specific conditions (English, Morehead, Scott-Harden, Durrant); or
 community public health interventions in low-income countries (Talhouk). Researchers in this
 theme also examine the role of design in community contexts, creating public spaces and forms
 of civic engagement to support the wellbeing of all citizens (Wallace, Duncan, Trueman,
 Pitsillides, Vines).


 Design + Business and Publics (D+BP) explores how design processes, methods and techniques
 can support innovative ideas and value creation for organisations and society. Concerns include
 design’s strategic role in responsible corporate innovation and creativity in product manufacturing
 and service organisations (Lievesley, James), and how design thinking and practice facilitates
 innovation across organisations and sectors (Yee, Parkinson, Glover, Bradford, Bailey,
 Spencer). Within public and third sectors, researchers examine the uses of design processes and
 methods in terms of citizen involvement in service and systems (re)design (Mason, Warwick,
 Young). Research is also conducted with manufacturing companies (Qin, Wong) and with
 organisations to understand how they can capitalise on and ensure the ethical use and human-
 centred adoption of emerging technologies (Briggs, Steane, Vines, Holmquist). Further,
 Strohmayer and Gatehouse consider the potential impact of the adoption of technologies by state
 and non-profit organisations and their ramifications for marginalised groups.


 Design + Making and Materials (D+MM) activities encompass design materialities and the cultural
 value, meanings and benefits of making in society (Elliott, Luscombe, Whittingham, Duncan,
 Wallace, Gaston, Sampson), and the effects of emerging technologies and materials on making
 and craft practices (Marshall, Morehead, Kitchman, Dylan). Researchers in this theme conduct
 experimental practices exploring new technologies in performance (Gibson) and cultural heritage
 (Richardson) contexts. They also examine spatial design and environments (Adams, Marlor);
 design practices as forms of semiotic communication (Barron), and have driven forwards the
 theory and practice of design fiction and forms of speculative research (Blythe). New practices
 and ways of articulating and disseminating ‘designerly’ forms of making are central to work in this
 theme, as demonstrated by the international Research Through Design (RTD) conference series



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which was established and still steered by several staff in UoA 32 (Marshall, Wallace, Vines
 Yee).


 Future strategic plans and aspirations
 To support funding objectives there will be further applications to renew and build upon projects
 funded in the 2014-2020 period, as well as the delivery of recently awarded large, collaborative
 grants. The latter includes the new phase of Digital Economy research between Northumbria and
 Newcastle universities in the EPSRC CDC running between 2020 and 2025. The CDC (with
 Wallace as Co-Director and Northumbria Lead) will see the appointment of four new Innovation
 Fellows in the School of Design, each with a remit to lead a series of collaborative research
 projects exploring the design of socially impactful and citizen-centred digital technologies. These
 projects will seek to secure long-term sustainability outside the CDC’s funding, and will be tied to
 the Centre’s four citizen challenge themes addressing issues of digital citizenship in relation to
 wellbeing, political connectivity, cyber-security, and growth across the human life-course. The
 CDC will also mobilise the wider membership of the H&DD MDRT, which is aligned to this Centre
 in, for example, a series of internal interdisciplinary workshops around its challenge themes to
 foster further collaborations across Northumbria. These will be followed by externally facing
 engagements with industrial, public and non-profit sector partners (from CDC and beyond) to co-
 create collaborative projects with MDRT staff in preparedness for large-scale funding applications
 to build on successes in Digital Economy research.


 New projects relating to further international collaboration objectives include Qin’s contribution to
 global development challenges through his 2019 Newton Fund Prize project on transforming
 service design for sustainable urbanisation through the use of big data technologies, a joint
 initiative between the School of Design at Northumbria and the Chinese Academy of Sciences in
 China.


 The Unit will also further its international objectives and decolonizing curriculum concerns through
 developing research in the visual and material cultures of Asia, as reflected in appointments
 related to the Nanzhao and Dali Research Centre. The Centre will enhance academic research,
 as well as the preservation of existing collections, promote and strengthen cultural and academic
 exchanges, develop joint research projects and initiate collaborative exhibitions in China,
 Singapore and the UK. Research will also benefit from the forthcoming donation to the University
 of the ‘Stride Asian Art Collection’, with its extensive and important collection of art and ceremonial
 textiles. Examples of the Centre’s ambitions ahead include the development of publications with
 Yunnan Provincial Museum and a global database of the Nanzhao and Dali collection hosted by
 Northumbria in both English and Chinese.



                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 To support objectives for impactful collaborative research, dissemination and knowledge
 exchange, Bailey and Spencer will extend their work on multidisciplinary innovation via the ‘phase
 2’ funding of Creative Fuse North East. Funded by AHRC, Arts Council England and ERDF across
 five North East universities, this vital contribution to the cultural prosperity and sustainability of the
 region leverages impact from research, combining ideas and skills from creative arts, design and
 technology disciplines to develop new ways of working between businesses, freelancers and
 academics. Over the next three years (2020-2023) the partnership will increase the creative
 capabilities of 50 organisations in North East England using methodologies devised in ‘phase 1’
 workshops. Also funded by ERDF (2020 -2023) English will contribute to the ‘Rural Design Centre’
 developed across the region’s universities, government agencies and community groups to bring
 communities, businesses, public authorities and researchers together to support rural innovation.


 In extending cross- and interdisciplinary partnership-working objectives with cultural organisations
 and community groups, under Phillips’ leadership BxNU will expand intercultural investigations
 of new ways of building arts and cultural organisations, of spatial and strategy analyses of the
 community arts movement and questions of inequality, agency and leadership in the arts. To
 support ambitious investigations between fine art, science and technology, CNoS researchers will
 develop new methodologies and models for residency programmes; prepare applications to the
 Wellcome Trust and AHRC (Crisp) and extend their existing collaborations through a recently
 prepared MoU with CERN (the European Organization for Nuclear Research), as CERN’s first
 non-science partnering in the UK.


 The Unit will continue to pursue objectives related to a dynamic and expanding PhD community
 focussed on partnerships and collaboration with, for example, digital technology industries, arts
 and cultural organisations through the OpenDoTT network; the Northern Bridge DTP and via CDP
 opportunities including, for example, Theodorakopoulos’s recently awarded AHRC Training
 grant with the Conservation Department at Tate.


 In addition, the recently formed (2020) initiative, CARF (Contemporary Arts Research Forum), led
 by Sworn and Butt draws together PhD researchers as well as academic staff from across Arts
 and beyond in relation to objectives for expanding cross and interdisciplinary research, supporting
 the next generation of researchers and growing an already strong reputation in practice research.
 In the context of both staff and PhD research, CARF will also support post-REF ambitions for the
 establishment of an International Centre for Performance Studies with a focus on cultural survival
 and social justice, building on the expertise of existing and recently appointed researchers across
 Fine Art and Theatre and Performance.




                                                                                                   Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open Access and ethical research practice
 Enabling wider dissemination and broad-ranging public and professional engagement with the
 Unit’s research is vital to its core principles of co-production and partnership. 98.1% of the ‘in-
 scope’ submitted outputs meet REF OA requirements. This includes journal articles from both Arts
 and Design and, from Design in particular, published conference proceedings with an ISSN. Given
 the nature of the Unit, a considerable proportion of outputs are beyond standard OA compliance,
 taking the form of portfolios, artefacts and patents, as well as monographs. Predominantly
 following the Green OA route, Gold access is applied to publications via the library’s dedicated
 fund as required by UKRI charitable funders or by specific publishers, but also where it is agreed
 that making the research freely and more quickly available will benefit wider publics and
 communities, including the Unit’s networks of national and international co-authors, external
 collaborators and partner organisations - the latter in particular are often without university library
 access. In this context the University will meet Gold access costs for Ashley’s forthcoming edited
 collection Whose Heritage? Challenging Race and Identity in Stuart Hall’s Post-nation Britain.
 Amongst the Unit’s many researchers involved in journal editorship, Leggott is on the editorial
 board of OPEN SCREENS, a peer-reviewed journal affiliated with the BAFTTSS (British
 Association for Film. TV and Screen Studies) subject association. The journal is published through
 the Open Library of Humanities who have been pathfinders in the field for Open Access.


 The Unit fully complies with the Universities UK’s ‘Concordat to Support Research Integrity’.
 Before they begin their projects all staff and PGRs engage with the Online Research Ethics and
 Governance Approval System to ensure principles of good practice. In addition a specific approval
 process, IRAS, is conducted for applications to the National Research Institute for Health
 Research (NIHR) for project-based research working with the NHS. Blythe, a design
 ethnographer, is currently Faculty Director of Ethics. Several of the Unit’s researchers lead on the
 development of new ethical practices in their fields; e.g. in human-computer interaction and digital
 design, Vines has published on and contributed to a series of international workshops on the
 ethical implications of conducting human-centred research on emerging technologies; and
 Wallace with colleagues on her ‘Ongoingness’ project has developed an ethical roadmap toolkit
 to help researchers engaged in design work with potentially vulnerable groups or around highly
 sensitive topics to plan their projects and engage in ethically-grounded practice. In the heritage
 field, Ashley’s participatory action co-investigation supports her BAME partners in self-
 articulation, challenging research histories that have often been premised on what academics ‘do
 to’ communities rather than engage publics actively (see UKRI, 2019). Her ‘(Multi)cultural heritage’
 research evolved from a study of disparate minority-led Arts/Cultural organisations into a
 comprehensive, participant-led venture providing BAME stakeholders with a newfound sense of
 agency in discussion of concepts of culture and policy. This has collectively challenged



                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 representatives from the wider Heritage sector with regards to BAME inclusion, leading to changes
 in strategy, understanding and policy.


 2. People


 Staffing Strategy
 Consistent with the University’s objective to increase the volume of staff producing quality
 research whilst holistically developing academic disciplines, the Unit has had notable success in
 its policy of developing practice research capacity, both in the appointment of leading researchers
 in all subject areas and in supporting and encouraging existing staff members. An established
 staffing strategy is designed to ensure the well-being and development of all staff and the vitality
 of their research; to support opportunities for new collaborations and partnerships and for
 extending impact across a growing number of cultural, social and commercial contexts. As stated,
 there has been strategic investment in 75 posts targeted across all subject and research groups,
 and at all levels from ECR to Professorial to ensure both leadership and future sustainability, and
 a research and teaching base that is contemporary and interdisciplinary. Of the eight current
 Design Professors, four are new appointments since the last REF and four have been internally
 promoted. Of the 10 Arts Professors in post, three have been internally promoted and four
 appointed since 2014. At present the Unit has 15 Associate Professors and 16 ECR staff will be
 submitted in 2021. Appointments overall have supported a policy of building capacity in strong or
 emergent areas of research and of replacing staff in key disciplines who have retired, moved to
 other institutions or outside HE.


 The internal promotion of existing staff is actively supported. As one means to this, the Unit has
 invested for the first time in in-service doctorates, with, as noted, seven completions in the current
 cycle and 13 staff currently enrolled. This is an especially important consideration for the Arts and
 Design sector where, traditionally, it is not uncommon for staff to be without doctoral qualifications.
 As a measure of success in this area, Adams, for example, is now Associate Professor in Design
 having been supported to do a PhD. In the context of retaining excellent researchers, Briggs
 provides just one example of a colleague first appointed as a researcher on an EPSRC funded
 project, who became Anniversary Research Fellow in Interaction Design and now Associate
 Professor in Design.


 To support evolving research priorities, recent appointments include Fine Art Professor Sworn
 who, as noted in relation to CARF, underscores the Unit’s focus on inter and cross-disciplinarity
 and forging new practice-based collaborations. Sworn herself researches across installation,
 photography and film, so connecting with fine artists in the CCP group, but equally the
 investigations of MIPMC researchers such as ECR Stenbom (appointed Sept 2019). Butt’s


                                                                                                Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appointment as Professor in Arts (Sept 2019) enhances expertise and potential new collaborations
 across visual culture, performance and queer studies, including in studies of popular music and
 art school pedagogies. Equally, ECR Sloan (March 2020), an interdisciplinary art historian and
 historian of technology, brings expertise on post-war British art and design pedagogies and
 cybernetics to practice research in CNoS. Senior Lecturer Egan (Jan 2020) with her focus on
 broader engagement with film and TV genres adds to MIPMC enquiry in both scholarly and
 practice research and in developing new forms of knowledge exchange through expertise in film
 censorship and media audience studies. Smith, Professor of Media and Sexual Cultures
 considers the implications of demands for regulation and censorship amongst her wider
 investigations of sexual media and representations. The recent externally funded ECR
 appointments of Bellini (Technical Art History) and Fuentes (Art Conservation) support further
 research in relation to the Woon and Stride collections and the development of the Nanzhao and
 Dali Centre. Newly appointed (2020) in Theatre and Performance, Associate Professor Duggan
 furthers research into the experience of tragedy and trauma in the SoATP group, but more
 generally too in Fine Art as in the performance practices of Johnston, concerned with collective
 memory and experience of conflict.


 Investment in Design staff has added interdisciplinary expertise in the fields of interaction design
 and human-computer interaction. As noted, this was supported by the appointment of Vines and
 Durrant as part of the University’s investment in the 2014-19 IDEATE MDRT. Holmquist, as
 Professor of Innovation, contributes specialism in interactive and ubiquitous computing. Since
 2018 he has developed a partnership with the PROTO Emerging Technologies Centre at the
 Northern Design Centre, an incubator for the creative industries investigating augmented and
 extended reality technologies. The appointments of Associate Professor Marshall, Professor
 Wallace, Senior VCF Pitsillides and ECR Dylan reflect commitment to practice research at the
 intersection of digital technologies and socially engaged design. Dylan first a PhD student in
 Design, then an SRA attached to the EPSRC-funded ‘Playing out with IoT’ project, is now FTE
 and another example of longer-term career support for the Unit’s valued researchers. Strohmayer
 and James are ECR appointments with expertise on responsible innovation in the emerging
 design contexts of social justice and circular economies and support the greater visibility of
 ethically engaged and responsible design research and practice. Mason and Richardson add to
 research on the implications of digital technologies for cultural organisations and archives. The
 aim to develop research capacity in Fashion led to the 2020 appointments of Gaston, Sampson
 and Gilligan who draw interdisciplinary perspectives and creative methodologies from the Arts
 and Social Sciences to expand understanding of the uses and implications of Design. Sampson
 is co-founder of the interdisciplinary Fashion Research Network which will encourage participation
 from the growing ECR and PGR community in a subject under-represented in the 2014



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 submission. As an indication of a developing research culture here, six Fashion staff were
 accepted to the peer reviewed conference ‘Futurescan 4: Valuing Practice’ in 2019.


 Staff Development
 As with staff at all levels, ECRs are allocated a mentor directly on taking up their posts. As well as
 being integrated into the research culture by, for example, introducing their own research at group
 or themed workshops and seminars, they are incorporated into the wider Faculty ECR community
 and encouraged to participate in the University’s ECR Forum and the ECR Development
 Programme organised by Research and Innovation Services (RIS). Through those structures they
 become familiar with appropriate funding schemes and processes and are supported to plan their
 future trajectory as researchers. As a result, for example, the Unit has been awarded three AHRC
 ECR Fellowships in the current cycle. As they progress through their probationary period (typically
 22 months) workloads are balanced to ensure capacity to meet research objectives, and to
 complete an HEA Fellowship. ECRs have opportunities to convene research groups (e.g. Horne
 for VMC) and lead in the planning of events or conferences. They are also able to undertake PGR
 supervision where mentoring in the team can be provided from experienced additional supervisors
 with the required number of completions. In these ways ECRs are supported in their own career
 progression while ensuring the vitality of the wider research culture in the longer term. Similarly
 Research Fellows across the Unit receive guidance and support from mentors and line managers
 and are typically accommodated close by those most associated with their projects.


 Permanent staff (both full-time or fractional) are encouraged to apply for a Research Sabbatical,
 usually on a one semester in seven scheme and, as noted above, there has been a particular
 concern to support practice researchers who were not returned in REF 2014, e.g. MacPherson,
 Pavey and Duncan. Applications are invited on an annual basis and the Unit operates a rota
 system so researchers can plan their activities accordingly. On occasions such as an external
 funding award or a valuable research opportunity with a particular deadline, applications are
 considered from outside the rota. Sabbaticals may facilitate a range of activities, including
 engagement in collaborative research projects or knowledge exchange or, as with Yee, for the
 development of an Impact Case Study. Individuals discuss their interest in sabbatical leave, their
 aspirations and plans as part of the PDA process and in discussion with mentors and Research
 Leads. Staff who have experienced interrupted service (e.g. Maternity or long-term Sick Leave)
 are encouraged to apply for sabbatical leave to enable them to re-establish their research activity:
 such applications may be considered outside the normal cycle. During the current REF period,
 staff have benefitted from sabbaticals across all disciplines in the Unit, including ECRs just out of
 their probation period. The sabbatical rota is an initiative that has only been fully established in
 Design within the present REF cycle. In some instances professors at the very start of their



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contracts (e.g. D Hughes, Phillips and Butt) have been allocated sabbaticals to enable them to
 complete monographs or a substantial body of work.


 The Unit provides strong support for its mid-career community. In addition to the Faculty Mid-
 Career Forum, mentors and line-managers provide guidance and advice towards Associate
 Professor and Professorial applications. Aside from Unit-wide mentoring in relation to research
 plans, outputs and funding applications (which may include facilitating roles as Co-Is on particular
 projects), opportunities are provided for mid-career staff to gain experience in leadership through
 roles such as PGR leads, Head of Subject (HoS) or Associate Head of the Dept (AHoD). Across
 the current cycle in Arts, for example, Arnfield has progressed from ECR status in REF 2014 to
 Associate Professor via periods as HoS in both Fine Art and Theatre and Performance. Gilroy
 (AHoD) and Brown (Director of the Woon and University Gallery) have been promoted from Senior
 Lecturer to Associate Professorships. Potter transferred from Senior Lecturer in REF 2014 to
 Associate Professor and now Professor in Art History undertaking roles as HoS and AHoD in Arts.
 Both Holt (UoA Lead) and Crisp have transferred from Reader/AP to Professor within the REF
 cycle.


 Through these mechanisms the Unit provides a consistently supportive environment for individual
 and collaborative research and for staff progression. We recognise that excellent communication
 is key to this process. News of research awards, prizes and successful PhD vivas is routinely
 circulated, as are details of upcoming research events, exhibitions, symposia and conferences. In
 addition to information regularly disseminated through RIS and via the faculty at large, for example,
 an Arts’ Sharepoint site ARIS (Arts Research and Innovation Site) provides a ‘one-stop’ location
 for materials needed to engage with core research activity. This includes documentation such as
 away day presentations, external funding procedures, forms and information relating to QR and
 sabbatical applications, current mentor-mentee lists, REF-related information (including OA
 procedures) and templates, details on staff members’ past and current PhD supervisions, and on
 upcoming PGR training opportunities.


 Equality and Diversity
 Of vital concern for this Unit, Northumbria has been awarded an institutionally wide Bronze Athena
 SWAN Award to ‘demonstrate a solid foundation for eliminating gender bias and developing an
 inclusive culture that values all staff.’ A joint Arts and Design application in this category will be
 submitted in November 2021. Arts and Design Equality and Diversity Leads (MacPherson, Arts
 and James, Design) were instrumental in organising fully-booked ‘Leading Effective Change’
 faculty workshops in 2019-20 delivering training on creating an inclusive culture, on
 intersectionality, LGBTQ+ issues, imposter syndrome, unconscious bias and cultural awareness
 and inviting discussion on any issues concerning protected characteristics. In addition, LGBTQ+


                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Women’s staff networks were launched in 2019. EDI matters are regularly addressed at staff
 away days and, as appropriate, in individual meetings with line managers and mentors. In addition,
 information is regularly circulated on upcoming regional and national events and webinars
 exploring, for instance, the implications of racial inequality for Higher Education. A BAME staff
 network was established in 2020 to provide a confidential environment for all staff who self-identify
 as coming from a Black, Asian or other Minority Ethnic Background. This network, along with the
 Race Equality Charter Consultative Group, plays an important advisory role in the diagnostic work
 and action planning of the Northumbria Race Equality Charter team with its commitment to
 understanding, removing or overcoming racial inequalities at Northumbria.


 Procedurally, attendance at fair selection training is a pre-requisite for all new appointment
 interviews, as are mixed gender panels. In practical terms it is understood that the ability of
 colleagues to be productive researchers can be impacted by a range of personal circumstances,
 including health, maternity, paternity and caring responsibilities. These individual circumstances
 and constraints are considered in the timetabling of meetings and committees and, following
 periods of family-related leave, in the scheduling of sabbaticals to allow time to regain research
 momentum (as in the case of Warwick and Liston). Noteworthy in terms of gender balance is
 that of the current 18 Professors across the Unit, ten are female, while the FTE submission overall
 is 48% female and 52% male. 2020 has also seen a new faculty-wide initiative to support women
 towards promotion.


 In addition to these institutional concerns and procedures, the Unit’s holistic engagement with the
 principles of equality and diversity extend to its research in numerous contexts. In addition to those
 already referenced, examples include Strohmayer, a founder of the feminist technology collective,
 Fempower.tech, which improves experiences of people made marginal in human-computer
 interaction and technology research more widely; Phillips’ developing new research into feminist
 leadership in Arts organisations; Pearlman’s publications on transgender studies and Land’s
 award-winning animated documentary ‘Bathroom Privileges’ (2020) focussed on themes of race,
 disability, gender and power relations in public space.


 Research Students
 Staff overall are highly active in PhD supervision, either as principal supervisors or attached to
 supervisory teams in order to gain experience; and they attend regular supervisory training on
 aspects of the role. As noted, postgraduate awards across Arts and Design increased from 27
 (REF 2014) to 87 (2019-20), and 121 students are currently enrolled. Within this period the Unit
 has benefitted from involvement in, firstly, from 2013, the AHRC consortium Centre for Doctoral
 Training in Arts and Design (CDT, £1.2m award 2014-19). Northumbria was lead RO with the
 University of Sunderland and partners BALTIC and the National Glass Centre Sunderland


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (directed by Campbell), and from 2019, membership of the AHRC Northern Bridge Consortium
 (NBC) with Jackson as co-ordinator from Arts. NBC, like the CDT, is committed not simply to
 supporting excellent PhD candidates in their individual studies and training programmes, but in
 contributing wholeheartedly to the vitality and sustainability of its cultural and economic regions
 (the north of England and Northern Ireland). This is demonstrated in part by its 20% yearly
 allocation of Collaborative Doctoral Awards (CDAs) so ensuring placement opportunities and
 underlining continual concern for building partnerships. The NBC will yield 335 studentships over
 five years, and it is envisaged that Arts and Design in particular (the latter unrepresented in NBC
 subject coverage until now) will benefit. In its first year Arts was awarded two NBC studentships
 and Design, one. In other AHRC contexts and drawing on longstanding collaborations with
 regional and national museums, Janine Barker’s Design History CDA with Shipley Art Gallery was
 completed in 2015; Valentina Risdonne’s current Conservation CDP (Collaborative Doctoral
 Partnership) studentship is focussed on the V&A’s 19th century plaster cast collection and, as
 noted, another Conservation CDP studentship, with Tate Britain, was secured for 2020-2024. Also,
 in the context of externally funded studentships, the Nanzhao and Dali Research Centre offers
 two: the Lady Edwina Grosvenor Studentship and the Tan See Bock Scholarship. Phillips was
 awarded an NBC-funded CDA studentship with BALTIC in 2020. Examples in Design include
 Belen Barros Pena’s current AHRC-NPIF studentship in collaboration with Santander on designing
 financial services for vulnerable populations, and the recent award to Holmquist of an NBC-
 funded CDA with PROTO. In addition, Arts and Design candidates compete annually for 20-25
 University Research Development Fund Studentships (RDFS) and have received, on average,
 seven per year. Faculty adds an RDF studentship to all successful AHRC ECR Fellowship awards,
 contributing to those projects’ diverse cultural or industrial partnerships. Finally, Arts and Design
 MRes programmes provide a valuable conduit for successful PhD applications (including those of
 staff members), and we are focused on increasing the number of self-funded PhD applications.


 As well as the CDT lead and NBC co-ordinator, the Unit has overall PGR leads for both Arts
 (Campbell) and Design (Holmquist). They are members of the Faculty Research Degrees Sub-
 Committee which monitors and approves progression and awards. They oversee PhD
 applications, contribute to the interviewing and allocation of studentships, arrange supervisory
 teams and ensure PGR progression procedures are adhered to. PGR leads are also an initial
 point of contact should a student have concerns about supervision. Students have formal monthly
 meetings with their principal supervisor and meet in general three times annually with their second
 supervisors. Documents and reports related to supervisions and annual progression stages are
 entered into an electronic system (e-Vision) to ensure accurate and timely records are maintained
 with an expectation that completion will occur within standard duration (3 years), with
 arrangements for additional time requests and ‘writing up’ period. As with its staff, the University
 is committed to providing an inclusive environment for its research students where diversity is


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 valued and encouraged. The student support team offer dyslexia and disability support and a
 range of services for international students; the student LGBTQ+ network works closely with the
 University and the Student Union to continually ensure up to date and inclusive policies are in
 place.


 The Unit’s postgraduate programmes provide a rich experience of support and cross-disciplinary
 network opportunities for students and staff associated with their studies. PhD students contribute
 significantly to the overall vitality of the Unit’s research groupings. They frequently initiate or
 collaborate in planning discursive events of value to their own studies as well as adding to the
 broader research culture of the associated academic community and beyond. All PhD students
 have access to dedicated space in the Glenamara Centre and to the University Library’s Research
 Commons Collaboration Spaces. In addition, PhD students in Design are typically co-located with
 the staff aligned with their projects and in related workshop spaces. Practice-based PhDs in Arts
 have access to workshops and are allocated studio space at B39 where, along with MFA students
 they engage directly with Baltic exhibition programmes and related activities. As one example of
 commitment to collaborative postgraduate scholarly research and to cultural networks and
 partners, Laia Anguix received an RDF studentship in 2017 to work with the Laing Art Gallery,
 Newcastle on the origins and development of its collection; a project designed by Potter as
 Academic Lead on the NU-TWAM Partnership which contributes to the Unit’s longstanding
 connections with Tyne and Wear Museums and Archives.


 Within the REF period the CDT has consistently shared good practice and identified opportunities
 emerging from the breadth of distinctive Arts and Design research undertaken within the
 consortium. It has produced interdisciplinary training programmes, conferences and events –
 several staged at Baltic, the National Glass Centre in Sunderland and Northern Design Centre -
 responsive to the needs of students, partners and the wider community. From these, numerous
 new connections have been forged, and the collaborative aspects of PGR research projects has
 grown. One example is Robert Djaelini’s ‘Developing Dialogue through Design’ research into the
 UKs integrated health and social care system. This led to multiple collaborations and work with
 local charities providing mental health services and contributed to a joint project between
 Northumbria and Central Manchester NHS Trust, and an NHS placement for Djaelini in the
 Scottish Parliament.


 CDT students are supported by both Student Development Funding (SDF) and Cohort
 Development Funds (CDF), the latter ensures that particular forms of research training, themed
 workshops and events are available for the benefit of all PhD and frequently PGT students beyond
 the CDT community itself. One example, organised by VMC PhD student Inge Panneels in 2017,
 addressed how artists are engaging with the Anthropocene in practice, theory and policy; an


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 occasion which involved PhD students, staff and Visiting Fellows from across Arts, Design and
 Humanities as well as independent artists, geographers, environmentalists and rural arts
 organisations and resulted in new network opportunities and collaborations. The CDT in this
 regard has made a valuable contribution to the arts ecology of this region and beyond. As another
 example, student, practising artist and CNoS member, Jacqui Donachie organised a ‘Meeting
 Place’ salon-style discussion, to explore how artists collaborate with experts in the fields of
 science, the environment, health and medicine to generate new research. In 2015 one of
 Donachie’s own works was awarded ‘Best film by an AHRC/ AHRB-funded doctoral student since
 1998’. Further illustration of the high level of training and support provided by the CDT is that one
 of its graduates, ECR Liston is now an active researcher in Fine Art at Northumbria and
 supervising her own PhD student.


 Beyond their participation in and across research group seminars and events, PhD-led initiatives
 include, for example, James Bell’s 2019 series of screenings of LGBTQ+ artist moving image,
 documentary and film. This was supported by the VMC group and the Faculty’s LGBTQ+ network.
 From CNoS, Crystal Bennes devised and ran a two-day workshop exploring the environmental
 impacts of photographic processes and materials and considering the physical materials of
 photography from critical, cultural and creative perspectives. From the same group ex-RDF
 student Louise MacKenzie produced the ‘Black Box’ cinema programme in collaboration with the
 Institute of Genetic Medicine at University of Newcastle.


 In leading these initiatives and taking part in research groups in general the PhD community
 become familiar with and, as appropriate, participate in their supervisors’ research projects. In a
 subject-specific context, since 2016 Walker, of MIPMC has organised a successful annual mini-
 symposium for PhDs and ECRs working in the field of horror, cult and exploitation.


 These examples of PhD activities and the support provided underscore the Unit’s overall strategy
 in relation to cross and interdisciplinary research; to sustaining its public, professional and cultural
 networks and partnerships, its collaborations with local and national charitable services, and
 commitment to EDI principles. Underpinning these is the concern to ensure its postgraduate
 community is properly equipped to make a vital future contribution to society in professional,
 academic and creative contexts.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 Income
 Within this cycle, as noted, the Unit’s researchers have received funding from a wide array of
 sources, including UKRI, industry, government agencies and public bodies, charitable trusts,


                                                                                                 Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international businesses and via individual philanthropic donors. Practice research
 outputs are also often realised through independent commissions, or via direct Arts Council
 England and Creative Scotland funds.


 The Leverhulme Trust has provided an important source of funding for creative practitioners as
 well as academic researchers interacting across disciplines and institutions. Examples include:


    •   Crisp’s 2015-16 Leverhulme Fellowship ‘Material Sight: Re-presenting the Spaces of
        Fundamental Science’ (£48,705). Hosted by Arts Catalyst, Crisp worked with partners,
        including the Institute of Physics and Laboratori Nazionale del Gran Sasso - the world’s
        largest underground research centre for particle physics housed within a mountain in
        central Italy.
    •   Bowen’s 2016-17 Leverhulme Fellowship for her interdisciplinary project ‘Sensing and
        Presencing Rare Plants through a Contemporary Drawing Practice’ (£65,638). Working at
        the interstices of fine art, botany and plant science, museology and cultural geography,
        Bowen investigated the relationships between the rare plant life of the south-western coast
        of India, drawing and herbaria.
    •   Arnfield’s Leverhulme International Academic Fellowship, 2017-8, one of two achieved by
        the University, was awarded for her project ‘Towards an interdisciplinary conceptualisation
        of (auto)biographical theatre practice’ (£20, 987). This consolidated relationships
        developed since 2013 with Łódź University and The Institute of Sociology and the Marek
        Edelman Centre for Dialogue. Arnfield engaged with Holocaust and genocide archives,
        offering a performative, memorial voice and using witness testimony from victims of
        oppressive regimes.
    •   Leverhulme Early Career Research Fellow Fisher’s project ‘The Dialectical Landscape:
        Negotiating the Legacies of British Modernism in the Rural’ (2019-22, £85,293) considers
        how experiences of exile and outsiderness have shaped creative encounters with place
        through curatorial, art historical and interdisciplinary research methods.
    •   Sexton’s 2020-2022 Leverhulme Project Grant (£129,000) was awarded to investigate
        ‘Anonymous Creativity, Library Music and Screen Cultures in the 1960s and 1970s’.


 AHRC funding has also proved a vital source of funding for cross and interdisciplinary research
 and collaborative engagement with publics and communities. In this context, for example:


    •   Rodgers' 2014-16 Research Fellowship, ‘Disrupting Dementia’, was important in its
        consideration of how design can contribute to the development of products, services and
        systems for people living with Dementia: a subject relevant to several of the Unit’s current
        researchers.

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Yee received AHRC Network funds (£44, 059) for her ‘Design for Social Innovation
        Research Network: bridging the UK and Asia Pacific (DESIAP)’, investigating how the
        language and practices of design have been adopted by non-design organisations
        engaged in social innovation.
    •   Ashley’s project ‘(Multi) Cultural Heritage; New Perspectives on Public Culture, Identity
        and Citizenship’ was supported by a Leadership Fellowship awarded in 2016-17 (£173,
        548). The value of that research resulted (March 2020) in AHRC Follow-on Funding for
        Impact and Engagement for the project ‘(Multi) Cultural Organisational Archives (£99,000)’.
    •   Theodorakopolous’s success in securing CDP studentships with both Tate and V&A
        Conservation Departments has been noted.
    •   Also, in the context of Museum collaborations, on completion of her AHRC CDA studies
        Janine Barker, supervised by Kramer received AHRC Cultural Engagement funding to
        develop a digital platform for the Henry Rothschild Collection and Archive at the Shipley
        Gallery, Tyne and Wear.
    •   Mason was awarded an AHRC research, development and engagement fellowship in
        November 2020 (£250,000) for a 2-year project beginning in April 2021 to investigate
        digital cultural heritage practices in museums.
    •   Duggan was awarded AHRC COVID-19 funding in November 2020 (£150,000) for ‘Social
        Distancing and Reimagining City Life: Performative strategies and practices for response
        and recovery in and beyond lockdown’.
    •   Walker was awarded an Early Career Fellowship in November 2020, ‘Raising Hell: British
        Horror Cinema in the 1980s and 1990s (£140,000)


 The Unit’s researchers have had considerable success in securing large UKRI collaborative
 awards relating to societal challenges. These include:


    •   Durrant’s 2018-21 EPSRC project ‘INTUIT, Interaction Design for Trusted Sharing of
        Personal Health Data to Live Well with HIV’; a design-led programme addressing issues
        of trust, identity and privacy experienced by people with HIV when sharing self-generated
        data for the purposes of managing their condition (£924, 272, EPSRC);
    •   Wallace’s 2016-17 EPSRC project ‘Enabling Ongoingness: Content Creation and
        Consumption in the New Digital Age’ (£1,106, 797) developed new ways to curate digital
        media to support the bereaved or those with a life-limiting illness. When awarded this and
        Durrant’s INTUIT project were the largest UKRI grants held at the University.
    •   Briggs received £239,262 from EPSRC for her 2017-18 research ‘Cumulative Revelations
        of Personal Data’ and £209,794 for her project ‘TAPESTRY: Trust, Authentication and
        Privacy over a Decentralised Social Registry; Participatory economies: online platforms for



                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        exchange of making and managing value in the creative and cultural industries’, which
        involved the study of human-centred applications of block-chain based services for proving
        the provenance of online digital identities across public and private service providers.
    •   Vines secured EPSRC funding for ‘Ox-Chain: Towards secure and trustworthy circular
        economies through distributed ledger technologies’ (£197, 459), a 2016-17 collaborative
        project with the universities of Edinburgh and Lancaster; ESRC funding for the project
        ‘Loneliness and social isolation in mental health’ (£63, 709) focused on co-designing digital
        interventions for populations at risk of transitory loneliness and social isolation, and
        £46,174 for ‘CuRAtOR: Challenging online fear and OtheRing’.
    •   As an example of ESRC funding, Briggs was awarded £92,528 in 2014-15 for ‘A
        Taxonomy of UK Crowdfunding and Examination of the Potential of Trust and Empathy in
        Project Success’.
    •   Northumbria is the overall lead (1.7m) in the CDC (£550,000 to ADSS)


 In international collaborations, Bailey was PI responsible for a successful collaborative grant
 working with the American University of Armenia, to deliver start-up business innovation support
 in Yerevan. (£100,000 over three tranches from British Council). Also from British Council (2019)
 is Yee’s funding from the ‘Creative Hubs for Good’ programme (with RMIT University, Australia)
 to support the development of cultural and creative districts in South-East Asia. This work is
 facilitated by Yee’s ‘Designing for Social Innovation in Asia-Pacific’ (DESIAP) network which builds
 culturally grounded understanding of how design supports social innovation - the focus of one of
 this Unit’s Impact Case Studies.


 As noted, Design researchers have received funding from ‘Creative Fuse North East’ an action-
 research project involving Northumbria alongside Newcastle, Durham, Sunderland and Teesside
 Universities. Based at the Northern Design Centre in Gateshead, Northumbria Creative Fuse
 works with SMEs, freelancers, and large organisations to develop innovative ways of working,
 particularly focusing on ‘fusion’: the combination of creative art and design skills with technology
 expertise. Creative Fuse is funded by AHRC, ACE, and ERDF, with partners including
 Northumbria Police, Northern Dance, New Writing North, Rape Crisis and the National Trust
 Seaton Delaval. From this source Bailey, for example, received AHRC funding in 2015-16 (£468,
 671) and in 2016-17 from the European Commission (£229,779) for the Creativity Works project.
 This explored the role of design processes and techniques in facilitating multi-disciplinary
 innovation in complex social and economic contexts and investigated strategies for particular
 organisations to develop their creative capacities and confidence through the use of design
 expertise.




                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Those practice researchers benefitting from individual ACE or Creative Scotland awards include
 Crisp whose Leverhulme Fellowship exhibition staged at MiMA in Middlesbrough and Catalyst
 Arts in London received an ACE award of £14,000; Campbell’s co-curated exhibitions ‘Double
 Act: Art and Comedy’ engaging with the comedic impulse within contemporary British culture and
 staged at the MAC, Belfast and Bluecoat Gallery, Liverpool received £60,000 from ACE and Arts
 Council Northern Ireland. O’Sullivan and Tatham’s 'Are you LOCATIONALIZED' which
 considered the social function of contemporary art commissioned for specific locations was funded
 by Creative Scotland (£70,000). Pavey and MacPherson, received £15,000 from Creative
 Scotland for a final phase of their co-produced theatre project working with coastal fishing
 communities along the north east coast of Scotland and England, ‘Get up and Tie Your Fingers,
 Eyemouth’.


 Other sources for practice research include Johnston’s ‘Border Crossings’, a site-responsive
 residency project at Yuendamu in the Northern Territory of Australia and exhibition at the
 University of South Australia facilitated through British Council and Artists’ International
 Development Fund grants. Borland’s 2018 ‘I Say Nothing’, a site-specific installation
 commissioned for Glasgow Museums’ First World War collection following her year-long research
 residency at Glasgow Museums Resource Centre, was supported by Public Art Fund 14-18 NOW.
 Sworn’s 2015 mixed media installation at the Whitechapel Gallery, ‘Silent Sticks’ developing the
 theme of mistaken identity resulted from a Max Mara Award for Women Artists. In the recent
 context of Covid-19 related research, Jackson was awarded (April 2020) £23,000 from an ACE
 initiative to support his IMT Gallery research in a series of online commissions for artists to present
 new free-entry, high quality digital art projects on the theme of ‘This is Not-Me’, exploring the
 problematic representations of life on online platforms.


 Public bodies and the voluntary sector have provided valuable small funding for contract research
 for Design, including Spencer’s, 2014-15 ‘A collaborative approach to the development of
 responsible social enterprise model for the Percy Hedley foundation’ (£9, 621); Steane’s, 2015-
 16 Gateshead Carers Association award of £10, 000 for ‘GCAs E-Learning Package’ and
 Warwick’s 2017-18 ‘Capture and critically review Ageing Better Middlesbrough’s co-design
 process’ award of £4,419 from Ageing Better Middlesbrough. The latter examined the positive
 impact co-design activities can have on service user wellbeing and sense of autonomy. Sources
 of funding for contract research projects with industry and commercial firms include Adams’ £11,
 429 in 2018-19 from furniture retailer Herman Miller inc. for the Eddystone Learning Space Pilot.
 More diverse small funds include Horne’s Paul Mellon Mid-Career Fellowship for research into
 the evolution of women artists’ networks in the 1960-70s; Potter’s Lewis Walpole Library
 Fellowship (c.£8,000), and contributions to Kramer’s travel to Japan from the Pasold Research
 Fund.


                                                                                                Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Knowledge Transfer Partnership awards are an important indication of how our research has
 helped businesses to innovate. Lievesley has been involved in two KTPs; 1. with Solar Capture
 Technologies (£81, 891) to develop a modular range of micro-solar power solutions to meet the
 needs of transport infrastructure and waterways authorities using innovative management
 approaches, and 2. with the motion and control technology corporation, Parker Hannifin (£80,
 945), to establish customer-centric innovation processes. As further evidence of the considerable
 value of KTP awards, the second of these underpins Lievesley’s impact case study for 2021.


 Activity relating to research funding is overseen by the two Directors of Research and Knowledge
 Exchange, Potter in Arts and Yee in Design. They chair their respective Research Committees
 whose membership includes HoDs, PGR leads, UoA lead (Holt), Deputy UoA lead (Marshall),
 Heads of Subject and Research Group/Theme convenors. Funding applications across the UoA
 are supported by RIS, who provide individual researchers and teams with dedicated university
 Research Policy Managers, give budgetary and structural support and maintain a rigorous peer-
 review process supported through a Faculty Peer Review College which provides mentoring for
 the preparation of funding applications. In addition to researchers working on specific Impact Case
 Studies, those developing general funding applications can also receive advice from Impact
 Officers on how to embed and evidence impact.


 Regular funding workshops are arranged for all staff in connection with specific schemes such as
 AHRC Fellowship (ECR and standard route) and Leverhulme Fellowships. The need for planning
 and substantial lead-in times is emphasised to ensure fair workload management and reflect
 ambitious funding applications. RIS systems ensure that applications are competitive and
 manageable. Unit researchers can apply for internal QR support for application development; this
 funding is responsive and can be used to support activities such as academic networks; pump-
 priming workshops and costs related to working collaboratively with partner organisations.
 Researchers can also apply for faculty funds for the hiring of an RA to scope out a potential project.
 The University runs an elite training programme (‘Next Generation of Large Award Holders’) for
 researchers who have already won small or medium-sized grants to help them transition to larger-
 scale applications. Several, including Briggs, Crisp, Kramer and Potter have taken part in this
 programme in the current cycle.


 Infrastructure and facilities
 This Unit’s vibrant research environment is underpinned by considerable and sustained
 investment in facilities. Design’s purpose-built building provides specialist workshop, lab and
 making spaces to support interdisciplinary and commercial research; with a public-facing
 exhibition area and adjacent presentation hall supporting a programme of research events.


                                                                                               Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Design’s research resources allow for the combination of STEM approaches with design insights
 and expertise to translate scientific and technological advances such as 3D printing, synthetic
 biology, organic electronics, sensors and technologies. Improved infrastructure includes access
 to specialist research facilities enabling digital making and physical fabrication, and allows for the
 hosting of workshops and engagements with the public and collaborative organisations. As noted,
 new dedicated space provided for CoCreate brings together researchers from across the design
 disciplines and PGR students in one place, including two major EPRSC projects. Overall the Unit
 has 7,750 square metres of dedicated teaching, workshop and studio space, including 846 square
 metres of PhD and Master’s studio provision at B39, which integrates postgraduate students and
 staff in collaborative space, including the Experimental Studio.


 The University Gallery, directed by Brown and now supported by the Lim ai Fang Fellow, opened
 in 2018 in a new location on City Campus. This includes Gallery North and the University Art
 Collection (comprising 3,000 paintings, prints, drawings, and sculptures, ranging from Japanese
 prints to works by Manet and Paolozzi). It has a dedicated study area and holds the studio archives
 donated by descendants of the artists Norman Cornish and Charles Sims. Gallery North provides
 an experimental space for contemporary practice through a regular programme of exhibitions,
 symposia, research-in-progress and public-facing events for ADSS and the University at large. As
 an example of collaboration across the Unit’s research and educational resources and in
 conjunction with Baltic, the Gallery supports the prestigious annual Woon Painting and Sculpture
 Prize open to all UK Fine Art undergraduates, which awards a total of £40,000 plus studio space
 for 12 months for the first prize winner, as well as the Woon Gallery of Asian Art. The Asian Art
 Collection is on long term loan from retired Singaporean lawyer and Northumbrian alumnus, Mr
 Wee Teng Woon, and the Woon Brothers Foundation who support research and public exhibitions
 in the region. The development of these spaces supports continued focus on widening
 participation and external engagement between the University and the city of Newcastle.


 The period ahead will benefit from £2,000,000 investment in new research and exhibition facilities
 for the Nanzhou Dali Research Centre, and the Woon and Stride Collections in the recently
 acquired College House on the edge of the campus by the city centre, close to our Fine Art
 Conservation studios. This will provide a purpose-built new site for research, training, cultural and
 academic exchange with existing partners in the Yunnan museum and gallery sector. College
 House will have dedicated space for academic lectures and seminars and for public-facing events.
 Such investment, alongside the three related academic posts (part-funded for five years through
 the Woon and Stride partnerships) will further strengthen our capacity for international
 collaboration, partnership and knowledge exchange.




                                                                                               Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 The principles of collaboration and contribution are and will remain at the core of the Unit’s
 activities. They define its forms of engagement, networks, partnerships and the beneficiaries of its
 research. One indication of success is the submission of eight Impact Case Studies drawn from
 across the Unit’s subject areas, some referred to above. These encapsulate an overarching
 commitment to research of consequence for culture, society and the economy from, for example,
 design innovation practices for social, commercial and voluntary organizations, to support for
 sustainable healthcare delivery, and collaborative forms of social and cultural representation of
 benefit to marginalised communities and those suffering the longer term effects of conflict and
 trauma. These case studies emerge from continuous interaction with diverse communities,
 individuals and organizations: the sharing of expertise and contributions across an extensive
 range of academic disciplines, subject associations, public, commercial and voluntary sectors.


 Research collaboration and partnerships
 In terms of international university research partnerships, Qin leads the University’s strategic
 partnership with Northwestern Polytechnical University in China which included the establishment
 of a joint Design Innovation Lab in 2017. As noted, the Nanzhao and Dali Kingdoms’ research
 centre’s partnership with Yunnan Art Gallery and Museum and forthcoming collaborations with five
 Yunnan Universities will further our research capacity in non-Western visual and material cultures.


 Other collaborations yielding benefits in terms, for example, of research outputs, funding
 applications and public engagement with national and international cultural heritage and
 educational organisations include: Arnfield, University of Łódź, Poland and NYU; Phillips and
 Crawshaw, University of Gothenberg; Theodorakopolous and Holt, Tate Britain; Holt and
 Crawshaw rural arts organisations (e.g. Visual Arts in Rural Communities), local and national
 community groups (Pavey, MacPherson, Warwick, Spencer, Taylor), and conservation bodies
 such as the National Trust (Brown). Art and science research outputs have emerged through, for
 example, Crisp’s collaboration with Boulby Underground Laboratory, Institute of Computational
 Cosmology, Durham, Institute of Physics, London and Borland, Institute of Transplantation,
 Freeman Hospital, Newcastle. An example of diverse engagements across Arts and Design with
 one particular cultural organisation is Kramer’s role as fashion history consultant on the V&A’s
 2020 exhibition, ‘Kimono: Kyoto to Catwalk’, Mason’s exploration of the integration of design
 thinking and associated methodologies in its curatorial, exhibition design and visitor experience
 design processes; and Theodorakopolous’ current role (as noted) as co-supervisor of Valentina
 Risdonne’s AHRC CDP studentship with the V&A’s Department of Conservation.




                                                                                             Page 26
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Vines has developed significant international collaborations with the universities of Toronto,
 Melbourne and University of California Irvine on the ethical dimensions of human-computer
 interaction, research evident through ACM CHI publications and workshops, and Yee has acted
 as consultant on CLEAR (Cambodia Leadership, Excellence and Responsibility) producing on-
 line training programmes supported by the British Embassy in Cambodia. In addition to the forms
 of collaboration in Design already indicated in reference to a range of funded research projects,
 other notable examples include, for instance, Gibson’s long-term collaboration with Northern
 Dance based on his GAMS interactive motion-tracking system and Dylan, Durrant and Vines’
 work with charities, youth advocacy organisations and forest schools designing digital
 interventions to navigate the social and community barriers to children playing outdoors.


 Contribution to the arts and design sector; leadership and academic citizenship
 Across the Unit researchers contribute to and influence sector debate in numerous contexts. In
 relation to Research Council peer review, 11 researchers have been members of the AHRC Peer
 Review College since 2014 including the interdisciplinary and international panels: (Duggan
 (strategic college); Yee, Leggott, Kramer, Holt, Marshall, Potter, Sexton, Wallace, Tythacott,
 Smith, Blythe, Briggs); Briggs was recognised by the AHRC Head of Operations in April 2020
 for her ‘Outstanding Contribution to the AHRC’ in evaluating applications over 2019, and is also
 an ESRC college member; Tythacott, Ling and Yee all have advisory roles on Research Council
 programmes; Blythe has been peer reviewer for ESRC and Wellcome; Vines has reviewed for
 EPSRC and ESRC standard grants since 2015, has been a member of EPSRC ICT Theme
 panels, and was a member of the Academy of Finland ‘Human Technology’ prioritisation panel,
 2018-19. Talhouk, Strohmayer, Blythe, Taylor and Vines are current CHI programme
 committee members. Yee is Advisory Board member for Impact Hub, Phnom Penh.


 Researchers also have roles on numerous national and international subject associations. In the
 context of arts and culture associations examples include Colbourne, who sits on the Institute of
 Conservation Policy and Advocacy Panel; Duggan is Secretary (elected) of the Theatre and
 Performance Research Association; Leggott is Executive Member of the International Association
 for Media and History; Ashley, Executive Member, International Association of Critical Heritage
 Studies; on national museum and gallery initiatives steering committees and the Royal Society of
 the Encouragement of Arts, Manufacture and Commerce; on regional heritage committees; and
 several researchers are Fellows of Learned Societies, e.g. Potter is Fellow of the Royal Historical
 Society and Tythacott of the Royal Asiatic Society.


 Of professional bodies, Vines, for instance is Vice-Chair of UK ACM SIGCHI (Special Interest
 Group on Computer-Human Interaction) Chapter. Examples of contributions to expert panels



                                                                                             Page 27
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include Bailey on the Design Museum panel on the future role of the museum as an activist for
 design across academia, industry, policy and the profession.


 In the broader context of discussions on the future of practice research, D Hughes is a steering
 group member of the Practice Research Advisory Group (PRAG-UK), a body from the HE arts
 research community working to increase the visibility and accessibility of UK practice research. In
 the context of specific subject review, Butt is a member of the Live Art sector review Steering
 Group, ‘Assessing the impact of Live Art on the cultural landscape of the UK’, led by the Live Art
 Development Agency, London, and Hann has contributed to publications and delivered invited
 conference presentations on her arguments for a ‘Second Wave’ of practice research.


 Many researchers have been active as journal editors within the REF period. Examples include
 Phillips, PARSE: Journal for Artistic Research; Holt, Visual Culture in Britain; Tythacott, Museum
 and Society; Smith, Porn Studies; Brown, the first ICOM CC e journal; Leggott, Journal of
 Popular Television; Hudson, Associate Editor, Landscape Research and Lead Editor,
 Sociological Research Online and Gibson, Associate Editor, Journal of Professional
 Communication. Many are also represented on editorial boards of journals, including: Animation
 Practice, Process, Production; Multimodal Technologies and Interaction; Personal and Ubiquitous
 Computing; Tate Papers; Third Text; Arts; Art in Public Realm; Journal of Gender Studies;
 Participation and Sexualities. Several researchers are series editors e.g. Hudson, ‘Visual
 Modernities’, Tythacott, ‘Southeast Asian Art and Archaeology: Hindu-Buddhist Traditions’; and
 many serve regularly as peer reviewers to journals, publishers and educational charities.


 As this document has demonstrated, contribution to arts and cultural organisations is a significant
 part of the Unit’s activity. Amongst those who act as board members, trustees or steering group
 advisors on regional and national galleries and artist-run organisations are Crisp, D6: Culture in
 Transit, Newcastle; Phillips, Eastside Projects, Birmingham and Chisenhale Gallery, London;
 Rohtmaa Jackson, IMT Gallery, London; Crawshaw, Vane Gallery, Newcastle; Johnston,
 Bbeyond performing arts group, Belfast; O’Sullivan, Collective, Edinburgh; D. Hughes,
 Workplace Foundation, Newcastle and Hudson, Littoral Arts and Schwitters Merz Barn Site. In
 addition, a number have had advisory roles on aspects of museum collections, e.g. Tythacott was
 Curatorial Consultant on the China redisplay at the Lady Lever Art Gallery, Liverpool.


 Scholarly awards, prizes and fellowships
 Researchers based within CoCreate have received multiple awards from leading interaction
 design and human-computer interaction publication venues. This includes ‘Best Paper’ (top 2% of
 all submissions) awards for Wallace (2019) and Vines (2014) and ‘Honourable Mention’ (top 5%)
 awards for Briggs (2018), Wallace (2020) and Vines (2015, 2016, 2018) at the ACM CHI


                                                                                             Page 28
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conference. Holmquist was Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award Holder, 2016-2021.
 VCF Talhouk was announced ‘Young Digital Leader of the Year’ in the Oct 2020 Digital Leaders
 100 Awards. Amongst those to receive publication awards from subject associations are
 Hargrave, 2018 TaPRA New Career Researcher in Theatre/Performance Prize for his monograph
 Theatre of Learning Disability. Bellini won the ‘International Prize for Literature, City of Como’
 2016 for her study In the Land of the Snow. Cultural History of Tibet from 7th to 21st Century.
 Practice research awards prizes include, for example, Collin, whose feature film Sanctuary was
 winner of the 9th International Disability Film Festival and Best First Irish Feature at the Galway
 2016 Film Festival and Land who received best feature film award for Irene’s Ghost from
 FILMSTOCK 12 in 2019; in the following year the Royal Television Society 2020 Excellence in
 Craft: Animation award and, also in 2020 as noted above, an AHRC Research in Film Award
 (RIFA) for ‘Bathroom Privileges’. Johnston was awarded the O’Malley Visual Arts Award in 2020
 and Sworn, the Max Mara Prize in 2014 and a Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2015 for outstanding
 researchers of exceptional promise. Success in the award of research fellowships includes
 Crawshaw, recipient in 2019 of a Moore Institute Research Fellowship at the National University
 of Ireland, Galway relating to her ethnographic research in artist residencies, community
 development and rural planning. Examples of international Visiting Professorship include Duggan
 at University of Hildesheim (Germany) 2019/20 & 2015 and Ashley, at the Robarts Centre for
 Canadian Studies, York University, Toronto, 2019.


 Invited keynotes and conference contributions (performances and exhibitions in REF2 and
 REF5)
 Amongst international keynote lectures at academic conferences, in public galleries and at
 international biennials, are Sworn and Phillips at Venice Biennales, 2015, 2017, Phillips, 11th
 Gwangju Biennale; Butt, ‘Art School without Walls’, Helsinki Theatre Academy, and Luxus
 Symposium, Warsaw and Wroclaw Museum, Poland, 2015; Johnston, Artistspeak, University of
 South Australia 2016; Holt, Meaning of North, University of Rovaniemi, Finland, 2017; Hunter,
 European Minority Film Festival, Husum Germany; Bailey, Riga Stradis, Latvia, ‘Innovative
 Approaches to Internationalisation; Marshall, UK-China Creative Economy Roundtable,
 Shanghai, 2016; Smith, Sexual Cultures, III, Tampere, Finland, 2019; Holmquist, 2019 CHI
 conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. Examples of national contributions include
 Campbell, ‘What was Art School’, Bluecoat, Liverpool, 2018.


 Conference organisation
 In this context examples include the ‘Research through Design’ conference, initiated by
 researchers in this Unit (Wallace, Yee, and later Vines) an established bi-annual international
 design conference with an important role in profiling practice research through exhibition and
 presentation. RTD attracts submissions from a global pool of researchers from a wide spectrum


                                                                                            Page 29
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of design research and HCI while also capturing aspects of craft research, historically with limited
 opportunities for dissemination. Across the Unit we regularly organise and host international
 subject association conferences at Northumbria, e.g. recently Kramer’s convening of the
 International Design History Society conference held at Northumbria in September 2019 (an
 example of collaboration and networking amongst researchers from across Arts and Design) and
 Leggott’s convening of the IAMH biannual conference in July 2019. (Horne was a convenor of
 the Association for Art History conference to be staged at Northumbria and Newcastle University
 in 2020 but cancelled due to COVID-19). International conference organisation includes Qin’s joint
 conference with partners Northwestern Polytechnic University in Xi’An, China in 2018; and
 Holmquist, ACM Designing Interactive Systems, 2018. In future plans Design researchers
 (including Yee) will co-host the 2022 Participatory Design Conference (PDC) with the universities
 of Newcastle and RMIT, Australia.


 Doctoral Supervision and External Examinations
 Mechanisms for PhD supervision and the impressive increase in the number of PhD awards have
 been outlined earlier in this document. The Unit’s researchers also regularly share their expertise
 as external examiners with examinations of 114 UK-based PhDs and 25 overseas: Vines: Oslo,
 Aalto, Aalborg; Butt: Auckland, Galway; Johnston: Dublin; Phillips: Dublin, Stockholm, Vienna;
 Potter: Western Australia; Tythacott: Hong Kong; Crawshaw: Adelaide; Taylor: Oulu; Smith:
 Dublin, New South Wales, Melbourne, Aarhus Denmark; Southern Cross Australia; Holmquist,
 Malarden Sweden; Gibson, Oslo; Wallace: Belgium, Portugal; Yee, Finland and Australia, and
 Sexton, Auckland, NZ.




                                                                                             Page 30
