Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Roehampton
 Unit of Assessment: 27 – English Language and Literature
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 English and Creative Writing (ECW) is comprised of an ambitious and dynamic group of
 researchers who are united by the exploration of literature across and beyond the Western canon,
 and who collectively pursue inclusive research practices which investigate questions of social,
 gendered, sexual, ethnic or cultural identity. Based in the School of Humanities, ECW has
 expanded and strengthened its research capacity significantly since REF2014, consolidating
 existing areas of expertise, whilst extending its research breadth through developing new
 complementary specialisms across periods and forms. We advance critically and socially-engaged
 research through our key thematic and chronological clusters: (i) Early Modern Studies (Kesson,
 McManus, Kingsley-Smith), (ii) the Long Nineteenth Century (Bubb, Fallon, Frazier Wood,
 Haywood, Lee, Peters, Shannon, Teltscher, Turner), (iii) Language, Culture and Memory (Dini,
 Eppler, Fernandez-Carbajal, Humble, Jary, Kinane, Maunsell, Mooney, Paraskeva, Trower,
 Waller) and (iv) Poetry, Fiction and Experimental Form (Atkins, Greenberg, Harsent, Hilson,
 Jaeger, Ross, Sampson, Waidner). Our 31 staff members (29.5 FTE) range widely across
 genres and produce work that is both academic and popular in its audience, and which has a
 formal diversity including monographs, biography, cultural histories, scholarly editions, essay
 collections, poetry and short story collections, librettos, innovative prose and experimental poetry.

 At the time of REF2014, our aims were ‘to promote, enhance and expand existing areas of
 research strength and distinction, to support the production of large-scale works, to strengthen
 key external collaborative partnerships, and to integrate fully our research students into the
 research environment’. Since this time, we have delivered on these ambitions, and have made
 substantial advances in our research performance and capacity through a significant, targeted
 investment in our staff base, a robust system of planning, mentoring and support, and
 development of a more integrated research culture, sustained through increased numbers of
 PGRs and ECRs, and relationships with cultural partners. We have also substantially increased
 external research funding by 204% (£1.27m), which has supported our research and its
 dissemination, most notably in the 68 long-form outputs and monographs produced within ECW
 in this period. We have significantly increased our PGR completion rate along with the proportion
 of students receiving funding (80% of current PGRs) and been particularly successful in our
 participation in the AHRC doctoral training partnership, TECHNE. The integration of our PGR
 students into our research culture has been reinforced by an exciting post-doctoral and ECR
 culture, with clear progression routes and opportunities to foster dynamic research interactions.
 Significantly, our ambitions have been realised across the range of our research themes and
 chronological breadth:

 Early Modern Studies
 Colleagues working in Early Modern Studies challenge canonicity, with a focus on the rewriting of
 early modern theatre history in relation to playhouses, the contribution of women, and diverse
 gender and sexual identities on and off stage. Kingsley-Smith's monograph The Afterlife of
 Shakespeare’s Sonnets (2019) has revised understandings of their composition and reception,
 while McManus and Kesson’s publications, and their leadership of two major funded projects,
 Kesson’s AHRC-funded ‘Before Shakespeare’ (2015-18) and McManus’s Leverhulme-funded
 UK/Canadian collaboration, ‘Engendering the Stage’ (2018–2022), have broken new ground in
 understanding the diversity of the Elizabethan playhouse and challenging the cultures of exclusion
 around performance practices today. We have also recruited three postdoctoral fellows,
 Morwenna Carr (to 2018), Callan Davies (to 2019) and Erin Julian (2020 onwards) and five PGRs
 (Gilchrist, Craig, Lester, Davies, Lewis), with Gilchrist subsequently awarded a one-year teaching
 fellowship in the department. National and international partners include Shakespeare’s Globe,
 the Museum of London Archaeology, the Royal Shakespeare Company and the Stratford
 Shakespeare Festival, Ontario.

 Studies in the Long Nineteenth Century


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Colleagues working across the long nineteenth century advance distinctive research in the
 dialogue between literature and key discourses of the period: science, empire and national
 identity. A feature of our research, exemplified by Sampson’s acclaimed biography In Search of
 Mary Shelley: The Girl Who Wrote Frankenstein (2018), is the reappraisal of the periods’
 literary cultures and histories through novel lenses. We have a particular focus on print and visual
 culture and their global circulation. Our flagship project, the ‘Romantic Illustration Network’,
 curated by Haywood, engages 66 scholars across the world, hosts a significant website including
 the online Boydell Shakespeare Gallery, and involves research collaboration with the House of
 Illustration, the University of the Third Age (U3A), Chawton House Library, Tate Britain, the
 Wilhelm Busch Museum of Caricature (Hannover) and Keats House. A collection of essays,
 Romanticism and Illustration (2019), co-edited by Haywood and Shannon, defines this
 important emerging area, while Fallon’s monograph Blake, Myth, and Enlightenment: The
 Politics of Apotheosis (2017) reads Blake’s poetry through his illustration and paintings. Frazier
 Wood’s (Librarian and Archivist of the Spalding Gentleman’s Society and Fellow of the Society of
 Antiquaries) monograph Anglo-Saxonism and the Idea of Englishness in Eighteenth-
 Century Britain (2020) draws together book history and visual culture to explore how
 antiquarianism in the period fostered a specific sense of national identity which developed across
 the long nineteenth century. In Victorian studies, work by Teltscher (Visiting Researcher at the
 Royal Botanic Gardens Kew and Fellow of the Royal Historical Society) and Peters shows how
 that identity informed colonial contact between Britain and other parts of the world as well as its
 role in the formation and circulation of scientific knowledge and cultural meaning. This focus is
 extended in differing ways by Bubb’s (Marie Curie Fellowship at Trinity College Dublin in 2017-
 18) prize-winning monograph Meeting without Knowing it: Kipling and Yeats at the Fin de
 Siècle (2016; University English prize 2017), which offers a novel account of literary influence,
 and by Shannon’s prize-winning monograph Dickens, Reynolds and Mayhew on Wellington
 Street: The Print Culture of a Victorian Street (2015; 2016 Colby Prize) which explores the
 circulation of print culture through the lens of cultural geography. Bubb’s latest work on the
 ‘oriental’ book in Victorian culture adumbrates the contact between Britain and Asia, working at
 the intersection of translation studies and book history. Peters’ work on the exhibition of colonial
 orphan children extends both the focus on visual culture in the nineteenth century and the
 consideration of childhood found in ECR Turner’s monograph, Romantic Childhood, Romantic
 Heirs: Reproduction and Retrospection 1820-1850 (2017), while Lee’s edited collection
 Victorian Comedy and Laughter: Conviviality, Jokes and Dissent (2020) places humour
 at the centre of Victorian culture.

 Language, Culture and Memory
 Colleagues working in this area extend understandings of literature through the relationships
 between language, culture and memory in the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, including acts
 and cultures of reading, of biography and autobiography, of film, and of popular, children’s and
 young adult literature. Specialist linguistic research provides a complementary expansion and
 development of literary studies, and staff work is marked by an engaged interest in contemporary
 cultures, practices and communities. Leader received critical acclaim for his two-volume
 biography reappraising Saul Bellow, and Maunsell’s Portraits From Life: Modernist Novelists
 and Autobiography (2017) along with Sampson’s volume on Mary Shelley illustrate the strength
 of our work in life-writing, which is complemented by Trower and Waller’s research on reader
 narratives and memory. Trower’s AHRC-funded ‘Memories of Fiction’ (2014-18) and her current
 AHRC-funded ‘Living Libraries’ projects mobilise oral history to uncover readers’ self-narratives of
 the value and meaning of reading and of libraries and have generated local and national
 partnerships with libraries and their users. Waller’s monograph Re-reading Childhood Books:
 A Poetics (2019) unites life-writing and memory studies to present a new model for understanding
 lifelong reading. With Groes (left 2017), Waller founded the AHRC and Wellcome Trust funded
 ‘Memory Network’ which hosted a series of author events including ‘Transmission: A discussion
 of memory palaces with Hari Kunzru’ (Birkbeck College, University of London, 2014) and ‘Memory
 in the Twenty-First Century’ (UCL, 2014). Our research on literature and cinema ranges from the
 modernist canon to popular and twenty-first century film: Paraskeva’s work on literature and film
 led to his Samuel Beckett and Cinema (2017) while Fernandez-Cabajal’s 2017 monograph
 examines the representation of queer Muslim diasporas in contemporary literature and film, and

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Kinane’s 2017 monograph explores the island trope in contemporary film and television. This work
 is allied to research on domestic culture: Humble’s The Literature of Food, An Introduction
 from 1830 to the Present (2020) traces the relationship between the real and imagined
 meanings of food in a broad historical context, while Dini researches representations of waste
 and the modern home in literature and film. Mooney’s research in linguistics applies the
 techniques and epistemologies implicit in the discipline to human rights and money in her
 monograph The Language of Money: Proverbs and Practices (2018). Jary’s research,
 including his 2014 monograph Imperatives (2014) and numerous articles focus on speech acts
 and meaning, and has been recognised with a 2-year Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship
 (2018-20). Eppler focuses on multilingualism, language acquisition and brings new perspectives
 to GIS perceptual dialectology research on the distribution and variation of Kurdish across the
 Middle East which addresses marginalisation and discrimination. Our expertise in non-canonical
 literature and culture is reflected in a strong thread of work from a group of ECRs on Popular
 Literature and Culture, including the open-access, peer-reviewed International Journal of James
 Bond Studies, edited by Kinane, and external partnerships and collaborations with the City of
 Westminster Archives and the G.W.M. Reynolds Society (co-founded by Shannon), the National
 Archives (bolstered by a TECHNE -funded collaborative doctoral award (CDA) on spy fiction and
 the Secret Service) and the Black Cultural Archives (on post-war cultural constructions of
 Caribbean identity in popular fiction). Recent developments across this theme responding to
 contemporary conditions include Waller’s securing of funding from the British Academy Covid-19
 Small Grant Scheme to work on the ‘new normal’ in YA fiction and a new journal (Dini) Gothic
 Nature: New Directions in Ecohorror & the Ecogothic, launched in September 2019.

 Poetry, Fiction and Experimental Form
 Our creative writing work is rooted in practice-based research which explores innovation through
 interrelationships between creative writing, music and translation, allied to rigorous critical
 engagement with issues of form. Since 2014 Harsent, Sampson, Atkins, Hilson and Jaeger
 have produced acclaimed contributions to lyric and experimental poetry, including Harsent’s 2017
 volume Salt, which followed his 2014 TS Eliot prize winning Fire Songs, and his continuing
 collaborations with composers including Harrison Birtwhistle on The Cure in 2015. Sampson’s
 Come Down (2020), Atkins’ Petrarch Collected Atkins (2014; a Times’ Literary Supplement
 Book of the Year in 2014) and Jaeger’s Midamble (2018) represented significant creative and
 critical interventions, while Hilson and Sampson are experts in the formal practice and critical
 understanding of poetry-in-translation: Sampson was Co-I on an AHRC-funded project 'Poetry
 Translation in Poet-Advisor-Poet Trios: collaborative, cross language and creative processes in
 Poetry and Translation’ (2016-18, £332,145), and authored a multi-lingual libretto, Daedalus, with
 Philip Grange which was supported by the AHRC-funded ‘Cross-language Dynamics: Reshaping
 Community’ project (2016-21). Hilson was Co-I on the AHRC-funded ‘Poetry in Expanded
 Translation’ and Translation Network (2017-18, £35,548). Together with Atkins, they engage in
 work that expands the definitions and practice of poetry-in-translation. Ross and Waidner
 continue to stretch the boundaries of contemporary fiction and experimental prose, Ross with her
 short story collection Come Let Us Sing Anyway (2017), shortlisted for Salt Publishing's Scott
 Prize and the Edge Hill Short Story Prize, and Waidner in both critical theoretical writing and her
 novels Gaudy Bauble (2017; longlisted for the Republic of Consciousness Prize) and We Are
 Made of Diamond Stuff (2019; shortlisted for the Goldsmiths Prize). Greenberg’s A Poetics
 of Editing (2018) proposes a ground-breaking theory of editing in an entirely novel contribution
 to the field. Staff are committed to widening the canon and to expanding engagement with readers
 and writers particularly through publishing innovation. Hilson convenes a regular poetry reading
 series, ‘X-ing the line’ in London and runs a small independent poetry press, while Greenberg is
 the Editorial Publisher and founder of the University’s Fincham Press, which publishes creative
 work and three Open Access journals.

 Supporting Research Impact
 In line with our core mission to both expand the canon and drive inclusive research practices
 across the chronological and thematic breadth of our research, we have also succeeded in
 significantly enhancing its impact. This has been achieved through targeted support for both
 established research staff and ECRs to develop public and practitioner-facing projects and

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 pathways to impact, identified through our research mentoring, and enhanced by central resources
 including dedicated professional services support. We have also expanded our networks with
 local, national and international stakeholders and partners, and our efforts to support marginalised
 communities to access cultural resources and assets. Central to the development of our impact
 strategy since 2014 have been our collaborations with partner organisations, ranging from the
 local (Wandsworth Libraries, City of Westminster Archives, Southwest London, Wimbledon
 BookFest and Barnes Children’s Literature Festival) to the national (Shakespeare’s Globe,
 Museum of London Archaeology, House of Illustration) and the international (Stratford
 Shakespeare Festival, Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity [both Canada], Wilhelm Busch Museum
 [Germany]). Internal pump-priming funds have extended the reach of projects, and where impact
 projects have been strategically prioritised they have also been given additional investment in the
 form of a dedicated postdoctoral fellow (for example, Davies for ‘Embedding Diversity in Early
 Modern Performance’, Waite for ‘Connecting Creative Communities’). The value of our extensive
 user-engagement and support can be seen in our three Impact Case Studies. For example,
 McManus and Kesson have benefitted from pump-priming to the value of approximately £20,000
 across the period to develop and stage performances which informed the ‘Engendering the Stage’
 project, whilst Trower received pump-priming totalling £10,000 to develop and later to extend her
 AHRC follow-on project ‘Living Libraries’, and Sampson received £1,800 to support development
 of the Wordsworth Trust exhibition on Mary Shelley.

 Open Research
 ECW is committed to engaging with a diverse range of audiences and making our research as
 widely accessible as possible. We make our research available in Open Access formats and our
 funded projects include important online research resources such as the ‘Before Shakespeare’
 website and the Oral History Archive hosted by the ‘Memories of Fiction’ website and the British
 Library Oral History archive. The websites of the Romantic Image Network and ‘Engendering the
 Stage’ are also aimed at broad public engagement, hosting blogs and articles and inviting
 feedback and participation. Other Open Access initiatives include the academic journals published
 by our in-house publisher Fincham Press (International Journal of James Bond Studies [edited by
 Kinane], International Journal of Young Adult Literature [edited by Waller], and the PGR-run
 Round Table), along with Kesson’s ‘A Bit Lit’ video-interview series, which hosts conversations
 between researchers and creators about what it means to think about history, culture and
 creativity, featuring videos aimed at schools. ECW aims to actively shape developments in this
 field, with several large-scale projects in preparation, including Frazier Wood’s ongoing
 digitization of the Spalding Gentleman’s Society archives. The Romantic Illustration Network is
 developing a collaboration with the Centre for the Study of Text and Print Culture, Shanghai
 University of Finance and Economics, to recreate in Open Access format the Literary Galleries of
 the 1790s.

 Research Integrity
 We uphold the highest standards in research integrity and ethics, expressed in the University’s
 Ethics Guidelines and the Code of Good Research Practice and Research Integrity. All staff
 conducting research, including funded or collaborative research projects, are supported to ensure
 they meet these standards, and research plans and bids are subject to scrutiny at University and
 disciplinary unit level. The Research Integrity and Ethics Committee representative, in conjunction
 with a pool of authorised departmental reviewers, oversees all ethics applications. Review takes
 the form of a dialogue between the applicant and the reviewer, facilitating a view of ethics as a
 critical, reflexive faculty. PGR student research is subject to the same rigorous scrutiny with
 training provided for students and supervisors through Graduate School. All staff and PGRs have
 access to training in research ethics, and institution-wide Good Research Practice training.

 Future Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy
 Over the next five years, we will be consolidating our research within the context of the University’s
 School of Humanities and its strategic vision for ‘practical humanities’, where our research will
 engage key communities and partners across its full spectrum of disciplines. ECW’s strategic aims
 are four-fold:


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    1) To sustain our production of long-form outputs, and advance our core research ambitions
       in expanding the canon and investigating diversity;
    2) To ensure that our research priorities, developed in collaboration with significant academic
       and cultural partners, deliver practical social, cultural and educational benefits;
    3) To generate significant external investments in our research, by increasing and diversifying
       our research and knowledge exchange income and in-kind investments, to extend the
       international reputation of our research and its impact;
    4) To build on our inclusive research environments, and develop diverse research leaders
       and supports for our exceptional PGR and ECR talent to achieve their ambitions.

 We will continue to collaborate with our local, national and international external partner
 organisations in the cultural, heritage, education and policy sectors. Specific projects in support of
 our strategic aims will include extending our research and collaboration through a ‘Literature in the
 Community’ project to create training materials for schools, charities and educational
 establishments, and for policy and professional organisations such as the Runnymede Trust and
 Libraries Connected. We will further enhance external links through a formalised non-stipendiary
 visiting fellows programme and a research programme designed to bring ECW researchers
 together with each other and with interdisciplinary researchers working on aligned topics. Building
 on recent work to decolonise our curriculum, we will mobilise and share our inclusive research by
 providing training materials for diverse literary history and creative practice (e.g., innovative poetry
 and prose, identity and Early Modern performance, race and class in the nineteenth century, Black
 British writing). This will create opportunities for diverse scholars and researchers, by establishing
 clear pathways to attainment for our UG, PGT, PGR and ECR constituencies, including through
 undergraduate research internships and participation in funded projects, funded-project PGR
 scholarships, postdoctoral fellowship applications, and focused ECR career development support.
 Our Research and Knowledge Exchange Strategy was designed and launched prior to the effects
 of the global pandemic. We remain committed to its delivery, however we will also take advantage
 of the opportunities afforded by new working practices, such as virtual seminars, to extend our
 intellectual reach.

 2. People

 Our research strategy has been underpinned by a robust policy of developing the potential of all
 members of our research community, from Faculty to ECRs and PGRs. The Subject Research
 and KE Lead oversees the research mentoring scheme, organises mentor training, and works
 closely with the University’s Research Development and Impact Officers who advise them on
 available funding opportunities, help to develop and cost high quality bids and support colleagues
 to devise, deliver, and evaluate knowledge exchange activity and its impact. This management
 and support structure has enabled ECW to support its members to achieve their potential since
 2014, whilst also providing robust staffing and recruitment strategies.

 Research support and staff development
 The most essential resource that we provide is time: all staff with a significant responsibility for
 research are supported by a workload allocation of between 30% and 40%, in addition to one term
 of research sabbatical on a three-year rota. 26 colleagues have benefitted from 40 periods of
 institutionally funded research leave since 2014. Dedicated and concentrated research time has
 been central to our ability to realise the completion of long-form outputs since 2014, and provides
 space for the development of projects, bids, networking, collaboration, public and community
 engagement, impact, and knowledge exchange. Complementing this investment is a dedicated
 annual development budget that has resourced conference attendance, establishing project
 websites, major research and impact engagement activity, and specific output support such as
 obtaining permissions for books (£200,410 allocated across the period). Our system of research
 mentoring and support has been key to meeting our strategic aim of delivering significant research
 outcomes. All colleagues, including fractional and fixed-term staff, and including postdoctoral
 researchers, are provided with a dedicated mentor who is a senior colleague with a proven track
 record of success in research. Mentors help staff develop a five-year research plan which covers
 all aspects of research including support to deliver exceptional outputs, develop income

                                                                                                  Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 generation, and impact. Mentoring has prioritised the production of at least one long-form output
 (e.g., monograph or edited collection of essays) for each colleague since 2013/14, and mentors
 read drafts of chapters and advise on appropriate publication outlets, project proposals, and help
 network colleagues internally and externally in order to develop interdisciplinary links. On the basis
 of these plans, which are reviewed annually, staff are given access to support and resources which
 will nurture and underpin their research potential. Our reward for research performance is primarily
 delivered through promotion, which is benchmarked against clear expectations for academic roles.
 This focus on developing staff has yielded significant results since 2014. Kesson, Paraskeva and
 Waller have been promoted to Reader, whilst Kingsley-Smith, Trower, Mooney and Jary have
 all been promoted to Professor in recognition of their research excellence, grant capture and
 impact. Staff wellbeing is delivered through our college system. All staff are affiliated to one of our
 four colleges, who provide research events, community building opportunities, and dedicated
 Wellbeing Officers for staff. All staff and PGRs have been offered mental health first aid training
 in 2020, whilst dedicated research staff and PGR wellbeing sessions have been delivered on
 mental health.

 Staffing strategy and ECR support
 ECW has undergone transformational change since 2014, through significant investment in new
 staff across our chronological and thematic breadth. Our recruitment strategy has complemented
 our shared vision to expand the canon, addressing issues of inclusivity across periods and forms
 on the one hand, whilst attracting colleagues with the ability to produce high-quality outputs that
 extend our international reputation on the other. Approximately 40% of our researchers have been
 hired since August 2013. All new staff are supported through their probationary period with clear
 objectives in relation to research, and additional workload allocations to support their integration
 into ECW’s research culture. Meetings with research mentors and line managers support
 probation and annual appraisals, which offer structured opportunities to discuss career
 development and resources to support it. We have concentrated our investment in high-calibre
 ECRs, with a view to robust succession planning and the sustainability of our research cultures.
 Eight new ECRs have provided new energies to our research commitment to expanding the canon
 through their specialisms including Kinane (popular culture), Fernandez-Carbajal
 (postcolonialism), Waidner (LGBTQI+ and trans-studies), Dini (ecocriticism), Frazier-Wood
 (medievalism and book history), and Turner (romanticism and children’s literature). Additionally,
 we have created clear progression routes from postdoctoral to ECR positions, with both Shannon
 and Frazier-Wood having transitioned from postdoctoral fellowships in ECW. Reduced workloads
 for teaching and administration facilitate the integration of our ECRs into our research
 environment, whilst their productivity is supported through accelerated access to a term-long
 sabbatical. Our ECRs have a dedicated ECR research mentor and are also members of a
 University-wide ECR Network. As evidence of the success of ECR support, new hires Kinane,
 Fernandez-Carbajal and Waidner have already produced more than one long-form output, whilst
 exceptional productivity across research and impact activity has been recognised through
 accelerated promotion for Shannon, Kinane, Fernandez-Carbajal, Waidner and Frazier Wood.

 Our central goal of expanding our research capacity has also been served by a significant increase
 in the number of ECW postdoctoral fellows. Since 2014, ECW has made nine postdoctoral
 appointments to support research, public engagement and impact. Our investment has been
 facilitated through a combination of external funding (Tooth Murphy and Pyke for Trower’s
 projects; Davies and Julian for Kesson’s ‘Before Shakespeare’ and McManus’ ‘Engendering the
 Stage’) and internal investment (Carr working with McManus, Shannon and Frazier Wood for
 the Romantic Illustration Network, Waite for the ICS Connecting Creative Communities: Enriching
 Cultural Life through Creative Writing Collaborations). We support postdoctoral fellows to develop
 their profiles and to ensure that they are well-equipped for an academic career. All postdoctoral
 fellows are provided with the same range of research support as faculty, including mentoring and
 research workload allocation, and additional support from our ECR Network. The benefits of this
 system are apparent in the successful career trajectories of recent postdocs: Shannon and
 Frazier Wood have been hired as lecturers in the department, and Carr, Davies, Tooth Murphy,
 and Gilchrist (Postdoctoral Teaching Fellow) have secured employment at Brunel, Kent, Royal


                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Holloway and Cardiff universities. Our continuing success in the hiring of postdoctoral fellows is
 evidenced in the appointment of Jagger to a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship (2020-23).

 We also promote the exchange of staff between academia and appropriate professional contexts
 through the flexible use of sabbatical time, the ability to reduce FTE of individual posts, and the
 use of honorary fellowships. We also have mechanisms to support those entering higher
 education, through the provision of a year-long Professional Development Allowance, which can
 provide dedicated workload allocation of up to 30% to support the transition to a research career.
 Our seminar series and Graduate School training programmes also include practitioner or
 professional speakers to encourage mutually supportive networking. Research Impact Officers
 also support these relationships once established and prioritised by Subject Research and KE
 Leads.

 Research students
 Since 2014, ECW has been successful in growing a strong and vibrant PGR community that is
 well integrated within our research cultures. Our key aims have been to recruit high-calibre PGR
 students through a range of funding sources; to consolidate and expand creative-critical PhDs;
 and to support timely completions and effective career development opportunities. PGR
 recruitment is facilitated through open competition for all funded opportunities, and PGRs are able
 to approach the Graduate School to identify appropriate supervisory teams. All PGR applications
 are supported by the Research Degrees Convenor (Sainsbury) and the Head of Department.
 PGRs are only recruited where projects align to staff expertise and research strategy. Each PGR
 is supervised by a Director of Studies, an experienced staff member who has previously
 supervised to completion, and at least one co-supervisor. Our PGRs benefit from being members
 of a cross-University community, through the training and events offered by the Graduate School.
 Complementing this support is local-level training and subject-specific provision offered by ECW:
 examples include life writing (Leader), archives (Frazier Wood), visual sources (Haywood),
 creative-critical research (Jaeger). Further support for specific PGR training such as language
 learning, archive handling or palaeography is available and training needs are reviewed in
 supervisions and in Annual Progress Reviews. The progress of all PGR students is monitored by
 the Research Degrees Convenor, who, supported by the Research Degrees Administrator, co-
 chairs the Humanities Research Student Review Board on a monthly basis. Each of ECW’s PGRs
 are encouraged to attend events and participate in our research culture. PGRs also benefit from
 external supervisory collaborations which augment cross-institutional collaboration and research
 exchange (e.g., Craig is co-supervised by Dr Will Tosh, Shakespeare’s Globe; Lewis is co-
 supervised by Prof. Lucy Munro, King’s College London). The success of our management of
 PGRs is evidenced in our completion rate which has doubled since the previous cycle.

 ECW support for PGR career development includes provision for teaching and training in relevant
 professional skills. PGRs also develop professional skills through targeted events and activities
 such as presenting work at ECW’s research seminar series and annual PhD day, conference
 organisation, writing for and maintaining the website, setting up self-help and reading groups,
 editing and writing for the PGR journal Round Table, alongside paid research assistant work. We
 also support our PGRs to publish outstanding work, for example Peters included a chapter by
 Salisbury in ReReading Orphanhood (2020). PGRs are also given paid opportunities for
 undergraduate seminar leading and tutoring. All PGRs have a minimum research allowance of
 £600 to enable attendance at conferences and research expenses. TECHNE PGRs also have
 access to a wide range of training and events and can request additional resources. Since early
 2020, in response to the pandemic, PGRs have organised regular online drop-in sessions to build
 support networks and discuss academic and well-being issues.

 Our vibrant research student culture has been energised by PGR funding, including doctoral
 training partnerships, external research grants, and internal studentships. We have successfully
 leveraged our membership of the AHRC DTP TECHNE to support a vigorous PGR culture since
 2014. TECHNE embeds a cohort approach to research training, creating networking opportunities
 for an interdisciplinary community of doctoral scholars. Three TECHNE students have completed,
 whilst a further nine are at different stages of study. Working with the creative industries, through

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research partnership and co-supervision, also provides clear pathways to academic and non-
 academic employment. We have expanded collaborations and partnerships through CDAs,
 recruiting two TECHNE students in 2019-20 to work with Kew Gardens and Keats House, and a
 further CDA awarded for 2021 with the National Archives. All students are encouraged to build
 external collaborations through placements, for example Craig at the National Theatre; Cahoon
 with the Surrey Soundscapes Project and the Culture Capital Exchange; and Clarke with The
 National Archives. Such placements bring tangible career benefits: because of their placement,
 Craig was invited to act as a consultant for a trans casting day at the National Theatre in 2019.
 PGR students have also been funded through grants gained by staff. Trower’s AHRC ‘Memories
 of Fiction’ funded Pyke (completed), whilst Early Modern projects have provided three PGRs: one
 through Kesson’s AHRC ‘Before Shakespeare’ project (Lester) and two through McManus’s
 Leverhulme ‘Engendering the Stage’ project (Lewis, Davies). Institutional support for the
 expansion of our PGR community has taken the form of the annual Jacqueline Wilson Scholarship
 in Children’s Literature (two completions and three current students) and Vice-Chancellor’s
 studentships (four completions and two current students).

 Our support for PGRs extends beyond graduation. We regularly engage alumni to participate in
 PGR events and meet current students. We have developed an Honorary Research Fellow
 initiative which gives outstanding PGRs an institutional affiliation and access to library and IT
 resources after graduation, providing essential support for bridging the PGR to ECR transition.
 The scheme has led to several successful career outcomes: recent beneficiaries include Reed
 (now a fixed-term tutor at Nottingham Trent University), and Gilchrist (now a lecturer in the School
 of English, Communication and Philosophy at the University of Cardiff). The scheme has now
 been adopted across the University.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 The ECW research strategy embeds equality, diversity and inclusivity (EDI) in its staffing, research
 culture, and support mechanisms, implementing University policies and legislation relating to
 equality, diversity and anti-discrimination. Management, including Research and KE Leads and
 Research Mentors, are all trained in EDI and implement the University’s Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion policies to ensure that recruitment, promotion, sabbatical, and funding decisions are
 made equitably. Senior staff provide bespoke support on the allocation of duties, timing of work,
 relieving pressures of internal deadlines and ensuring that workspaces are appropriate, while
 distribution of internal research support funds accounts for EDI, ensuring that individuals’ needs
 and circumstances are considered. Staff returning from significant parental leave are supported
 via a workload concession and access to a sabbatical immediately preceding or following their
 leave, while colleagues with caring responsibilities, or complex needs, are given the option to work
 flexibly, including, where feasible, remotely. Mentors are trained in equality, diversity and inclusion
 and mentees are encouraged to choose mentors with whom they feel most comfortable and
 supported. Staff can seek the support of HR and Working Relationship Advisors (colleagues
 across the University trained to support staff in cases of discrimination, bullying or difficult working
 situations) and PGRs are also supported by tailored University services (Graduate School, Staff
 Wellbeing, Student Wellbeing).

 Our selection of outputs process was accompanied by a robust equality and diversity analysis to
 ensure that decisions had no adverse effect on staff with protected characteristics. 49% of the 70
 submitted outputs are by female staff, 4% by colleagues who declared a disability, 4% by
 researchers who identify as BAME, and 17% by staff who identify as LGBTQI+. We have strived
 for a balanced, inclusive submission across all career levels, with 39% of outputs attributed to
 Professors, 14% to Readers, 33% to Senior Lecturers and 9% to Lecturers. Comparatively, our
 submission comprises 32% Professors, 19% Readers, 35% Senior Lecturers and 6% Lecturers.

 Of our current research community (29.5FTE) all are on permanent contracts, and 55% are
 female, increasing to 60% of our professoriate. 6% of our staff have declared a disability while
 19% identify as LGBTQI+. The number of individuals from diverse backgrounds is insufficiently
 representative of our UG cohort or our city, with only two staff identifying as BAME, though 18%
 of completing PGR students identify as BAME. We are committed to developing mechanisms to

                                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support and develop the career progression of our PGRs to ensure the transformation of BAME
 representation in research and leadership roles in the discipline. A particular strategy is to ensure
 that commitment to EDI is embedded in the practice of our research, with diversity and inclusivity,
 gender identity, sexual minorities, ethnicity, postcolonialism and ageing recurrent areas of
 investigation across our research themes. Waidner is a prize-winning author of innovative trans
 fiction who is currently supervising PGRs working on trans and LGBTQ+ topics. Fernandez-
 Carbajal writes on the intersection of queer and Muslim-diaspora identities, while Bubb and
 Kinane research the literature and culture of the Indian sub-continent and the Caribbean.
 Shannon works on popular culture, race and disability in the nineteenth century and is supervising
 a     PhD     on    Victorian     cross-dressing   (Clarke).    McManus         has    secured      a
 Roehampton/Shakespeare's Globe 'Diverse Shakespeare' CDA which is recruiting a PGR. We
 have had considerable success in recruiting students who work on gender and sexual identity. In
 2018 PGRs Craig, Clarke and Corbett formed the Trans Studies Network which helped to organise
 the ‘Transversal feminisms’ conference (July 2019) and ran a ‘Mapping Gender’ event with our
 partner organisation, the City of Westminster Archives. 29% of our current research student cohort
 identify as LGBTQ+. We have policies in place to build on this foundation and develop a more
 representative PGR body and in the next period we will create pathways to research for ECW’s
 richly diverse cohort of undergraduate students (58% of whom are from a BAME background),
 preparing students for Master’s study and beyond. We will also expand our undergraduate
 research fellowships scheme (pioneered by Kesson’s ‘Before Shakespeare’), providing
 placements and knowledge exchange opportunities with our partner institutions and plan to
 integrate undergraduate and MA students into the ECW research seminar series and annual PhD
 Day.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 As part of our strategic drive to build and sustain research capacity, we have increased our
 external research funding by 200% in this assessment period. The bulk of our £1,270,592 research
 income has been awarded through UKRI and charitable sources:

    •   Kesson’s AHRC ECR Standard Research Grant of £259,562 for ‘Before Shakespeare’
        (2016-18). The project included a PGR studentship, an external Co-Investigator (Munro,
        KCL), a postdoctoral research fellow, collaborations with Museum of London Archaeology,
        Shakespeare’s Globe and the independent Dolphin’s Back theatre company, and events
        hosted by The National Archives and the Victoria & Albert Museum.
    •   McManus’ Leverhulme Research Project grant of £314,137 for ‘Engendering the Stage’.
        The project included an external Co-I (Munro, KCL), two PGR students and a postdoctoral
        research fellow.
    •   Trower’s linked AHRC projects, ‘Memories of Fiction’ (£298,840, 2014-18) and ‘Living
        Libraries’ £80,594 Both projects include a postdoctoral position.
    •   Jary’s Leverhulme Major Research Fellowship ‘Nothing is Said’ (£106,000).
    •   Two AHRC projects in which ECW staff were Co-Is: Sampson’s ‘Poetry Translation in
        Poet-Advisor-Poet Trios’ (2016-18, £332,145 in total) and Hilson’s ‘Expanded Translation’
        (2017-19, £35,548 in total).
    •   Bubb’s Marie-Curie fellowship (2017-18), held at Trinity College Dublin during a research
        secondment from ECW to support his development as an ECR.
    •   Waller’s British Academy / Leverhulme Small Research Grant (£2,171, 2014), and her
        British Academy Covid-19 Small Grant Scheme (£5,575, 2020).

 These awards reflect the robustness of our research management, mentoring, and support
 systems. All bids are supported through a process of internal peer review (a second reader with a
 track-record of bidding success and relevant expertise to mentor the applicant, potentially across
 disciplines) and a University-wide review process for major bids. Our success in the field of grant
 capture is a testament to the ambition and quality of staff at various stages of their career
 development, the levels of support provided by the University, and the emphasis we place on


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research excellence as well as impact and public engagement. Project proposals are given
 additional support by McManus and Trower who have served on the AHRC Peer Review College.


 In addition to research mentoring and support, ECW provides seed-funding, and colleagues are
 also encouraged to apply for smaller external grants to build capacity, develop a track record of
 bidding success and pave the way to larger and more ambitious research projects. For example,
 McManus’s route to her Leverhulme Research Project ‘Engendering the Stage’ (£314,157, 2020)
 began in 2017 with two US library fellowships at the Huntington Library and the Folger
 Shakespeare Library. This led to a Leverhulme Research Fellowship (2018-19) and a Canadian
 SSHRC Conference Grant (CA$24,917, 2018) to support a monograph and develop an
 international partnership with McMaster University and the Stratford Shakespeare Festival,
 Ontario. Other successful uses of this pathway include Haywood’s fellowships at the Huntington
 Library (2016), Lewis Walpole Library (2017), and at the Harry Ransom Centre (2017) to work on
 Victorian caricature which led to a Linda Petersen Fellowship from the Research Society for
 Victorian Periodicals (2017-18, US$17,000) and allowed him to finish the monograph The Rise
 of Victorian Caricature (2020). This in turn produced a fellowship at the Wilhelm Busch Museum
 of Caricature, Hannover (2019, c. €4,000) which has now led to a co-curated exhibition on Queen
 Caroline at the Museum (2020-21). ECR Turner was the recipient of a fellowship at the New York
 Public Library (2018), whilst Shannon undertook the Robert Gould Shaw Fellowship for the
 Harvard Theatre Collection (awarded 2020).

 We will continue to support grant applications based on individual colleagues’ research visions.
 As well as supporting large bids of the kind we have been successful in securing to date, we are
 also committed to nurturing new talent and emerging ideas through targeted mentoring, internal
 seed-funding, and supporting colleagues in developing external research collaborations, and
 opportunities for collaborative bidding. There are already encouraging signs for the next five years,
 as Kesson is Co-I on the AHRC-funded project ‘Box Office Bears’ (2020, total value £978,319), a
 study of the Early Modern entertainment of bear-baiting. The collaboration with Nottingham
 (Archaeology) and Oxford (Genetics), will see each partner appoint a postdoc. Shannon has also
 been awarded a Leverhulme Trust Fellowship to conduct research on Billy Waters, the famed
 African-American busker in nineteenth-century London and celebrated “King of the Beggars” (c.
 1786-1823).

 Infrastructure and facilities
 At the School level, research is coordinated by the Research Committee whose Chair, the Deputy
 Head of School (Research and Knowledge Exchange), Haywood, also sits on the
 University Research Committee and participates in a University-wide forum, that facilitates the
 management of researchers who sit in different departments to their research unit, and also
 supports the identification of potential research affinities and interdisciplinary collaboration. The
 role of the School Research Committee is to provide strategic oversight of the School research
 activity, including the work of individual research staff and students; the programme of research
 seminars, conferences and other events; invitations to, and support for, visiting scholars and
 research students; and the development of strategic initiatives (e.g., Open Access) and funding
 bids. The Subject Research and KE Lead for ECW plays an integral role in steering the research
 culture of the School, as well as providing strategic direction for ECW. The research of colleagues
 in ECW is also supported by dedicated Research Development and Impact Officers. Our research
 infrastructure enables staff and PGRs to conduct their own research and to collaborate within and
 beyond ECW. The University’s new Library, opened in 2018, provides access to a wide range of
 printed sources, e-books and online databases and journals. Special Collections houses the
 Richmal Crompton and Robert Graves archives which relate directly to staff specialisms (Waller,
 Paraskeva); led by Frazier Wood, the cataloguing and promotion of these archives is providing
 professional development opportunities for PGRs. ECW research events ranging from the annual
 PhD Day to symposia and conferences are supported by the University’s Estates, conferencing,
 IT and Catering departments. Recent successful conferences include ‘Before Shakespeare’
 (2017), ‘Gothic Nature 2: New Directions in the Eco-Horror and the Eco-Gothic’ (2019) and
 ‘Transversal Feminisms’ conferences (2019). Our in-house publisher Fincham Press (led by

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Greenberg) provides opportunities to build capacity and train PGRs in relevant vocational skills.
 All staff and postdocs have dedicated sole-occupancy offices and IT infrastructure. PGR students
 share an accessible, secure space, with additional dedicated PGR study spaces in the Library.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 ECW’s research impact and knowledge exchange strategy has focused on expanding our
 outward-facing research, engaging with stakeholders and research communities at local, national
 and international levels. Our strategy has three strands: engaging external partnerships and
 collaborations to enrich culture and society; community and public engagement, addressing
 inequalities in access to culture and literary heritage; and, contributing to the shaping of our field
 through academic service, leadership and consultation.

 Engaging external partnerships and collaborations to enrich society and culture
 We have had considerable success in developing productive relations with a wide range of cultural
 organisations and external stakeholders, engaging them with our research and ensuring that it is
 designed, and develops, in a reciprocal and iterative arrangement with users. Through this
 strategy, our research has had significant impact on writers, readers, artists, filmmakers,
 composers, directors, playwrights, policymakers, educators, arts workers, public bodies and
 institutions, cultural and educational organisations, charities and publics in productive creative and
 cultural affiliations through which we can sustain and develop our research. Our Impact Case
 Studies document a selection of these relationships and highlight the crucial element of reciprocity
 in them, whether this be Kesson and McManus’s development of research affecting major cultural
 organisations such as the Royal Shakespeare Company’s understanding of gendered and trans
 identifies in performance, or Trower’s development of bodies of research to support library
 advocacy in responses to public and library user, professional and local authority engagement.

 ECW builds on an established and sustainable track record of success in partner and community
 engagement, and relationships established are carefully managed to ensure their sustainability in
 future. The Prison Reading Group (PRG), supported by ECW from 1999, is an example of this
 approach to sustainability. PRG is now part of the Give a Book charity, supported by the Booker
 Prize Foundation, and is also a Creative Responsibility Partner with Penguin Random House. It
 currently supports 50 reading groups in more than 40 prisons, and in November 2019 was
 awarded the annual Longford Trust prize for outstanding contribution to prison reform. PGR
 Children’s Literature students have volunteered at PRG Family Days and at a pilot initiative at
 HMP Wandsworth, ‘What Happens Next?’. It provides a critical contribution to society through
 prisoner reform.

 Our nurturing, mutually beneficial partnerships with cultural institutions, using knowledge
 exchange to bring new perspectives to their archives and activities, provide tangible outcomes
 and exciting in situ opportunities for non-academic stakeholders and audiences. For example,
 ECR Waidner collaborated with the Institute of Contemporary Arts in London as founder and
 curator of the ICA series ‘Queers Read This’, which profiles the work of innovative LGBTQ+, POC
 and working-class writers and audiences and included the event, ‘Class, Queers and the Avant-
 garde’ (2019) which generated significant debate about the need for alternative review cultures
 (https://www.ica.art/media/01901.pdf).

 Our network of international partnerships and collaborations has been extended and includes
 formal relationships with a diverse range of organisations, for example the Stratford Shakespeare
 Festival, Ontario, Canada; the Banff Centre for Arts and Creativity, Canada; the Artistic Director
 of the Court Theatre, Chicago; and the House of Writers in Trsic, Serbia. The national partnerships
 and collaborations that have enabled and accelerated our contribution to culture life in the UK
 include those with Tate Britain; Shakespeare’s Globe; the Museum of London Archaeology; the
 National Archives; the V&A; the Royal Shakespeare Company; City of Westminster Archives;
 Society of Antiquaries of London; the Spalding Gentleman’s Antiquarian Society; Wordsworth
 Trust; Chawton House Library; Southbank Poetry Centre; Ledbury Poetry Festival; The Complete
 Works; the Institute of Contemporary Arts; the National Poetry Library; the Chartered Institute for

                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Librarians and Information Professionals; Libraries Connected; the Libraries Taskforce; and the
 British Library. Independent organisations with a national reach include Money Advice Network;
 Dolphin’s Back Theatre Company; Spalding Gentlemen’s Society; and a national network of local
 libraries in London, Falmouth, Newcastle, Chester and Peterborough. Our array of international
 and national networks is complemented by the extensive local and community-based partnerships
 and collaborations that have provided critical means of addressing inequalities in access to culture
 across the Borough of Wandsworth. In particular, we have worked with Wandsworth Libraries;
 Iklectik Arts Lab; Battersea Arts Centre. Moreover, we build meaningful relationships with high-
 profile authors to support research and knowledge exchange. For example, Anthony Horowitz is
 an ECW Professorial Fellow who supports our undergraduates through annual Anthony Horowitz
 Scholarships.

 Community and public engagement, addressing inequalities in access to culture and
 literary heritage
 ECW has a long-standing commitment to engaging local communities through public engagement.
 For example, our partnership with the Wimbledon BookFest and the Barnes Children’s Literature
 Festival, have facilitated public engagement through over 30 public lectures, schools outreach
 events, readings and workshops since 2015, reaching an estimated 10,000 students and audience
 members. Atkins and Ross were BookFest ‘Poets in Residence’ in 2018 and 2020. We are also
 an official partner of the southwest London region of U3A, and ECW holds regular 'Study Days'
 where colleagues present aspects of their research to a public audience of U3A members and
 discuss opportunities for collaboration. The Romantic Illustration Network ran a series of
 workshops at the House of Illustration aimed at both schools and the U3A.

 Our community and public engagement not only facilitates work with diverse research users, but
 it also informs research design for future projects, and the opportunities for co-production and
 knowledge exchange. Projects which have emerged from these local engagements include
 Frazier Wood and Teltscher’s successful bid to the National Archives Testbed Fund (2020-21)
 to digitize holdings from Kew Gardens, which will create a new model for public-engaged digital
 research and curation of archives. Frazier Wood is digitising the holdings of the Spalding
 Gentlemen’s Society for both academic and public benefit, developing an extensive programme
 of cataloguing, conservation, training and public engagement involving up to 40 volunteers from
 U3A working with the Banks-Stanhope Papers and the William Stukeley Open Access Memoirs
 Project. He has trained multiple heritage professionals and engaged U3A with investigations of
 the SGS’s medieval collections (2017) and the papers of Sir Joseph Banks (2018) and co-
 supervises an AHRC-funded CDA student with SGS and the University of Leicester.

 Alongside knowledge exchange with cultural partners, we have also reached new publics through
 dissemination of our work in the national and international broadcast media, including more than
 100 discrete engagements since 2014. In the UK, ECW colleagues have contributed to BBC radio
 and television (Sampson, Shannon, Haywood, Humble). Humble has been interviewed in print
 and broadcast media 11 times in the UK, Australia and New Zealand. Leader has made an
 extensive range of media appearances across the globe, whilst Sampson has contributed to
 Culture, France 24, SVT1 (Sweden), Televizija Sabac (Serbia), and ABC Radio (Australia).
 Contributions to non-academic outlets include Emagazine (Mooney), Folger Shakespeare Library
 podcasts (Kingsley-Smith, McManus), BBC Culture Online (Teltscher). Our own online media
 platforms complement this work and provide new fora for research engagements with diverse
 communities. For example, the ‘Before Shakespeare’ and ‘A Bit Lit’ series (Kesson) and the
 websites accompanying ‘Living Libraries’ project (Trower), and the Romantic Illustration Network
 website, which has had over 31,000 views and 14,000 visitors from 126 countries.

 Contributing to the shaping of our field through academic service, leadership and
 consultation
 ECW has a strong and continuing track record of professional service to the field, disseminating
 research at national and international conferences, shaping the future of our discipline by
 contributing to professional bodies, editorial boards and review panels, and support doctoral
 research.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The quality our research and our contribution to society has received significant recognition since
 2014. Sampson was awarded an MBE in 2018 for services to Literature, whilst both Harsent and
 Sampson are Fellows of the Royal Society of Literature. Harsent, won the 2014 T. S. Eliot Prize
 for Fire Songs, whilst Sampson, won the 2018 European Atlas Prize for Poetry, and was
 shortlisted for the Biographers’ Club Slightly Foxed Best Biography Prize for Mary Shelley in
 2018. Waidner was shortlisted for the Republic of Consciousness Prize for Gaudy Bauble, 2017
 and the Goldsmiths Prize for innovative fiction for We are Made of Diamond Stuff, 2019. Bubb
 was the winner of the University English Early Career Book Prize for Meeting Without Knowing:
 Kipling and Yeats at the Fin de Siècle (2017) and shortlisted for the ESSE Book Prize (2018).
 Shannon was the winner of Robert and Vineta Colby Scholarly Book Prize (Research Society for
 Victorian Periodicals) for Dickens, Reynolds and Mayhew on Wellington Street (2016) and
 was shortlisted for the University English Early Career Book Prize (2016) and given an honourable
 mention by the Nineteenth Century Studies Association in 2020 for an article on the black street
 performer Billy Waters. Trower was shortlisted for the ESSE book prize for Rocks of Nation
 (2016) and given an honourable mention, whilst Waller was nominated for the ESSE Book Awards
 for Rereading Childhood Books: A Poetics (2020).

 ECW researchers have, since 2014, given 53 keynotes at national and international conferences
 (including in North America, Europe and Japan), 104 public lectures and readings at literary
 festivals, libraries and heritage institutions. Public lectures and readings at literary festivals, and
 engagements with libraries and heritage institutions have taken place across the UK, Europe,
 USA, Turkey, China, Spain, Taiwan and Japan.

 We also use our expertise as members of judging panels for high-profile prizes to shape the
 discipline and engage broad publics with our research. Judging for creative awards has taken
 place internationally (Harsent for the Man Booker Prize in 2016; Sampson for the European Lyric
 Award in 2015 and 2016), nationally (Sampson for the Ondaatje Prize, Royal Society of Literature,
 2015), and locally (Ross for the London Short Story Prize, 2017). Judging for international
 academic societies includes Atkins (Wyndham-Campbell Prize Poetry Nominator for Yale
 University in 2018), and the Susan L. Greenberg prize (named after Greenberg) has been
 awarded by the International Association of Literary Journalism Studies since 2009. Sampson
 was Visiting Research Fellow at the School of Advanced Study, University of London, Institute of
 Modern Language Research, 2018-19, and held an international residency for the UNESCO City
 of Literature, Prague, 2019.

 As leading members of significant international research groups, we also contribute to and enrich
 these international networks through research. Fernandez-Carbajal is Vice-Chair of the
 Postcolonial Studies Association. Greenberg was HE Committee member for the National
 Association of Writers in Education, a role now held by Waite. Haywood was President of the
 British Association of Romantic Studies 2015-19, in which role he co-instigated the international
 research network European Romanticism in Association and its online museum REVE, with Prof.
 Nicola Watson at the Open University. Kinane is co-director of the Island Poetics Research
 Network, affiliated with universities in Finland, Germany and Australia. McManus is on the
 steering committee of the Theatre Without Borders International Working Group (NYU). Peters
 was on the Advisory Board of the Senate House Library Childhood and Dickensian London
 exhibition (2020). Shannon is a co-founder of the G.W.M. Reynolds Society with DePaul
 University, Chicago, and is a member of the Executive Board of the Research Society for Victorian
 Periodicals. Sampson was a Trustee of the Wordsworth Trust (2013-16) and Council Member of
 the Royal Society of Literature (2011-17). Trower leads the Higher Education Advisory Group of
 the Oral History Society; Waller was a University English Executive Board Member and
 Representative to the European Society for the Study of English.

 ECW research staff have actively supported and shaped the field by working as series editors with
 well-established presses. For example, Leader is General Editor of the seven-volume Oxford
 University Press Life Writing series. Research staff are also members of 11 journal editorial
 boards. ECW further shapes the funding landscape by acting as peer reviewers for research

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 councils and funding bodies. McManus, Mooney, Trower are Peer Review College members for
 the AHRC and Eppler and Mooney for the ESRC; Greenberg and Waller are occasional
 reviewers for the AHRC and Leverhulme Trust. ECW staff support the furthering of research and
 academic endeavour by acting as external assessors for tenure and promotion applications. We
 have externally examined 21 PhDs and acted as peer reviewers for numerous academic journals
 and publishers.




                                                                                       Page 14
