Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 18: Law
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Unit context
 The School of Law, Politics and International Relations (LAWPL) is one of ten schools in the
 College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences (AHSS), one of three Colleges at Cardiff
 University. The School was formed in 2014, with the aim of enhancing opportunities for
 interdisciplinary research, by merger of the Law Department with Politics and International
 Relations. The current Law Department (which forms our UOA18 submission) has 49.2 FTE
 Teaching and Research (T&R), and 5.3 FTE Teaching and Scholarship (T&S), staff.
 UOA18’s research spans the full spectrum of approaches from the doctrinal to theoretical. We
 work at the interface of law and cognate disciplines including sociology, psychology, history,
 politics, business studies and criminology. Our strength in socio-legal and law-in-context studies
 drives research on transnational questions, such as multi-level constitutional governance,
 environmental sustainability, global justice and international legal relations. Our research also
 embraces more local responses to transformations in communities and cultures, with work
 on crime and security, law and religion, social care, the family and discrimination. Located in
 Cardiff at the heart of a devolved nation, and motivated by a commitment to civic engagement
 and public service, we work with devolved and national governments, civil society organisations
 (e.g., International Union for the Conservation of Nature; Amnesty International) and international
 bodies (e.g., EU; UN; Hague Conference on Private International Law; see Section 4).
 Over the REF period, we transformed our institutional structures, staff profile, research
 cluster development and support for research grant capture. The merged School provided
 the catalyst for interdisciplinary cooperation around key questions, including global and national
 governance, environmental justice and post-colonialism. Our staff profile changed significantly:
 gender-balance improved across all career stages (Section 2) and now includes 17% of staff
 identifying as BAME. We invested in emerging talent through recruiting early career T&R lecturers.
 Almost two thirds of UOA staff recruited over this REF period were appointed within four years of
 their PhD (18 of 29 colleagues, indicated by *). We made a major strategic intervention through
 the creation of the Centre of Law and Society (CLS), built on the foundations of the Journal of
 Law and Society (JLS; est. 1974). £3.66M in research income over the REF period included
 major research and leadership grants under the ESRC’s flagship programmes, ‘UK in a Changing
 Europe’ (UKICE) and ‘Governance After Brexit’, the latter led by Wincott who also designed the
 programme call which has since awarded £7.3M. A range of staff were successful with
 research grant capture, including junior staff, e.g., Pritchard’s* Nuffield Award with Bangor
 University on the Welsh approach to administrative justice. Supporting the next generation of
 researchers was integral to our PGR provision, with a significant increase in externally funded
 PGR studentships since 2014 (see Section 2.4).
 1.2 Unit structure
 Our research is primarily organised by research centres. Centres host work in progress sessions,
 events and visitors; provide peer support for grant capture; and collaborate with external partners
 and networks. All involve PGRs and ECRs in their activities and can provide research opportunities
 for taught students, including undergraduates, and postgraduates on our LLMs in e.g. Canon Law,
 Social Care Law. Centres host associate members from other parts of the University, especially
 from the Schools of Social Sciences and Psychology. Most UOA18 staff associate with at least
 one centre, with each centre having an average of 8 Law members.
 Three new centres were established during this review period:
    •   The Centre of Law and Society (CLS), directed by Přibáň, consolidates and enhances
        Cardiff’s long-standing reputation as a global leader for research in socio-legal studies. Co-
        funded by the JLS and AHSS, it hosts postdoctoral students and visiting fellows. It
        connects with other world-leading socio-legal centres, including the Oñati International
        Institute for Sociology of Law, and Oxford Centre for Socio-Legal Studies, and organises

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        high profile international events. The new Centre strengthens the culture, infrastructure
        and support available for empirical and theoretical socio-legal research activities within the
        School, and has an operational budget of £35,000 per annum (see Sections 3 and 4).
        Centre members produced research outputs using innovative methodological approaches
        (e.g., Cahill-O’Callaghan’s Values in the Supreme Court: Decisions, Division and Diversity,
        2020).
    •   Cardiff Law and Global Justice (CLGJ), directed by Harrington, takes a leading role in
        promoting and supporting research and scholarship on, and from, the Global South. It
        builds capacity by welcoming an international cohort of PGRs (see Section 2) and
        convening socio-legal writing workshops in Ghana, India, Kenya and Brazil, co-funded by
        the British Academy (see Section 4). Harrington and Manji’s influence on the Kenyan
        Supreme Court forms one of four impact case studies (ICS Harrington, 2017 Kenyan
        Presidential Election Result).
    •   The Centre for Environmental Justice (CEJ), co-directed by Pontin, builds on Cardiff’s
        longstanding excellence in environmental law and governance, with a pipeline of PGRs
        who have moved into academic positions (e.g., Vaughan, initially to Birmingham, Brown to
        Birmingham; Smyth* to lectureship at Cardiff). CEJ produces critical interventions, a
        highlight being Grear’s transformative intellectual leadership in the establishment of the
        Permanent People’s Tribunal on Fracking. Partnering with CLS, CEJ also convened events
        at the frontiers of the discipline (e.g., the programme ‘Imagining the Eco-Social: New
        Materialist Reflections for the Anthropocene’ (2018-2019 and 2019-2020), bringing
        together scholars from Australia, the United States and Europe).
 Refreshed existing centres, operating at the interface of law and politics, grew in strength and
 ambition, for example:
    •   The Wales Governance Centre (WGC), directed by Wyn Jones (joint Law and Politics
        appointment, returned to UOA19) broadened its membership and activities. Law
        colleagues joining this Unit reflect the distinctiveness of the Welsh legal dimension, and
        the wider political salience of devolution. The impact of Wyn Jones and Pritchard’s* ESRC
        award ‘Justice and Jurisdiction in Wales’ (ESRC, Wyn Jones PI, 2018-2020, £300,482) is
        seen in the acknowledged reliance on its outputs in the Report of the Commission on
        Justice in Wales (2019, chaired by Lord John Thomas). The work strand on prison
        provision in Wales also had significant media and select committee reach. Hunt’s ESRC
        Senior Fellowship (ESRC, 2015-2018, £164,334) highlighted the implications for devolved
        competence of Brexit and involves ongoing high-level engagements with UK-wide
        Parliaments and Governments. It led to a collaborative PhD on Brexit and devolution based
        in the Senedd Cymru/Welsh Parliament.
    •   The interdisciplinary Centre for European Law and Governance, (CELAG), directed by
        Smismans, hosted a major ERC Consolidator Grant (Smismans, 2013-2018, ‘Law,
        Science and Interests in Policy Making’ (LASI), £1,094,208). It involved a multidisciplinary
        team covering law, political science and political sociology. This reframed understanding
        of the role of expertise in EU law-making. Drake convenes the UACES Research Network
        on Effective Enforcement of EU Law and Policy, a hub for academics, NGOs and policy
        practitioners to exchange ideas and expertise, with a membership drawn from across the
        EU, the UK, USA and Switzerland (2018-2021, £5,000).
 Beyond the law/politics interface, our centres engage with a range of other disciplines, including
 biomedical sciences, psychology, sociology and criminology and were vital in nurturing impactful
 research, especially from junior colleagues:
    •   The Centre for Health and Social Care Law (CHSCL), directed by Doughty and S. Smith,
        brings together researchers working on medical law and ethics, mental health, disability,
        and social care for adults and children. Doughty’s work, with colleagues in Social Sciences
        and Psychology (see Section 3.2), led to improvements in legal and social work practice
        in family courts, and in adoption practices. Series* influenced law and practice on mental
        capacity and the deprivation of liberty (See ICS: Mental Capacity Law).


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Research within the Centre for Crime, Law and Justice (CCLJ), directed by Cram*,
        includes Dehaghani’s* work on the vulnerability of those in police custody (See ICS:
        Improved protection of vulnerable adult suspects). Other impactful work included Field’s
        comparative, collaborative work with colleagues in France and the Netherlands on youth
        justice and criminal procedure, and Malkani’s research on the death penalty. The latter
        worked with the UN’s Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights, and provided
        training on race and the death penalty to Amicus volunteers who support defence attorneys
        in the U.S.
    •   Our Centre for Law and Religion (CLR) is directed by Doe, and comprises Khaliq,
        Sandberg, McDonough*, PGRs and external associates. This centre developed a new
        strand of work on religion and family law (with Thompson*). Doe’s drafting of principles of
        Christian law fed into the ecumenical work of the World Council of Churches (See ICS:
        Christian Unity through Church Law).
 Beyond the centres, other institutional fora enriching our interdisciplinary research endeavours
 include the ESRC-funded Welsh Institute for Social and Economic Research Methods and
 Data (WISERD), through which Wincott collaborates on voluntary action, social services and the
 third sector. In the REF period, new networks were established through GW4 Alliance (Bath,
 Bristol, Cardiff and Exeter; see REF5a) such as that on ‘Family Regulation and Society’ (led from
 Exeter, involving Doughty, Heenan*, and Thompson*). Colleagues working in fields beyond
 existing specialist centres benefit from School and University research support (see Section 3),
 resulting in significant outputs, e.g. Thompson’s* influential work on prenuptial agreements,
 L.Smith on improving accessibility to family dispute resolution services; and in commercial law,
 Johnson’s work on copyright and trademark law, and Arsalidou on corporate governance.
 1.3 Research strategy for the review period
 Our stated research mission in REF2014 was the production of world-leading research and
 scholarship, evidenced by international recognition of its intellectual and policy impacts. Our
 objectives were refined, given our merger with Politics and International Relations, and redesigned
 to maximise opportunities afforded by the new School. These strategic objectives were achieved
 and exceeded in the following ways:
 a. Accelerate the Unit’s international reputation as a leader in socio-legal studies. This
    was achieved by creating the flagship CLS (see Section 1.2). It provides training and support
    in empirical methodologies, equipping researchers within and beyond the Centre, producing
    research contributions to urgent policy issues, such as pressures on social care provision,
    e.g. L.Hayes’ prizewinning Stories of Care: A Labour of Law (2017). We strategically recruited
    junior colleagues with strength in empirical socio-legal research methodologies to develop
    them into research leaders over the medium to longer term, e.g. Dehagani*, and Cram* on
    the criminal justice process, Mant* and Heenan*, on the family justice system.
 b. Expand and deepen collaborative links, internationally and regionally. We encourage all
    colleagues to develop international engagement, primarily through our centres. CLS provides
    support for staff exchanges (e.g., Oñati International Institute) and joint events (e.g., 2019
    international conference ‘The Law and Utopian Challenge’, co-convened by CLS and Vrije
    Universitet, Amsterdam). We support joint research bids (e.g., Dezalay’s (income attributed
    to Politics and International Relations) multi-disciplinary collaboration with Witwatersrand
    University on environmental sustainability of mining in Sub-Saharan Africa; see Section 3.3),
    and collaborative networks (e.g., S. Smith, ‘Accommodating Conscience Research Network’
    (ACoRN), Royal Society of Edinburgh, 2018-2020, with Strathclyde and Lancaster: £19,930).
    We make strategic use of University-level agreements with partners (e.g., collaboration
    between the Centre for Law and Religion and Emory’s Center for the Study of Law and
    Religion, whilst the GW4 Alliance creates an exciting framework for cross-institutional
    research communities, including the accommodation of religious diversity in society). WGC’s
    collaboration with Edinburgh University’s Centre for Constitutional Change expands capacity
    for impactful research on issues of territorial governance, delivered by a multidisciplinary team
    (Wincott, Hunt, Pritchard* and UOA19 colleagues).


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. Nurture and grow the next generation of early career academics: from PGR to early
    career T&R. We increased our funded awards, in particular through securing awards under
    the ESRC empirical socio-legal studies stream, as well as scholarships for international
    students (see Section 2.4). We continued to invest in our postdoctoral researchers through
    the JLS Research Fellowships, introduced in 2013, leading to outputs, impacts, and
    collaborations (e.g., L.Hayes (appointed JLS Fellow, 2013) with Thompson* and Newman on
    gender and the law). The multidisciplinary WGC assembles teams of research associates with
    backgrounds in law, politics, criminology and regional studies, supporting work with
    established academics on devolution (e.g., Jones on Prison Provision under Wyn Jones PI
    ‘Justice and Jurisdiction’ and Phylip on Interparliamentary Relations in the post-Brexit Era
    under Wincott PI ‘Between Two Unions’).
 d. Develop and intensify interdisciplinary research at the interface between law and
    politics. The integration of the departments provided the context for interdisciplinary centres
    and research agendas (see Section 1.2. and e.g. the WGC’s influential work on Brexit and
    devolution). More broadly, work interrogated the nature of interdisciplinarity. Priaulx’s
    leadership on collaborative interdisciplinarity includes a law-in-practice focus (e.g. co-
    convenor of the 2016 W.G. Hart Workshop, ‘Valuing Expertise – Legal, Normative and Social
    Dimensions’), and a focus on the academic/theoretical dimension (e.g. British Academy,
    2015, £9,883 ‘Multidisciplinary Understandings of Legal Academia’, involving events and
    outputs with Social Science colleagues e.g. ‘Behavior on a beer mat: Law, interdisciplinarity
    and expertise’ Journal of Law, Technology and Policy 2014(2), pp. 361-391).
 1.4 Delivering our impact strategy
 In REF2014, we committed to encouraging staff to embed impact within a balanced portfolio
 of high-quality research. Delivery of this objective is led by our Director of Impact, a role created
 during this review period providing targeted information and advice on impact work. Training (both
 internal and external) and support and mentoring is delivered at School level and by the wider
 University (See REF5a). Contributions to impact are discussed during annual Performance
 Development Reviews (PDRs; see Section 2) and factored into workload allocation. Dedicated
 impact funding is available at School level, complementing funding under Cardiff University’s
 ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (ESRC IAA) (see Section 3).
 Staff co-produce research with user groups and there is support for the widespread dissemination
 of research findings (e.g., through training on social media use) and for hosting face-to-face
 meetings between stakeholders and researchers. Research centres played a key role in
 research impact development. Close connections with the Welsh Government, UK Parliament
 and civil society organisations were forged by WGC, whilst CLGJ is home to the pathbreaking
 Transnational Pro-Bono Law Clinic, working with human rights law firms in UK, India and East
 Africa. Colleagues are supported to undertake external advisory and consultancy roles (e.g.,
 Caddell, Hunt, Petetin*, Pereira, for Welsh Government; Harrington for the German Foreign
 Ministry; Manji for UNHabitat; Johnson for the Advisory Council on National Records and Archives;
 Dezalay for the Juge assesseure at the French Cour nationale de droit d’asile; Khaliq for fifteen
 governments on parental child abduction).
 Beyond our submitted four impact case studies, a larger body of impact work was generated
 over the review period, involving colleagues at all career stages. For example, ESRC IAA awards
 were made to Manji for work to strengthen the legal framework for UK Official Development
 Assistance (ODA), and to Smismans for work on EU citizens’ rights post Brexit (see Sections 3
 and 4). The final selection of impact case studies was made with consideration of gender equality
 and our desire to showcase the variety of impact work within the Unit. The selected impact lead
 authors each represent a different research centre: CLR (Doe); CLGJ (Harrington); CCLJ
 (Dehaghani*); CHSCL (Series*). All but one author (Doe) are contributing case studies for the first
 time and two staff (Dehaghani* and Series*) were recruited as early career academics/researchers
 during the REF period. This demonstrates the Unit’s strong support for impact activities, across
 all career stages, aligned to our research foci, and the opportunities they present to engage in
 positive societal impact.



                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Future research and impact strategy and objectives
 Our research mission aims to provide a supportive environment for the production of excellent
 research by all and to contribute to improving law, policy outcomes, and society. We are committed
 to upholding the values of Wales’ Wellbeing of Future Generations Act 2015, ensuring our
 research contributes to sustainable development goals. We place equality at the heart of all we
 do. We seek to address the under-representation of particular groups within our community;
 monitor research outputs for intersectional differences; and address any differential impacts on
 research careers due to Covid-19.
 Our future strategic objectives are:
 1.To provide global leadership for socio-legal and law-in-context studies, building upon our
 existing strengths and international reputation, promoted above all by the CLS. We will be a
 transnational research hub bringing together a diverse community of scholars and collaborating
 with international research centres and universities, such as Waikato, New Zealand. This will be
 expressed through the range and quality of our agreements, events, exchanges, and publications.
 2. To maximise the potential of our interdisciplinary School, deepening connections
 between law, politics and international relations to address grand challenges. We will
 support new programmes of activity to address collaboratively major contemporary questions such
 as those posed by multi-level governance, constitutionalism, post-colonialism, security issues, and
 individual rights.
 3.To become a magnet and ‘seed bed’ for the next generation of legal scholars. Our PhD
 programme will be developed sustainably to ensure excellent research training experiences and
 a strengthened sense of community. We will address under-representation through the creation
 of PGR scholarships solely for BAME applicants. We will be a destination of choice for developing
 researchers, hosting prestigious post-doctoral researchers, including individual fellowships and
 those attached to large research grants. The creation of in-house JLS/CLS funded paid research
 opportunities for PGT students will engage the next generation of socio-legal researchers.
 4. To develop sustainable and diverse research income streams, exploiting where appropriate
 the potential to contribute to Cardiff’s University Research Networks and Institutes, and SPARK,
 the UK’s first social science research park, as an incubator of cross-disciplinary research bids
 (See REF5a), especially across crime and security, and climate change, involving senior
 colleagues as strategic support and supporting early career colleagues with project development.
 Progress will be kept under review by the Research Committee, with leadership from colleagues
 across all areas, determining the most effective forms of support and actions through the work of
 our Research Culture and Environment Group (see Section 3.4). These will feed directly into the
 School’s Management Team, and broader School strategic plans.
 1.6 Supporting a culture of research integrity and an open research environment
 Our strong socio-legal and interdisciplinary culture requires us to reflect critically and constantly
 on how to promote a culture of research integrity, beyond compliance with disciplinary standards.
 Our mentorship of doctoral students, through the stages of the research process and the CLS
 training events for the wider socio-legal community, makes a key contribution to discipline in this
 regard. Our commitments to sustainability and equality are carried through into the research
 process, reflected in citation practices and in responses to the resource asymmetries in the Global
 North/South on which CGLJ has spearheaded work. The accessibility of our research is
 promoted through the open access (OA) process. Our staff contributed to the UKRI consultation
 process on OA, and there is a strong ethos of OA embedded in the School. Staff benefitted from
 Gold OA publishing opportunities through University level agreements. OA is supported through
 regular training events. Support is also available for wider research dissemination to promote
 knowledge exchange. All staff have ORCID iDs. We actively support the University’s commitment
 to the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA) by promoting the attribution
 and allocation of research outputs and authorship in a fair, transparent and equitable manner (see
 REF5a).



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A supportive Ethics Committee, staffed by colleagues with first-hand experience in work with
 human participants, ensures all staff and students address the ethical challenges posed by their
 work. The Committee ensures compliance with legal and professional obligations and advises on
 external research governance requirements, including necessary authorisations. The Committee
 is a recognised source of expertise, consulted by other Schools (e.g., on international copyright
 and social media). The ethics policy for Law is based on that of the ESRC, supplemented by codes
 from other relevant professional associations, including the SLSA, and those developed by the
 University’s Open Research Integrity and Governance Committee (e.g., around safeguarding; see
 REF5a).
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy and recruitment
 Since REF2014, the Unit’s staffing strategy has been to appoint and promote staff who will develop
 sustained research leadership skills over the career life cycle. There were 29 T&R staff
 appointed over the review period, ranging in seniority from two Chairs (Johnson, Stokes), four
 Senior Lecturers (Malkani, Pereira, Pontin, Smith) and 23 new Lecturers. Following the 2019-20
 promotions round the unit comprised of 49.2 FTE on T&R contracts (18 Chairs; five Readers; 12
 Senior Lecturers; 18 Lecturers (of which 10 ECRs)), and one Senior Research Fellow (0.7 FTE).
 We are committed to sustainable career development and all our appointments are open-ended
 contracts, apart from those funded 2019-21 through the University’s Disglair Lectureship
 programme (See REF5a).
 New appointments strengthened expertise and depth in key strategic research areas:
 environmental governance (Stokes, Pontin, Caddell, Pereira, Petetin*, Dezalay, Smyth*), the
 broad field of social justice, including family law (Thompson*, Heenan*, Mant*), medical law (S.
 Smith, Austin*, Hammond-Browning), and disability and social care law (Series*, Kakoullis*,
 Doughty). Dehaghani*, Newman, Cram* and Malkani extended our work in criminal justice,
 including international and transnational aspects. Johnson and Pereira brought new leadership in
 commercial law, with further early career appointments (Richards*, Jiang*) and a growing cohort
 of PhD students. While there is diversity within the theoretical and methodological approaches we
 support, we recruited predominantly in empirically informed socio-legal perspectives, one of our
 sector-leading strengths (e.g. Austin*, Cram*, Dehaghani*, Heenan*, Mant*, Newman, Series*,
 Smyth*, Thompson*).
 2.2 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 Our demographic profile has changed significantly since REF2014, improving our gender
 balance as a community. This was achieved by implementation of concrete actions on EDI.
 Women at Senior Lecturer and Reader level were supported to apply for promotion through formal
 mentoring at annual review, promotions workshops and informal mentoring from experienced
 colleagues. Following the promotions round 2019-2020, over half of our female colleagues are
 now at Senior Lecturer level or above (18 of 31): eight Senior Lecturers, three Readers, and seven
 Chairs. This compares favourably to REF2014, where only four female colleagues held Chair level
 appointments. We were proactive in encouraging and supporting female colleagues to undertake
 senior leadership roles, with Hunt currently Director of Research for Law and Arsalidou Director
 of Postgraduate Research.
 Core to our EDI strategy was considered reflection on our governance structures, ensuring that
 EDI is central in all we do. Colleagues can access a range of professional and personal training
 courses, including wellbeing and mandatory courses in ‘ED&I’ and ‘Unconscious Bias’. EDI is
 embedded in our committee structures as a standing item on all research related committees and
 groups. The School EDI committee now includes representation from across career pathways,
 stages and gender. We are working towards an Athena Swan award submission in November
 2021. We acknowledge the need for further action to address race inequality, with 17% of UOA18
 staff identifying as BAME (including our Head of School, Khaliq). We increased BAME
 representation in our PGR community, through mobilising international scholarships, but UK
 BAME students remain under-represented, an area we will target moving forward.



                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As part of our EDI strategy, we are committed to identifying and addressing issues faced by BAME
 staff and PGRs, and to continue sustained critical reflection on how we improve the diversity of
 our School. Testament to this is the School’s hosting of the #itooamCardiff exhibition which
 celebrates diversity (LGBT+, BAME and intersectionality) at the University. Colleagues in Law also
 provided key expertise on EDI for the University (e.g., Manji’s membership of Cardiff’s REF2021
 EDI Group).
 Our recruitment literature makes specific reference to welcoming applications from under-
 represented groups. All appointment panels are gender balanced. We support flexible working,
 and make reasonable adjustments for staff with disabilities, including fractional contracts. Six staff
 are on fractional contracts, some for reasons connected to caring responsibilities or protected
 characteristics. Promotion procedures are open, fair and equitable, with the School Promotions
 Panel interpreting attainment benchmarks in the light of personal circumstances and contractual
 status. This ensures that those on fractional contracts have the same opportunities to progress
 (e.g., Roberts promotion to Senior Lecturer, and Series* to Senior Research Fellow).
 2.3 Staff development and support for research
 Our commitment to staff development reflects our investment in building an inclusive working
 environment. Research-active colleagues (T&R and Research-Only (RO) pathway) meet with
 Law’s Director of Research on appointment. S/he outlines systems of support for research, our
 research centres structure, and identifies a suitable research mentor. For ECRs, the research
 mentor also offers probation support through the probation period (three years). Over the review
 period, T&R ECRs benefited from a reduced teaching load and increased research allowance
 (£3,000 p.a., cumulative, to afford maximum flexibility) to kickstart their research trajectory at
 Cardiff. Rising stars were nominated for the ‘Cardiff Futures’ leadership programme, led by the
 Vice-Chancellor. The significance of involvement in this scheme for career trajectory is evidenced
 by Cahill-O’Callaghan’s and Thompson’s* successful promotions (twice) from Lecturer to Reader
 in this REF period.
 The key mechanism for staff development (apart from those on probation) is the annual
 Performance Development Review (PDR) which involves objective setting and review,
 encompassing research, workload, engagement and University citizenship. Potential for research
 impact training and development form a key part of the review, allowing opportunities to be
 identified and appropriately supported. An extensive programme of research-related skills training
 is offered through the University ‘Career Researcher Programme’ (See REF5a).
 Significant steps were taken in succession planning and research continuity over this period,
 with junior colleagues taking a leading role in Centres (e.g. Cram* and Dehaghani* co-directed
 CCLJ) and PGRs and ECRs organizing centre activities (e.g., Wilmington (PGR, CLGJ) organised
 ‘The Hostile Environment Collective’ at Tate Exchange, Tate Modern, 2018). Sustainability is also
 evident through our support for internal promotion. Of our 18 Professors, four were directly
 recruited at Chair level, with the remaining 14 all progressing via internal promotion, with 10
 originally recruited into lectureships. Research is the most common pathway for promotion, though
 Unit staff were also promoted based on engagement and civic mission (e.g., Hunt to Chair, for
 impact on Brexit and devolution), reflecting the Unit’s investment and commitment to impact-
 related work.
 A variety of formal and informal mechanisms exist to support individual research development.
 These operate through the Centres (e.g., CLS mid-career work in progress sessions) and across
 the Law Department, such as our writing support group every Wednesday during term time and
 the ‘Coffee, Research and Pastries’ groups. These involve cohorts of 6-8 colleagues who meet
 weekly to support each other in the development of writing or funding projects. All staff have a
 mentor to provide guidance on academic life. Law staff also participate in University-wide
 mentoring schemes, as mentees and mentors, providing specific guidance for BAME staff (Khaliq)
 and on engagement and impact (Hunt).
 Cardiff Law is committed to ensuring T&R and RO staff have an equitable opportunity to build their
 research profile over time. A standard 600 hours p.a. (40% FTE) is allocated to research for all
 T&R staff, with an increased amount for those with externally awarded Fellowships. All staff have
 a workload allocation for engagement, which covers impact-related activities, and additional

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 allocations were provided for those authoring impact case studies. All staff are eligible to apply for
 a period of research leave, with the norm being one academic year in five. Applications for
 research leave are considered against criteria which are gender neutral and equally accessible to
 those on part-time contracts. For example, there is no expectation of travel beyond Cardiff which
 might inhibit staff with caring responsibilities or particular disabilities from applying. The standard
 personal research allowance for staff is £1,600 p.a. pro rata. This fund can be used for research
 needs at the discretion of the researcher, including research assistance (e.g., supporting UG and
 PG students to undertake research, seeding ambition to consider research-related careers) and
 impact initiatives.
 Since REF2014, the parallel operation of School and University Research Leave (URL)
 schemes provided considerable support for research leave. The School scheme was run
 consecutively so those not successful in the highly competitive URL (which provided staff costs to
 the School, and £3,000 research budget per awardee) could reconsider their project in light of
 feedback, and submit for School leave. Since REF2014, sixteen staff were awarded URL (10
 female; six male) and eight School leave (five female; three male). These enabled the completion
 of monograph outputs (e.g., Manji, The Struggle for Land and Justice in Kenya 2020), impact-
 related activity (e.g., Smismans work with the3million on EU citizens’ rights post Brexit), and laid
 the groundwork for large research bids (e.g., Wincott’s ‘Governance After Brexit’ ESRC leadership
 role). The Unit benefited from the University’s new Disglair scheme (2019-21) which provided 2-
 year lectureships to support postdoctoral researchers transition successfully to T&R Lectureships,
 whilst providing extended research leave for Unit staff (See REF5a). Through this scheme, we
 appointed a former PGR (Smyth*), now a key member of CLS and CEJ.
 We have an active RO community, including postdoctoral researchers and research assistants
 attached to funded projects. They undertook major leadership roles for the researcher
 community, such as L.Hayes who was Chair of the Cardiff University Research Staff Association
 (CURSA) which represents RO staff across the institution and facilitates engagement with the
 University (See REF5a). L.Hayes provided the researcher voice for the University’s HR Excellence
 in Research re-accreditation in 2014-15. We ensure that RO colleagues are fully integrated into
 all research activities; are represented on relevant committees; play a role in the research centres;
 and organise events and seminars. For example, L.Hayes and Series* both held positions on the
 JLS editorial board. RO staff access the same funding opportunities as T&R; for example Minto
 (previously a Research Assistant) initiated the EU Exchange group, bringing together Law
 colleagues with Welsh Government officials. An example of professional career development
 resulting from our RO training are the colleagues employed on the JLS postdoctoral scheme who
 subsequently moved to academic roles: L.Hayes is Professor and Head of the Law School at the
 University of Kent; Boukalas is Senior Lecturer in Law at Northumbria University; Carver is
 Lecturer in international criminology at the University of Bristol; and Series* (funded by Wellcome)
 was promoted to Senior Research Fellow at Cardiff in 2019.
 2.4 Postgraduate Researchers
 The School provides an environment which facilitates excellent legal scholarship from the first
 steps on an academic career. Drawing on ESRC/AHRC and Commonwealth funding, we
 support a diverse PhD community, above all for those students embedded in a cross-disciplinary
 and socio-legal environment. Recruitment, training and development of PGRs is the responsibility
 of the School Director of Postgraduate Research (DPGR). The DPGR is a member of School
 Board, which also has an elected PGR member. The DPGR is an ex-officio member of the School
 Senior Management Team, ensuring that PGR issues are raised at School level, and that PGR
 considerations are part of strategic planning and embedded in School policies and procedures.
 DPGR is a member of Research Committee and chairs the Board of Postgraduate Research
 Studies. This Board is separate from the main teaching Board of Postgraduate Studies to ensure
 that PGR matters receive focus and attention. The Board meets at least twice per academic year
 and includes an elected PGR representative.
 Since REF2014, 41 new students started PhDs in the Unit and 22 PhDs were awarded. Of the 41
 commencing their studies, 26 were funded through external and internal scholarships, the
 remainder self-financing. The key area of expansion was via competitive external awards,
 above all through the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training Partnership, where we play a leading role:

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Harrington is seconded at 0.6 FTE as Director. Over the REF period, 13 students received ESRC
 DTP awards, compared to four in the last period. This 1+3 empirical socio-legal studies
 pathway is shared with Swansea University and involves a year of advanced social science
 research methods training leading to an MA in Social Science Research Methods, including a
 Cardiff University law-led module: ‘Empirical Studies in Law’. The route sets a premium on external
 collaborations and students benefited from co-supervision and/or placements with the Welsh
 Parliament/Senedd, Equality and Human Rights Commission in Wales, Welsh Rugby Union,
 Asylum Justice, Incredible Edible Bristol and StepChange debt charity.
 We were also successful with three doctoral studentships funded by the AHRC South West and
 Wales DTC. A further four studentships were funded through School funds, two awarded via the
 Vice-Chancellor’s International Scholarships for Research Excellence (VC) (See REF5a), with
 other external sources including the Commonwealth Scholarship Commission (CSC) UK.
 Distinctively, the group of international PGRs in the CLGJ include a number of already established
 academics in their countries of origin, e.g., Kalunga, funded through CSC, researching
 domestication of international human rights provisions, is a Special Research Fellow and former
 Head of the Public Law Department, University of Zambia and Laytif, funded through VC,
 researching Kenyan public healthcare financing and Islamic fiscal law, is a lecturer at the
 University of Nairobi.
 All PGR students are supervised by at least two members of staff. These are regularly cross-
 disciplinary (including co-supervisions across LAWPL, the Social Sciences and the Business
 School) and inter-institutional (Swansea). Progression is monitored by a twice-yearly process of
 PGR review, providing regular opportunities for the School to assess the progress and quality of
 the work, as well as for students to raise any issues or concerns directly with supervisors or the
 DPGR. There is PGR student representation, with a PGR Student Staff Panel, chaired by a
 student, meeting regularly throughout the year to ensure robust debate and accountability. This
 feeds into the PGR action plan. There is also a PGR representative on our Research Culture and
 Environment Group.
 Students benefit from a full PGR training programme within the School, with 20-30 sessions p.a.,
 including external speakers as well as staff and student-led presentations. These focus on
 research and impact, as well as employability issues. The sessions support regular contact
 between PGRs and other academic staff in the School, with one staff member having responsibility
 for developing and maintaining the PGR community and integration within the broader School
 environment. All visiting academics under the CLS Senior Research Visitor scheme provide a
 seminar on research strategies and methods for PGRs, equipping Cardiff Law PGRs with a sector-
 leading socio-legal skill set. The School runs a bi-annual PGR Symposium which allows PGRs
 to develop conference presentation skills in a supportive environment and receive feedback from
 experienced colleagues and other PGRs. Additional skills training is available through Cardiff
 University’s Doctoral Academy: from research methods to impact training, public engagement and
 careers beyond academia (See REF5a).
 Cardiff Law provides a research allowance to all PGRs of £1,800 across the registration period.
 Each PGR on the ESRC DTP pathway receives £2,250 during their PhD. Students can apply for
 additional sums during the writing-up period. These allowances permit PGRs to travel; attend
 external events; network and disseminate their research. PGRs also secured internal research
 funding (e.g., Sisay, Research Support Scheme (RSS) award of £1,500 for data collection in Addis
 Ababa; Parry, GW4 funding to convene a training event on interviewing skills). Our PGRs
 published in sector-leading journals (e.g., Smyth*, Richards*, Tarrant), and via our training, are
 equipped to move successfully into academic careers, e.g., lectureships (Smyth*, Richards* at
 Cardiff; Borland to Swansea University; Blakey to the University of Exeter); prestigious fellowships
 (Tarrant, ESRC postdoctoral researcher, Cardiff, 2020-2021). Beyond academia, destinations
 include Evans (Policy and Research at Bevan Foundation); and Parker (independent legal and
 policy consultant).




                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 Income
 3.1 Research strategy
 Cardiff Law supports staff to secure research income that produces world leading research and
 scholarship, evidenced by international recognition of its intellectual and policy impacts.
 In 2020, we introduced a dedicated Director of Research Funding (DoRF) to lead our research
 funding strategy. The DoRF is part of the Research Directorate, which includes a Director of
 Research (DoR) and Director of Impact (DoI) for Law (see Section 3.4).
 Our strategy for income generation has four strands:
 Capacity building is delivered by supporting staff to develop grant literacy (e.g., LAWPL/AHSS
 Grant Writing Bootcamp for ECRs, 2016), and providing peer support through the grant writing
 process.
 Sustainability aims to support junior staff to gain experience of funded research, equipping them
 to make research bids, e.g., Series* who was RA on Fennell’s (PI) Nuffield Foundation award
 ‘Personal welfare disputes in the court of protection’ (2013-2017, £130,825). Series* was
 subsequently awarded a Wellcome Trust Fellowship on mental capacity law (2017-2022,
 £237,868). Both funded projects contribute to ICS: Series, Mental Capacity Law.
 Strategic collaboration supports collaborations with external partners (e.g., Stokes’ CEJ funding
 for research on the legal regulation of biological material retrieval for pharmaceutical development
 as part of an alliance of 18 European academic and industrial partners (European Commission
 2013-2017, £193,634); Wincott, Co-I on the major UK/Irish ESRC large grant ‘Between Two
 Unions: The Constitutional Future of these Islands after Brexit’ (ESRC, 2017-2021, £324,877).
 This latter interdisciplinary project involves researchers in political science, law and economics,
 with Cardiff leading on the constitution, law and Wales.
 Responsiveness is evident in effective and flexible support from professional services staff
 (Section 3.5) who supported staff to submit major bids with short turn arounds, such as
 Harrington’s 2020 awards: (a) AHRC GCRF award ‘COVID-19 in Kenya, Global Health, Human
 Rights and the State in a Time of Pandemic’ (£137,340), in collaboration with the African
 Population and Health Research Centre (APHRC) and Katiba Institute; (b) ‘Towards a Welsh
 Health Law: Values, Governance and Devolution after COVID-19’ (Welsh Government/Sêr Cymru
 III, £87,310).
 3.2 External funding
 Over the review period, we hosted Fellowships and grants from a diverse range of funders, as well
 as securing increased PGR scholarships.
 We secured £3.66M in research income, leading to delivery of major EU and UKRI funded
 programmes, such as Smisman’s ERC award involving a multidisciplinary team’ ‘Law, Science
 and Interests in European Policy Making’ (LASI) (2013-2018, £1,179,436) and WGC funding for
 projects connected to devolution and Brexit. The latter enabled Cardiff Law to take a leadership
 role in issues of territorial governance, resulting in high-profile engagement activities with
 government ministers, officials, parliamentary committees, reports, and academic outputs. In
 addition to Wincott’s ‘Between Two Unions’ award, and his coordinator role for the ESRC’s
 ‘Governance After Brexit’ programme (2017-2021, £497,681), Hunt received a Senior Fellowship
 for Knowledge Exchange under the ESRC’s ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ programme (2015-2018,
 £174,990) for a project on devolved competences and Brexit. This addressed the complexities of
 departure from the EU for the territorial constitution for political, academic and general public
 audiences. The WGC’s ‘Justice and Jurisdiction’ project (Wyn Jones PI and Pritchard*) focused
 on the criminal justice system in Wales (ESRC, £300,482).
 Early to-mid career colleagues had particular success with awards from charitable funders,
 providing an important catalyst for our future strategy on becoming a magnet for the next
 generation of early career academics (see Section 1.5). L.Hayes’s Wellcome Trust Seed award,
 ‘Legal and social life of care standards regulation at work in England, Scotland and Wales’,

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facilitated cross-UK comparison of the impact of care standards regulation on employment
 standards for care workers (Wellcome, 2017, £71,204); Thompson’s* award from the SLSA
 supported a ground-breaking historical socio-legal investigation of the Married Women’s
 Association’s impact on marriage and divorce law (SLSA, 2018, £2,999); Dehaghani* and
 Newman’s British Academy Small Research Grant, ‘Suspect and Defendant Experiences of the
 Criminal Process’ (2018-2020, £8,543) was cited in Parliamentary debates on court closures, and
 in the Report of the Commission on Justice in Wales.
 Our colleagues undertook commissioned research to inform debate and the strategic policy
 of governments and interest groups, including L.Smith who co-authored the Report ‘Self-
 Represented Parties in Private Family Law Cases’ for the Ministry of Justice (2014, £13,680);
 L.Hayes for her work for the International Labour Office, authoring the Policy Brief on ‘Gender-
 Based Violence in the World of Work’ (2018, £2,498); Doughty for her work with the Welsh
 Government/Cafcass Cymru, providing the ‘A Research Review on Parental Alienation’ report and
 training (2018, £3,253); and Petetin*, co-author of ‘Setting the Bar for a Green Brexit in Food and
 Farming’ for the Soil Association. Petetin’s* report was launched in Westminster in collaboration
 with the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Agroecology (2019, £4,000).
 3.3 Internal funding and support
 UOA18 researchers used internal funding support structures, including the College’s
 International Initiatives programme to support their research. This fund supported Dezalay’s
 project development workshop, ‘Towards Sustainable Mineral Value Chains in Africa: Fostering
 Dialogue between Scholarship, Industry, Local Communities and Policy’, enabling collaboration
 between Cardiff and Witwatersrand University, South Africa (2020, £11,700). ESRC IAA funding
 supported Doe’s work on ‘Christian Law: An Ecumenical Initiative’ (2015, £1,567) (ICS, Christian
 Unity Through Church Law) and Smismans’ research on ‘Brexit citizens’ rights protection
 (BREXITIZEN)’ (2018, £8,913). Through this fund, Smismans was seconded to provide expert
 legal advice and advocacy for the3Million, an association established to protect the legal rights of
 EU citizens in the UK in the context of Brexit, citizenship and EU governance.
 The University’s Cardiff Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (CUROP) provides
 students with a paid opportunity to spend up to eight weeks working with staff on live research
 projects (See REF5a). 12 CUROP UOA18 projects were funded, including research on local
 authorities’ use of the Court of Protection (ICS Series, Mental Capacity Law). This resulted in a
 co-authored publication for CUROP students as Series*, Mercer, Mobbs, Walbridge, Fennell &
 Doughty, ‘Local authorities and the Court of Protection's welfare jurisdiction in 2013-14’ (2015)
 Elder Law Journal 5(1) p. 114.
 Cardiff Law made a further £14,000 (£16,500 until 2018) available annually on a competitive basis
 through its Research Support Scheme (RSS), in addition to the standard £1,600 personal
 research allowance. The RSS opens three times a year. During this REF cycle, 47 awards were
 made to UOA18 researchers, totalling £43,404. Over half of this fund was allocated to
 Lecturer/Senior Lecturer researchers. This funding supported fieldwork in Kenya for Harrington
 (2017, £1,660), leading to Harrington’s article, ‘Governing Traditional Medicine in Kenya’ (2018)
 African Studies 77 (2): 223-239. Kennett was supported in 2016 (£1,440) to visit Poland and the
 Czech Republic, leading to her co-edited book (with Rijavev et al) Remedies concerning
 Enforcement of Foreign Titles (Kluwer Law International, 2018) to which she contributed chapters
 including ‘Brussels I Recast: General Context of Enforcement Systems’. The RSS also funded
 attendance at research events e.g., for Drake and M.Smith to attend the UACES Research
 Network on Enforcement of EU Law at the flagship annual European political science conference
 (ECPR). The fund also facilitated research assistance, supporting the future sustainability of the
 discipline with work experience for PGT and PGR students as research assistants, e.g., for Cahill-
 O’Callaghan (2019, £605), leading to Values in the Supreme Court: Decisions, Division and
 Diversity (2020).
 In 2018, a separate impact-specific fund was created with its own £5,000 p.a. budget, reflecting
 the significance attached to supporting the broader dissemination of our research. The value of
 this is reflected in our impact cases studies, with awards from the fund made to Dehaghani*,


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Harrington and Doe, with further smaller awards made to e.g. Smismans for his Brexit work (2019,
 £168).
 Another source of support for UOA18 researchers is the Centre for Law and Society, which has
 a rolling competition for support for research activities and events on socio-legal research themes
 open to all colleagues, from its annual budget of £35,000. CLS awards led to collaborative events
 and outputs, including international workshops and associated special supplements of the Journal
 of Law and Society, e.g., Field’s co-edited ‘Learning from Elsewhere: From Cross‐Cultural
 Explanations to Transnational Prescriptions in Criminal Justice’ (2019), JLS (46) S1, and
 Dezalay’s edited ‘Wars on Law, Wars through Law? Law and Lawyers in Times of Crisis’ (2020),
 JLS (47) S1.
 Infrastructure and Facilities
 3.4 Research leadership
 At School level, the overarching Director for Research takes responsibility for developing
 strategy and providing research leadership. This individual works closely with UOA18’s
 Director of Research and Director of Impact. These postholders are members of the School’s
 Research Committee, along with EDI representatives. Complementing this is our Research
 Culture and Environment Group for Law led by Priaulx. This group brings together T&R and RO
 staff from all career stages to discuss and feeds forward ways of enhancing and nurturing the
 vitality of Law’s research environment. REF preparations were managed within the School by a
 REF Management Group, ensuring a robust, transparent and fair process of internal peer review
 of outputs. All Law decision-makers in the REF process had relevant EDI training, as mandated
 by our Institutional Code of Practice (see REF5a). The outputs selected in our submission
 represent the diversity of our researcher community and the breadth of our expertise and
 excellence.
 3.5 Professional services staff
 A dedicated team of professional services (PS) staff supports all Unit researchers and the delivery
 of the School research strategy. The team comprises 3.8 FTE, more than doubling the resource
 from REF2014. There are now two Research and Engagement Officers (1.5 FTE) and an
 Administrative Assistant (0.5 FTE) dedicated to operational activity relating to research support,
 with an additional Administrative Assistant (0.8 FTE) providing support for research events such
 as lectures, workshops and conferences. A further senior member of PS staff (1 FTE) is
 responsible for strategic planning.
 The School Research and Engagement Officers appraise staff of funding opportunities through a
 weekly email; assist and encourage staff in their applications; facilitate internal peer review;
 support the Research Ethics committee; and administer the competitions for School, College and
 University Funds, including the URL schemes at University and School levels. The PS staff also
 work with research centres supporting Directors; assisting with organising events; and presenting
 the centres’ annual reports to the School Research Committee. This monitoring is essential to
 ensuring the centres nurture a positive research culture and achieve the strategic aims of the Unit.
 This work is supported by a College Research Manager and discipline-specific University
 Research Development Officers who co-ordinate cross-College research activity. They work with
 the College Dean of Research and Innovation and the University Directors of Research Network
 which makes sure that research strategy in Law is connected to broader university initiatives
 (See REF5a). Impact Officers, at both College and University levels, support partnership working,
 and impact training and development.
 3.6 Facilities
 The policy of interspersing Law and Politics staff offices and our shared common room have
 fostered a cohesive interdisciplinary community for the new merged School of Law, Politics and
 International Relations. Cardiff Law colleagues are located in a main building (the Law Building),
 and two smaller satellite sites in close proximity. Law PGRs share a newly refurbished PGR centre,
 co-housed with WGC staff. Our buildings are positioned at the heart of Cardiff’s civic centre, close
 to the courts, chambers and opposite Welsh Government offices. We have the infrastructure to

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 host major research events, e.g., planning is underway for the 2021 SLSA annual conference, and
 WGC staff use the iconic Pierhead building, situated next to the Senedd in Cardiff Bay as a
 venue for impact and engagement events, such as closed workshops with UK, Scottish, Welsh
 and NI officials on Brexit and devolution issues linked to Hunt and Wincott’s ESRC awards, and
 public events, e.g. the regular WGC six monthly Brexit and Wales updates, between 2016-2019.
 The Law Library is located within the larger AHSS library. A dedicated Subject Librarian ensures
 that all Law staff are aware of the resources and services available to support their research. The
 specialist European Documentation Centre (EDC) supports those researching European issues,
 with the bulk of the EDC’s information provision duties undertaken via the development and
 management of European Sources Online (ESO). The EDC’s core activities include the provision
 of workshops, seminars, advice and information sessions. Academics benefit from the expertise
 of the Centre’s staff for their own research, and also participate in the external outreach and
 engagement events which add to the value of the EDC. For the next REF cycle, Cardiff law
 colleagues will benefit from University investment in a new innovation campus.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration and contribution to the research base
 As a large and diverse department, we are conscious of our role, collectively and as individuals,
 in advancing the discipline. We develop capacity and ideas within Law and also engage actively
 with other disciplines in the following ways:
 4.1 Services to the discipline
 We perform key service roles, both within Law and beyond. Significant positions in professional
 associations and learned societies include: Presidency of the African Studies Association (Manji);
 Executive Board membership of the SLSA (currently Dehaghani*, Harrington, Mant*, Pritchard*);
 Subject Sections Secretary of the Society of Legal Scholars (e.g., Morris).
 We provide intellectual leadership and service through our contribution to journal editorship.
 The JLS, acknowledged as a leading peer-reviewed publication in socio-legal studies, is edited
 and operated from the Law department. This involves colleagues in senior editorial positions
 (currently Burke*, Cahill-O'Callaghan, Field, Harrington, Hunt, Lewis, Malkani, Morris, Přibáň,
 Series*, Stokes, Wincott). Academic leadership is further demonstrated through editorship of
 journals, Grear is founding editor of Journal of Human Rights and the Environment; Pontin is
 managing editor of Environmental Law and Management. Manji is co-editor of African Affairs,
 Smismans is Deputy Editor of European Journal of Risk Regulation. Staff participate on the boards
 of over 20 specialist journals in law and interdisciplinary fields, including Feminist Legal Studies,
 Social and Legal Studies; Yearbook of International Environmental Law; Medical Ethics;
 Butterworths Medico-Legal Reports; Journal of Law and Religion; Journal of Professional
 Negligence; International Journal of Disability and Social Justice; European Review of Private
 Law; and Journal of Intellectual Property Law & Practice.
 Cardiff Law colleagues are Editors of book series with leading publishers, notably in the fields
 of Law and Religion, Legal History, Law and Society and Environmental Law. Doe is founding
 Editor of the Routledge Research Series in Law and Religion. In 2018, a new book series,
 Transforming Legal History (Routledge), was launched from the Law department, edited by
 Sandberg, Thompson*, Richards* and L.Hayes. Newman is Co-Editor of Leading Works in Law
 and Social Justice (Routledge); Grear serves as Series Editor of Law, Justice and Ecology
 (Glasshouse/Routledge Cavendish); Series* is Co-Editor of Critical Reflections on Human Rights
 and the Environment (Edward Elgar Publishing).
 Our colleagues play a prominent role in shaping UK and international research agendas by
 representing the discipline on major funding bodies. Staff served on UK panels, including ESRC,
 AHRC, Leverhulme and Wellcome Trust and, internationally, e.g., Cahill-O’Callaghan on the grant
 review panel for the Australian Research Council. Wincott serves on the ESRC’s Strategic
 Advisory Network and the ESRC DTP commissioning panel. Two UOA18 members are REF2021
 panelists, for Law and Area Studies.



                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Intergenerational renewal and disciplinary health
 Cardiff Law colleagues contribute to PGR/ECR training programmes in the UK and
 internationally. Kakoullis* participates in the International Journal of Disability and Social
 Justice’s ECR group which provides training in publishing and reviewing process; Stokes
 contributes to the Université Pierre & Marie Curie Summer School “Nanosciences Ile-de-France”.
 More broadly, the CLS instituted a series of ‘Law-and-…’ workshops on methodological and
 practical aspects of socio-legal research that attracted the wider academic community. Hunt and
 Wincott ensured ECR colleagues benefited from their expertise, convening an ECR workshop in
 January 2020 under the auspices of the ESRC’s ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ (UKICE) programme,
 with colleagues from Belfast and Edinburgh, thereby connecting junior scholars to the UKICE
 initiative.
 Underpinned by an ethos of ‘cosmopolitan kinship’, the CLGJ focuses on supporting ECRs via
 engagement with Global South institutions and on reviving and promoting critical scholarship
 in this field. It launched an Annual Doctoral Workshop with Warwick and Kent Law Schools in
 2018, with peer support, formal presentations, mentoring by more experience scholars and social
 events. Across the Global South, the Centre runs a writing workshop series for ECRs in
 partnership with the British Academy and with UK and international socio-legal journals.
 Workshops, held at legal research institutes in Ghana, India, Kenya and Brazil, bring together
 journal editors and ECRs to share insights on effective writing and publication and to foster
 engagement with critical and socio-legal scholarship from and on the Global South. The Centre’s
 aim of partnership and mentoring is also realised through the international ‘Law and Development
 Research’ Network, co-founded in 2017, and the book series Law, Development and Global
 Justice (Edward Elgar), edited by Harrington which supports monograph production from ECRs in
 particular.
 4.3 Research networks and collaborations
 We act as hosts for major national and international conferences, including the SLSA UK
 (2021) and events involving authors of seminal works, e.g., Carol Pateman’s The Sexual Contract
 30 Years On (2018). We bring individual scholars to the University via our visiting fellows
 programmes and have secured long-term collaborations with the Oñati International Institute for
 Sociology of Law, Oxford, ANU, KU Leuven and VU Amsterdam, through which we facilitated joint
 events and reciprocal staff secondments, e.g., H.Roberts from ANU (2015) and Cahill-
 O’Callaghan to ANU (2018).
 Our staff are embedded in national and international research networks, and played key
 developmental roles, for example as founders of cross-disciplinary and academic-practitioner
 networks, e.g., Drake’s and M.Smith’s UACES-funded EU Enforcement network; Dehaghani’s*
 UK Vulnerability Research Network, funded by the British Society of Criminology, and Stokes’s
 The Future Matters Collective, a collaboration between Social Sciences, Architecture, Medicine,
 Law and Arts-Practitioners. The African Feminist Judgments project, launched in 2018 by the
 CLGJ in collaboration with the Universities of Warwick and Witwatersrand, has pioneered critical
 scholarship in the African context. The Centre was a catalyst for cross-disciplinary encounters
 including the Learned Society of Wales’s Symposium on Sustainable Development, held in
 Cambridge (2018); European International Studies Workshops, on development finance and on
 global health (2017); and the Annual International Law Lecture of the Welsh Centre for
 International Affairs (2016), delivered by H.E Judge James Crawford of the International Court of
 Justice.
 Contributions to Economy and Society
 4.4 Shaping law and policy
 Cardiff colleagues share their expertise with stakeholder communities, influencing judicial,
 legislative, and policy processes, and equipping user groups with the capacity to better advance
 their objectives. Research conducted by our staff has contributed to the judicial process at the
 most senior levels. Byron’s arguments for the sexual assault of child soldiers to be tried as a war
 crime were adopted by the Appeal Chamber of the International Criminal Court in Ntaganda
 (2016). Pontin’s work on common law nuisance was cited favourably by the UK Supreme Court in

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Coventry v. Lawrence (2014). Thompson’s* research was applied by the High Court of Australia
 in Thorne v Kennedy (2017), a landmark in the law of undue influence. Priaulx’s research on
 damages for reproductive wrongs was cited by the Singapore Court of Appeal in ACB v Thompson
 Medical PTE (2017), and Johnson’s prize-winning work on trademarks was heavily relied on in the
 Advocate-General’s opinion in Sky v Skykick (2019).
 Our researchers engage directly with the legal community, nationally and internationally. Some
 continue in practice alongside their academic roles: Fogleman is legal consultant at Stevens and
 Bolton, advising clients on environmental liability; Heenan* is legal consultant at The Family Law
 Practice, Bristol; Johnson is a Barrister and an Appointed Person under the Trade Marks Act 1994
 and Registered Designs Act 1949. Amongst the advisory roles held, Johnson is on the Research
 Expert Advisory Group of the UK Intellectual Property Office, whilst Cardiff Law colleagues are
 advisors to Barristers’ Chambers, including Khaliq (Matrix); Caddell (Francis Taylor Building);
 and Malkani for Doughty Street chambers, drafting an influential Expert Statement on complicity
 and the death penalty, reflected in the submissions to the Supreme Court in El Gizouli v Secretary
 of State for the Home Department (2019).
 CLGJ’s Transnational Pro-Bono Law Clinic works with human rights law firms and NGOs in the
 UK, India, and East Africa. Case work shaped litigation strategy at Amnesty International and
 Deighton Pierce Glyn. Cahill-O’Callaghan delivered judicial training on diversity and decision
 making; Khaliq on international human rights law; Fogleman on EU environmental law through the
 Academy of European Law. Working with state and governmental bodies, Byron trained military
 legal advisors through the Vienna International Humanitarian Law Course, sponsored by the
 Austrian MOD; Johnson instructed Chinese government and industry officials on Intellectual
 Property law; and Caddell provided professional career development support for legal specialists
 in Saudi Arabia and Kenya on international maritime law.
 Colleagues contribute to the legislative process through technical advice, e.g., Caddell served
 as part of a UK mission to Sierra Leone which assisted in reforming legislation to better combat
 wildlife crime. This resulted in a first draft of the National Animal Bill specifically to protect
 chimpanzees; Kennett contributed to the drafting of the UNIDROIT (International Institute for the
 Unification of Private Law) and European Law Institute model Rules of Civil Procedure, being
 drawn on by the European Commission. Smismans drafted amendments on citizens’ rights
 provisions to the UK Withdrawal Immigration Bill and the Withdrawal Agreement Implementation
 Bill for parties across the political spectrum, two of which were approved by Parliament.
 Cardiff UOA18’s research influences aspects of the criminal justice process. Dehaghani’s* work
 improved the protection for vulnerable people in police custody (see ICS Vulnerable Adult
 Suspects); Cram* served as an academic advisor to Ofsted, as a result of his research on knife-
 crime prevention in schools. The attendant report ‘Safeguarding Children and Young People in
 Education from Knife Crime: Lessons from London’ informed policy and debate across London.
 Unit colleagues made significant contributions to the Commission on Justice in Wales, which
 undertook the first review of the justice system in Wales for over 200 years. Running between
 2017 and 2019, its final report acknowledges five separate reports from the WGC, undertaken
 under the auspices of the ESRC/Welsh Government funded ‘Justice and Jurisdiction’ project
 (Pritchard*, Co-I). These form a substantial evidence base on the criminal justice system in Wales.
 The project uncovered issues relating to prison conditions, the legal economy, and racial
 discrimination within the system. This research also impacted Welsh Government practice, which
 cited it as informing its approach to race in the criminal justice system in Wales.
 Brexit dominated the research agendas of a number of UOA18 colleagues in the REF period.
 Existing strong relations between Cardiff Law EU scholars and Welsh Government officials,
 developed through Minto’s EU Exchange initiative (2013-ongoing), broadened out to include
 regular engagement with officials and ministers from across UK governments, under the auspices
 of the ESRC’s ‘UK in a Changing Europe’ project. Work from Hunt’s ESRC Fellowship highlighted
 the significance of Brexit for the UK Internal Market. This led to a 2018 roundtable with officials
 from the UK’s governments and academics from Cardiff, Edinburgh and Liverpool universities.
 Following the introduction of the Internal Market Bill in 2020, Hunt and Wincott co-authored a
 report with colleagues from Northern Ireland, Scotland and England, ‘UK Internal Market,


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Devolution and the Union’, which recommended a series of improvements to the Bill. The Report
 was cited in Parliamentary debate.
 Unit colleagues were regularly called on to give oral evidence before Parliamentary select
 committees in Westminster and the devolved capitals, with their contributions cited in Committee
 Reports and reported in parliamentary proceedings, e.g. Hunt on devolution and the constitutional
 consequence of Brexit; Petetin* on environmental and agricultural aspects of Brexit; and
 Smismans on citizens’ rights, for multiple committees including House of Lords, Constitution
 Committee; House of Commons, Committee on Exiting the EU and Environment Food and Rural
 Affairs Committee. At European level, Smismans appeared before the European Parliament, the
 European Commission, as well as at a meeting of the diplomatic representations of all EU
 countries specially organised to discuss citizens’ rights, London, November 2017.
 Other international level engagement focused on improving the EU policy process and
 addressing deficits in implementation and enforcement. This included Smismans’ contributions to
 the European Commission's Regulatory Scrutiny Board, as part of its work on revising its policy
 on ex post evaluation; Pereira’s Report for the European Commission, ‘Evaluation of the
 Implementation of the Environmental Crime Directive in the UK’ (2020) and Fogleman’s European
 Commission report, ‘Improving Financial Security in the Context of the Environmental Liability
 Directive’ (2020). For the European Parliament, M.Smith authored a report, ‘Challenges in the
 implementation of EU Law at National Level’ (2018); and Drake authored ‘The Transposition and
 Implementation of Regulation 261/2004 on Air Passenger Rights’ (2018). Manji served as expert
 advisor to the United Nations Habitat III conference (Ecuador, 2016), exploring state-of-the-art
 research to identify good practices and lessons learned regarding sustainable urban development.
 Khaliq continues to be a member of a multi-national team engaged in ongoing high-level
 exchanges with governments (including Canada, India, Australia, Pakistan and UAE) and the
 Hague Conference on Private International Law on issues of cross-border parental child
 abduction.
 4.5 Empowering third sector, community stakeholders and the general public
 Our research is designed to empower the UK public, particularly the most vulnerable. This is
 reflected in Series* work on mental capacity (ICS: Mental Capacity Law) and Doughty’s work on
 adverse childhood experiences in the UK. The Welsh-Government funded Wales Adoption Study
 is a collaboration between Law, Psychology and Social Sciences, investigating the factors
 enabling early placement success. Doughty’s input and the study's findings led to improvements
 in policy and practice supported by the National Adoption Service, including co-production of a
 legal guide for adopters with AFA Cymru and establishing the Adopting Together Service
 supported by the St David's Adoption Society.
 Cardiff Law colleagues also provided effective leadership for the Welsh third sector to navigate
 Brexit through the Wales Civil Society Forum on Brexit. This Legal Education Foundation (LEF)-
 funded partnership between WGC and Wales Council for Voluntary Action (WCVA) is led by Hunt
 and Wincott and project RA, Whitmore. It supported over 40 organisations with roundtables and
 written guides which were incorporated by Welsh Government into its own Brexit Action Plan. The
 partnership led cross-border civil society work with partners in Scotland and Northern Ireland and
 explored new post-Brexit cross-border relations, through face-to-face talks between sector
 representatives and EU institutions in Brussels in February 2020. The Forum’s report on future
 relations was referenced by the European Economic and Social Committee supporting sector
 engagement in the legislative process, especially around citizens’ rights and the social,
 environmental and equality issues raised by Brexit.
 On a global scale, Grear’s research has informed the work of The Permanent Peoples’ Tribunal
 (PPT), the world’s leading international civil society tribunal, whose hearings over the past four
 decades shaped international politics and law ‘bottom up’. In 2018, informed by Grear’s work, the
 PPT considered non-human rights alongside human rights for the first time in its history. The
 Advisory Opinion of the PPT-HRFCC, issued in April 2019, recommended a worldwide ban on
 fracking and introduced a radical new ‘blended jurisprudence’ of rights for humans and nature.




                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In summary, Cardiff Law puts research at the heart of its intellectual endeavours and strives
 to make its research accessible to all. Looking to the future, we are committed, as a
 community of scholars, to fostering long-term research sustainability and
 intergenerational renewal through working in closer partnership with our stakeholder
 communities for mutual benefit and growth.




                                                                                       Page 17
