Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Cardiff University
 Unit of Assessment 15: Archaeology
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview Unit context and structure
 Situated within the College of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences and the interdisciplinary
 School of History, Archaeology & Religion (SHARE), the Unit benefits from its position in a capital
 city through close links with the Amgueddfa Cymru-National Museum Wales (AC-NMW) and
 national heritage body, Cadw. One of the oldest archaeology departments in the UK, the Unit has
 developed an international reputation for excellence in archaeological science and field research,
 conservation, heritage practice and public engagement. Our mission is to build an inclusive
 research community in which undergraduate and postgraduate students, and staff, both
 Teaching and Research (18 T&R, 15.5 FTE, *denotes staff who have left), Research (1 FTE), and
 Teaching and Scholarship (8 T&S, 5.5 FTE, italics denotes staff on T&S pathway), are
 collaboratively engaged in transforming our understanding of the past.
 1.2 REF2014 Research and Impact Objectives
 The Unit set three strategic Research Objectives of: A) Bringing existing projects to completion;
 B) Developing ongoing projects; and C) Exploring opportunities for grant capture and research
 development. These strategic goals were completed and exceeded:
    A) The successful conclusion of research projects produced over 350 outputs ranging across
       the discipline in monographs and globally recognised journals (e.g., Antiquity, European
       Journal of Archaeology, Journal of Archaeological Science, Environmental Archaeology,
       PNAS, Proc Royal Soc B, Radiocarbon, Studies in Conservation). These include the
       following books: Assemblage Thought and Archaeology (Jervis), Auditory Archaeology
       (Mills), Bornais (Sharples), Caspian Gates (MacDonald), Catacombs of Anubis
       (Nicholson), Cille Pheadair (Mulville), Lepinski Vir (Boric*), Llangorse (Lane) and The
       Lyonesse Project (Mills, Mulville), with Times of Their Lives (Whittle*) resulting in over 40
       papers. Our outputs reflect our interdisciplinary national and international
       collaborations (e.g. The Lyonnese Project with Historic England (HE) and Cornwall
       Archaeological Unit; the Çatalhöyük Research Project with UNESCO; Llanmaes and
       Llangorse with AC-NMW; excavations at Water Newton and Sudan with the British
       Museum; conservation and analysis with the Mary Rose Trust (MRT) and Museum of
       London) (see Section 4).
    B) Emergent and on-going projects continued through fieldwork at home and abroad (e.g.,
       Çatalhöyük (Turkey), Careau, Dinas Powys (Wales), Hillforts of Lippe (Germany), post-
       excavation investigations (e.g. Caerleon, Cladh Hallan), and integrated archival and
       material analysis (e.g. The Dietary Impact of the Norman Conquest, and Lakenheath
       Anglo-Saxon cemeteries). The SHARE interdisciplinary research environment fosters the
       development of collaborative initiatives such as the multiple award winning CAER
       Heritage Project (Davis, Sharples and Wyatt – with History) (below) and the GW4 Medieval
       Studies Network (Jervis and Kane – again, jointly History), a partnership between Cardiff,
       Bristol, Bath and Exeter. The Festival Research Group explores the significance of cultural
       events, past and present, whilst the new International Network for Heritage Futures
       examines critical topics for the future of heritage (Mulville and Bennett, Moles – Journalism;
       Kidd – Social Sciences; Collins, Smith – Geography; and Koenig-Lewis – Business). This
       cooperation extends beyond the College, with strong links to the Schools of Biosciences,
       and Earth and Ocean Sciences resulting in 30 projects and seven co-authored
       publications.
    C) Our grant capture strategies stimulated applications in research funding (£197m); a
       30% increase in grant applications from REF2014 by staff across the Unit and career
       stages. Achievements ranged from three recently awarded Marie Curie-Sklodowska
       fellowships in the Humans and Lifeways theme (£584k), to Leverhulme funding for Living
       standards and material culture (£108k) in The Material World, to sharing our research in


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the CAER Heritage Project (£1m funding from National Lottery Heritage Fund) in Heritage
        Science and Practice (see Section 3).
 Impact Objectives were to: A) Embed impact into teaching; B) Enhance training in impact
 generation; C) Enhance and extend relationships with external partners; D) Increase funding for
 impact activities; E) Develop new audiences and partnerships; and F) Build on the success of
 existing projects.
 These objectives have been realised through multi-level support. The School’s Director of
 Research and Impact (Mulville) and the Research Impact Coordinator (Best) ensure the realisation
 of impact and are supported by a framework of resources within the institution (REF5a: 2&3).
 Impact is part of Personal Development Review for all staff, with an emphasis on early
 identification of, and support for, impact opportunities. Strategic support for developing impact for
 REF2021 and beyond (Objective B) included a workload model allocation for impact and funding,
 at a central and School level (documented in Section 3). Our strategy also ensures that impact
 training, both internal and external, is available to all staff, postgraduate (PG) and undergraduate
 (UG) students. Furthermore, students are engaged in impact through the development of practice-
 based teaching related to CAER Heritage Project (see below), participation in outreach projects
 within placement modules and the delivery of a UG module in Heritage Communication (Objective
 A).
 Our strategy was to build on existing and emerging impact successes represented in
 REF2014. We expanded our impact agenda to include cross-University collaborations with History
 (CAER Heritage Project) and global museum and heritage sectors, additionally extending our
 target audiences (including veterans, heritage volunteers, living history interpreters, traditional
 craft practitioners, educators, and community groups).
 Success in meeting these aims is demonstrated through our Impact Case Study (ICS) projects,
 but goes beyond those to cover many other forms of impact undertaken during the period:
    •   ICS 1 Consuming prehistory: changing attitudes to food and enhancing heritage practice,
        supported by University and AHRC follow-on funding (objectives D; F), uses prehistoric
        food as a medium to highlight current controversies surrounding what and how we eat,
        including food miles, intolerances, and environmental impact. The project transformed
        research outcomes into teaching resources for STEM/STEAM subjects, developed best
        practice in partner organisations (English Heritage, Stonehenge; Objective C) and
        engaged non-traditional audiences (festivals; Operation Nightingale; Objective E).
    •   ICS 2 Saving metal heritage for future generations through new guidance for safer
        treatment, storage and display builds on a long-standing body of research (Objective F),
        was co-produced with UG, PGT and PGR students (Objective A) and provides
        internationally adopted best-practice guidelines for conserving and storing archaeological
        metals as a management tool for heritage practitioners worldwide (Objectives C, D and E);
        creating efficient resource use, safer storage, and longer-term preservation of artefacts
        that benefits institutions in UK, Europe and USA.
 Beyond these case studies, the CAER Heritage Project (Davis, Sharples) built on a co-
 participatory model saw a traditional excavation at Caerau hillfort, as a force for social and
 economic change (Objectives C, E). The ICS from this interdisciplinary project is submitted to
 UOA28. The project was, during the current REF period, funded by seven AHRC grants (total
 £272k) and was successful in a match funded National Lottery Heritage Fund application (total
 £2.1m). Through the development of a heritage centre, heritage trails, and research excavations,
 this project supported project staff (strategic short and long-term appointments) and community
 action (e.g., funded undergraduate places). The project continues to transform our understanding
 of the monument and increase opportunities and wellbeing for the local community, winning CBA
 Best Project Award (2020), Times Higher Award for Outstanding Contribution to the Local
 Community (2017) and NCCPE Engage Award (2014) (Objective F).
 The Views of an Antique Land (NLHF-funded; Objective D) mobilised the public to curate and
 exhibit images of Egypt and Palestine from WWI from personal archives, moving the narrative of
 commemoration away from a purely Western-front focus (Objective E). Meanwhile, the Phoenix

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Heritage Project is co-creating a sustainable Historic Environment Record in Namibia, and
 opening access to heritage practice (Objectives C, E).
 These diverse examples embody our approach to impact: to enhance heritage practice, reform
 education, and support open access to archaeology.
 1.3 Unit Structure
 Activity during the current REF period coalesced around three complementary, and overlapping,
 themes across which staff collaborate: Human and Animal Lifeways, The Material World, and
 Heritage Science and Practice (Figure 1 illustrates associated projects):
    A) Human and Animal Lifeways: This strand takes an integrated approach to understanding
       the entanglements between people, animals and landscapes in the past. Research is
       characterised by diverse collaborations between archaeological scientists (Best, Davies-
       Barrett, Holt, Madgwick and Mulville), and archaeologists, and is shaping our
       understanding of, for example, the Feeding the Roman Army in Britain (with Guest*), the
       Impact of the Norman Conquest on health and nutrition (with Jervis) and providing new
       insights into food, feasting, movement and territoriality (e.g., in Times of Their Lives
       [Whittle*], Lepenski Vir [Boric*] and Greek Feasting in the Andreion [Whitley]). Our
       researchers responded to emerging research agendas by driving interdisciplinary and
       methodological advancement, developing and applying proteomic characterisation,
       histotaphonomy, organic residue, isotopic and aDNA studies to break down interpretative
       barriers in integrated archaeological science.
    B) The Material World: Material culture, from the microscopic to the monumental, lies at the
       heart of this theme both adding to and transforming our understanding of life at different
       scales and the relationship between humans, artefacts, place and time. The study of
       domesticity (e.g., Hines, Jervis, Mulville, Sharples, Westgate), with investigations of
       Scottish brochs, Norse and Greek houses and living standards in medieval England,
       revealed the diversity of lived experience in the past and challenged prevailing concepts
       of identity, colonisation and commercialisation. At the monumental scale, fieldwork
       investigations continued on hillforts in Germany, Wales and Wessex (Davis, Dennis,
       Sharples), frontiers and fortifications in the Roman and Near Eastern Worlds (Guest*,
       MacDonald) and early medieval Welsh royal sites (Lane). Alongside research into
       urbanism in the Classical and Medieval Worlds (Bradley, Jervis) we are developing new
       comparative perspectives on the relationship between monuments and social life. Analysis
       of portable material culture (e.g., Dennis, Hines, Nicholson, Whitley), developed insights
       into glass technology in Egypt, ceramics in Greece, and antler and bone working, whilst
       research on the internationally significant Staffordshire hoard transformed understanding
       of Anglo-Saxon society.
    C) Heritage Science and Practice: Our focus on materials science and conservation
       practice, heritage presentation, management, and engagement has positioned our
       research to inform heritage practice directly. Researchers work closely with stakeholders
       and practitioners ranging from museums (Museum of London, National Museums Northern
       Ireland, National Museums of Ireland, Tank Museum, Mary Rose Trust) to national
       government and heritage bodies (HE, American Institute of Conservation, Welsh
       Assembly). Activity within this theme developed new guidance and approaches for the
       conservation and display of heritage materials (Emmerson, Henderson, Parkes,
       Watkinson) and collaborative research in Namibia, through The Phoenix Project, is refining
       heritage research and management best practice with the National Heritage Council of
       Namibia (NHC) (Mulville, Henderson). Other examples of the links between research and
       community-focussed practice are highlighted in our impactful engagement projects: Views
       of an Antique Land, Guerilla Archaeology and CAER Heritage (Davis, Mills, Mulville,
       Nicholson) (Section 1.2).
 Strategic support within the Unit, and the institution, enables staff to deliver diverse and significant
 projects, influencing the discipline and the wider world. Working within, and at the intersections of,
 our research themes (see Figure 1) we are transforming understanding of, and engagement


                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with, the material, biological, cultural and social worlds, and making this relevant in the present
 with legacy benefits for the future.




 Figure 1: Projects and research themes


 1.4 2021-26 Research and Impact Strategy
 During the current REF period, new initiatives in staff training, mentoring and commercial services
 (Section 2) created a research and practice culture which:
    •   Was forward-thinking, discovery-driven and project-focused.
    •   Enabled development of international and interdisciplinary collaborations through support
        of multi-institutional initiatives within and beyond academia.
    •   Fostered engaged researchers with a positive role in wider society.
    •   Addressed present and emerging challenges.
    •   Supported students in their journey to becoming independent researchers through
        engagement in collaborative, funded projects.
 Our strategy for 2021-2026 focuses on further developing an inclusive research culture that will
 continue growth of existing interdisciplinary areas of excellence, whilst developing new research



                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations and opportunities for the generation of meaningful local and global impact and
 public engagement:
    a) Developing existing, emerging, and new international collaborative research,
       building on successful initiatives in Germany (hillforts), Finland and France (archaeological
       metals), Namibia (heritage management) and across the globe with collaborators in 30
       countries across seven continents, from the Cook Islands to Canada.
    b) Building further capacity for interdisciplinary collaboration in archaeological and
       conservation science and humanities-based research, including digital humanities, through
       staff development, investment in infrastructure and extending our external network.
    c) Continue to grow excellence in public engagement and impact generation e.g. with
       the Uibhist Virtual Archaeology project (Section 4.1) encouraging tourism by enhancing
       access to research findings at our excavation sites.
    d) Promote a diverse, collaborative and productive research culture through continued
       investment in staff development, enhanced grant capture, growth of our thriving PGR
       community and the development of all our students as independent researchers (Section
       2).
    e) Promoting and addressing the needs of stakeholders in the wider heritage sector,
       including professional practitioners, museums, heritage bodies and community groups,
       such as working closely with Swindon and Devizes museums to enhance understanding
       of collections through the Living Standards and Material Culture in English Rural
       Households project and ongoing development of the CAER Heritage Project, investigation
       and advocacy of traditional blacksmithing techniques, engagement-focused doctoral
       collaborations with AC-NMW and collaborative projects with >10 commercial
       archaeological units (Section 4).
 1.5 Ethics and academic integrity
 The Unit followed the inclusive principles of the University’s REF2021 Code of Practice, which
 focused on consultation, transparency and accountability, led by senior staff who had undertaken
 REF-specific equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) training. Engagement with Unit staff, and
 involvement in assessment practices, ensured full understanding and knowledge of REF
 throughout the process.
 Ethics and Integrity: Cardiff University is committed to upholding the principles of the Universities
 UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity with robust systems that ensures research of the
 highest legal, ethical and professional standards (See REF5a). The University’s Research and
 Innovation Services’ training programmes also ensure that research is conducted to the highest
 professional standards. Cardiff University is a signatory of The San Francisco Declaration on
 Research Assessment (DORA), which is applied in forms of the Unit’s research assessment
 practices.
 Engagement and compliance are supported and monitored by the SHARE Research Ethics
 Committee. This meets regularly to review the Committee’s ethical approvals and activities, as
 informed by the University Research Integrity and Ethics Governance code of practice and core
 principles of ethical conduct in research environments. All academic staff and postgraduate
 students complete a mandatory online Research Integrity Training programme. SHARE requires
 that all research involving human participants, material or data is subject to ethical review and
 approval. Essential to UOA15 staff, particularly in bio/osteoarchaeology, is the Code of Practice
 for Human Tissue Research and Madgwick serves as the College Human Tissue Officer
 supporting compliance with national legislation.
 Open Research: The Unit has achieved full REF compliance in open access (OA). All outputs
 (including PGR theses) are hosted on the institutional publications repository with journal and
 conference papers included either immediately or following embargo. Gold OA is encouraged and
 supported by the institutional OA fund. Datasets are made available online free-of-charge as part
 of the Unit’s commitment to improving data accessibility in line with the Concordat on Open
 Research Data. For example, corrosion data (AHRC-funded) and sea level datasets are available

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with published outputs, and isotope data is submitted to the IsoArch OA platform. Open data is
 managed through our institutional research information management system and mandated
 datasets are assigned a DOI. Staff are supported by institutional OA specialists and the SHARE
 Research Support Officer. Furthermore, the Unit encourages access to research collections from
 excavations by institutions including York (eggshell and Viking combs), Cambridge (textile
 equipment, walrus ivory), Dublin (cattle DNA), Newcastle (coprolites) and Bristol (dating lipids in
 ceramics) universities.
 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 The Unit adopted a strategy of consolidating and expanding expertise in recognised areas of
 strength, including bioarchaeology, heritage science, Mediterranean archaeology and the
 archaeology of Britain, aligned to the delivery of our research and impact strategy (Section 1.2).
 Since REF2014, the Unit’s REF-submitted FTE increased from 13.1 to 16.5 (14-18 members of
 staff). The appointment of eight ECRs directly strengthened our REF2021 Research strands in
 Human and Animal Lifeways (Best, Davies-Barrett, Holt, Madgwick), The Material World
 (Davis, Jervis, MacDonald) and Heritage Science and Practice (Emmerson) and ensures vitality
 as long-standing staff departed either through retirement or other opportunities (Boric*, Guest*,
 Pringle*, Whittle*). This represents significant investment in the sustainability and diversity of
 the Unit with the proportion of female staff submitted to REF increasing from 16% to 42% (2.1 to
 6 FTE).
 The Unit’s inclusive research community and commitment to practice was bolstered through
 additions to T&S staff. These include skilled practitioners in archaeological visualisation (Dennis,
 Harding, Lodwick), fieldwork (Roberts) and conservation practice (Henderson, Lingle, Parkes,
 Seifert). Four staff (Lodwick, Lingle, Roberts and Seifert) appointed in this REF period, adding to
 the team-based focus of the Unit.
 2.2 Staff Development, Equality and Diversity
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) underpins our recruitment policy with EDI commitments
 explicit in job adverts. Specific training for interview panel chairs ensures EDI informed oversight
 of appointments and all staff must undertake unconscious bias training. Gender balance in
 interview panels is sought. The gender balance across Unit research staff during this period
 improved (1.2), with women making up one third of professorial staff (2014: <10%). Four female
 Unit representatives (Emmerson, Henderson, Mulville and Westgate) have served on the Senior
 Management Team for SHARE during this REF period.
 EDI Structures: The Institution is committed to EDI (See REF5a) and locally our commitment was
 recognised through our 2019 Athena SWAN Bronze Award, which was conducted collaboratively
 across SHARE by committee (including Emmerson, Mulville). SHARE’s EDI committee is
 represented on the School Management Team (SMT) and is responsible for putting our Athena
 SWAN action plan into practice, ensuring EDI is embedded in research and teaching strategies.
 This includes a commitment to support staff on all pathways, career stages, and those with caring
 responsibilities as detailed below.
 SHARE Research/Study Leave Strategy: The Unit has embedded in its practices the principles
 of the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, which is firmly rooted in
 EDI goals. The new SHARE Study Leave Policy includes provision for leave by both T&R and
 T&S staff and is awarded on a rotational basis, regardless of career stage. Since 2014 11 staff
 benefitted from the University’s Research Leave Scheme (URLS) which provides teaching cover
 and a £3k research stipend for up to 12 months. Cardiff was among the first UK universities to be
 awarded the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award. The extension of the
 URLS in 2019 to appoint a 2-year Disglair (‘Brilliant’) lecturer brought more sustained investment.
 This allowed Sharples an extended period of research leave, to complete Bornais, and created a
 new ECR post (Davies-Barrett) with a tailored programme of training, mentoring and a £3K
 research bursary.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Early Career Research (ECR) appointments were supported by a 50% teaching load for three
 years, an assigned mentor and a £12k starter research budget, with access to a grant application
 training programme. This model resulted in strong, major grant acquisition early in their careers
 (e.g. Jervis (Leverhulme); Madgwick (AHRC), Section 3.1).
 Staff Development: An annual Performance and Development Review (PDR) carried out by
 experienced academics supports career development. Promotion follows a criteria-anchored
 system, separately tailored for T&R and T&S pathways. It allows applicants to focus on the
 promotion criteria within their area of strength. EDI underpins the School Promotions Panel, which
 is gender balanced, discipline representative and comprised of T&R and T&S staff. Strong support
 for career development is demonstrated with half of T&R staff rewarded through promotions in
 REF period: five to Senior Lecturer (four ECRs, Davis, Emmerson, Jervis, Madgwick, Mills), one
 Reader (Guest*) and two Professors (Bradley [post-census], Mulville). The value of T&S staff was
 recognised by the promotion of Parkes to Reader and Henderson to Professor, one of 22
 scholarship professors at Cardiff.
 A wide range of training is offered by the University. New appointments undertake University
 courses in the structure and practices of the institution. New staff are assigned a mentor whose
 gender they can specify. ECR appointments can access the Cardiff Futures programme, linking
 ‘rising stars’ across the University to further their careers and profile. Davis, Jervis and Madgwick
 benefitted from this scheme, working directly with senior University Executive Board members.
 Staff Responsibilities: SHARE’s annually updated Workload Allocation Model (WAM) covers
 teaching, research, and administration. Staff are encouraged to undertake esteem activities such
 as external and PhD examining, reviewing of papers and grants, including peer review colleges
 (e.g. Jervis AHRC; Madgwick, AHRC; Whitley, Danish Council for Independent Research), and
 REF panel (Mulville). Appointments to SHARE administrative roles follow an expression of interest
 procedure.
 Wellbeing: Institutional support is overseen by the Staff Wellbeing Team. A Care First employee
 assistance programme provides a 24/7 confidential staff helpline and wellbeing workshops. The
 reflective practice group support PGR students. SHARE provides an online anonymous wellbeing
 suggestion ‘box’ which the School acts upon and a monthly Wellbeing Group open to all staff. A
 Covid-19 Wellbeing Survey of staff highlighted areas of concern that fed into contingency planning.
 Wellbeing is embedded in the remit of SHARE management and institutional wellbeing days
 during lockdown ensured email and meeting-free Fridays. Options for flexible working are in place.
 During this REF cycle, two senior academics opted for fractional FTE loads (Lane 0.4; Hines 0.3),
 allowing the Unit continued benefit from their experience. No UOA15 staff requested career
 breaks. A flexible reduced working hours scheme was introduced during the 2020-21 academic
 year, facilitating reduced work commitments due to Covid-19 for some staff.
 2.3 Postgraduate Research
 Much of the vitality of the Unit arises from the success of our PGR community, contributing to
 grant acquisition, outreach and engagement activities and hosting an interdisciplinary journal. 33
 PGR students completed their programme of study in the period 2014-21 (26 in REF2014), with
 31 currently registered.
 PGR Funding: PGR students receive annual Research Bursaries (£1050 over three years),
 additionally, Archaeology PGR students can access the Cyril Fox Fund and the Ursula Henriques
 scholarship for support. AHRC South West and Wales (SWW) Doctoral Training Partnership
 (DTP) students have access to funding for research related events, courses, and development
 opportunities (Thunberg, analyses at Budapest Neutron Centre; Greaney, seconded to English
 Heritage Scientific Dating team; Legge, isotope training). Elsewhere, Rossi was awarded a BIPS
 (British Institute of Persian Studies) grant to support research on urbanisation in early Islamic Iran
 and Butler is fully funded by Brython Archaeology. PGRs have won independent research funding,
 e.g., Prehistoric Society, Cambrian Archaeological Association, National Environmental Isotope
 Facility, European Cooperation in Science and Technology. We also responded proactively to the
 Covid-19 crisis by allocating PGRs up to £100 to facilitate remote research.



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Progress Monitoring: SHARE PGR Progress Monitoring focusses on both academic progress
 and student wellbeing. It specifies a monthly minimum for supervisory meetings, recording of
 meeting content and monitoring of actions arising. Progress Reviews occur after three months
 and then biannually, with optional weekly surgeries with the Director of Postgraduate Research.
 PGR input to SHARE decision-making is encouraged by the Staff Student Panel and Research
 Committee.
 PGR Training: The University’s Doctoral Academy provides a skills and training programme for
 PGRs informed by the Researcher Development Framework (See REF5a). A complementary
 archaeology-tailored PGR induction addresses training, career advice, and supervisory
 development. Students can also access GW4 training events and workshops (Bath, Bristol,
 Exeter, and Cardiff) and SWWDTP students benefit from opportunities across the consortium.
 Training in equipment use (SEM; FTIR; GIS; Raman; Laser etc.) and safe operation within the
 estate (e.g., Sample Preparation, Osteology Laboratories and Visualisation Suite) is provided by
 staff. PGRs co-ordinate our research seminar programme of national and international speakers,
 which is central to our research environment. Students also access a two-year College Learning
 to Teach programme, which builds to Associate HEA Fellowships, and further develops their
 teaching portfolio via paid employment as Graduate Tutors.
 PGR Outreach: Students are encouraged to develop engagement skills through involvement with
 Guerilla Archaeology (see ICS1) and SHARE with Schools (SwS), supported through School
 infrastructure. SwS is a well-established collaboration (linked to CAER Heritage) that develops
 and delivers workshops and toolkits, to showcase the Unit’s research in a form adapted to
 integrate with the curriculum of partner schools. It brings educational value to pupils as well as
 emphasising higher education as an attainable goal. PGRs undertake further training (e.g., STEM
 Ambassadors) and develop outreach initiatives either on CU engagement schemes, such as the
 community-focused City Region Exchange (CRE) scheme, or via other outlets.
  Project                     Audience                     Student, collaborator, funding
  Exploring            Human Primary Schools               Faillace, Cadw
  Remains
  Body and the Tudors         Primary Schools              Hodkinson, nominated for Most
                                                           Inspiring New STEM Ambassador
  Footprints in Time          Secondary         Schools, Philp, Tidal Lagoon Power Ltd,
                              Eisteddfod                 CRE
  Hart of Ely                 Men in Sheds                 Legge, CRE
  Ceramics                    Ceramic practitioners        Forward, HE
 Table 2: Student outreach examples.
 Other Opportunities: Students are supported to engage in broader regional, national or global
 activity (Table 3). The University-supported postgraduate SHARE eJournal, and published by the
 open access Cardiff University Press, focuses on religion, history and archaeology providing both
 a platform for disseminating earliest career research and experience in editing. PGRs also engage
 with other forms of communication, for example Greaney as an AHRC/BBC New Generation
 Thinker (2019) for her research on prehistoric monuments and society.
  Activity                                            Students
  Iron Age Research Student Symposium (2019)          Legge/Faillace/Bricking/Treadway
  Breaking Boundaries Conference (2017)               Bricking
  Committee membership BABAO/AEA                      Faillace/Philp
 Table 3: Student activity examples.
 After Graduation: The vitality of this postgraduate research environment launched careers in
 academia (e.g., Best, Emmerson, Jones [UCLAN], Law [Bath Spa], Madgwick, Nordgren [West
 Dean/Sussex], Walden [University of South Wales]) and postdoctoral research (e.g., Forward,

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Williams) within this assessment period and led to prestigious awards for graduates (Jones, MCSA
 fellow at University of Cantabria). Others gained employment with heritage organisations (e.g.,
 Reynolds, Heritage & Arts Manager, Cadw; Nicholas, Regional Science Advisor, HE; Philp,
 Thomas and Stratton, Environmental Officer and Project Officers at Archaeology Wales; Davis,
 Artefact Conservator, National Museum Scotland).
 2.4 Undergraduate Research
 The innovative Cardiff University Research Opportunities Programme (CUROP) provides
 research-orientated undergraduates with experience in defined research projects working
 alongside staff and PGRs (See REF5a). Some transitioned into independent researchers through
 the scheme. In the REF period, over 20 CUROP placements facilitated undergraduate research
 in topics such as sheep histories, the dietary impact of the Norman conquest and monitoring
 humidity in collections, with these placements often operating as pilot studies to inform funding
 applications. CUROP also acts as a springboard into postgraduate study and publications (e.g.
 Faillace and Nicholson gained authorship on international peer-reviewed articles).
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Income
 Our grant capture strategy saw us secure research funding from the AHRC, NERC,
 Leverhulme Trust and European sources amongst others (see REF4b data). In addition,
 ongoing projects continued, notably Whittle’s* five-year project, which revolutionised
 understanding of European Neolithic chronology (ERC Advanced Grant £2.5m, 2012-2017).
 Continuing research in the Uists, Scotland combined financial support from Historic Environment
 Scotland (£133k), with reciprocal support from the University via study leave (Sharples and
 Mulville) student research and technical support (Dennis and Harding).
 Notable new external income streams (Section 1.2) include those led by ECRs: Jervis’
 Leverhulme Research grant (£168k) explored Living Standards and Material Culture in English
 Rural Households 1300-1600 (Forward PDRA); Madgwick’s exploration of communities’ response
 to economic and climatic crisis in FEASTNET: Feasting networks and Resilience at the end of the
 British Bronze Age (AHRC £248k) (and post census in Feeding the Roman Army in Britain: Animal
 supply networks on the frontiers [Leverhulme £356k]); Emmerson’s heritage science research with
 AC-NMW, English Heritage and the Tank Museum (£127k).
 Our excellence in practice led to external commissioning of collaborative research.
 Bioarchaeology commissions (see Section 3.2, income £122k) worked with HE and numerous
 archaeology units whilst Cardiff Conservation Services (Parkes, income £350k) provided an
 essential facility for conservation, working for units and heritage organisations throughout Britain
 and Ireland. Recent projects included conservation research on Egyptian artefacts through the
 Provisions for the Dead in Ancient Egypt project funded by the Association of Independent
 Museums.
 3.2 Organisational support
 Internal Support: strategic use of internal funding facilitated the development of international
 research projects, supporting excavations in The Hillforts of Lippe project, (Davis, Dennis and
 Sharples) (International Initiative and Collaboration Funds (£16k) and allowing the Phoenix
 Heritage Project to collaborate with stakeholders in Namibia (HFCW GCRF £54k; Mulville,
 Henderson). Internationally focused seedcorn funding (Jervis, Brussels £2,398) successfully
 leveraged large applications for an international COST action drawing together researchers from
 over 10 countries, including Romania, Norway, and Spain.
 Benefits-in-Kind: The expertise of our bioarchaeology researchers (e.g., Madgwick, Mulville)
 promoted research projects with a range of industry partners, focused on macroscopic and
 isotopic investigations of human and animal lifeways across Britain and beyond. The success of
 these collaborations is evidenced by a fully funded PhD studentship with Brython Archaeology. In-
 kind grants (£65k) from the National Environmental Isotope Facility have provided vital scientific
 data to support projects on Neolithic Wessex, Medieval Hungary and in Wales. This led to the
 largest multi-isotope faunal dataset yet delivered globally, transforming understanding of mobility

                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centring on the Stonehenge landscape and leading to major publications with wide-ranging media
 coverage and a televised documentary. Other findings have demonstrated the marked impact of
 Christianisation on Hungarian diet, health and economy, dated fragile intertidal footprints on the
 Gower to the Mesolithic and discovered new Neolithic cave burials in existing Welsh collections.
 Infrastructure: Our achievements are delivered through an institutional emphasis on professional
 services support. SHARE has a permanent Research Support Officer who manages research
 data, application processes and post-award support. Specific grant training is provided for
 performance reviewers, with emphasis on reviewing strategies for post-probationary Grade 6-7
 staff. Mentoring sessions identify funding goals to encourage staff to consider fellowship, network,
 and other funding options. A professorial review emphasised the need to support high quality
 £500k+ applications and semesterly Research Clinics are held for early-mid and mid-late career
 scholars, involving peer-to-peer discussion of grant applications, allowing grant holders to support
 new applicants. EDI informs these processes, with reference to goals in our Athena SWAN
 submission and University guidance. Positive feedback from the 2019 Athena SWAN success
 highlighted our research leave policies around maternity and funding to support staff childcare.
 Support for Impact: With many public-facing and sector-specific projects within the Unit, guiding
 staff in developing impact from research was an important objective during this REF cycle (Section
 1.3). Peer-to-peer research discussions and PDR promote and enable awareness of impact and
 how to maximise it. University funding for the CAER Heritage project totals £389k over this REF
 cycle and competitive funding for Impact generation was £22k. The development of ICS
 submissions was guided by Impact Support Officers in SHARE and the College, aligned to the
 University’s commitment to enhance impact aspirations in staff (see REF5a).
 3.3 Infrastructure and Facilities
 In-House Facilities: The Unit supports research with a bank of resources, including extensive
 laboratories (c.800m2) housing a suite of analytical, visualisation and field equipment accessible
 to staff and students. Since REF 2014, over £350k was spent on upgrading and extending our
 laboratory estate and equipment range to support innovation in research.
 The Unit benefits from significant infrastructure investment by Cardiff University. Approximately
 £400k was awarded for a refitted bioarchaeology and osteology laboratory (with lab freeze dryers,
 dust extractors and a state-of-the-art thin section microtome), upgrades to fieldwork and
 photography provision, additional analytical equipment (including a micro-Raman spectrometer)
 and the establishment of three new laboratories for Sample preparation, Electrochemistry and
 Climatic simulation. Our visualisation suite was also upgraded (£20k) with a new large-scale
 scanner, use wear analysis capability (RTI) and 3D printer, and a successful post census AHRC
 application (2020; £310k) will further enhance analytical and imaging capabilities for
 archaeological collections. The Unit benefits from expanding bioarchaeological and materials
 reference collections that are an essential teaching and research tool.
 These enhanced facilities support research and impact across our themes (Section 1.2) and
 connect communities across the world with staff and student researchers in Archaeology. Within
 Lifeways bioarchaeological material from Çatalhöyük was subject to histological, isotopic and
 eggshell analysis; the latter providing the first evidence for goose domestication at the site. In an
 award-winning Materials focused PGT dissertation, analysis of wear on bone tools from the Uists
 redefined the use of awls. Collaborative Practice research has revealed the effect of climates on
 materials (including historic artillery [HE], buildings [AC-NMW], and ships [SS Great Britain]). Our
 impact and engagement projects make use of our imaging suite and finds analysis, and our
 analytical facilities routinely utilised by other departments and researchers both inside and outside
 the University (e.g. National Museums of Scotland and Ireland for SEM, XRD and XRF), and.
 Other research spaces include a post-excavation laboratory, a PGR study room, equipped with
 workstations (and a kitchen) and an IT suite. All staff and students benefit from our libraries with
 their well-resourced facilities and subscriptions to over 100,000 journals, including rare Society
 journals not accessible on the internet.
 Our continued excellence in fieldwork was supported (£70k) by the renewal of excavation
 equipment, replacement of the SHARE minibus and upgrading of our post-excavation archive


                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 facility. Significant additional funding supports the involvement of earliest researchers (UG and
 PG) on our research-led training excavations.
 Intra-University and Cross-HEI Shared Infrastructure: The Unit’s resources are supplemented
 by close cooperation with other Schools and institutions. Joint applications to the University RIF
 fund (REF5a, £721k in 2014; 62k in 2019) and NERC (£298k in 2019) saw the CELTIC facility in
 Earth and Ocean Sciences (comprising a Nu MC-ICP-MS, laminar flow column chemistry and
 laser ablation labs) upgraded. Bids to the EPSRC ECR Equipment fund led by the School of
 Dentistry in 2018 and to NERC (infrastructure) Fund with Earth Sciences (£298k; awarded 2019)
 successfully enhanced our analytical and sample processing capability, allowing more rapid
 processing and high-resolution isotope analysis of plants and teeth. Zooarchaeological research
 drove the development of a dedicated aDNA extraction laboratory in Biosciences (£40k) whilst
 collaboration with external institutions allowed us to access specialist equipment such as Matrix
 Assisted Laser Desorption/Ionisation Time of Flight Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-ToF-MS) (York
 University). Students also benefit from personnel resources, in the form of specialist lectures from
 other departments (e.g., geneticists, anatomists). In exchange, Archaeology provides
 opportunities for those in other departments to increase the time-depth of their research via our
 collections and expertise.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Collaborations, networks and partnerships
 During this assessment period, our focus on practice-based research led Cardiff to have
 significant impact on the discipline and wider community. This includes, via our fieldwork-
 based projects and co-production, enduring relationships with many different communities and
 organisations within the Heritage sector and beyond. The Unit is pioneering new methodologies
 and providing international leadership in the discipline.
 Our research into Human and Animal Lifeways thrives on cooperation between our
 archaeological scientists, theorists and period scholars driving collaborative research networks
 within the UK and internationally. Examples of these include: University of Sheffield and Bristol
 University on The Dietary Impact of the Norman Conquest; Cornwall Archaeology Unit and Exeter
 and Plymouth Universities on The Lyonesse Project; the British Geological Survey and University
 College London investigating the operation of Late Neolithic Complexes of Southern Britain;
 Archaeology Service and MOD in RAF Lakenheath Anglo-Saxon cemeteries (Hines),
 internationally, the University of Copenhagen and Danish Museum of Natural History on
 Catacombs of Anubis, and a global range of institutions in the Çatalhöyük Heritage Project.
 In researching The Material World, we integrate our fieldwork expertise with our commitment to
 co-production with local communities. Our long-term research on the island of South Uist (Best,
 Mulville, Sharples,) is coordinated with the local community (Stòras Uibhist), projects (Uibhist
 Virtual Archaeology) and professionals (Uist Archaeology). Whitley’s research into ceramic
 petrology in the East Mediterranean involved collaboration with Fitch Laboratory of the British
 School at Athens and the Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche in Rome. The CAER Heritage Project
 (Davies, Sharples) is designed to engage with residents of a disadvantaged area of Cardiff
 (Section 1.2) and with a range of local and national organisations, including Action in Caerau and
 Ely and Wales and West Housing Association.
 Our Heritage Science and Practice group work closely with practitioners. By acknowledging and
 learning from existing expertise and heritage industries, crafts and practice we ensure that our
 research outputs are relevant to heritage practices and procedures. Engagement with blacksmiths
 informed best practice for treatment of historic ironwork. Participation in the Çatalhöyük Heritage
 Project also directed research into the conservation treatments for earthen architecture. The
 Phoenix Heritage Project works with the National Heritage Council of Namibia, University of
 Namibia and Cadw. Consuming Prehistory has a close relationship with English Heritage (see
 ICS1) and various music and art festivals. Elsewhere our contributions to the steering committees
 that drive research agendas at heritage institutions include the National Heritage Science Forum,
 Scottish and Welsh Archaeology Research Frameworks.



                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Advice, Engagement and Education
 Advisory: Staff across the Unit play an important role in advising museums, archaeology units,
 governments and agencies in the management of heritage. From our bioarchaeologists
 advising the Scientific Committees for the A303 Stonehenge project; contributing to guidelines
 (HE ‘Animal Bones and Archaeology: Guidelines for Best Practice’) and review sampling requests
 for (e.g., ACNMW and Dorset County Museum) to staff serving on the Degree Accreditation
 programme for the Chartered Institute for Archaeologists (CiFA). The conservation team's advice
 underpins policy in institutions throughout the UK and overseas, from the conservation of the
 Welsh Rugby Union’s collection of memorabilia, to decision-making in the running of military tanks.
 The SS Great Britain Trust continues to benefit from our examination of the environment around
 the iron hull. Cardiff guidelines for the safe storage of archaeological metals (see ICS2) were
 adopted by heritage bodies in the UK and USA. Cementing our contribution to best practice, the
 Unit is represented on the British and European Standards Committee to produce international
 conservation standards and, more recently, advised the Welsh government on reopening
 procedures for museums following the Covid-19 lockdown.
 Museum engagement: Both staff and students are engaged in activating research and
 archives for audiences. Views of an Antique Land presented curated images of Egypt and
 Palestine from WWI to visitors at Liverpool’s World Museum and The Living Standards and
 Material Culture project worked closely with Swindon Museum and Art Gallery to enhance
 understanding of collections. Our Consuming Prehistory project (see ICS1) contributed to the
 FEAST (Feeding Stonehenge) exhibition at the Stonehenge visitor centre (>1.5 million visitors)
 whilst Hebridean Norsemen, at the Museum nan Eilean reflected on our research on South Uist.
 Lifeways focused research (Skeletons of the Mary Rose project) resulted in a temporary exhibition
 at the Mary Rose Museum, Portsmouth, a Channel 4 documentary and international media interest
 in the diverse origins of sailors lost with the ship. Cardiff’s collaboration with the MRT was
 consolidated with our work on the corrosion of Henry VIII’s cannon balls (see ICS2) which resulted
 in clear directives regarding which artefacts can be included in the recreated gun deck. Bringing
 the past to life is a focus of the Unit and is exemplified by investigations into the effect of open
 fires in historic houses at St Fagan’s, AC-NMW, and an exhibition of Music Memorabilia at the
 Sŵn festival.
 Engagement and society: We strive to enhance public as well as professional experience by
 increasing engagement within the discipline and taking our research to the broadest range of
 audiences. Two stand-out projects developed by the Unit are the collective Guerilla Archaeology
 (GA) and the CAER Heritage Project (see section 1.2). GA engages with c.10,000 people per year
 by attending music festivals and similar events. GA disseminates archaeological research in a
 hands-on and interactive way to non-traditional audiences and with demographics least likely to
 engage with archaeology. For example, GA showcased our innovative research into the
 production of bone and antler combs (from Bornais) at the Glastonbury Festival, created highly
 visual interactive resources for explaining locational isotopes and, in the ‘Bog Body Shop’
 workshops, discussed concepts of beauty in the past.
 Education: Harnessing the power of archaeology to engender wonder and curiosity creates an
 inspirational vehicle for delivering learning to students of all ages. Recognising this, the Unit
 used its research to break down educational barriers and facilitate learning beyond the traditional
 university arena. Our Consuming Prehistory (ICS1) project responded to a demand for new
 educational materials by creating a series of web-based educational resources for KS2 (Primary),
 KS4 (GCSE) and KS5 (A-Level) informed by the underpinning research around Stonehenge.
 These were produced in collaboration with the English Heritage educational team and STEM
 Learning (the UK’s largest provider of science, technology, engineering and maths education).
 This focus on education is enhanced by a doctoral research project (Hodkinson) promoting STEM
 uptake in the primary curriculum using archaeological workshops. These introduce KS2 pupils to
 the concept of stable isotope analysis and understanding of diet and geographical history of
 peoples. Education fundamentally underpins the CAER Heritage Project which involved more than
 2,000 pupils from local schools, developed curriculum-based research activities at KS3, GCSE
 and A-Level. CAER Heritage also delivered seven free adult learning courses to 90 adult learners
 and involved the classes in the development of the research objectives.

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Methodological advancement
 A major thrust of our work is methodological advancement and validation that provides a
 legacy for future research. Within the Lifeways theme, collaborative working resulted in
 methodological advances that advanced biosphere mapping and multi-isotope analysis, and
 modelled peri- and post-mortem changes (with PGR Walden) and site formation processes. These
 shed new light on movement, diet, mortuary rituals and sacrifice and the effect of heating on
 osteological materials. The Wet Feet Project (Madgwick, in conjunction with the British Geological
 Survey) is developing methodologies that demonstrate how Sulphur isotope values can provide a
 geographic fingerprint for wetland populations. Mulville’s work helped to develop a novel approach
 to single species that have mapped cervid genetic histories and developed species identification
 in extinct equids.
 New approaches to measuring the corrosion rates of metals within the Heritage Practice
 Conservation theme developed new methods of quantifying deterioration and defined best
 practice for the long-term preservation for metals in museums internationally (UK, Ireland,
 America). Cardiff researchers are sought out by private practitioners (Terra Mare Conservation)
 and research institutes (Haute Ecole Neuchatel, English Heritage) for advice on application of the
 analytical method.
 4.4 Disciplinary support
 Our established system of research seminars, conferences, and workshops ensured that
 Cardiff archaeology listens to, learns from, and contributes to research and practice communities.
 We draw in visiting scholars, researchers, stakeholders and practitioners from across the globe.
 One highlight was the Theoretical Archaeology Group conference in 2017. Events associated with
 our Lifeways theme included the Prehistoric Society Europa Conference; held in Cardiff in 2014
 to celebrate the award of the Europa Prize to Prof Alasdair Whittle. Whilst Madgwick organised
 the British Academy funded conference on Population Movement and Cultural Change in 2014
 and a workshop on Food Reconstruction Using Isotope Tracing Signals. Involvement in the
 organisation of the Medieval Welsh Agriculture (Cardiff), Medieval Archaeology and History in
 England (Southampton) and the Medieval Pottery Research Group (Doncaster) conferences
 disseminated research from The Material World. Sharples arranged a series of three spring
 conferences (2013-2015) for the Prehistoric Society on the individual, the household and the
 community. The diversity and connections between heritage, practice and interdisciplinary working
 were highlighted during the Festival Research Group event ‘Spotlight on Festivals’ (2017) when
 Mulville and colleagues brought together researchers, audiences and stakeholders (e.g., Welsh
 Government, Events Unit) to examine the value of these events.
 Staff presented their research to conferences that included Across the North Sea and The Frisians
 (Leeuwarden), Lands and Seas: Post-Roman Transitions and Relations (Canterbury) the
 International Europa Postmedievalis conference on post-medieval archaeology and the
 Committee of the Medieval Europe Research Community. Conservation staff organise the annual
 Conservation Matters in Wales and ICON Metals Group conferences and serve on technical
 committees including the International Institute for Conservation (IIC) and International Council of
 Museums Committee for Conservation conferences. Recent projects with the National Trust for
 Scotland were shared at the IIC triennial congress, and at the Association of Critical Heritage 2020
 FUTURES Conference.
 Committees and reviewing: As members of a vibrant international community of researchers
 and practitioners, our staff serve on the committees, panels and peer review colleges that direct
 the progress of our disciplines. Since 2014, our input to oversight of practical archaeology training
 processes was through representation on the Archaeology Training Forum and as assessors for
 CiFA Degree Accreditation (Jervis is the national lead). In addition, we review numerous papers
 for sector-leading journals (e.g., Antiquity, Journal of Archaeological Science, World Archaeology),
 sit on Peer Review Colleges and Panels (e.g., AHRC, NEIF) and review grants for diverse
 organisations within the UK and abroad (e.g., Swiss National Science Foundation; NWO [Dutch
 Research Council] Netherlands; RPF [Research Promotion Foundation] Cyprus; Danish Council
 for Independent Research; Agence Nationale de la Recherche, Paris; Polish National Science
 Centre and postgraduate programs [Quality Assurance Netherlands University]).

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Substantive roles across key organisations demonstrate our dedication, influence, and reach.
 These include Vice-President of the Prehistoric Society, Chair of the Roman Society Archaeology
 Committee, International Council of Museums Conservation Group, Chair of the Institute of
 Conservation Metals Section, Secretary General of the International Institute for Conservation,
 and seats on other committees e.g., the International Council for Archaeozoology, Welsh
 Federation of museums. Our involvement in ensuring robust oversight of the discipline maintains
 the reputation and profile of our unit on an international stage.
 The Unit in the media: We actively disseminate our research to a diverse range of local and
 national communities through both traditional and digital media including Instagram, Facebook
 and Twitter as well as radio and television. Staff brought new audiences to their work on The Story
 of Wales, DNA Cymru, Digging for Britain (BBC4), Weatherman Walking (BBC Wales), Animal
 Mummies: Egypt’s Dark Secret (Horizon), In Our Time (Radio 4) and Secrets from the Sky (BBC2).
 MacDonald’s research on Hannibal and Carthage led to her participation in a documentary on
 military aspects of human and animal lifeways through the Alps. The program, Hannibal’s Elephant
 Army: The New Evidence, aired on PBS in the US and Channel 4 in the UK. A Channel 4 program
 focused on Madgwick’s enlightening work on the origins of the Mary Rose’s crew. Mulville’s
 expertise led to her appearance in Hitler’s Jurassic Monsters (National Geographic) to discuss the
 role of Aurochs in Nazi propaganda. More broadly, projects connected to Stonehenge resulted in
 nine radio interviews, over 400 media reports globally, and a Channel 5/Smithsonian
 documentary, Stonehenge: The Final Mystery. Two short films hosted on Vimeo, one on Reporting
 WW1 and Photography and another on Archaeological Tourism in Egypt focussed on reaching a
 diverse audience, from school children to military historians. Our PGRs have also appeared in the
 media, Philip’s discovery of Mesolithic footprints was filmed for BBC 2’s Coast: The Great Guide.
 Topical articles written by staff in archaeology appeared in BBC History Magazine, British
 Archaeology, Current Archaeology, New Scientist, Amateur Photographer, The Conversation and
 reached out to younger audiences via the Children’s Archaeological Magazine. The Guerilla
 Archaeology blog averages 12k global visitors per annum.
 The integration of all individuals and elements within the Unit, orientated by our practice-based
 research ethos and guided by our three research themes, is key to our success. As we enter a
 new REF cycle the Unit has strengthened its coverage of science and theory into its practice-
 based approach to the discipline. New and established staff are collaborating to build projects that
 attract postgraduate researchers, ECRs and grant income that will bear fruit in the next REF
 period. The Unit is well placed to expand our work in co-producing knowledge and in
 developing local and international interdisciplinary connections to address present and
 emerging global challenges and social responsibilities, particularly related to heritage
 practice, and enhancing the research base, economy and society.




                                                                                             Page 14
