Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Keele University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA10 Mathematical Sciences

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research Groups
 The Mathematics Unit at Keele is renowned for its world-leading research in the general area of
 continuum mechanics and its interdisciplinary applications. It is also strengthened by its
 complementary expertise in algebra, logic and statistics. The continuum mechanics research is
 carried out by Solids and Fluids groups. The Solids group consists of six members: Prof
 C.J.Chapman (CJC), Prof Y.Fu (YF), Prof J.Kaplunov (JK), Dr M.J.Nieves (MJN), Dr
 D.Prikazchikov (DP), and Dr L.Prikazchikova (LP). The Fluids Group has five members: CJC, Prof
 J.J.Healey (JJH), Dr D. Lucas (DL), Dr S. Naire (SN), and Prof V. Shrira (VS).

 The Solids group, one of the largest in the UK, contributes to a broad range of challenging topics,
 including multiscale modelling of advanced materials and structures, large elastic deformations
 and structural acoustics. The group’s focus is on basic research addressing modern industry’s
 needs in developing novel nano-, meta- and soft materials, and layered and multicomponent
 structures. The Fluids group tackles a diverse range of fundamental problems of immense
 practical importance, including laminar-turbulent transition, flow with phase transitions, flow in
 porous media, geophysical flow, and aircraft and submarine noise. Areas of application of the
 group’s research include most known fluid behaviour in nature and technology. The methodology
 underpinning and uniting research in the Fluids and Solids groups is mainly based on asymptotic
 approaches, and also involves numerical modelling and processing of experimental data. There
 is also an important synergy in the interests of both groups related to biomedical applications and
 wave propagation.

 The Algebra & Logic and Statistics themes are represented by Dr P.Fletcher (PF), Dr P.Truman
 (PT) and Dr J.Cheng (JC), specialising in intuitionistic analysis, algebraic number theory, and
 financial statistics, respectively. The Unit is also involved in collaborative research on medical
 statistics (Dr J.Belcher, JB) and mathematical education (Dr D.Bedford, DB). Although JB and DB
 retired in 2019, they maintain strong links with the Unit, as does a renowned expert in Solid
 Mechanics, Prof G.A.Rogerson (GAR), who also retired in 2019. Prof M.Heckl (MH), specialising
 in structural and thermoacoustics, was affiliated with the Unit until 2016.

 Review of 2014 plan
 Since REF 2014, the unit has grown by 53% (from 8 to 12.25 FTE). The number of PhD students
 with passed vivas has more than doubled (from 9 to 20). The number of international visitors has
 risen dramatically, and now exceeds one hundred.

 Developments in the key research areas prioritised in the REF2014 strategic plan resulted in
 significant progress of the Solids group in the modelling of advanced materials, including the
 derivation of a novel asymptotic formulation for flexural meta-surfaces (JK et al., Proc. Roy. Soc.
 A 2019), and new insights into localisation phenomena in soft materials (YF et al, J. Mech. Phys.
 Solids 2016, 2019, 2020). Other important achievements include development of a powerful
 methodology for incorporating gyro effects into analysis of lattice and flexural structures (MJN et
 al., Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc. A 2019), and crucial insight into the effect of boundary layers in non-
 local elasticity (JK et al., Proc. Roy. Soc. A 2016). The Fluids group advanced research in remote
 sensing of the ocean interior: a new class of sub-inertial internal waves extremely sensitive to the
 upper ocean stratification has been found and employed for remote probing of the upper ocean
 (VS with P.Forget, J. Phys. Ocean. 2015). Both groups produced important developments in
 various aspects of bio-medical modelling (e.g. SN et al., J. Tissue Eng. 2019).

 In parallel, building upon Unit’s historic strengths, ground-breaking work was continued in other
 areas. A novel conceptual framework for nonlinear waves trapped by oceanic jet currents, and, in
 particular, a new model of rogue waves, has been proposed (VS with A.Slunyaev, JFM 2014;

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Phys. Rev. E 2014). A century-old stability problem for a stratified boundary layer has received a
 new and unexpected turn: it has been discovered that the neutral curves form a self-similar fractal
 structure, which has not been found previously in hydrodynamics (JJH, JFM 2019). There has
 been also a major advance in addressing the profound problem of how the instabilities of stratified
 shear flows evolve first into coherent structures and then into turbulence, and how re-
 laminarisation unfolds (DL et al., JFM 2017, 2019; DL with C.Caulfield, JFM 2017). Analysis of a
 new class of stability problems concerned with the dynamics of a surfactant-laden drop resulted
 in the discovery of an unexpected type of fingering instability at the drop’s leading edge (SN with
 J.Goddard, JFM 2015).

 A general multi-parametric approach for evaluating the lowest vibration modes typical of high-
 contrast multi-layered and multi-component structures has been established (JK, DP and LP, Int.
 J. Solids Struct. 2017; JK et al., J. Sound Vibr. 2019). Robust explicit formulations for surface,
 interfacial and edge waves have been further developed (JK and DP, Adv. Appl. Mech. 2017). A
 fresh analytic treatment of harmonic waves in curved elastic structures has been found, and new
 analytic results for elastic waves in a layer have been obtained using a novel representation (CJC
 with S.Sorokin, Proc. Roy. Soc. 2016, 2017). An analytical method for analysing period-doubling
 secondary bifurcations has been proposed (Fu with Z.Cai, SIAM J. Appl Maths 2015). Novel
 insight into dynamic failure phenomena in structured media has been put forward (e.g. MJN et al.,
 Q. J. Mech. Appl. Math. 2019).

 The achievements of the Unit are not confined to Mechanics. Within the Statistics theme a
 theoretical framework based on extreme value theory has been proposed for managing default
 exposure in futures markets (JC et al., Eur. J. Finance 2016). The Algebra & Logic theme produced
 important results on the Hopf-Galois module structure of algebraic integers in non-normal
 extensions of global fields (PT, J. Pure Appl. Algebra 2019), and Brouwer’s weak counterexamples
 to classical theorems (PF, J. Phil. Logic 2020).

 Interdisciplinary Research
 From its inception Keele has pursued interdisciplinarity as one of its key guiding principles, with a
 current focus on Sustainability and Health. A strategic Faculty of Natural Sciences (FNS) initiative
 promoting materials aligns with the specialism of the Solids group. Most of the Unit’s research
 maintains an explicit interdisciplinary spirit, built upon a solid mathematical core, with applications
 in engineering, geophysics and biomedicine, through joint efforts with academic and non-
 academic partners, in the UK and overseas. Examples include:
 • Internal collaborations with the School of Geology, Geography and Environment (GGE) and
     Institute for Science & Technology in Medicine (ISTM) have a long and successful history of
     applying mathematical techniques to such diverse topics as tsunamis, lava flows, and
     bioreactor and aneurism modelling. Collaboration with GGE resulted in a breakthrough in
     developing a unique non-invasive technique of finding the run-up of palaeo-tsunamis,
     applicable to tsunami mitigation (VS et al., Pure Appl. Geophys. 2015).
 • A substantial research programme by Keele mathematicians and psychologists exploring
     novel approaches of teaching STEM subjects has been carried out within the Stoke-on-Trent
     Mathematics Excellence Partnership.
 • Industrial collaborations include theoretical underpinning of lightweight design for “green” cars
     (TPV) and modelling of dynamic forces in freight trains (Amsted).
 • International collaborations with non-mathematical institutions involve academics from
     Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Russia, Slovenia, Turkey, and
     US.

 Research Strategy
 Mathematics Research is embedded within the Faculty and contributes fully to the University's
 research strategy. The Unit’s present and future strategy, ensuring its vitality and long-term
 prosperity, is built upon its outstanding expertise in addressing fundamental problems in
 continuum mechanics, grounded in real world challenges. The main objective is to produce world-
 leading research that addresses a diverse range of important issues and challenges in the natural
 sciences, engineering and medicine.

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Aligned to FNS priorities, the Solids group will continue to focus on multiscale mathematical
 modelling of the static and dynamic behaviour of nano-, meta- and soft materials and structures.
 The high-tech industry of such materials is currently growing at breakneck speed, continuously
 posing challenging questions on their vibration and instability behaviour that can only be
 understood by advanced and novel mathematical analysis. The Fluids group will concentrate on
 flow instabilities and laminar-turbulent transition, where it has prepared the ground for major
 breakthroughs; and, in aeroacoustics, on the noise generated by contra-rotating aeroengine
 designs which is of great prospective importance because of their fuel efficiency.

 In line with Keele’s focus on Health and Sustainability, the joint efforts of both groups will also
 focus on biomedical modelling (soft biomaterials, bioreactors and blood vessels) and geophysical
 applications. At the same time, in addition to the areas of established record, opportunities in other
 fields will be pursued. Two recent key appointments (after the census date) in mathematical data
 science provide excellent prospects for integrating machine learning and mechanics in growing
 collaboration with computer scientists within the School.

 The unit will continue to cultivate many local, national and international collaborative networks,
 thus enhancing greatly its research and PGR training capability. It will also ensure that the current
 healthy stream of UK and overseas PhD students is sustained. The proven flexible approach
 (UKRI, EU, industry, etc.) to securing external funding supporting strategic priorities will be
 retained. The unit will also remain proactive in organizing research events (e.g. Euromech
 Colloquia), making use of Keele’s excellent infrastructure.

 Facilitating Impact from Research
 The unit is committed to achieving impact from its research. Its multidimensional strategy aims to
 implement the unit’s achievements at the cutting edge of Applied Mathematics in research-
 intensive areas of engineering, science and medicine. In consequence, our industrial partners are
 those with powerful R&D departments. In accordance with Keele’s ethos, priority is also given to
 addressing societal needs (e.g. in the areas of Primary Care and High School Education). In
 selecting impact areas, financial gains, although important, are not the primary consideration;
 instead the intrinsic logic of mathematical and technological development, and contribution to
 addressing environmental and societal challenges, are the priority.

 For example, a broader use of railway transport and lightweight cars would be a major step
 towards a greener low carbon world. The perturbation approach developed at Keele has been
 employed by Amsted to improve safety and efficiency of freight trains. The unit will continue the
 strategy of collaborating with large multinational companies, for which impact can be facilitated by
 company-supported PhD students and Post Docs at Keele, as in the case of Amsted. Another
 important route for amplifying impact is through active participation in major EU networks, as was
 achieved in the collaboration with TPV in designing greener lightweight cars within the
 EVA4GREEN and EAGLE programs. These topics form the basis of the unit’s Impact Case
 Studies (ICS).

 Driven by Keele’s regional agenda, the unit also plans to build upon the success of its novel
 approach to high-school mathematical education implemented by DB in deprived areas of Stoke-
 on-Trent. The outcome was a 40% increase in student participation in Post-16 mathematics,
 improvements in quality of the teacher workforce, and social mobility of students. Other
 collaborative activities include helping a local company, Wade Ceramics, to reduce their crack rate
 through improved mathematical modelling, which has potential for substantial impact in the longer
 term.

 Impact related activities are embedded in research plans, recognised in workload allocation and
 through performance assessment & promotion. They also receive targeted funding where required
 (e.g. impact acceleration funding, from University and Faculty sources).

 Research Integrity & Open Science.

                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our Unit is at the forefront of developing an open research environment, and research outputs of
 all types are made openly available, which began in advance of the current REF policy. The Unit
 works with partners to seek external funding for open research, and where this has not been
 possible, utilises Keele's research repository. In accordance with the principles of the Concordat
 for Research Integrity the Unit strongly encourages the uptake of open research practices: for
 example, a quarter of staff deposit preprints at https://arxiv.org/, and consolidated codes and data
 complementing computation-intensive contributions are routinely shared via open-access
 platforms      such     as    bitbucket.org,   github.com       and     zenodo.org    (e.g.   Lucas:
 https://bitbucket.org/dan_lucas/psgpu/src/master/). In order to support a research environment
 which has a culture of integrity and best practice, research mentors work with ECRs to instil open
 science practices, regular workshops on open science are held for new staff and PGRs, and an
 updated summary of topics covered is distributed to all staff to enhance awareness of open
 science issues. To maintain and encourage the most rigorous research, all grant proposals
 undergo internal peer-review processes and successful proposals are deposited in a shared drive
 to facilitate best practice.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy
 The unit consists of 13 academics: 5 Professors (CJC (0.25 FTE), JJH, YF, JK, VS), 3 Senior
 Lecturers (SN, DP, PT) and 5 Lecturers (JC, DL, MJN, LP, PF), organised into 3 groups and 6
 themes. In line with a new emphasis on data science, two lecturers, P. Ledger (PL) and P. Wootton
 (PW), have been appointed after the census date. During the assessment period the unit also
 hosted 5 Postdoctoral Research Fellows.

 The unit’s staffing strategy, embedded within the University’s People Strategy, is guided by
 principles of equality, diversity and transparency, and by the obligations of the Concordat to
 Support Career Development of Researchers. Other key considerations informing the unit’s
 staffing strategy are:
 • Enhancement of areas of established research strength.
 • Development of new research areas, while preserving cohesion.
 • Support for interdisciplinary, collaborative research aiming to increase industrial and societal
     impact.

 On this basis four excellent appointments have been made:
 • DL brought in unique expertise in Computational Fluid Mechanics, which complements the
    Fluids group’s traditional strengths and enables it to open new research fields.
 • The appointments of MJN and LP reflect the FNS focus on materials research and greatly
    strengthen the whole range of activities of the Solids group.
 • The appointment of JC aims at developing statistics research and establishing new industrial
    links and international multidisciplinary collaborations.

 These appointments demonstrate the University’s commitment to advance world-leading
 mathematical research. Recruitment achieved 50/50 gender balance. This commitment has been
 further emphasized by two after-census-date appointments in the area of Data Science. In
 particular, PL has brought unique expertise in Computational Solid Mechanics that will facilitate
 the Unit’s expansion into data-driven computational mechanics.

 The promotions of DP and SN to senior lectureships are of particular significance for the long-term
 sustainability of the Unit, fostering the next generation of academic leaders; SN also benefited
 from the University Research Coaching Programme. PT, initially appointed as a teaching fellow,
 on the strength of his achievements in algebraic number theory has been promoted first to a
 lectureship, and then to a senior lectureship.

 Support for Early Career Researchers (ECR)


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit is committed to support of ECRs. All ECRs are mentored by senior colleagues and attend
 a structured staff development programme, including mandatory training before undertaking PGR
 supervision. They enjoy reduced teaching and administrative duties and during their first and
 second year, they usually teach one and two modules a year, respectively.

 ECRs can also participate in PhD supervision from the date of appointment, supported by
 experienced second supervisors. Two recent PhD scholarships for newly appointed lecturers were
 funded internally, and two relied on external support. The vibrant environment within the unit
 supports ECRs to become engaged in collaborative and interdisciplinary research. During the
 probation period their progress is regularly reviewed at specially organised meetings chaired by
 the Head of School. ECRs are expected to submit a first grant application to UKRI within two years
 of appointment; in doing so, they enjoy support and advice from their academic mentor and other
 Unit members. DL is a recent recipient of such an EPSRC award.

 Support for all Researchers
 Keele adheres to the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers and has held HR
 Excellence in Research award status since 2013. Staff within the unit are able to access a range
 of training and development opportunities offered to researchers across the university, including
 leadership training and coaching as detailed in REF5a.

 The University Equality and Diversity Committee oversees EDI, through the University Research
 and PGR Committees which have this agenda within their remit. Staff involved in recruitment and
 assessment undergo mandatory training in unconscious bias and EDI.

 Additional support for research-related activities (conference participation, invitation of overseas
 visitors, etc.) comes from the Mathematics research account, annually allocated from the School
 budget. Pilot grants (e.g. for preparing more substantial bids) are also available from the Faculty
 Research & Development Fund (FRDF). This support is particularly important for newly appointed
 staff (LP and JC have been awarded such grants in the first year of their appointment).

 Development of researchers is Keele’s strategic aim at all levels, with formal support and
 monitoring through Annual Appraisal procedures, tailored appropriately for the professorial staff
 (PPRE) and other academics (SPRE). This includes development of a research plan for those
 with a significant responsibility for research.

 The Work-Load Allocation Policy within the unit aims at promoting world-leading research, based
 on publication quality, grant income, impact, and Post Doc and PhD supervision. Most researchers
 have one teaching-free semester annually, which is a core element of the Unit Policy for Research
 Leave & Sabbaticals. This not only allows extra time for concentrating on publications and grant
 proposals, and participation in scientific meetings, but crucially also enables staff to accept short-
 term visiting positions overseas without formal sabbatical arrangements at a higher level (MJN
 had a two-year secondment as a Marie Curie Fellow at the University of Cagliari, while YF, JK and
 VS have held multiple visiting Professorships in China, France, Italy, Israel and Turkey).

 Keele actively encourages industrial collaborations. FRDF support has been crucial for the Unit in
 forging links with industry. For example, a joint effort with the US company Ilrima, focused on
 lubrication modelling, was initially funded through this source. The development of ICS with
 Amsted and TPV was also supported. The unit’s key collaborators from Amsted, and Tafe Motors
 and Tractors Limited (India) are Honorary Research Fellows at Keele, while JK was seconded to
 TPV for six months during 2016-2019. CJC also worked with Thales on underwater noise
 modelling for the UK’s nuclear submarine programme.

 To facilitate links with local industry, KRISP (Keele Research and Innovation Support Programme)
 has been designed to support local SMEs. This programme is funded through the European
 Regional Development Fund (ERDF). The unit has participated in this programme: for example,
 CJC led a successful collaboration with the SME EMS, enabling the company to produce more
 efficient heavy-duty pumps.

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 The School actively supports the wellbeing of staff and research students. Staff or PGRs with
 special circumstances are given generous leave periods, and those with special medical needs
 are offered tailored arrangements (e.g. flexible work, extensive medical leave).

 Support, Training and Supervision of PGRs
 PGR students are recruited both nationally and internationally, and supported from diverse funding
 sources, including EU, the Commonwealth, and directly by industry. Since 2014 there have been
 20 registered students (compared to 9 in REF2014 (+122%), all of whom completed successfully
 within 4 years. They have produced high-quality research, resulting in publications in high profile
 journals such as JFM, Proc. Roy. Soc., etc.

 In keeping with Keele’s PGR Code of Practice, an excellent supervisory and training environment
 is maintained. All PGRs develop a training plan as part of their Personal Development and
 Learning Plan. Supervisors are approved by the Faculty PGR Committee, with mandatory training
 provided by the Keele Doctoral Academy. Supervisory teams comprise at least two supervisors.
 The supervision style in the unit is “open door policy”. All students enjoy modern research facilities
 and infrastructure, including access to the School's GPU cluster, private cloud, and licensed
 software.

 The quality of PhD training at the Unit is also evidenced by the impressive destinations of PGRs.
 Former PGRs have secured postdoctoral positions at Warwick and Essex, and lectureships at Hull
 and Glasgow, as well as high-level jobs at EDTF and GHD London Offices. The 2019 National
 Postgraduate Research Experience Survey elicited a 100% response rate, with 100% for `Overall
 Experience and Satisfaction’ (vs 82% for the sector average), 100% satisfaction for `Supervision’,
 and 92% satisfaction for `Resources’.

 Progress and welfare are monitored in accordance with University guidelines overseen by the
 School and Faculty PGR Director. During 2020, Keele established a Doctoral Academy which
 aims to provide a unified platform for PGR support, governance, and training. The university also
 has a thriving Postgraduate Association that specialises in representing the interests of
 postgraduate students. An elected PGR representative liaises with the PGR community.

 Numerous regular and ad hoc research seminars broaden students’ horizons. A well-established
 element of the PGR training is the MAGIC consortium of 21 UK universities, offering video
 conferencing access to over fifty advanced taught courses each year.

 A generic training programme addresses the national agenda for key and transferable skills. In
 addition to obligatory internal presentations, all PhD students are strongly encouraged (and
 funded) to make regular conference presentations and attend advanced courses, in the UK and
 overseas. These have included various specialised courses at CISM, Udine, and Summer Schools
 in Cargese (Corsica) and Prague, where invited lectures/lecture series were delivered by the Unit’s
 staff.

 Training of PGR students has also been enhanced by collaborative activities within the framework
 of the ERASMUS+ programme. The unit has greatly benefited from PGR student and staff
 exchanges, with 16 universities from 9 countries supported by around £1M of ERASMUS+ funding
 between 2015-2020. The unit has hosted around 30 PGR students and a PGR international
 workshop with circa 40 participants. There have also been over 50 academic staff visits. This
 ongoing cooperation is a significant component of a truly vibrant environment for the Unit’s PhD
 students. They not only enjoy interactions with their overseas counterparts and attend lectures by
 outstanding visiting scholars (e.g. Professors D.Natroshvili (Tbilisi), G.Mikhasev (Minsk) and
 V.Mykhaskiv (Lviv)), but also have opportunities for informal discussions. To the benefit of PhD
 students, several short, advanced courses have been supported by the School (e.g. Applied
 Tensor Analysis by Prof M.Itskov (RWTH, Aachen), Structural Vibrations by Prof I.Elishakoff
 (Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton), and Spectral Theory by Dr A.Kiselev (St Petersburg)).


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 EDI
 EDI is at the heart of Keele’s culture. The university currently holds an institutional Athena Swan
 Bronze award, and the School was awarded the Athena Swan Bronze award in 2016 and 2020.
 The unit has sought to improve its gender balance through an action plan to improve female
 representation, which includes embedding of positive action statements in recruitment material.
 The unit’s REF submission includes two female staff, which amounts to 17%. Over the REF period,
 the average percentage of female PGRs is above 30%. The unit also has 25% BAME staff, and a
 substantial number of BAME PGRs, as well as two professors above the standard retirement age.

 The unit has a strong record of supporting flexible working. Over the REF period, instances of
 parental leave have been properly supported. Most staff have informal flexibility arrangements to
 handle their caring responsibilities. A convention of holding meetings between 10am and 4pm is
 followed. Minutes are circulated within a week of a meeting, to the advantage of staff not able to
 attend. The University maintains a fund for supporting return-to-research, from which staff within
 the unit have benefited.

 Strict adherence to EDI principles in handling applications for promotions and internal funding, as
 well as workload allocation and appraisal, is ensured by the Head of School together with the unit
 lead. Formal appraisal activities are supplemented by intermediate research reviews for each staff
 member.

 ECRs have individually tailored, protected allocations to address their training and research
 development needs, beyond the research and scholarship allocation of 30% for all research-active
 staff.

 To promote diversity further, the School regularly reviews its EDI policies with the help of HR and
 the School EDI Committee. All School meetings are prefaced with an EDI reminder and the School
 Athena Swan/EDI Chair attends all School and Unit level events.

 In addition to special welcome of applicants with protected characteristics in recruitment, recent
 positive action includes provision for anonymous staff/PGR feedback and introduction of
 guidelines for the support of any staff member, student, or visitor whose circumstances require
 privacy and/or special care.

 All staff involved in REF leadership, which includes BAME professors, have received EDI and
 unconscious-bias training from the University. The institution’s code of practice for REF has been
 followed and all deliverables have been thoroughly reviewed with acute attention given to EDI
 issues.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Institutional framework
 Keele research activities are supported by the Directorate of Research, Innovation and
 Engagement (RIE), which manages the Research and Innovation Support Enhancement (RaISE)
 team. RaISE works with academic staff within the Unit to identify and develop applications for
 research and infrastructure funding:
 • Interdisciplinary collaborations are encouraged and facilitated by identifying optimal partners
     for leveraging Keele’s infrastructure; crucially, incentives for joining forces are identified and
     flagged, with support from sources such as the Institute of Liberal Arts & Sciences.
 • Industrial collaborations are supported by establishing local industrial links (e.g. Wade, EMS)
     and by providing seed-corn funding.
 • International networks are promoted, with comprehensive support provided by the Global
     Opportunity Team at the International Office and the International Development Officer (RIE)
     (e.g. Marie Curie ITN TANGO, ERASMUS+, etc.).
 • Resources are focused on key themes, in accordance with the priorities of Sustainability and
     Health, including the Materials theme promoted by FNS.


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   A healthy variety of pilot projects, viewed as stepping stones for major grants, is funded on a
     competitive basis, primarily through the FNS vehicle FRDF.

 The Unit is also supported through QR income, the distribution of which is devolved to Faculty and
 School level. Keele has also invested significantly in facilitating research impact. This resource is
 allocated on a competitive basis and focused on the potential to advance Keele’s Knowledge
 Exchange Strategy. The unit is a clear beneficiary of this policy.

 Unit’s strategy for generating research income
 Most staff activities aimed at generating external income and developing impact are coordinated
 by the Mathematics Research Lead, reporting to the Head of School and Dean for Research. The
 Unit’s strategy is based on the following key elements:
 • maximising the exceptional strengths of the two groups specialising in continuum mechanics,
 • strong promotion of interdisciplinary research,
 • industrial collaboration with R&D-intensive entities, primarily in the areas of engineering and
     medicine,
 • development of major international networks involving world-leading scientists.

 This strategy exploits a range of funding opportunities, including UK and overseas research
 councils, EU programmes, and industrial partnerships. Implementation of this strategy results in
 securing funding through responsive mode grants, substantial international networks, and
 fellowships, as well as small LMS conference and research project awards.

 An important element of the unit strategy is the focus on bringing in outstanding PostDoc Fellows
 and building the foundations for the follow-up funded research. For example, three consecutive
 NERC grants awarded to VS funded PostDoc Fellows and prepared the ground for a substantial,
 successful research funding application. Other PostDoc Fellows have been supported by EPSRC
 (DL), EU (GAR), SERB-Royal Society (JK), Amsted (JK, GAR) and TUBITAK (DP). Continuous
 support from ERASMUS+ brought in follow-up funding from the Kazakh Ministry of Education and
 Science and RNF.

 Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
 A fundamental aspect of the unit’s long-term strategy is a multi-layered framework aimed at
 enabling ECRs to grow and secure their own research funding. Reduced teaching allocation for
 ECRs is a key component of this framework.

 Within the unit, mentoring is taken very seriously, and through a constant dialogue with the mentor
 the individual’s research agenda is developed. Specialised workshops with in-house and invited
 experts provide help in coaching younger researchers on writing grant proposals. Early drafts of
 proposals are thoroughly discussed with mentors and other staff members.

 The effectiveness of this support infrastructure is evidenced by successes including a recent `New
 Investigator’ grant (DL). Support for researchers in grant income generation is not confined to
 ECRs, and a similar collaborative approach is adopted for staff at the next stage of their careers.
 In particular, the awards obtained by MJN and DP also confirm the benefits of the stimulating
 environment.

 EU Opportunities
 Regular formal and informal sessions with UKRO (UK Research Office), lectures on forthcoming
 initiatives, and on anticipated changes in programmes and policies, provide Keele academics with
 better orientation in the changing environment. At all stages of grant preparation, contract
 negotiation, and reporting, the dedicated help of RaISE is crucial. At unit level, the strength of this
 user-friendly infrastructure is demonstrated by a large number of EU grants (MH, MJN, GAR, VS).

 Research income
 A well thought-through agenda of income generation has resulted in a high success rate in grant
 applications. Overall unit grant income has increased during the period, although the submitted

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 data shows income comparable to that of the 2014 REF. This is because considerable funding is
 not captured in the REF data (in particular, approximately £1M through Erasmus+).

 Major awards
 • £365K, 2019-2022, NERC, Modelling wind waves. What lies beyond the significant wave
    height? (VS).
 • £351K, 2014-2018, NERC, Towards modelling height probability distributions of "normal" and
    "freak" wind waves from first principles (VS).
 • £300K, 2011-2014, NERC, New kinetic equations and their modelling for wind- wave
    forecasting (VS).
 • £209K, 2019-2021, EPSRC New Investigator Award, Stabilisation of exact coherent structures
    in fluid turbulence (DL).
 • $980K, 2017-2021, US NSF-NERC, Toward a new picture of the multifaceted meteotsunami
    (VS) (Keele’s proportion £63K).
 • €129K, 2014-2018, EU FP7, EU network air-sea interaction under stormy and hurricane
    conditions: physical models and applications to remote sensing (VS), (Keele’s proportion ~
    £14K)
 • £1M, 2015-2022, ERASMUS+ ICM KA107 (DP).
 • £126K, 2015-2017, Marie Curie, Multi-scale modelling of waves in porous media with
    applications to acoustic control and biomechanics (GAR).
 • £91K, 2019, Royal Society-SERB, Newton International Fellowship (JK).
 • £89K, 2014-2016, funding from Amsted to model longitudinal forces in freight cars (JK and
    GAR).

 Other funding
 As noted above, the unit has received substantial funding from other sources for research and
 engagement activities. MH during her affiliation with the unit within the assessment period (2014-
 2016) coordinated a major European Marie Curie ITN TANGO, Thermo-acoustic and aero-
 acoustic nonlinearities in green combustors with orifice structures, with total funding of €3.73M.

 The unit has also a visible income stream (totalling about ~£500K) from the fees of 12 overseas
 PhD students, including a highly competitive Commonwealth Scholarship. An example of a small,
 but still meaningful, grant is the LMS award to LP for supervising a research project involving a
 disabled student.

 Unit members have initiated several national and international projects, including the following
 examples. VS secured funding through the EPSRC Maths Foresees Network for the pilot project
 Experimental modelling of wave dynamics on jet currents, carried out at Hull in 2015-2017, jointly
 with S.Lukaschuk. Since 2018, JK has led a three-year basic research grant Multiparametric
 dynamic modelling of layered strongly inhomogeneous elastic structures funded by ARRS
 (Slovenian Research Agency). A major prestigious RNF (Russian National Foundation) grant,
 Analytical models of seismic metamaterials, was won in 2020 by JK (PI) and DP (CI). JK, DP and
 LP also participated in the grant by the Kazakh Ministry of Education & Science, Development of
 asymptotic models for surface waves in solids with advanced mechanical properties, taking into
 account effects of coatings and embedded sources (2017-2020). YF has had two grants awarded
 by NSFC (National Natural Science Foundation of China) that funded his collaborations with
 Tianjin University: Analysis and experiments on localized bulging in inflated hyperelastic
 membrane tubes (2014-2017, PI), and Analytical and numerical methods for the post buckling and
 secondary bifurcation of film/substrate structures (2017-2020, CI). The above grants, although not
 contributing directly to REF income, have added substantially to the long-term health of the unit.
 They have broadened the scope of funding opportunities, led to strategic international
 collaborations and high-quality publications, and further advanced the unit’s research activities.

 The robustness of the unit’s strategy in grant income generation aimed at multiple sources is
 further evidenced by the even greater momentum after the REF census date. In particular, post-
 REF income has already reached 1.3 million over a six-month period, and includes:


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 •   €1.82M (Keele’s share €166K) EU, Effective factorisation techniques for matrix-functions:
     Developing theory, numerical methods and impactful applications (MJN).
 •   ~£100K, CONACyT (Mexico), Ciencia de Frontera programme, La evolución de zonas activas
     entre placas tectónicas: un enfoquematemático basado en las vibraciones flexurales de baja
     frecuencia (JK, DP).
 •   ~£100K, Kazakh Ministry of Education & Science, Development of mathematical models and
     methods for analysing mechanical deformable systems with complex nonlinear properties
     and variable structure in machine dynamics (JK, DP).
 •   ~£68K, NSFC, Theoretical and experimental studies of necking of dielectric membranes
     subject to mechanical and electric loading (YF).
 •   ~£321K, EPSRC, Reducing the threat to public Safety: Improved metallic object
     characterisation, location and detection. Project partners: DSTL, Rapiscan Systems,
     Safeline.https://magpoltensor.wordpress.com (PL).
 •   ~342K, EPSRC, Generalised Magnetic Polarizability Tensors: Invariants and Symmetry
     Groups (PL).
 •   ~£423K, EPSRC, Object Detection, Location and Identification at Radio Frequencies in the
     Near Field. (PL).
 •   ~£120K, EPSRC CASE Award Studentship (4 year PhD ) with Siemens Healthineers, A new
     in-factory machine learning surrogate model for the prediction of magnet quenching during
     manufacturing of MRI scanners (Siemens Contribution ~£29) (PL)

 Research impact
 The unit’s strategy prioritises academic, environmental and societal considerations in selecting
 sources of grant income, which has resulted in significant scientific, industrial and other impacts.
 Regarding scientific impact, this has led to top-quality journal publications over a broad area of
 Applied Mathematics. The best examples of industrial impacts with environmental implications
 have come from collaborative research in the areas of railway and automotive transport funded by
 grants from Amsted and EU, as detailed in the two ICS.

 These efforts aimed at green transport modelling have resulted not only in industrial and ecological
 impact, but also in new mathematics, such as an original `almost rigid body’ concept (JK et al.,
 Mech. Time-depend. Mater. 2015), and a new multi-parametric approach for lightweight high-
 contrast laminates (LP et al., Math. Mech. Solids 2018).

 The collaboration with Kazakh scientists supported by ERASMUS+ and its follow-ups resulted in
 a general dynamic analysis of drilling strings within the framework of structural mechanics (JK et
 al., Int. J. Eng. Sci. 2020), with the potential for efficiency improvements in oil and gas technology.

 The TANGO Network generated, inter alia, new insight into the nature of thermo-acoustic
 phenomena in combustors, based on new exact solutions for the so-called intrinsic modes, and
 the discovery of a new class of instabilities caused by interaction of intrinsic and acoustic modes
 (VS & N.Mukherjee, Comb. & Flame 2017, Comb. Sci. Tech. 2019).

 Organizational support and facilities
 The unit continues to benefit from University strategic investment in research excellence, reflected
 in sharply increased staffing levels. Support mechanisms include direct subvention to the School
 budget based on REF 2014 performance, resulting in reduced teaching loads and increased
 research time. All unit members hold Personal Research Accounts which, over and above other
 internal support, are used to promote individual long-term research activities and add to academic
 independence.

 RaISE provides specialist technical assistance; it facilitates awareness of funding opportunities,
 ensures support for grant applications, including costing/pricing and overhead recovery



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (sometimes at short notice), is indispensable in contract negotiations, and is instrumental in
 patenting and licensing.

 Computer facilities
 The unit is part of the School of Computer Science and Mathematics, which ensures access to
 significantly better high performance computer facilities and technical support than most other
 mathematics departments of similar size. This excellent provision enables our world-leading
 research in continuum mechanics and supports recent developments in statistics and data
 science. The School maintains an HPC cluster comprising 512 virtual CPU cores and GPU
 capacity of 256 teraflops, serviced by a School-based team of dedicated technicians, as well as a
 Private VScaler cloud. The facility is open to all Unit staff and PGRs.

 More advanced computational resources are also available when needed; for example, VS has a
 long-standing arrangement through the Met. Office to access one of the world’s largest
 supercomputers at the European Centre for Mid-Range Weather Forecasting.

 DL has recently been awarded by Nvidia two Titan XP GPUs. These were crucial in the preparation
 of his successful 2019 EPSRC proposal, which funded the purchase of a high-performance
 workstation consisting of a 10 core Intel Xeon W-2255 and a 5120 CUDA core Nvidia Quadro
 GV100 32GB GPU.

 The unit’s current access to superb computational facilities, including those outside Keele, is
 invaluable for the unique direct numerical simulations of nonlinear wind wave long-time evolution
 carried out by VS and S.Annenkov, and crucial insight into emergence of turbulent patterns by DL.

 Members of the unit are active in cross-HEI collaborative use of major research facilities (large
 air-sea interaction tanks) at Heidelberg University, Hull University, Marseille University,
 N.Novgorod Institute for Applied Physics and Tel-Aviv University.

 In-kind contributions include access to vast databases of wave observations in the ocean (Scripps
 Institute, US; Melbourne University, Australia; CNRS, France), as well as various contributions
 from WADE and NHS institutions.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to the scientific community and health of the discipline
 Through Keele’s flexible approach and strategic support for collaborative activities, the unit
 continues to provide a significant contribution to the UK and international scientific community by
 willingly providing its expertise:
 • as members of various national/international panels (e.g. IMA Lighthill-Thwaites prize (YF),
      Roy. Soc. London (GAR), MIUR, Italy (JK), ARRS Slovenia (JK));
 • in assisting research funding agencies in the UK (EPSRC, NERC, Leverhulme) and worldwide
      (e.g. China, Canada, Georgia, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Norway, Russia, US) by regularly
      reviewing grant applications and sitting on grant panels;
 • in PhD and DSs examinations and procedures (UK (CJC, YF, JJH, JK, SN, MJN, DP, GAR
      and VS), Australia (CJC, VS), China (YF), Denmark (JK), France (JK, VS), India (JK), Ireland
      (VS), Israel (VS), Italy (MJN), Norway(VS), Pakistan (JK), Turkey (JK)) and promotion panels
      and procedures (China, India, Israel, Pakistan, Slovenia and US).

 The contribution of Keele Mathematicians to the future health of the discipline goes well beyond
 its core area of expertise. The unit supports the basic infrastructure of the discipline by being good
 citizens in many invisible ways, including refereeing of papers and research proposals, and
 extensive membership of committees. The unit’s contribution to the advancement of continuum
 mechanics is enhanced by the exceptional coherence of the Fluids and Solids groups: many of
 their activities (including conference organisation and industrial collaborations) have been made
 possible by the intensity and diversity of the intergroup collaborations. Events such as the


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 traditional UK Elasticity Days, where Keele is a key player, further illustrate the role of the
 Mathematics Unit as a team.

 Key editorships
 • IMA Journal of Applied Mathematics (YF (till 2018) and JK)
 • ZAMP (JJH)
 • Nonlinear Processes in Geophysics (VS)
 • Journal of Sound and Vibration (CJC)
 • Mathematics and Mechanics of Solids (JK)
 • Mechanics of Time-Dependent Materials (JK)
 • PMM Journal of Applied Mathematics and Mechanics (JK)
 • Journal of Mechanics of Materials and Structures (YF)
 • Mechanics of Soft Materials (YF)
 • Acta Mechanica Sinica (YF)
 • Journal of Engineering Mathematics (YF)

 Other editorial activities include: editorship of the Springer book Series on Nonlinear Science
 (VS) and of special volumes and journal issues (e.g. the Proceedings of the Royal Society A
 Special Issue in honour of Prof P.Chadwick, FRS, edited by YF and JK jointly with Prof
 R.W.Ogden, FRS).

 Meeting organisation/Scientific Committees (examples)
 Staff within the unit have contributed to organisation of a number of major scientific events,
 including:
 • 2015 EUROMECH Colloquium No. 574 on Recent Trends in Modeling of Moving Loads on
     Elastic Structures, Anadolu University, Eskisehir. Turkey (JK, co-chairman).
 • 2015 International Workshop on Pattern Formation in Soft Materials, Tianjin University, China
     (YF, co-chairman).
 • 2015 12th International Conference on Vibration Problems, Scientific Committee and Steering
     Committee, IIT Guwahati, India (JK).
 • 2015 Elasticity Day, Keele, UK (YF, organiser).
 • 2015 International Conference on Mathematical and Computer Modelling in Continuum
     Mechanics (dedicated to 105th anniversary of V.V. Novozhilov), Organising Committee, Saint
     Petersburg (DP).
 • 2017-2020 European Geophysical Union General Assembly, Vienna (VS, convener).
 • 2019 15th International Conference on Dynamical Systems – Theory and Applications (DSTA
     2019), Scientific Committee, Lodz (JK).
 • 2019 Workshop on Algebra, Keele (PT, organiser).
 • 2020 Online conference, Hopf algebras and Galois module theory (PT, co-organizer).
 • In 2021 the Unit will also host EUROMECH Colloquium No. 626 Mechanics of high-contrast
     composites (DP, organizer).

 Major presentations
 All submitted staff have had numerous invited presentations at important national and international
 events.
 • 2015 4th International Conference on Topical Problems in Continuum Mechanics,
      Tsakhkadzor, Armenia. Keynote Lecture (JK).
 • 2016 7th Int. Conf. Continuum mechanics and related problems of analysis. (Dedicated to
      125th birthday anniversary of N. I. Muskhelishvili), Batumi, Georgia. Keynote Lecture (DP).
 • 2018 Mathematics and Mechanics: Natural Philosophy in the 21st Century, Oxford, Plenary
      Lecture (YF).
 • 2019 Isaac Newton Institute, Industry Day. Industrial Applications of Complex Analysis.
      Plenary lecture (CJC).
 • 2019 Distinguished Lecture Series, Florida Atlantic University, USA (JK).



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 •   2020 International Conference on Advanced Problems in Mechanics (APM-2020), Saint
     Petersburg. Plenary lecture (JK, DP).

 Advanced training courses
 Staff from the unit have delivered a range of advanced training courses for early career
 researchers, including:
 • 2015 Programme for young scientists and PhD students Rogue and Shock Waves in Nonlinear
    Dispersive Media, Cargèse, Corsica, Institut d’Études Scientifiques (VS).
 • 2017 International Workshop for postgraduate students in Applied Mathematics, Keele (DP,
    organiser).
 • 2017 Festival de Théorie 2017: Avalanching & Self-Organization in Plasmas, Aix-en-
    Provence, France (VS).
 • 2019 Summer school Wave propagation in microstructured media, Cargèse, Corsica, Institut
    d’Études Scientifiques (JK, MJN).
 • 2019 INI Summer School Bringing pure and applied analysis together via the Wiener–Hopf
    technique, Cambridge (CJC, MJN).

 Indicators of Recognition
 • Fellow of European Academy of Sciences (JK, since 2019).
 • Sackler Fellowship (Sackler Institute for Advanced Studies, Tel-Aviv University), 2016-2017
    (VS).

 Visiting Professorships
 • Anadolu University (JK)
 • Modena University (JK)
 • Bretagne-Sud University (JK)
 • Tanjin University (YF)
 • Toulon University (VS)

 Interdisciplinarity and contribution to economy and society

 Institutional Support
 RaISE provides the crucial support underpinning engagement and partnership activities. For
 example, industrial collaboration with Amsted and TPV was facilitated through an Impact
 Acceleration pilot grant. Collaborative efforts with the lubrication industry, structural engineering,
 and other activities with potentially substantial impact are also supported. The key users of the
 Unit’s research are engineers, biomedical scientists and geoscientists (though the circle of
 beneficiaries is much wider). The focus is on the following main research areas contributing to
 economy and society.

 Engineering
 Collaboration with the engineering world is carried out through engagement at three structural
 levels:
 • At local level, the Unit collaborates through KRISP, engaging staff, students and SMEs. For
     example, KRISP supported a project with EMS, a company which manufactures pumps for the
     water-waste and biogas industries. The challenge faced by the company was that the pumps
     they manufactured were not performing at the optimum energy efficiency demanded by
     different field conditions. Keele mathematicians, led by CJC, developed a robust
     mathematical model, which enabled the company to optimise the pumps to different
     environments, making them more efficient.
 • At national level, the Unit has worked with Thales UK. CJC played a key role in the
     government-funded study of noise generation in the context of the `Successor Programme’ for
     the next generation of nuclear submarines, which is fundamental to national defence.
 • At international level, theoretical results obtained in the area of the dynamics of
     inhomogeneous solids are being used in the railway and automotive industries for developing
     modern trains and “green cars”. In addition, progress in modelling of “green combustors” at Keele

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and through the Keele-led ITN network resulted in safe and efficient designs of combustors emitting
     reduced amounts of undesirable substances (MH and VS).
 •   A recently established strategic Keele-Saint Petersburg network in the area of seismic
     metamaterials (supported by a substantial grant from RNF, JK-PI, DP-CI) is centred on
     earthquake protection of critical industrial infrastructure.
 •   A collaborative activity with a group of Slovenian Universities and research institutions on
     modelling of high-contrast laminates (supported by a major grant from ARRS, JK-PI, GAR-CI)
     has developed a theoretical framework for acoustically engineered structural design.
 •   Long-term collaboration with Al-Farabi Kazakh National University on surface wave modelling
     (supported by a three-year grant from the Kazakh Ministry of Education and Science) has
     resulted in findings with potential for seismic control (JK, DP and LP).

 Biomedicine
 • Mathematical modelling of aneurysm formation and rupture, jointly with Tianjin Medical
    University (YF).
 • Dynamic cell patterning through controllable and variable surface wrinkles, jointly with the
    Institute of Science and Technology in Medicine (ISTM) at Keele (YF).
 • Modelling of blood-clot removal after strokes, jointly with Royal Stoke Hospital and ISTM (SN).
 • Modelling of bioreactors for growing of human tissues, jointly with ISTM and the Oswestry
    Hospital (SN).
 • Statistical modelling in primary care supported by Arthritis Research UK, North Staffordshire
    Primary Care Consortium for NHS (JB).

 Geosciences
 • Reconstruction of palaeo-tsunamis based on their sediment footprint, jointly with Keele’s
   applied geophysicists (VS).
 • Modelling of lava flows with Keele volcanologists and Bristol School of Earth Sciences (SN).

 Education & Society
 The unit’s priorities also include providing support to local communities through a variety of joint
 activities with local industry and high schools.
 • A collaborative research programme by Keele mathematicians and psychologists led by DB
     has been implemented within the Stoke-on-Trent Mathematics Excellence Partnership. Novel
     approaches developed for teaching STEM subjects in deprived areas have resulted in
     substantially improved educational outcomes and a palpable increase in social mobility. The
     significance of these new pedagogical approaches, implemented regionally, is of national
     importance.
 • Collaboration with the local ceramic company Wade Ceramics (YF, SN, together with Liverpool
     University) in a deprived area of Stoke-on-Trent aimed not only at improving existing
     technology by using advanced modelling, but also at addressing societal needs by developing
     research-based manufacturing.

 Networks
 Numerous national and international networks (ERASMUS+, INI, ICMS, EPSRC, EU, National
 Institute for Healthcare etc.) were instrumental in producing quality and breadth of research far
 exceeding what might be expected a priori from a unit of this size. Examples are:
 • EPSRC Maths Foresees Network (2014-2018) (VS).
 • A series of back-to-back three-year access arrangements to use the ECMWF (European
     Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasting) supercomputer (500 kunits/year) from the
     MetOfice/ECMWF to facilitate the existing collaboration with the ECMWF (VS).
 • Regular participation in the Woods Hole Geophysical Fluid Dynamics summer program (DL).
 • Primary Care Research Network at the National Institute for Healthcare (JB).
 • A collaborative EU grant on air-sea interaction under hurricane conditions involving
     researchers from France, Germany, Finland. Russia and UK (VS, coordinator).
 • Numerous EPSRC-funded SIGs (Special Interest Groups).


                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 INI
 Another boost to the Unit’s networking is provided through strong interaction with the INI (Isaac
 Newton Institute for Mathematical Sciences, which includes the Gateway and Knowledge Transfer
 Network (KTN)), and ICMS (International Centre for Mathematical Sciences). The unit maintains
 regular contact with INI & ICMS via its Keele representative (VS). Unit members have been
 prominent in INI & ICMS events. For example, both CJC and VS have been fully-funded residential
 participants in INI programmes: VS in the programme Water Waves (July-August 2014), and CJC
 in the two programmes Bringing Pure and Applied Analysis together via the Wiener-Hopf
 technique (August 2019) and Complex Analysis: Techniques, Applications and Computations
 (September–December 2019); and VS participated in the 2016 ICMS programme Trapped Waves.
 In addition, CJC gave plenary talks at shorter INI meetings, including Mathematics in the Spirit of
 Joe Keller (2017), and a meeting dedicated to the work of I.D.Abrahams (2018). The unit also
 benefits from visits from prominent overseas scientists who participate in INI’s programmes.

 Collaborative arrangements for PGR training
 • MAGIC Maths: a consortium of 21 research-intensive universities which share live video
    broadcasts, and assessment, of a wide range of advanced PGR courses.
 • ERASMUS+: this major EU-funded network has supported Keele’s collaboration with 16
    universities from 9 countries. PGR-oriented lectures by eminent academics have been
    organised along with conferences for young scientists and individually tailored training.

 Further support of research visits
 Inbound travel. During the REF period the Unit hosted well over 100 visitors from all over the
 world. Most of these visits were funded through the aforementioned networks, in which the
 combination of the School Research account and staff individual research accounts enabled great
 flexibility.

 Outbound travel. There is a healthy level of national and international travel funded primarily
 through networks and grants and supplemented by Faculty, School and individual research
 accounts.




                                                                                            Page 15
