Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Liverpool


 Unit of Assessment: 26 Modern Languages and Linguistics


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Our research and impact strategy as a UoA is based upon an integrated approach to Modern
 Languages which is transformative and translational, and which underpins our vision and our
 ambition for this REF cycle and beyond. Our approach now differs significantly from our 2014
 strategy in two main aspects:


  1) In REF2014, our Environment Statement was based on a departmental structure organised
     along individual language areas. Our vision this cycle is of a genuinely integrated Modern
     Languages approach which enables and champions interdisciplinary and transnational
     working, with impact embedded from the outset.


  2) In REF2014, we foregrounded chronological and thematic breadth. Our vision this time
     takes a much more strategically focussed approach, building on and expanding our
     research groups, enabling cross-cutting research excellence, developing impact, networks
     and partnerships beyond the university sector, responding to external challenges, and
     positioning ourselves in relation to Faculty, institutional and national themes and priorities.


 This integrated approach to Modern Languages has enabled us to be instrumental in shaping the
 field of Modern Languages nationally and internationally, particularly through the AHRC
 Translating Cultures theme (Forsdick), and we build on this strength in our vision for future
 Modern Languages approaches. We see ourselves as leading not just in Modern Languages but
 through Modern Languages: not only does our research contribute to national and international
 debates about how Modern Languages defines itself, but we envisage Modern Languages
 approaches as shaping the research agendas of a range of other disciplines, influencing their
 ways of working, and, as a result, championing challenge-based and linguistically-sensitive
 approaches to research. We thus conceive of Modern Languages as translational in that we see
 our role as translating between disciplines, between societal boundaries, and between the
 academy and policy and practice. We argue that in order to address the complex research
 questions of the twenty-first century, there is a genuine need for a Modern Languages-inflected
 approach to all research projects which would bring an ethical stance through an understanding
 of the other, a questioning of dominant Anglophone paradigms, and an attention to cultural and
 linguistic specificity. This vision underpins our strategy and our processes which we describe in
 the sections below, and which has resulted in significant successes during the current REF cycle,


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 including: increased external research funding; wider range of countries with which we collaborate
 and from which PGRs are drawn; increased interdisciplinary working; positioning ourselves in
 relation to major societal challenges; and ensuring our sustainability in the future.


 The incubators for this work are our four interdisciplinary research groups which have cross-cutting
 themes that map onto and enable this vision, and which integrate all our researchers, from Masters
 research students through to academic staff:


 Place, Space, Belonging: bringing together the research of staff members Bermingham,
 Blackwood, Forsdick, Gu, Marven, Mercero, Smith, Spadaro and Tufi, along with PGR
 members Alsallum, Amiri, Bensalem, Coppola, Eidan, Gordon, Iubini-Hampton, Lu, Lu,
 Paine and Saccomani, this group explores language, multilingualism, connection to place,
 minority languages and migration. The group leads research initiatives which have shaped and
 defined new and emerging research fields nationally and internationally, including the
 development of Linguistic Landscapes as an interdisciplinary field, bringing together
 sociolinguistics, sociology, geography, and media studies. The group has been instrumental in
 shaping and leading this field since its inception, with the launch of the new journal defining this
 field edited by colleagues at Liverpool (Blackwood, Tufi), grant successes (Blackwood, Tufi),
 and our continuing investment in strategic appointments in this area (Bermingham, Gu), one of
 our areas of strength.


 Conflict, Memory, Heritage: with membership comprising staff Chadwick, Croenen, Forsdick,
 Magedera, Mercero, Paoli, Plowman, Riethof, Rosenhaft, Saunders, Spadaro, Taylor and
 Thornton, along with PGRs McInally, Morley, Olver, Senel and Smith, this group explores
 issues including political violence, representation of memory, conflict transformation, and dark
 tourism. Colleagues within the group have been instrumental in engaging with Faculty and
 institutional themes including Transforming Conflict, and Heritage. Taking a challenge-based
 approach, the group has enabled members to lead on national and international agendas in
 relation to cross-cutting challenges, with grants funded through the GCRF, AHRC and Leverhulme
 Trust (Forsdick, Magedera, Marsh, Taylor) which have addressed Sustainable Development
 Goals including Gender Equality, and Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions.


 Media Histories: bringing together staff Bromilow, Cullell, Dixon, Magedera, Marven,
 Rosenhaft, Taylor, Thornton and Yiacoup with PGRs Lu, Paine and Wells, this group
 investigates textual practices, visual aspects of texts, circulation of knowledge, and
 transformations across media. Members have been instrumental in developing initiatives at the
 interface between disciplines, particularly Modern Languages and Digital Humanities.
 Collaborating in the Faculty Digital Humanities and Social Sciences theme, and nationally with the


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AHRC’s Digital Transformations theme, the group has secured AHRC and BA grants which are
 transformative and put digital at the forefront of developments in Modern Languages (Philpotts,
 Taylor).


 Image, Sound, Performance: comprising staff members Becher, Cullell, Loxham, Paoli, Shaw,
 Smith, Thornton, and PGR members Lockwood and Senel, this group has expertise in
 embodied performance, visual studies, and soundscapes. Bringing together scholars in Film,
 Music, Performance Studies and Modern Languages, the group has been pioneering in
 developing translational understandings of cultural studies readings of film, and co-creation and
 co-curation practices with communities. The success of this group is exemplified in collaborative
 funded research projects that include filmmaking and user input (Thornton), and that mobilise film
 as a driver for health and wellbeing (Shaw).


 In addition to interdisciplinary research groups housed within MLC noted above, we are leading
 and shaping interdisciplinary initiatives across the institution, in research centres which draw
 together researchers at all career stages from Modern Languages, History, English and Politics.
 These include the Eighteenth Century Worlds research centre (Rosenhaft, Marsh), and the
 Centre for the Study of International Slavery (Forsdick, Rosenhaft) – this latter leading to major
 awards focussing on contemporary slavery and anti-slavery measures (see Institutional
 Environment Statement).


 Through these incubators, our translational approach to research means that impact is embedded
 from the outset, as we start from the premise that a Modern Languages-informed approach can
 enable new modes of engagement with external partners, such as co-curation of exhibitions,
 practitioner-led design of wellbeing activities and multimedia tools, particularly those of lower- and
 middle-income countries, and/or the global south. Impact Lead Shaw leads on the departmental
 strategy for impact, overseeing and nurturing others in their impact work, and building on our
 expertise in situated understanding to ensure projects avoid Anglophone paradigms when
 engaging with stakeholders. Cutting across language areas, our impact strengths are clustered
 around mental health and wellbeing (Shaw, Thornton), ongoing inequalities and impacts of
 colonial legacies (Blackwood, Bermingham, Forsdick, Magedera, Marsh, Tufi) and conflict
 representation and transformation (Riethof, Rosenhaft, Taylor). Through this approach, we have
 demonstrated and grown expertise in developing ways in which communities can become co-
 creators and co-curators, such as involving care workers in Brazil in co-design (Shaw), generating
 ‘activated community memory’ in sub-Saharan Africa (Forsdick), and co-designing major artistic
 outputs (Marsh).




                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People


 2.1. Staffing Strategy
 Staffing in MLC comprises 6 Professors, 3 Readers, 6 Senior Lecturers, and 10 Lecturers as
 permanent members of staff, in addition to non-research staff, 11 funded postdocs during this REF
 cycle, and numerous visiting fellows and researchers. Our research strategy is underpinned by
 investment in researchers at all levels, from PGR through to established scholars. In keeping with
 our vision above, new appointments within this REF cycle have been made not to individual
 language areas but positioned to foster synergies across our areas of excellence, enable
 interdisciplinary working, promote a translational understanding of Modern Languages, and
 develop new growth areas in Modern Languages (Becher: film and visual cultures; Bermingham:
 sociolinguistics; Gu: translation and sociolinguistics; Loxham: film and memory; Spadaro:
 transnational Modern Languages).


 2.2. Staff Development and Support for ECRs
 Fundamental to our research vision of Modern Languages as linguistically sensitive and
 pluricultural, is our commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI), which is embedded
 throughout our staffing strategy, from the first stage of recruitment onwards. New colleagues are
 appointed in line with institutional EDI policies; all MLC staff have completed EDI training, with
 staff involved in recruitment additionally undertaking unconscious bias training, and the
 commitment to recruitment panels including at least two women. The staffing gender balance
 broadly matches that of the student body for our disciplines (currently standing at 67% female,
 33% male staff).


 Our Staffing Strategy is premised on the need to support and empower researchers from all career
 stages, from PGR, through ECR, to senior colleagues, to enhance their research expertise,
 develop their profile, embed impact in their work, and contribute to challenges at a local, national,
 and international level, and thus position themselves as leading researchers in our shared vision
 of Modern Languages as translational. We tailor the institutional Professional Development
 Review (PDR) within the department not only to consider past performance and to look to the
 future, but also to provide a forum for a dialogue on staff contributions to the evolution of Modern
 Languages as a discipline, as well as support in relation to EDI where relevant, with staff
 encouraged to discuss work/life balance, flexible working, and reasonable adjustments. The PDR
 is also supplemented by six-monthly Research Conversations, and the support of a Research
 Mentor who, as part of our deliberate strategy to establish a collective identity beyond traditional
 subject areas and enable interdisciplinary working, is normally drawn from another language
 group. This relationship is not hierarchical and can involve reverse mentoring. The Research


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Conversations and the Research Mentor system are supportive, collegial mechanisms which have
 supported our staff in applying for internal research and impact development funding, external
 funding opportunities, writing outputs, developing impact, and building and extending their
 research profile.


 The University’s induction process is complemented by Faculty- and School-level inductions, and
 a range of training modules, which, for Early-Career Researchers, form part of the Continuing
 Professional Development programme. ECRs also participate in the Faculty’s Early Career
 Researcher Forum, which not only offers workshops and training targeted to their career stage,
 but also functions as a facilitator for interdisciplinary working, and is complemented by the cross-
 Faculty engage@Liverpool initiative, offering training in interdisciplinary research methodologies.
 PGRs and ECRs will benefit from our new University partnership with the ESRC funded National
 Centre for Research Methods.


 Within MLC, support for ECRs includes a reduced load whilst on probation, an ECR mentor, a
 weekly departmental writing group, and access to the University’s Early Careers (and Returners)
 Fund, providing up to £5,000 to help establish ECRs as independent researchers through support
 for a major article or grant application. All of these initiatives support our ECRs in developing their
 research and impact profile, and help them to position themselves as successful proponents of
 interdisciplinary, translational Modern Languages, successes of which include ECRs being
 awarded competitive Official Development Assistance (ODA) seed-corn funding (Bermingham),
 and external OWRI Language Acts Small Grants Scheme funding (Spadaro) for projects that take
 Modern Languages research beyond its normal boundaries to engage with ODA challenges and
 transnational issues.


 Since 2014, there have been 6 promotions to Senior Lecturer (5 female, 1 male), 1 to Reader
 (female), and 4 to Professorship (3 female, 1 male) in key areas of our research strengths. Our
 current demographic profile, with slightly less than 40% of staff at Reader/Professorial level, puts
 us in an excellent position as regards research leadership. The relative seniority of our staff profile
 speaks not only to institutional support for Modern Languages, with colleagues promoted due to
 the recognition of their research excellence, but also enables us to provide a supportive and broad
 leadership team for more junior researchers, and ensure ECRs are successfully mentored and
 supported in achieving our research vision. At the same time, we plan for succession and have
 actively enabled and supported our ECRs and mid-career researchers to take on leadership roles;
 similarly, senior colleagues help with career progression of junior colleagues, such as Cullell’s
 delivery of sessions on the institutional ‘Insight into Promotion’ scheme, some sessions of which
 are ring-fenced for women only.



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Research and impact leave opportunities and plans are discussed with each colleague in PDR
 and research conversation meetings, focussing on the individual staff research development
 profile, and their contributions to our departmental vision. We are committed to EDI principles in
 this process, and take into account the relative needs of researchers at different stages, ensuring
 that ECR colleagues are not disadvantaged, supporting colleagues with protected characteristics,
 and ensuring part-time staff are able to apply for leave pro-rata. Our research and impact leave
 strategy has enabled us to support projects leading to significant outputs, including monographs
 and edited works submitted to this exercise (Blackwood, Cullell, Marven, Mercero, Paoli,
 Plowman, Riethof, Smith, Taylor, Thornton, Tufi) as well as grant applications and impact. We
 bear in mind that colleagues at different stages of their career, in particular those returning from
 an absence, might need flexible support, such as, in the case of one colleague, an additional ‘mini-
 sabbatical’ to help an output to the final stage of completion. We also coordinate light teaching
 semesters to carve out time for colleagues to complete projects identified as leading to major
 research outcomes that further our research strategy and make a transformative contribution to
 our research vision, including projects on Francophone postcolonial studies (Marsh), linguistic
 landscapes (Tufi), translation-anthology studies (Marven), and impact leave (Shaw). In the case
 of Shaw’s leave, this demonstrates our commitment to supporting impact leave in the same way
 as more conventional research leave.


 2.3. Support Mechanisms for PGR Students
 This strategy and vision also apply to our PGR activity: as part of our strategy to nurture Modern
 Linguists of the future, we focus on thematic areas in PGR recruitment, rather than specific
 languages, and our areas of expansion in PGR in this REF cycle include sociolinguistics, minority
 languages, comparative literature, film and media, memory studies, and translation studies, all of
 which are integrated across language areas and map onto our cross-cutting research group
 strengths. We appoint a supervisory team which normally straddles traditional subject boundaries,
 and is interdisciplinary, thereby embedding our vision of a transnational and translational approach
 to Modern Languages from the outset; as a result, we have increased the number of staff
 supervising PGR students in comparison to the previous REF.


 Our community of postgraduate researchers has grown during this REF cycle, with PGR
 completion at the end of the census period at 19.9, a figure representing doctorates per eligible
 FTE at 1.0, which is above the REF2014 sector average of 0.8, and Russell Group average of 0.9.
 We have also seen an exponential growth in PGR applications and offers; OSI PGR applications
 and offers over this REF cycle rose from 2 for 2014-2015 to 43 for 2019-2020. Our annual intake
 remains buoyant, with 10 starting in 2018/19, and 8 starting in 2019/20. We actively recruit through
 both the ESRC-funded North West Social Science Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) and

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the AHRC-funded North West Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership (NWCDTP), with
 Riethof, Thornton and Tufi as pathway leads, and Marsh former overall NWCDTP Institutional
 Lead. Through these pathways we position ourselves at the interface of Humanities and Social
 Science approaches, and with cross-cutting interdisciplinary expertise. We have consistently
 secured competitive Research Council studentships through these pathways. In addition to 4
 Research Council-funded students completing during this REF period who started prior to this
 cycle (ESRC: Grover, Bradbury; AHRC Burgess, Müllneritsch), we have recruited a further 5
 ESRC NWSSDTP (Drummond, Amara 2015; Morley 2017; Smith 2018; McEvoy 1+3 2019),
 and 5 AHRC NWCDTP (Hiscock 2014; Osei 2017; Paine 2018; McInally, Olver 2019) new
 starters during the current REF cycle.


 As well as Research Council-funded studentships, we have secured competitive internal John
 Lennon Memorial and Duncan Norman doctoral studentships, and we regularly attract
 postgraduates from the Middle East with government scholarships. We have hosted a significant
 number of doctoral students registered at other European institutions who wish to gain ‘Mención
 Europea’ doctoral status with us (Palmas de Gran Canaria 2014, País Vasco 2015 and León
 2018), and have outstanding success with the University of Georgia Athens (UGA) PGR Franklin
 exchange, hosting international doctoral students Lira (2015), Bundy (2016), Lozier (2017) and
 Saccomani (2019) - evidence that PGRs internationally are attracted to us for our interdisciplinary
 research excellence and our vision.


 PGR progress is supported and monitored by monthly meetings with supervisors, driven by the
 student to encourage ownership of the research project and as part of the training to become
 independent researchers. All PGRs join at least one of our interdisciplinary, cross-language
 research groups where they are full members, contributing to the range of the groups’ activities,
 suggesting speakers, and co-organising research events, thus further reinforcing the shared
 identity of researchers within Modern Languages; during this cycle they have organized
 conferences, workshops and exhibitions (Amari, Doman, McInally, Osei), including in our
 Language Lounge, an outward-facing hub for Modern Languages activity. PGRs also influence
 the direction of the department research environment and vision formally, through dedicated roles
 on Staff Student Liaison Committee and through the PGR Rep system. They are also supported
 to develop synergies beyond the department, including cross-Faculty research themes,
 Networking Lunches and Humanities Research Speed-Dating events.


 We further support the career development of our PGR students through tailoring the annual
 Development Needs Analysis to build with each PGR a bespoke package of support including
 courses and workshops organised by the Liverpool Doctoral College, the Faculty’s PGR Team,
 and the University Library. This is supplemented through our contributions to the


                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engage@Liverpool programme, at which Croenen, Riethof and Thornton have given sessions,
 and for which Thornton is Arts and Humanities Lead. Our PGRs also lead debates, share
 readings and resources at our regular tertulia sessions, as well as presenting at our Annual PGR
 Presentation Day, and at the Faculty PGR Showcase, an annual interdisciplinary event profiling
 PGR research, and at which external creative and cultural organizations, including FACT, Biennial
 and NML, participate in judging and providing feedback.


 All PGRs are entitled and encouraged to apply for PGR support funding, for which the School
 provides up to £500 per student per year. MLC PGRs have been awarded total of £9,036 during
 this period from this internal funding, which has supported conference attendance, research-
 related travel, field work and archival visits. This is in addition to fee-waivers provided by the
 department for Open Languages courses where a specialist language skill is required (Olver,
 Senel).


 These support mechanisms and processes have enabled our PGRs to make an invaluable
 contribution to our research environment. They have won highly competitive grants from national
 bodies during this period, including Society of Latin American Studies (Peate), Association of
 Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland (Peate, Adimora), and Leverhulme (Rodríguez). They
 have secured highly competitive placements and secondments, including Library of Congress
 (Osei), and LiNK placement scheme (Peate, World Museum, 2015-2016; Hiscock, Social Justice
 Alliance for Museums, 2016-2017; Doman, Sefton Women’s and Children’s Aid, 2017-2018;
 Iubini-Hampton NHS-Royal Liverpool and Broadgreen Hospital Trust, 2018-2019), and the Tate
 Exchange programme (Francis, 2020). They have also been active in the committees of national
 associations, including PILAS, organizing the 2018 annual conference (Brandi, Doman, Grover),
 as well as undertaking high-profile international fieldwork and impact in collaboration with
 international bodies, including the Colegio Paulo Freire, Mexico (Brandi), and the European
 Parliament (Morley).


 Moreover, our commitment to nurturing the next generation of researchers is demonstrated by the
 success of our doctoral students supervised during this cycle who have progressed to academic
 and academic-related posts. These include Amos, Associate Professor in French sociolinguistics
 and translation, Warwick; Asquith, Leverhulme ECR Fellowship, Nottingham; Brandi, PDRA on
 URKI-funded research project,       Liverpool;   Gwinn, Lecturer     in Politics,   Bournemouth;
 Müllneritsch, PDRA, Uppsala; Parry, Policy Officer, Strathclyde; Peate, Lecturer in Spanish,
 Westminster; Webb, PDRA on Postcolonial Print Cultures Network, Newcastle.


 As regards postdoctoral positions, our robust mechanisms to support applications to funding calls
 through scoping workshops, departmental mentoring, and departmental and Faculty peer review


                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 has led to success across a range of schemes. We have hosted a significant number of postdocs
 during this REF period, including British Academy postdoctoral Fellows (Hodgson, Cooijmans),
 Fullbright Fellows (Rocha), PDRAs on AHRC-funded grants (Blejmar, Kamali, Peate, Spadaro,
 Spisiakova), PDRAs on joint AHRC-LABEX-funded grants (Asquith), PDRAs on UKRI-funded
 grants (Brandi), and PDRAs on HERA-funded grants (West). Similarly, our vision has attracted
 visiting fellows with institutional funding (Sangrador-Vegas, NUI Galway; Correa-Díaz, UGA),
 and Erasmus-funded visiting fellows (Rodriguez, Alicante). We also host externally-funded
 fellows from cultural bodies, including Etxepare-funded Visiting Fellows (Irujo, Nevada; Arruti,
 independent researcher; Calvo, KCL; Zulaika, Nevada; Eguia, independent researcher),
 Buchanan Endowment-funded masterclass speakers (Fiedler, Leipzig; Jansen, Amsterdam;
 Alcade, Autònoma de Barcelona; Greatrex, Ottawa), and Peers-funded Visiting Writers (2014-15
 Nadal; 2015-16: Centeno; 2016-17: Jansky; 2017-18: Montero; 2018-19: Jurado; 2019-20),
 each year, amongst others. All these PDRAs, Visiting Fellows and other researchers and
 practitioners make a vital contribution to our research environment, being integrated into
 department activities, and functioning as full members of our research community. In line with our
 strategy and vision as outlined in Section 1, our recruitment of these PDRAs and visiting scholars
 is aimed at furthering our integrated Modern Languages approach, supporting applicants who
 contribute to our key areas of research excellence. Indeed, our successful approach is already lining
 up scholars for the future and ensuring our ongoing legacy, with two new postdoctoral researchers
 already secured for the next REF cycle (Wimbush, Leverhulme Early Career Fellow, Oct 2020;
 Hayes de Kalaf PDRA on AHRC-funded project, Aug 2020).


 2.4. Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity
 From the moment of appointment, we make new staff aware of, and encourage the uptake of as
 relevant, the Disabled Staff Network, BAME Staff Network, LGBT Staff Network, Parents Network
 and Carers’ Network. We are active members of the School’s Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Committee on which Thornton sits, and who takes an active role in disseminating and advising
 on all issues relating to EDI. Our commitment to EDI is evidenced in our active participation in
 institutional and national initiatives; two staff were on the advisory committee for the successful
 School-level Athena SWAN Bronze Award in 2018 (Marven, Thornton). EDI issues are also taken
 into account when assisting colleagues with funding applications, with internal peer review
 expertise within the department advising on gender equality statements and ODI compliance. With
 EDI in mind, we support colleagues with particular circumstances, and assist them in applications
 to the university’s Early Career Researchers’ and Returners’ Fund - aimed at those returning from
 maternity leave, parental care, prolonged periods of illness, or other similar circumstances, to help
 re-establish their career after a period of absence (see Institutional Environment Template for
 more details). We also encourage all staff, regardless of gender or career stage, to consider
 financial assistance to support EDI in grants and to build in support where possible – such as for

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 creche facilities for event/conference attendees and stakeholders. Moreover, we seek to embed
 EDI in our research environment more broadly, and have established an EDI Protocol for all our
 research events and activities, including family-friendly timing of research events, accessibility of
 venue, diversity of speakers and facilities for speakers.


 We also support and encourage staff with protected characteristics to attend programmes aimed
 at diversifying leadership, with two completions within our UoA of Aurora training within this REF
 period (both female), and a member of staff put forward for Diversifying Leadership training (male).


 Similarly, robust governance arrangements are in place for the unit’s REF processes, including
 output selection, and selection of impact case studies, as outlined in the institutional Code of
 Practice, with the Departmental UoA Governance Group committed to the principles of
 transparency, consistency, accountability and inclusively; moreover, this group is gender-
 balanced, includes one ECR member, an EDI rep, and an independent observer, with all members
 having completed Advance HE EDI training.


 Finally, our research vision and ethos as a department is informed by EDI regarding the subject
 matter of our research projects, and the approaches that we develop. Many of the research
 projects developed by the unit address issues for audiences with protected characteristics: from
 PGR work such as that of Doman with Sefton Women’s and Children’s Aid, or Brandi’s with
 minority language education in Mexico, through numerous projects led by staff addressing the
 needs of marginalized or minority groups in ODA countries (Bermingham, Blackwood, Forsdick,
 Magedera, Marsh, Shaw, Spadaro, Taylor, Tufi), the research itself by members of the
 department addresses EDI issues.



 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 3.1. Income
 Our research vision and strategy as delivered through our interdisciplinary research groups
 articulated in Section 1, has, coupled with the significant infrastructure and support detailed below,
 translated into an increased quality and volume of our research grant applications and awards
 since 2014. There has been a notable year-on-year upward trajectory: our unit’s annual income
 has increased by 87% from the beginning of the period to the end (£201,100 in 2013-14 to
 £375,420 in 2019-20), while maintaining a similar-sized staff base. As a result, we have improved
 our core data metric (income per eligible FTE p.a.) by 30% from REF2014 to REF2020. In
 REF2014, research grant income totalled £1.13m, whereas this REF cycle, income totals just
 above £2m (£2,048,443). Moreover, this figure represents just a fraction of the total grant value,



                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which stands at over £5m, comprising £4,708,977 total value to Liverpool (FEC) over the lifetime
 of all grants, stretching beyond the current REF cycle.


 3.2. Strategies for Generating Research Income
 The organisational infrastructure that has helped support this improved performance includes
 Institutional research themes, Faculty research themes, School research centres, and
 Departmental Research groups as outlined in Section 1. School Research Centres have invested
 a total of £123,675 in Visiting Fellowships, GTAs and Doctoral Scholarships, funding Dekker as
 Visiting Fellow and Wells as Doctoral Scholarship within this REF cycle.


 Support is also provided by a wide range of institutional infrastructural mechanisms to aid staff in
 their applications for research funding, coupled with a robust infrastructure for research integrity
 institutionally, complemented at unit level by a research environment that helps to develop good
 research practice, and embeds a culture of research integrity. This also includes support for
 research ethics: all members of the unit are trained research ethics reviewers and serve on the
 School research ethics review panel, and several have sat on the central institutional ethics
 committee, leading to successful mentoring and support for junior colleagues and PGRs.


 Another important form of infrastructural support are the University’s libraries and collections,
 particularly the Sydney Jones Library which houses two major collections within its Special
 Collections and Archives that are of particular importance for our subject areas: the Edgar Allison
 Peers Collection, and the Manuel Irujo Archive, which regularly attract national and international
 scholars who join our academic community as visiting scholars, such as the Manuel Irujo Visiting
 Fellows, as noted above.


 The success of our research support and infrastructure, and of our departmental research groups
 as incubators for major research projects, can be seen in major and prestigious awards made by
 external bodies. These exemplify our expertise in addressing global challenges, including two
 AHRC GCRF Follow-On Funding grants (Magedera £91,915, Taylor £100,008); a UK-India
 Education and Research Initiative Grant (Magedera £126,905); an AHRC GCRF Research
 Networking Grant (Blackwood and Tufi £60,428); a GCRF Area-Focused Network Plus grant
 (Forsdick CI £768,660), a Newton Fund grant (Magedera £178,497), and a UKRI GCRF Global
 Research Translation Award (Taylor CI, £652,258).


 They also demonstrate our successes in fellowships which develop major projects and outputs,
 from ECR through to senior fellowships, including Cooijmans (British Academy Postdoctoral
 Fellowship), Philpotts (British Academy Mid-Career Fellowship £99,199), and Marsh
 (Leverhulme Trust Research Fellowship £52,648), as well as our commitment to broader

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 networking and to impact (Rosenhaft AHRC research networking grant £45,224, Spadaro and
 Taylor AHRC Follow-On Funding grants £73,721; £103,284).


 They include large grants which have been influential across the field of Modern Languages and/or
 contribute to the development of UKRI themes, including a long-standing AHRC Theme
 Leadership Fellowship (Forsdick £934,533 in this REF cycle; £1,144,426 over the lifetime of the
 award) and an ESRC Scoping Review grant (Taylor CI £231,476), in addition to large and ongoing
 grants (Taylor AHRC Standard Grant £531,896), and which combine multiple funders (Rosenhaft
 European Commission HERA grant £689,163, Forsdick AHRC-LABEX grant £99,259).


 Each of these research grants has made major and incisive contributions to the discipline
 nationally and internationally, establishing new directions in modern languages and translating
 cultures in our Place, Space, Belonging group (Forsdick, Spadaro), working at the interface
 between modern language and global challenges in our Conflict Memory and Heritage group
 (Forsdick, Magedera, Rosenhaft, Taylor), and developing new methodologies for modern
 languages-informed interrogation of historical sources and data as facilitated by our Media
 Histories research group (Marsh, Philpotts, Taylor).


 As noted in Section 2, our supportive and collegiate Research Mentoring Scheme and Research
 Conversations, coupled with School research support, and internal peer review processes,
 ensures we support research staff from ECR through to senior colleagues in building up their
 research grant profile, and aspiring to and applying for grants relevant to their career stage – which
 has led to a healthy success rate of 37% for the unit over the REF period. We also encourage the
 inclusion of junior members of staff on bids where the PI is senior member of staff, so more junior
 colleagues can learn and develop, a successful model which has borne fruit in Blackwood’s
 AHRC GCRF Networking Grant noted above, on which ECR Bermingham is a member. We also
 support ECRs in applying for national funding that leads to larger grant opportunities, evidenced
 by the recent award to Becher of the British Academy UK-China Research Collaboration Seed
 Funding Workshop, which will lead to grant opportunities for the next REF cycle.


 Internal seed funding is also used to spur on larger grants and activities across a wide disciplinary
 range; as an example, four of our staff have been awarded internal ODA Seed Funding during this
 cycle for projects relating to multilingualism, heritage, ageing populations, and transitional justice
 (Bermingham, Blackwood, Shaw, Riethof), of which Shaw’s has led to external grants from the
 Northern Network of Medical Humanities (£1,041), and Happy Older People (HOP) Network small
 grant (£300), Blackwood to the AHRC Networking Grant with Tufi noted above (£60,428), and
 Riethof to an Endangered Archives Grant, awarded in this cycle but starting late 2020. Our
 successful strategy with ODA Seed Funding, through our research groups as incubators,


                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contributes to our forward planning and ongoing legacy, not only through these external grants
 due to start in the next REF cycle, but also with further successful ODA Seed Fund grants secured;
 Saunders has already secured ODA Seed Funding to lead a project in Kazakhstan on difficult
 heritage, multilingualism and memorialisation. Similarly, GCRF Global Impact Accelerator
 Accounts awarded to Magedera and Taylor in 2018 led to Magedera’s AHRC GCRF Follow-on
 Funding award, and to Taylor’s UKRI GCRF Translation Award and AHRC GCRF Follow-On
 Funding award as noted above.


 In terms of infrastructure to support impact, this is provided at departmental level through the
 Impact Lead as noted above, at School Level, and at Faculty level, which funds a number of Impact
 PDRAs to support and develop Impact Case Studies, and prepare future, longer-term impact.
 Impact is well-embedded across the unit, has been carefully nurtured, via targeted financial
 support, the sharing of best practice, expertise and contacts, and peer mentoring, including
 supporting ECRs with impact likely to come to fruition for the next REF cycle (Becher,
 Bermingham, Gu). We also make strategic use of competitive internal seed funding specifically
 targeted at impact, including HEIF Flexible Faculty Funding to accelerate impact secured by
 Marsh £250, Rosenhaft £4,250, Shaw £241, and Taylor £2,000, three of whom are our selected
 ICS for this REF cycle. Likewise, Shaw’s successful application to internal Industrial Strategy
 Pump-priming Fund and Impact Acceleration funding (2018, £14,733) has led to grant
 applications, two co-authored articles, and expansion of her impact work. Taylor’s successful
 application to internal HEIF Impact Acceleration Funding (£9,360) led to her successful large
 AHRC Standard Grant noted above (£531,896), whilst her internal Interdisciplinary Network
 Funding grant (£3,327) led to a successful ESRC Scoping Review grant, with Yates
 (Communication and Media) as PI (£231,476). Marven’s Methodological Innovation &
 Development Awards grant in 2018-19 (£1,521) will lead to a survey of academic translation
 practice and a position paper.


 In addition to this, significant funding has been secured to develop our research and impact
 through endowments and other external income, including investment from the Buchanan
 endowment, committing a total of almost £90,000, comprising £74,160 to fund a PGR GTA who
 started this REF cycle (Iubini-Hampton), and £15,000 for associated research events and
 masterclasses; £10,000 from Santander MRes bursaries; and E. Allison Peers doctoral
 studentships and MRes bursaries to a total of £53,548, supporting, in this REF cycle, research
 students Appleton, Brandi, Cunliffe, Evans, Halbert, Magana, and Rodríguez.


 3.3. Significance of Major Benefits-in-kind
 As a unit, we have had notable success with a wide range of funding bodies not reported in HESA
 returns, evidencing our engagement and attraction of funding at local, national, and internationally

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 levels. Totalling £140,994, this includes Spanish Embassy (Cullell), Instituto Cervantes (Cullell),
 Institut Ramón Llull (Cullell), Hispanex (Cullell), Spanish Ministry for Science, Innovation and
 Universities (Cullell), Institute of Modern Languages Research (Loxham, Shaw), Goethe Institut
 (Marven), Extepare Basque Institute (Mercero), DAAD Writer in Residence Scheme (Marven,
 Plowman), Foreign Ministry of the German Federal Republic (Rosenhaft), Italian Ministry for
 Foreign Affairs (Paoli), Rockefeller Archive Center (Riethof), UK Foreign & Commonwealth Office
 (Riethof), and Santander Travel grants (Blackwood, Riethof, Taylor, Thornton).


 The income from these cultural bodies is in addition to important grants from subject associations,
 including the British Association for Applied Linguistics (Bermingham), Institute of Latin American
 Studies Seminar Series Grant (Riethof), Society for Latin American Studies Seminar Grant
 (Riethof), PILAS (Riethof), German Historical Society (Rosenhaft), HOP Network (Shaw), and
 Northern Network for Medical Humanities (Shaw). We have also secured income from charitable
 bodies, including a Joseph Rowntree Foundation grant (Riethof); and from research consortia not
 captured through HESA, such as Blackwood’s participation on the MEITS OWRI grant, Paoli’s
 participation in an Australian Centre for Italian Studies-funded grant, Riethof’s Northwest Social
 Science Doctoral Training Partnership methods grant, and Rosenhaft’s Sogang University grant.


 The significant income and support that we receive from such a wide range of bodies is evidence
 of our truly international reach, and our commitment to our pluricultural and plurilingual vision that
 underpins our research strategy.



 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1. Research Collaborations
 Building on our vision, the department has developed a strategic approach to partnerships,
 clustering these not by language area but around our cross-cutting interdisciplinary themes as
 articulated in our research groups, and setting in place common goals where the vision of the
 department aligns with the needs of external stakeholders, partners and user groups.


 Regarding firstly external academic collaboration, during this REF cycle, the department has
 established and cemented significant research collaborations with a wide range of academic
 partners as part of our funded research activity and our impact case studies, with partnerships
 stretching over 16 countries and working across language areas and boundaries. International
 collaborators on funded projects relating to our research groups include:




                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Place, Space, Belonging group: collaborations with universities in Algeria, Portugal, Spain and
 Zambia through funded projects led by Bermingham, Blackwood and Tufi have developed
 significant interdisciplinary research projects on multilingualism, memorialisation, heritage, and
 language in the education system.


 Image, Sound, Performance group: funded collaborations with international partners in Brazil led
 by Shaw have made major interventions in interdisciplinary medical humanities projects
 addressing memory, dementia, and care.


 Conflict, Memory, Heritage group: funded projects led by Forsdick, Magedera, Riethof,
 Rosenhaft and Taylor have collaborated with institutions in Argentina, Australia, Colombia,
 Czech Republic, Finland, France, Ghana, India, Poland, South Korea and Spain to deliver
 major interdisciplinary projects in the areas of dark tourism, transitional justice, cultural heritage,
 and representation of minorities.


 Media Histories group: funded projects led by Cullell, Spadaro and Taylor with collaborators in
 Colombia, Spain and Tunisia have delivered projects on multilingual heritage, new literary
 genres, and digital artistic practice.


 This range of international academic institutions with which we have worked provides evidence of
 how scholars are attracted to work with us, enthused by our vision of Modern Languages as a
 translational, interdisciplinary, and collaborative undertaking. Moreover, we are gaining increasing
 profile in championing equitable research partnerships with institutions in the developing world,
 informed by our ethos of transformational impact, ethical working, and of embedding EDI into our
 partnerships, with funded projects (both from external research grants, and internal seed-corn
 funding) working with countries on the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) list of ODA
 recipients including Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Cape Verde, Colombia, Ghana, India, Tunisia
 and Zambia to deliver on particular Sustainable Development Goals.


 Additional measures of the success of our translational and transnational approach to research
 collaborations can also be evidenced in the high number of external collaborations in the form of
 visiting fellowships that MLC researchers – including our PGR students - have held at other
 institutions during this REF cycle, often in interdisciplinary settings, and/or settings that straddle
 academia and practice. These include Blackwood (MultiLing Oslo, Norway 2018); Croenen
 (Flanders Heritage Libraries, Belgium 2019-2020); Forsdick (Getty Research Institute, LA, USA
 2017, Dartmouth College, USA 2017, Montpellier, France 2018); Mercero (CUNY, USA, 2018),
 PhD student Morley (Aalborg, Denmark, 2019), PhD student Rodríguez, (Barcelona, Spain,
 2014), Rosenhaft (Sogang, South Korea, 2018-2020); Spadaro (IMLR, UK 2015); and Cullell


                                                                                                Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (University of Georgia at Athens, USA 2014). Similarly, invited external collaborations in the form
 of summer/winter schools, including Cullell (Complutense Madrid, Spain 2017), Rosenhaft
 (Herzog August Library, Wolfenbüttel, Germany 2015; United States Memorial Museum, USA
 2018) and Erasmus+ funded visiting fellowships (Cullell, XJTLU China 2017; Croenen, Ghent,
 Belgium 2018-2019; Riethof, Paris-Sorbonne, France 2018-2019; Yiacoup, New University of
 Lisbon, Portugal 2014) have been key ways in which our researchers engage in interdisciplinary
 and transnational collaborations. These prestigious visiting fellowships and exchanges have not
 only profiled our excellent research internationally, but have also been facilitators for
 interdisciplinary working, enabling our staff to work in new units and structures, taking Modern
 Languages research out well beyond the normal departments in which it sits.


 4.2. Relationships with Key Research Users, Beneficiaries and Audiences
 Just as with our academic collaborators, our key collaborations as regards stakeholders and
 beneficiaries are informed by our translational approach to research that underpins our research
 vision (see ‘Context’, above), where we start from the premise that a Modern Languages-informed
 approach can enable new modes of engagement with external partners at local, national, and
 international level.


 Locally, we have particularly strong and long-standing relationships with leading cinema and art
 gallery FACT, with whom we have worked through Taylor’s AHRC Follow-On Funding grant,
 Paoli’s ongoing film presentations, and Thornton’s Brews and Brows project, this latter also
 collaborating with Open Eye Gallery and Homotopia Festival, as well as local hair and beauty
 salons in a series of public engagement and impact events. Marsh’s consultancy work for
 Unilever examined their unseen Niger Archives, bringing insight into the business which has
 influenced decision-making, not only leading to positive outcomes for Unilever, but also training
 opportunities for two PGR students. Many of our local connections also span out internationally;
 for instance, Paoli, Spadaro and Tufi, along with T&S colleague Biasini, collaborated on an
 OWRI-funded Italian Cultures in Multilingual Liverpool project with Mammamia and the Dante
 Alighieri Association, as a result of which the organisations are collaborating to obtain funding
 from the Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs for PLIDA certificates.


 Nationally, Forsdick’s wide-ranging work through his AHRC Translating Cultures Theme
 Fellowship has, amongst his many projects, played an integral part in engaging with national non-
 academic collaborators, including a Translator-In-Residence scheme at the British Library, an
 International Translation Day with Free Word Centre, co-hosting events with UNESCO, co-
 organizing Black History Month events at Kelvingrove Museum, sessions at Cheltenham Literature
 Festival, and collaborations with HMP Canterbury. Forsdick was also co-investigator on an



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 AHRC-funded project in collaboration with the Runnymede Trust, supported by Arts Council
 England, called 'Common Cause Research: enriching the Arts and Humanities through
 collaborations between universities and BME community partners'. Similarly, Riethof’s work,
 funded through a Joseph Rowntree Foundation grant, contributed to community-led approaches
 for reducing poverty (2015-16).


 Internationally, highlights include Magedera’s Newton-funded Hugli River of Cultures project,
 which has engaged heritage activists, third sector organizations and policy makers to influence
 large-scale heritage initiatives at national and West Bengal state level, with key outcomes
 including a Heritage Audit, three photographic exhibitions, an augmented reality app, a
 documentary film, and a Heritage Management Strategy, leading to the creation of a Hugli chapter
 of the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage. Riethof’s ground-breaking work with
 archives and museums in Chile and Argentina strengthens the evidence base for human rights
 campaigns and contributes to the memorialization and commemoration of human rights violations
 and repression. Spadaro has developed extensive knowledge exchange and impact in her AHRC
 Follow-On Funding project, which took a major exhibition to the Italian Cultural Institute in Tunisia
 and worked with local schools and cultural institutions across Tunisia. Taylor has worked
 extensively in collaboration with victims’ groups, museums and cultural institutions in Colombia on
 issues of representation of victims of the armed conflict.


 Within this cycle, we are already supporting and planning future non-academic collaborations
 including Becher on art festivals, Bermingham on language teaching in ODA countries, Cullell
 on poetry slams in the Hispanic world, Dixon on fashion and clothing, Marven on translation
 practice, Paoli on film screenings, Smith on language exchange in cinema, Riethof on
 transnational solidarity and activism, Yiacoup on interfaith relations, all of which are instances of
 future impact work that has been and continues to be nurtured by the department for the next REF
 cycle. These projects are already starting to lead to changes in helping strengthen the evidence
 base for understanding human rights violations, greater understanding of public engagement in
 the transformations of space through perfopoetry, and enhanced understanding of issues of
 societal inclusion and disadvantage, amongst others. All these projects, and many others like
 them, demonstrate our wider commitment to impact and public engagement at a wide range of
 scales, and across all career stages and languages areas of our department, as well as forming
 part of our strategy of nurturing collaborations, and incubating impact case studies for the next
 REF cycle.




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.3. Wider Activities and Contributions to the Research Base, Economy and Society
 Above and beyond the development of our own research and impact, the department makes an
 incisive contribution to sustainability of the discipline nationally and internationally, responding to
 and indeed spearheading national and international priorities and initiatives.


 Forsdick as AHRC Translating Cultures Theme Leadership Fellow has provided intellectual and
 strategic leadership for this theme which has been crucial to the development and sustainability
 of Modern Languages as a discipline. Co-ordinating a diverse portfolio of over 120 interdisciplinary
 projects, and having contributed to hundreds of events nationally and internationally, Forsdick has
 played a pivotal role in supporting, promoting and championing research in Modern Languages as
 it relates to major societal challenges relating in particular to translation, multilingualism, migration,
 social cohesion and transnational connectivity. We are also long-standing contributors to, and
 organisers of, Being Human Events, having hosted a hub led by Taylor in 2015, coordinating
 contributions across the institution, including by Forsdick and Dixon, and running individual
 events in 2018 (Shaw and Rosenhaft) and 2019 (Taylor), proof of our commitment to public
 engagement with Modern Languages research.


 In addition to this, our leading contributions to national and international priorities can also be seen
 in our longstanding and sustained relationship with the prominent cultural agencies and embassies
 relating to the languages and territories on which we work. The fact that, as noted above, we
 regularly secure competitive funding from, and organize high-profile events in conjunction with,
 the Spanish Embassy, Instituto Cervantes, Institut Ramón Llull, Etxepare Basque Institute,
 German Academic Exchange Agency, Foreign Ministry of the German Federal Republic, Institute
 of Modern Languages Research, Italian Ministry for Foreign Affairs, Hispanex, Goethe Institut,
 Società Dante Alighieri, and Spanish Ministry for Science, Innovation and Universities, evidences
 not only our excellent relationship with these institutions, but also our vision of our department as
 plurilingual and pluricultural.


 Similarly, our annual public lectures - flagship events to promote new developments in the
 discipline - are delivered by cultural figures and practitioners as frequently as by academics,
 demonstrating how we embed our vision of translational ways of working into our research
 environment and events. These events regularly attract large and diverse audiences; the annual
 E. Allison Peers Symposium 2018 sold out all tickets within 20 minutes, with a further waiting list
 closed at 400, whilst our Lucrezia Zaina lecture regularly sells out on an annual basis. We do not,
 however, solely measure our success in engaging with audiences in terms of numbers, and we
 work seriously to connect with hard-to-reach audiences, and to ensure we enable communities to
 engage with us. Building on our departmental EDI protocol for events as outlined in Section 3
 above, we commit to ensure gender balance, accessible venues, and facilities for attendees.

                                                                                                   Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Examples of the success of this approach can be seen in the Re-visiting the Black Atlantic (2019)
 organized by Shaw, at which 9 of the speakers (including 2 keynotes) were Afro-descendant, and
 only 2 of the speakers were not female; in Forsdick’s exhibition with the Kumba Imaani Centre,
 Toxteth, on shared histories of the transatlantic slave trade, and his work with the cohort of AHRC
 UN International Decade for People of African Descent networks; and in Marsh’s Slaves of
 Fashion exhibition with the Singh Twins at the Walker Art Gallery, which uncovered hidden
 histories of colonialism and exploitation in museum objects.


 Similarly, regarding engagement with audiences internationally, and particularly in ODA countries,
 we take particular care to ensure real and meaningful engagement, including, to date, local
 transport costs, creche facilities for women who are single-parent heads of household, and per
 diems for those on low incomes (Blackwood and Taylor grants). We aim, in so doing, to ensure
 that meaningful opportunities are in place for relevant communities to engage, regardless of their
 financial situation, and to take into account the complex intersectionalities that influence who may
 or may not have the opportunity otherwise to engage with our research.


 The department also has a significant influence on, and makes a long-standing contribution to, the
 wider national and international research base, including journal editorship, grant advisory boards,
 research council committees, and peer review colleges. During this REF cycle, colleagues within
 the department have been Editor-in-Chief for three journals which are recognised internationally
 as leaders in the field: Bulletin of Hispanic Studies (Taylor), Bulletin of Contemporary Hispanic
 Studies (Cullell), Linguistic Landscape: an International Journal (Blackwood), as well as sitting
 on the editorial committee for a further 21 journals across a wide interdisciplinary remit. Colleagues
 have additionally undertaken regular peer reviewing for over fifty leading peer-reviewed journals
 which span the full breadth of our language areas and historical coverage, many of which are
 interdisciplinary, and we also regularly review monographs for a range of prestigious presses.
 Several of our staff are series editors for book series which have been instrumental in promoting
 high-quality Modern Languages research and are crucial to the visibility of the discipline, including
 Contemporary French and Francophone Cultures, LUP (Forsdick) Anthem Studies in Travel
 (Forsdick), Entangled Memories in the Global South (Rosenhaft), Eighteenth-Century Worlds,
 LUP (Rosenhaft), Migrations and Identities, LUP (Rosenhaft), whilst many are on editorial
 boards for book series: Contemporary French and Francophone Cultures, Oxford University
 Studies in the Enlightenment (Marsh), Liverpool Online Series (Bromilow, Chadwick, Croenen),
 Devenir Ensayo (Cullell). Forsdick, Loxham and Taylor also play major roles on the Editorial
 Advisory Board of Liverpool University Press, shaping the national agenda and leading new,
 transformative book series in Modern Languages – not least in the establishment of major new
 book series during this REF cycle, and in attracting major Modern Languages journals to LUP.



                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our vision of Modern Languages as translational and transformative has also informed our
 strategic contributions to the pioneering of Open Research in a Modern Languages context,
 reflected particularly in our spearheading of the major national initiative, Modern Languages Open
 (MLO). Five of our members of staff act as Series Editors and provide leadership of language and
 thematic areas (Bermingham – Linguistics; Chadwick – French; Loxham – Film; Marven –
 German; Thornton – Hispanic) in this innovative platform for the open access dissemination of peer-
 reviewed scholarship from across modern languages at scale to a global audience. This national initiative
 which has transformed Modern Languages research enables new forms of engagement, including
 short form pieces, manifestos, collaborative endeavours, and many other flexible outputs. The
 time and dedication that our colleagues bring to MLO evidences our commitment not only to
 supporting the development of Modern Languages scholarship nationally, but also to Open
 Research, and contributes to our commitment to EDI, supporting forms of dissemination that are
 not behind a paywall, and free to view for scholars of the global south.

 The success of our departmental vision, and evidence of our standing nationally and
 internationally can also be seen in the variety and frequency with which colleagues have been
 invited to examine research degrees, often across language areas and in emerging and
 interdisciplinary areas. Nationally, colleagues have examined during this REF cycle PhD theses
 at Birkbeck, Birmingham, Bristol, Cambridge, Cardiff, Edinburgh, Exeter, Glasgow, KCL, Kent,
 Leeds, Manchester, Oxford, Queen’s University Belfast, Royal Holloway, St Andrews, Stirling,
 UCL, and Warwick, and internationally at Aix-Marseille, Auckland, Bari, Bremen, Cergy-
 Pontoise, Columbia, Cork, Galway, Granada, George Washington, Macquarie, Carlos III Madrid,
 Santiago de Compostela, Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Melbourne, Oslo, Paris-Nanterre, Paris-
 Sorbonne, Rio de Janeiro State, Trinity College Dublin, UPTC Colombia, Western Australia, and
 Zacatecas.

 Our championing of Modern Languages as transnational and translational has also led to a large
 number of our staff being elected to key roles in a wide range of subject associations, providing
 intellectual leadership and representing the Modern Languages community at a high level,
 including: President, International Association for the Study of Spanish in Society (Bermingham);
 Hispanic Studies Representative, University Council of Modern Languages (Bermingham),
 Membership Secretary, Society for French Studies (Bromilow); International Secretary,
 International Courtly Literature Society (Dixon); President, Society of French Studies (Forsdick),
 President, Society of Francophone Postcolonial Studies (Marsh); Executive Secretary,
 Association of Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland (Loxham) Chair, European Society for
 Periodical Research (Philpotts); Social Media Officer, Society of Latin American Studies
 (Riethof), Secretary, Association for German Studies in Great Britain and Northern Ireland
 (Saunders), President, Association of Hispanists of Great Britain and Ireland (Taylor).



                                                                                                  Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Similarly, the success of our research vision can be seen in the high-profile role that members of
 our unit play in advising major externally-funded grants at other institutions. These include the
 GCRF     South-South      Migration,   Inequality    and   Development       Hub       (Forsdick,   chair),
 Transnationalizing Modern Languages, Bristol (Forsdick), AHRC OWRI Creative Multilingualism,
 Oxford (Forsdick), AHRC OWRI Multilingualism: Empowering Individuals, Transforming
 Societies, Cambridge (Forsdick), AHRC Research Network Writing, Analysing, Translating Dalit
 Literature, NTU (Forsdick), AHRC/FAPESP-funded Intermidia grant, Reading (Shaw), AHRC
 OWRI grant, Language Acts and Worldmaking, KCL (Taylor), AHRC GCRF grant, Precarious
 Publishing in Latin America, Surrey (Taylor), AHRC-Newton-Colciencias grant, Bringing
 Memories from the Margins: Inclusive Transitional Justice and Creative Memory Processes for
 Reconciliation in Colombia, Bristol (Forsdick, Taylor). Through these grant advisory roles, we
 play a significant role in the sustainability of Modern Languages, supporting the work of the
 discipline nationally, and contributing to strategies to help support its future.


 These advisory roles on grants are matched by our engagement with high-level national and
 international research funding bodies. Three of our colleagues are Elected Fellows of the Royal
 Historical Society (Chadwick, Croenen, Rosenhaft), one is member of the Academy of Europe
 (Forsdick), one is a Fellow of the Academy of Social Sciences (Rosenhaft), and one a member
 of the Wissenschaftlicher Beirat of the Institut für Zeitgeschichte in Munich (Rosenhaft). As well
 as reviewing at national level for the AHRC Peer Review College (Bromilow, Chadwick, Cullell,
 Forsdick, Marsh, Philpotts, Saunders), and the British Council Newton Fund (Magedera,
 Riethof, Shaw, Thornton), colleagues also review for international research councils, including
 the Irish Research Council (Taylor, Tufi), the European Research Council (Taylor), the German
 Research Foundation (Rosenhaft, Tufi), and the College of Experts for the European Science
 Foundation (Rosenhaft).


 Colleagues have also been appointed to strategic roles including the AHRC Strategic Peer Review
 College (Forsdick, Marsh, Philpotts), the AHRC Advisory Board (Taylor), the AHRC Digital
 Transformations Theme Strategic Advisory Group (Taylor, chair), and the UKRI Global
 Challenges Strategic Advisory Group (Taylor). Through these influential positions, we are
 advising at high level, contributing to the strategy of UKRI and the future direction of major
 research initiatives and priorities. Colleagues’ representation on advisory boards, panels and peer
 review colleges means that our department plays an important part in agenda-setting for Modern
 Languages nationally and internationally, holding key roles and positions that speak for the
 discipline, and contributing to the sustainability of the discipline for the future.




                                                                                                     Page 21
