Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Cambridge

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 28 History

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Cambridge History Faculty is one of the largest history departments in existence, second in
 size only to Oxford within the UK and larger than most top-rank US departments. It fosters an
 extraordinarily diverse and productive research culture at all levels, from postgraduate training to
 major international research collaborations. The size and diversity of the unit inform our
 fundamental research strategy: to facilitate and encourage bottom-up research innovation, and
 to support both individual talent and emergent collaboration at all scales, from local to
 international. In addition to the clear strength of our publications and Impact activities, the
 success of that strategy is demonstrated by the vast chronological and geographical breadth of
 our research, our strong networks, and our ability to foster new subfields of historical study.

 We have long aimed to try to research (and indeed teach) across the full span of history, and
 this continues to guide our overall approach to the subject, as shown by the breadth of the REF
 Outputs submission. Outputs range from the Byzantine and Ottoman Empires to the postcolonial
 worlds in Africa, India and south-east Asia; from the longue durée and comparative study of
 labour globally to the socio-cultural history of religion and belief in pre-modern Europe; from the
 intellectual legacies of classical thought to the political dynamics of postcolonial independence
 movements; from the very notion of 'the Environment' to the study of material cultures in a host
 of different times and places. We cover every subfield of history, every genre of evidence, and
 engage with every inhabited continent on Earth.

 The Faculty (synonymous with the UOA) has several different categories of member, primarily
 differentiated by whether they are employed by the University or by one of Cambridge’s 31
 colleges. There are currently 59 permanent University Teaching Officers [UTOs] (24 Professors,
 seven Readers, 16 Senior Lecturers, 12 Lecturers) plus a further four UTOs on fixed-term
 Lecturer contracts, and 15 colleagues on funded research contracts (Research Fellows,
 Research Associates). The Faculty is the research base for historians employed by colleges,
 namely 26 College Teaching Officers [CTOs], many on permanent but some on fixed-term
 contracts, and 35 Junior Research Fellows [JRFs], all on fixed-term contracts. The UOA thus
 has 139 members, including the largest number of college-employed colleagues within the
 institution. We also collaborate in both teaching and research culture with various historians in
 other areas of the University, returned in different UOAs (Classics, Area Studies, Art History,
 Law, Politics). The Faculty operates within the School of Humanities and Social Sciences, which
 provides support in various areas (such as grant applications), and allocates the overall budget.
 We are a major collaborator with other centres across the University, including the
 interdisciplinary Centre for Research in Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities (CRASSH).

 All members of the Faculty belong to one or more of the eight 'Subject Groups', which form a
 primary basis for the organisation of undergraduate teaching, but which also provide a
 foundation for (though by no means a stricture upon) collaboration and intellectual community.
 These are: Ancient and Medieval; Early Modern; Modern British; Modern European; American;
 World; Economic, Social & Cultural; Political Thought and Intellectual. Each group is
 intellectually varied and capacious, but with areas of notable strength and innovation. For
 Ancient and Medieval history these include ground-breaking work on religion and conversion,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 socioeconomic history across the longue durée often pursued in collaboration with colleagues in
 archaeology, classical intellectual thought and its medieval inheritors, and the history of the
 British Isles. There are strong links between the medievalists and the Early Modern subject
 group. The latter also has great strengths in the histories of belief and religion, commerce and
 economy. Both medievalists and early modernists pay particular attention to material culture, the
 early modernists being notable in our Impact Case Studies connected to museums. The early
 modernists also have great strengths in the study of empire, ethnicity and migration, intellectual
 and political history, the history and philosophy of science, and histories of gender and sexuality.
 The last of these themes is similarly a strong element within the Modern British group, along
 with the history of the recent contemporary past (with notable collaboration with the Churchill
 Archives), the influence of political and religious ideas on practical politics, and work on cultural
 and social history which significantly interacts with social and political policy (visible again within
 our ICSs). The group’s understanding of British history is notably expansive, having a clear ‘Four
 nations’ approach and with a strong focus on interactions with the rest of Europe, and on the
 imperial and global contexts of British power and culture. The Modern European group similarly
 encompasses a broad conception of Europe, with expertise in Eastern Europe and Russia, the
 Middle East, and colonial north Africa, as well as notable connections with Germany – we play a
 key role in the Deutscher Akademischer Austauschdienst (DAAD) Cambridge research hub – as
 well as France, Italy and Spain. The expertise of the American subject group covers the history
 of the whole of North America, from colonial to modern times, with research ranging from culture
 and religion to politics and capitalism. The group is fortunate to have a significant endowment
 from the Mellon Foundation, which funds not only an established chair in the field but substantial
 seminar and conference activity, a junior research fellowship, and collaboration with US
 institutions for doctoral students. The Pitt Professorship, established in the 1940s, annually
 brings to Cambridge a major American historian for a sustained period. World History has a
 very distinguished lineage at Cambridge, and the group continues to encompass a huge
 geographical area – South Asia, East Asia, Africa, the Middle East, and overlap with the
 Americanists in regard to Latin America and the Caribbean – with a focus on modern history,
 albeit reaching back to the sixteenth century in several areas. Work done by the world historians
 has notable strengths in the intersections of culture and politics, colonialism and imperialism,
 science and the environment, and histories of labour and economics, and the group plays a key
 role in a variety of interdisciplinary research centres. The current Professor of Economic History
 is an Africanist, and the current Professor of Naval and Imperial History works on female labour
 in India, which means that the World Historians have strong collaboration with the Economic,
 Social and Cultural group. The latter is home to a major and longstanding research centre, The
 Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure (CamPop), founded in 1964,
 was selected by the ESRC as one of the 'landmark' contributions to social sciences over the last
 fifty years. In addition to demographic studies, the economic and social group – whose expertise
 spans the middle ages to the contemporary – is committed to comparative and transnational
 perspectives, and most of its members are also participants in another subject group. Their work
 covers labour, finance, cultural histories of the economy, the environment, and histories of sex
 and gender. They also pursue sustained research on the relationships between the state, policy
 and civil society, which among other things is the foundation for the wide-reaching History &
 Policy website and associated projects. Finally, the Political Thought and Intellectual History
 subject group is one of the most well-established and renowned aspects of history at
 Cambridge, with particular current strengths and interests in law and politics, territoriality, global
 intellectual history, human rights, and empire. The group has strong connections across all the
 other subject groups, and collaborates frequently with colleagues in Political and International
 Studies, and the Faculty of Law.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Each Subject Group has an associated MPhil programme; some of the various optional units are
 shared across programmes, but overall the MPhils provide a remarkable set of specialized
 graduate pedagogy. Each Subject Group also convenes at least one research seminar, and
 these similarly reach out from the particular Subject Group, drawing attendance from the wider
 Faculty and indeed the wider university community. The Faculty also supports various thematic
 and specialist seminars which provide additional routes into a widely shared research culture.
 Thus the Subject Groups function as an initial means of belonging to the research community –
 every new UTO, CTO or JRF joins one or more particular group(s) on arrival – but also facilitate
 wider engagement beyond their bounds.

 The Faculty is governed by a Faculty Board, comprising the elected officers of the Faculty and
 further elected representatives for UTOs, CTOs, postdocs, JRFs and students (postgraduate
 and undergraduate). The Faculty Board is advised by several committees, including the Strategy
 Committee, the Research Committee and the (postgraduate) Degree Committee. During this
 REF cycle, the post of Director of Research was divided in two so as to provide additional
 resource to the role, thereby strengthening the Faculty's capacity to prompt and support new
 research initiatives. Thus we now have a 'Director of Research: Individuals' focussed on
 mentoring individual research, fellowship applications and overall research strategy for the
 Faculty, and a 'Director of Research: Projects' focussed on supporting and overseeing larger
 grant applications (supported by a Research Grants Administrator within the Faculty). Both
 Directors of Research sit ex officio on the committees noted at the head of this paragraph, and
 they work closely together to coordinate overall research strategy. The Research Committee
 oversees ethical approval for research proposals, and, in liaison with the wider University,
 advises individual colleagues on ethical and other professional research responsibilities, such as
 data capture and storage.

 The Director of Graduate Training has responsibility for overseeing all MPhil programmes, PhD
 admissions and first-year PhD training, and chairs the Joint MPhil Committee. The Director of
 Graduate Studies has overall responsibility for doctoral students after their probationary first
 year. Both are ex officio on the Degrees Committee (which approves all decisions regarding the
 progression and outcomes for PhD students), Strategy Committee and Faculty Board. The
 Faculty employs 20 support staff, within which there are specific individuals dedicated
 respectively to research grant support, research degrees, and the MPhil programmes.

 All members of the Faculty have several routes by which they can input ideas, challenge, and
 engage with both specific and strategic issues: via the Subject Groups which meet once a term;
 via representatives on Faculty Board; and through direct communication with the Faculty’s
 officers. Within this REF cycle, the Faculty has also instituted an annual all-Faculty 'awayday'
 (usually held at Madingley Hall, outside Cambridge), and one or two 'half awaydays' held more
 locally, which provide opportunities for the Faculty to discuss in an open-ended and collaborative
 fashion a variety of strategic issues such as grant applications, teaching reform, supporting
 emergent fields of research collaboration, and publication strategies. A number of strategic
 areas, including three current ‘research clusters’, have arisen from these awaydays.


 Achievement of Strategic Aims

 The Faculty's stated aims in REF2014 included
    • bringing the University’s eight world-class museums into closer association with its
       humanities researchers


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   expansion and refinement of postgraduate training
    •   globalisation of the Faculty’s teaching and research

 In each case we have made key achievements in this REF cycle:

    •   There has been considerably increased contact and collaboration with museums,
        both within Cambridge and elsewhere nationally and internationally. Laven and
        Sivasundaram sit on steering committees for the Fitzwilliam Museum and the Hamilton
        Kerr Institute; Carter has advised and supported the Museum of Cambridge. The Chair of
        Faculty and Research Director met with Luke Syson, the new director of the Fitzwilliam,
        to discuss how research collaboration could be facilitated and existing links further
        strengthened, for example by hosting a future seminar within the Fitzwilliam’s site and by
        regularly updating the museum on research initiatives within the Faculty; Syson is
        consequently invited to the next Faculty awayday. A similar meeting with the Programme
        Manager at the University Library explored ways to sustain ongoing research
        collaboration (outcomes from these and other collaborations noted in more detail in
        section 4 below). Increased contact with heritage colleagues has led to some of our
        Impact Case Studies in this REF cycle (Laven et al, 'Material Worlds', Walsham
        'Remembering the Reformation', Chatterji 'Partition, migration and communities’).

    •   We have made further successful developments in postgraduate training. The Faculty
        has begun new MPhil programmes in American History, World History, and Modern
        British History, all of which have been recruiting strongly alongside the existing
        programmes. The MPhils now recruit annually around 180 full-time students, both
        nationally and internationally. The AHRC and ESRC doctoral training programmes to
        which we belong provide a solid core of research and career development training
        sessions, and access to internship programmes, with current opportunities at HM
        Treasury, the Home Office, the Greater Cambridgeshire Partnership, the National
        Football Museum, the Centre for Science and Policy at Cambridge, the German national
        newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, and British Telecom, among others (full
        details at www.ahrcdtp.csah.cam.ac.uk/training/internships;
        www.esrcdtp.group.cam.ac.uk/external-engagement/ways-to-engage/internships). For
        the whole PhD community, the DTP core training activities are supplemented by a
        number of discipline-specific events organised within the Faculty, further described in
        section 2, 'Postgraduate Training'.

    •   In terms of globalising our teaching and research, the Faculty has had a very strong
        tradition in African history, South Asian history and the groundbreaking work by the late
        Chris Bayly on World History. In this REF cycle it has further built upon these
        foundations. The MPhil in World History has recruited notably strongly and has drawn
        upon the wider resources of the University to provide a modern language training
        component, allowing access to a wide array of languages, including Arabic, Chinese,
        Japanese and Swahili. The Faculty has made a number of key new appointments that
        strengthen our global reach: several Africanists (Austin to the Chair of Economic History,
        Dubow to the Smuts Chair of Commonwealth history), South Asianists (Datta, Sen to the
        Vere Harmsworth Chair of Maritime History), a pre-modernist with reach beyond western
        Europe (Goodson), modernists with reach beyond western Europe (Asseraf, Donert,
        Mackinnon), Caribbean history and the African Atlantic World (Gonzalez, Everill), and
        Ottoman history (Pfeifer). CamPop is engaged in a large-scale project on the
        comparative history of occupational structure, covering Eurasia, North America, sub-

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Saharan Africa and Latin America. Moreover, major undergraduate curriculum reform,
        scheduled for implementation in 2022-23 (delayed by Covid-19 lockdown from an earlier
        planned start in 2021) is predicated on widening horizons beyond British and European
        history and enhancing the place of global developments in our research-led teaching.

 In addition, the Faculty has, during the cycle, managed to make strategic developments in some
 additional areas:

    •   An increase in research grant income, which has roughly doubled during the period to
        an average of £1.3M of grant capture annually (see section 3). Here the work of the
        Research Director: Projects (Warde, for much of the REF cycle; now Austin) has been
        invaluable, providing one-to-one consultations with colleagues to encourage and support
        grant applications, helping to identify the best fit between proposed project and funder.

    •   An increase in funded postdoctoral researchers within Faculty, supported in part by
        an increase in grant-funded projects, and in part through encouraging international
        applications for competitive fellowships. The Faculty has long had a strong postdoctoral
        community via the many JRFs appointed to Colleges, but in this cycle made a conscious
        decision to encourage high-level postdoctoral funding applications. Consequently,
        externally-funded postdoctoral researchers have increased by roughly a third across this
        REF cycle (11 in 2013-14, 15 in 2019-20).

    •   Further development of pathways to Impact, taking advantage of funding for Impact
        activities available from various sources, including the University, and building more
        sustained contacts with relevant stakeholders. We have also provided peer-to-peer
        training and support for those contemplating impact activities; for example, colleagues
        who had worked on museum exhibitions have given talks to interested colleagues on the
        practicalities, pitfalls and rewards (see section 4).

 Future Strategic Aims

 The size and diversity of the Faculty is a major part of its strength, but inevitably presents
 challenges in terms of communication and strategy: a 'top-down' approach does not work, so we
 seek instead to find multiple means of harnessing the enthusiasms and expertise of all
 colleagues, seeking innovation and collaboration that feeds ‘outward’ into the Faculty as a
 whole. To this end we have ensured sustained and repeated communication across a broad
 ‘bandwidth’ (formal reports between Subject Groups, committees and Faculty board, but as
 importantly Faculty awaydays, open meetings, working groups, informal peer-to-peer discussion)
 to allow us to target available resources to pump-prime future developments. Through these
 means we have identified the following strategic aims:

    •   International collaboration in a post-Brexit context. At the time of finalising this
        statement it appears that UK universities are likely to retain direct access to European
        Research Council funding. But Brexit also poses a wider challenge to the formal and
        informal networks upon which academic communities depend. We are already seeking to
        strengthen existing ties (see section 4) wherever possible, for example by making
        sustained use of the University's Cambridge/Paris-Science-et-Lettres funding to support
        collaborative workshops with colleagues in France; and exploring potential projects as
        part of the wider formal links the University instituted in 2019 with LMU Munich,
        Stockholm and Sciences Po, Paris. The History Faculty has played a major role in

                                                                                           Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        establishing wider global collaborations, alongside its European connections; these
        we similarly seek to strengthen. We are broadening our collaboration with the History
        department at Columbia University, beyond a well-established doctoral training
        programme (see below). Both directly and via the Centres of African Studies, and of
        South Asian Studies, we have long-standing links with universities in Asia, Africa and
        Latin America, and as noted above, CamPop has become the nexus for a major
        international network on comparative occupations structure involving Africa and Asia.
        Given the challenges that Brexit presents to international research, we will also attempt
        to maximize the reach of our collective 'voice' within policy-making venues via the various
        leadership roles members of the Faculty hold within the discipline nationally (British
        Academy, Royal Historical Society, Past & Present, Institute of Historical Research).

    •   Further increase research grant income. As noted, we have made considerable gains
        this cycle, but believe there is more we can achieve. There are structural challenges
        because of the University’s resourcing model and consequent constraints over the
        effective release of staff time on project grants; however we have been able to inform
        planned changes to the University’s internal financial modelling, which we hope will make
        the situation easier in the following cycle. Within the UOA, we will incentivize grant
        applications via the Faculty workload model by allocating ‘stint points’ to major project
        applications, and recognising project management time with proportionate stint allocation
        for successful bids. To encourage those who have not previously made project grant
        applications, we facilitate regular peer-to-peer encouragement and advice, through a
        collaborative self-review process, through awayday sessions and through the Research
        Directors matching up experienced and prospective grant applicants.

    •   Support emerging thematic areas of historical research. We will seek to develop
        emerging areas (e.g. the global pre-modern, the next wave of digital humanities, cross-
        disciplinary and cross-period work on materialities) by looking strategically at: new posts
        created by upcoming retirements; by indicating areas of particular research interest when
        advertising calls for postdoctoral fellowship applications to the Faculty; and by providing
        space and support for all colleagues to identify potential areas of shared interest. We will
        then fund specific activity that will lead to sustained areas of research excellence.
        We began this process in 2019 by dedicating £10K of the Faculty Chair's discretionary
        funds to invite collective applications for 'research clusters', where a variety of possible
        activities and engagements can be considered. In 2019-20 we funded three – in Labour
        History, Material Histories, and Anti-Colonial Political Thought – and colleagues made
        provisional plans for a fourth ‘history of media’ cluster. The clusters aim to explore
        possibilities for more sustained collaboration and synergies, in part to facilitate future
        external funding applications.

    •   Build upon new developments in doctoral training. A new AHRC DTP in collaboration
        with Oxford and the Open University began in 2019 (www.oocdtp.ac.uk/home), alongside
        our existing ESRC DTP. We have begun to develop meaningful graduate training links
        with our AHRC partners (for example, an annual 'Mastering Medieval History Workshop'
        that for several years has been held between the relevant masters’ cohorts from Oxford
        and Cambridge) and we will build further upon this, exploring the funding possibilities for
        further thematic and subdisciplinary activities for doctoral students. We have also
        launched a new strand of postgraduate training aimed at preparation for careers beyond
        academia (see Section 2, ‘Postgraduate Training’).


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Strengthen pathways to Impact. We have existing strengths in public engagement of
        various kinds, and have identified three major pathways which we seek to sustain and
        enhance: public policy and political discourse; collaboration with museums and
        other heritage providers; contributions to national and international school
        education. Within the next REF cycle we will strengthen pathways to Impact in the field
        of public policy, by building further on existing, highly successful, endeavours that have
        fed into Impact Case Studies this cycle (Historical Child Abuse, Britain’s Transition to
        Mass Education, Cambridge Institute for Religion and International Studies, Militarised
        Political Economies in South Sudan), by seeking connections that further amplify current
        successes, and by providing advice to colleagues on how such networks have been
        achieved. Regarding museums, we will further strengthen connections with the
        Fitzwilliam Museum and the University Library and use this as a template for closer
        engagement with other similar institutions in Cambridge and elsewhere. We will further
        develop clear advice and mentoring for colleagues wishing to work with heritage
        providers, for example on forward planning for the practical challenges involved in
        curating international exhibitions. With regard to Education, we will continue to support
        our existing History for Schools programme, encourage colleagues to consider school
        resources as a part of future Impact funding bids, and will make more effective use of our
        Faculty website – redesigned and relaunched in July 2020 - to disseminate educational
        resources produced by, or in collaboration with, Cambridge faculty members (for various
        examples, see Section 4).

    •   Further improve staff development and mentoring. We are currently in the final
        stages of submitting an Athena Swan application, through which we have already learnt
        much about current culture and practice. With regard to workload, the recent chairs of
        Faculty have been developing ways of making our current 'Stint' system more proactive
        and forward planning to allow colleagues to plan ahead more effectively. In Autumn 2019
        we launched a reformed and reinvigorated version of the existing mentoring system,
        establishing a group of trained mentors and a rolling two-year timetable across which
        self-assessment and mentoring will be delivered to the entire Faculty. The Faculty Chair
        is also undertaking a review of current administrative structures and roles, with a view to
        balancing the burdens of particular jobs, looking for areas where efficiency savings could
        be made.

    •   Engage proactively in the current debate on what an ‘open research environment’
        means for the Humanities. To this end, a number of colleagues have been engaged in
        national discussions via the RHS, the Past & Present Society and the British Academy,
        notably Walsham and Mandler, with a focus on informing Plan S of the challenges that
        Open Access has for humanities subjects and learned societies, and supporting
        developments toward certain models of OA monograph publication. Cambridge has
        hosted events specifically directed toward the potential but also major challenges and
        pitfalls for OA monographs, to which Arnold, Mandler and Walsham informally
        contributed. Within the Faculty, the Research Directors have sought to ensure OA
        compliance for all new article publications and disseminate awareness of wider OA
        approaches to research. CamPop makes many of its datasets freely available via the UK
        Data Service (https://ukdataservice.ac.uk/).




                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2. People

 During this REF cycle the Faculty re-organised its Strategy Committee, specifically to expand
 the horizons of appointment planning, to move away from a tendency to replace ‘like-
 with-like’ when posts become available through retirement, in order to respond better to new
 directions emerging within the discipline. The strategy has allowed us to shift some areas of
 focus, bringing even greater geographical scope to our expertise: among the established
 Chairs we have gained colleagues this REF cycle with expertise in the economic history of
 West Africa (Austin); the history of race and apartheid in South Africa (Dubow); women’s and
 economic history of India (Sen). We have been joined also by colleagues in new areas such
 as the wider Francophone world (Asseraf), Caribbean and Atlantic World history (Gonzalez,
 Everill), the history and material culture of the early medieval Mediterranean world
 (Goodson), the geospatial analysis of north American colonization (Lee), environmental
 history (Warde), Ottoman history (Pfeifer), and modern Europe in a transnational and global
 perspective (Mackinnon, Siegelberg); as well as by those who work in established areas of
 strength such as medieval religion and society (Arnold), modern political thought (Bourke),
 south-east Asia (Datta), modern Europe (Donert, Gallo, Johnston) and modern Irish History
 (Gallagher). We have also been able to use postdoctoral positions to strengthen our
 research profile in African and Indian history (Saxena, a British Academy postdoctoral
 fellow; Parasher, Roberts and Simpson, all JRFs).

 As reflected in the balance of new arrivals, our fundamental staffing strategy is to sustain
 existing areas of strength, whilst also expanding into new areas with an emphasis upon the
 global. The Faculty has undertaken considerable forward planning in this regard, mapping
 retirement dates for all colleagues (Cambridge University currently has compulsory
 retirement at 67), and successfully persuading the School to support various proleptic
 appointments, both to sustain an existing area and to open up new horizons of possibility.
 The Strategy Committee meets twice a term, and regularly sets priorities for new and
 replacement posts.


 Staff development

 The age-profile of the permanent Faculty has become younger during this REF cycle, due
 mostly to retirements and consequent junior appointments. Moreover, as an institution with an
 unusually high proportion of early career colleagues – because of the flow of JRFs, as well as
 success in securing early-career fellows and temporary posts covering other more senior
 fellowships – we are committed to trying to provide support to strengthen subsequent career
 trajectories. To that end, as set out further below, the Research Directors provide mentoring
 opportunities to early career colleagues, and the wider apparatus of support described above
 is made visible and available to all. This does seem to have paid off in terms of their subsequent
 trajectories. The Faculty has recently created an 'ECR advocate' post (currently held by
 Erickson) who is coordinating mentoring efforts, particularly for JRF colleagues employed by
 Colleges, and we have an ECR position as a permanent element within Faculty Board, to
 represent ECR interests in the wider governance of the unit. The self-assessment team for our
 current Athena Swan bid established that of the 28 Faculty-employed fixed-term staff between
 2014 and 2017 (61% of whom were female), all but four (87%) were subsequently employed in a
 higher education institution after their term of employment with us ended. We have continued to
 have notable success on that front, with recent early career colleagues who held

                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 postdoctoral funding at Cambridge going on to academic posts at London (Birkbeck),
 Bristol, Cambridge, Durham, Florence (I Tatti), Florida, Gröningen, KCL, Leeds, Leicester, LSE,
 Manchester, Oxford (Keble), Paris, QMUL, Rutgers, Sheffield, Southampton, Stanford, UCL,
 Warwick, and York.

 New University Lecturers are given a 25% lighter teaching load in the first year, and are
 protected from heavier administrative workloads. They are generally given a five-year probation
 period upon appointment; there is however no bar to applying for promotion after the first year of
 appointment. The Faculty’s annual workload monitoring process (the ‘Stint system’) shows that
 the overall burden is generally shared fairly equally, and with most professors shouldering a
 notably higher average ‘stint’ than earlier career colleagues. All incoming staff members are
 given a formal mentor within the Faculty, and the Faculty runs a biennial staff self-review
 process, staffed by a panel of trained colleagues under the direction of the Chair of Faculty.

 The University carries out a Senior Academic Promotions exercise each year, for promotions to
 Senior Lecturer, Reader and Professor. Applications are considered by a gender-balanced
 Faculty Promotions Committee, then passed on for consideration by School and University
 Promotions Committees. For all promotion rounds an assessment is made of the gender
 balance of applications, to ensure that these are not disproportionate to the gender distribution
 within the existing rank of appointment. The Chair of the Faculty Promotions Committee reviews
 the list of eligible University Lecturers and offers proactive guidance on the timing and content of
 applications, to encourage people to put themselves forward in a timely fashion. There is also a
 School level Equalities Champion, who runs an annual workshop for potential promotion
 applications, and a C.V. mentoring scheme run by the University’s Equality & Diversity team. In
 the period 2014-20 there were 41 applications for promotion, of which 18 were from women
 (42%) and 25 (58%) from men; this matches almost exactly the proportion of women to men
 within the Faculty (40:60 f/m). Almost all applications were successful: 16 women and 23
 men were promoted, which is helping us rebalance gender ratios at Reader and Professorial
 levels.

 CTOs and JRFs are employed by the colleges, but the Faculty is always represented on college
 appointment panels for posts in History. The Faculty readily extends its training, mentoring and
 support to all college-employed colleagues, including supporting CTOs in grant applications.
 Newly arrived JRFs and CTOs all join a relevant Subject Group, receive all Faculty-wide email
 information, are invited to Faculty events, and are formally represented on various Faculty
 committees, including Faculty Board. The Research Director: Individuals (Brett, succeeding
 Arnold; previously Robertson [rtd]) contacts all newly arrived colleagues – whether UTO, CTO or
 JRF – and proffers one-to-one meetings to discuss their research trajectory and future plans,
 and where appropriate gives publication advice, as a supplement to other mentoring processes.
 The Research Director: Projects (Warde until 2019, now Austin) arranges meetings with all
 colleagues who are considering a project to discuss potential research funding of all kinds, give
 general support and advice at an early stage, and in order to connect colleagues pursuing a bid
 with the wider array of research grant support in both the Faculty and the School. We monitor
 annually the gender profile of those making funding bids (and subsequent success rates), and
 have found that across the period 2014-19 women made 30% of all grant applications, and
 constituted 30% of the successful outcomes. There is some disparity here, given the 40:60 f/m
 gender balance in current staffing profile, and we will work further with colleagues to identify
 whether there are particular challenges to be addressed.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 As per our overall strategy set out above, these formalised structures of staff development are
 accompanied by a variety of informal ways in which the Faculty engenders knowledge-exchange
 between peers, general and collective mentoring, and the generation of new ideas. These
 include the annual Faculty awaydays normally held off-site at Madingley Hall; a monthly Faculty
 coffee morning in the SCR of the Faculty Building (continued via Zoom during Covid-19
 lockdown); and open briefing/discussion meetings on particular topics of relevance and interest
 (for example, a meeting to discuss the Royal Historical Society’s Race report; various meetings
 on Impact, and on Outputs, to explain and contextualise REF; meetings on gender equality
 within the Faculty). In addition, the large number of research seminars – both those connected to
 particular subject groups, and others which range across that structure – provide additional
 opportunities for colleagues of all levels to meet, discuss their work, and support each other.

 The Faculty follows the University’s sabbatical leave scheme whereby UTOs who have taught
 for six terms (i.e. two full years) are entitled to take one term of leave; or two terms of leave after
 twelve terms (i.e. four full years) of teaching. The logistical balance of when leave is specifically
 taken is discussed in detail within Subject Groups, to ensure continuity in the provision of
 teaching, and is subsequently approved by Faculty Board. Sabbatical leave is a fundamental
 entitlement, to support the overall culture of research activity, and colleagues are always granted
 their full allowance within their overall teaching cycle.


 Postgraduate recruitment

 We recruit postgraduates internationally because of our reputation as a centre for research
 excellence: of the MPhil students enrolled in 2019-20, 35% come from Overseas (the
 remainder Home & EU), and 40% of current PhD students are from Overseas. The Faculty
 participates fully in the University's outreach activities for postgraduates, and we monitor the
 overall pattern of applications and offers for protected characteristics. Applicants are encouraged
 to make informal contact with a potential supervisor in advance, and are given named points of
 contact who can advise on whom to approach if assistance is needed. Applications are
 assessed by the prospective supervisor and the Director of Graduate Training, and those who
 are applying for funding are given scores (following the University's scoring template) by
 supervisor, overseen by the DGT. These scores are then moderated by a subcommittee for
 each Subject Group, and the scored candidates are then discussed across subject areas at a
 Faculty committee which has representation for each area; the outcome of that committee is
 then passed on to the University level cross-disciplinary committee for cognate subject and
 funder areas.


 Postgraduate training

 At the start of the 2019-20 academic year, the Faculty was home to 178 MPhil and 310 PhD
 students. As noted above, the Director of Graduate Training (DGT) and the Director of Graduate
 Studies (DGS) have overall responsibility for postgraduates, the DGT for the MPhils, PhD
 recruitment and first-year PhDs, the DGS for the rest of the PhDs. Each of the eight MPhil
 programmes has an individual programme director and sub-committee, and reports to the Joint
 MPhils Committee (which itself reports to the Degree Committee and to Faculty Board). The
 Joint MPhils Committee provides a forum for sharing best-practice, solving collective problems,
 and discussing curriculum development, as well as dealing with ongoing administrative
 requirements. The progression and examination of PhD students comes to the Degree
 Committee, which includes other senior officers of the Faculty. Among non-academic support

                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff, there is an overall Administrative Officer for postgraduate programmes, two MPhil
 administrators, and two PhD administrators (one focussed on graduate funding). Each PhD
 student has both a supervisor, suitable for their particular topic, whom they would normally see
 three or four times each term; and a separate ‘advisor’ who acts formally to read their work when
 moving from probationary to confirmed status, and who provides additional advice and support
 as requested and required by the particular student.

 The MPhil programmes attract an international field of excellent applications for the available
 places (we turn away many more applicants than we accept), and provide strong routes
 into doctoral study, both within Cambridge and to world-class institutions elsewhere. Each
 MPhil programme supplies a mixture of field-specific skills (whether languages, computer
 skills, quantitative analysis, palaeography, or codicology), historiographical training, a wider
 exploration of the relevant historical field (via assessed Option papers), and a substantial
 dissertation worth 70% of the final grade.

 Our PhD cohort (similarly highly international) pursues research which covers something like
 the same breadth as the Faculty as a whole: a survey by the DGT and DGS in 2019 showed
 that each Subject Group was home to about 10% of the PhD population, with current larger
 proportions for the Early Modernists (16%) and World Historians (20%). Most of our PhD
 students – 77% on average – are funded by UK or overseas grants. We have a very strong
 record of academic employment post-PhD internationally, with candidates from within
 this REF cycle gaining jobs in Amsterdam, Belfast, Berlin, Florence, Madrid, Malta, Oslo,
 Padua, Paris, Utrecht, and yet further afield in Florida, Missuri, McGill, North Carolina,
 Stanford, and Otago; as well a huge range of UK institutions. We have also seen various
 doctoral students move on to other adjacent careers such as curators, non-academic
 researchers, archivists and librarians.

 As noted above, we are part of an AHRC DTP with Oxford and the Open University, and an
 ESRC DTP that is part of a national network of seventeen institutions. The AHRC consortium
 runs several annual events, with students able to participate in the AHRC DTP annual lecture, a
 ‘public engagement’ summer school hosted by Oxford, and students are given the opportunity to
 be on the organising team for the international Postgraduate Conference, which involves
 delegates from the a.r.t.e.s. Graduate School of Cologne University, the Australian National
 University, the European University at Saint Petersburg, MIT, and Stockholm University. As well
 as the core studentship funding, students within the consortium are also able to access financial
 support for individual research and training needs. The Faculty contributes to training
 programmes in both partnerships. For example, within the AHRC programme, collaborating
 with colleagues from other disciplines, we have been part of sessions on epistemology and
 the archive (Arnold), on lecturing (Griffin), and on 'Building your Academic Career'
 (Dinwoodie); and within the ESRC programme Mora-Sitja teaches the module on designing
 and building databases.

 For logistical reasons those training programmes are primarily for those funded by the
 respective body; but in addition, we run an annual programme of events within the
 Faculty for the benefit of all history doctoral students. These aim both to provide them
 with a selection of specific skills appropriate to their field and to give them the contextual
 information and support to move successfully through their studies and on to the next career
 stages. In the first term of a PhD student’s arrival, there is an induction programme of regular
 meetings which includes a welcome meeting and party, introduction to college libraries,
 advice over supervision issues, a guide to good research practice and general information on

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 useful University services. Alongside this, and run across the year, there are additional
 workshops available to PhDs at all stages, including a ‘writing-up’ Q&A session with
 postdoctoral colleagues, advice on applying for grants and on publishing (with input from
 Cambridge University Press’s history editors Liz Friend-Smith and Michael Watson), advice
 on using overseas libraries and archives, training on particular aspects of teaching, and
 sessions on particular skills such as GIS, oral history, and aspects of digital history such as
 archival photography. Toward the end of each PhD student’s first year, as part of this
 programme of events, they give a presentation on their research topic, as a required part of
 their transition from probationary to confirmed status. The University provides an online
 platform for supervisors to report on PhD students’ progress every term, via which students
 can raise additional training needs and concerns; students are also asked to produce a self-
 evaluation report on progress each term. These reports are monitored by the DGT and by
 the University's own Graduate Office. Final-year students are also proffered a ‘mock
 interviews’ workshop, where colleagues give students an individual interview of the kind
 usual in academic employment processes. Since 2019 we have been running a new strand
 of PhD training dedicated to professional careers beyond academia, focussing both on
 cognate areas of work (museums, libraries, publishing) and on transferable skills for wider
 professional trajectories (e.g. media, political/charity research).

 Postgraduate students will regularly attend one or more of the 28 research seminars
 (supported financially by the Faculty and the Trevelyan Fund). These seminars run across
 the year and bring a large number of external speakers to Cambridge, as well as providing a
 venue for people to share their work with existing colleagues. There are also thirteen
 graduate-led and graduate-chaired research workshops, to which PhD students present
 their own work and to which they invite outside speakers (thus, for example, the Graduate
 Early Medieval Seminar, and ‘Series 2’ of the Political Thought and Intellectual History
 seminar). Finally, there are various seminars funded by and based in colleges, led wholly or
 partly by Faculty members (see section 3, regarding college-funded research infrastructure).
 PhD students also benefit from the wide array of seminars and lectures in adjacent centres
 such as CRASSH, the area studies centres, the Centre for History and Economics; and other
 Departments, including History and Philosophy of Science and POLIS, with which the
 Faculty has strong links.

 Many postgraduate students receive teaching experience via their colleges and the
 University also provides compulsory training on how to supervise effectively. The Faculty
 also provides some mentored lecturing opportunities on Part I papers, and seminar teaching
 opportunities particularly on the ‘Historical Argument and Practice’ paper. We have instituted
 a webpage for graduate students on which such teaching opportunities are listed, to ensure
 parity of access. Graduate representatives are closely involved in the Faculty’s committee
 structure, on the Faculty Board and through the Graduate Teaching and Learning Committee
 and the Graduate Training Working Group where they advise on their training needs and on
 their needs with respect to teaching, supervision, research and career-development.

 In addition, various subject areas have been supported by the Faculty in developing training
 links internationally: thus Mandler, Delap and McCarthy have run a successful 'exchange'
 programme with Modern British History doctoral students and colleagues at Columbia and NYU
 in New York, running a videoconferencing reading group and an annual workshop which
 alternates between the two cities. Rublack, Laven, Pfeifer and Walsham have done similarly for
 early modern European students in collaboration with the University of Tübingen. Austin and
 others have collaborated to facilitate a joint annual doctoral workshop on African Economic

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 History with the LSE. Berend has organised a number of workshops for medieval doctoral
 students with visiting students and staff from Scandinavian and German universities, and annual
 joint doctoral student conferences with medievalists from QMUL. Barrau and Morieux have,
 separately and for different constituencies, used ‘Cambridge/Paris-Sciences-et-Lettres’ internal
 funding to organise doctoral student exchanges between Paris and Cambridge, and in
 September 2020 Ramos-Pinto launched a doctoral training collaboration with LMU Munich
 focussed on the contemporary history of Europe. As well as these structured activities, the
 Faculty has been provided a temporary home to a considerable number of visiting international
 research students, who participate in the research culture of the Faculty and gain access to our
 research resources. It is thus important to us that our core doctoral training articulates with our
 wider strategic aspiration toward sustaining and building further international connections, for the
 mutual benefit of Cambridge and the wider academic community.


 Supporting and Promoting Equality and Diversity

 The Faculty is strongly committed to equality and diversity (E&D), both for the care and
 development of students and colleagues, and for the strength that it brings to the discipline
 as a whole. To that end, we aim to embed awareness of equality in our processes at all
 levels, both in planning and through subsequent audit; and, as part of our general strategy,
 provide multiple routes of communication and exchange, to identify any issues as they
 emerge. Within this REF cycle, we have been particularly aware of (1) gender in regard to
 academic career trajectories; (2) race and ethnicity, viewed partly through discussions over
 ‘decolonizing’ the curriculum; and (3) diversity of scholarship within our wider research
 culture.

 On average, in this REF cycle, women made up around 40% of academic and research staff;
 41% of MPhil students; and 38% of PhD students. Whilst the Faculty has a strongly international
 profile, black and minority ethnic people are clearly underrepresented, comprising only about 6%
 of the permanent Faculty UTOs. As a Faculty, we are highly mindful of the RHS's recent report
 on Race, Ethnicity and Equality (not least because one of our colleagues, Sivasundaram, was
 heavily involved in its production) and we expect that attempts to reform and decolonize the
 curriculum will help to improve the situation in coming years. Various colleagues (Austin, Everill,
 Foks, Gonzalez, Pfeifer, Sivasundaram), are also very actively involved in research feeding into
 the University's 'Legacies of Slavery' initiative, which we see as an essential historical
 contribution to a wider discussion around race and equality within Cambridge, and within
 academia more broadly.

 The Faculty has been preparing an Athena Swan bid, now planned for submission in May
 2021. The Athena Swan process has been supported by a standing Gender Working Party,
 which has among other things sought to ensure equal access for all people to our research
 culture. To that end, in this REF cycle we have instituted some changes including:

    •   asking Subject Groups to discuss the timing of research seminars (rather than
        assuming a 5pm-7pm slot by default), which has led to various seminars adopting
        different time slots to make attendance easier for those with caring responsibilities;
    •   conducting a regular survey of the gender balance of research seminar speakers,
        which has led to some seminars (e.g. Political Thought and Intellectual History)
        adjusting their programmes to correct earlier imbalances;



                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   ensuring a gender balance of presenters in the graduate training programme
        sessions noted above (for example, in the ‘Building Your Academic Career’
        workshops);
    •   holding an open meeting to discuss the Cambridge-specific implications of the Royal
        Historical Society’s Race report, and a subsequent meeting specifically for
        postgraduates as part of the Graduate Training Programme, both of which were
        extremely well attended;
    •   holding specific workshops directed toward supporting and encouraging early career
        female postgraduates and scholars, for example on ‘The Myth of the Lone Scholar –
        Leading a Project Grant’ and ‘Making the Most of Conference Attendance’;
    •   auditing the gender balance of grant and fellowship applications annually, to prompt
        Research Directors particularly to encourage female colleagues to make applications (as
        they have historically been somewhat less likely to apply for grants).

 Other practices underwrite our approach. All members of the REF committee, as with all
 members of appointment panels and senior academic promotions committee, have undergone
 E&D training and unconscious bias training (provided centrally by the University). The proportion
 of female professors in the Faculty has varied, but currently stands at eight women to 17 men
 (32%); this remains lower than the overall proportion of women to men employed as UTOs in the
 Faculty (40:60), and we are conscious of the need to improve on both fronts. When new posts
 have become available (through retirements, and for example via British Academy postdoctoral
 fellowships), the Faculty has looked beyond its current research profile, and this has been one
 element in gaining new female colleagues and, to a lesser extent as yet, black and minority
 ethnic colleagues.

 Staff are encouraged to apply for the University's Returning Carers' scheme, which provides
 additional support and resource to support the research of colleagues who are returning to work
 after a period on care-related leave. The University also provides a 'Supporting Carers and
 Parents at Cambridge' network, and provides some nursery provision and a childcare salary-
 sacrifice scheme.

 For this REF submission, the UOA REF committee had an E&D lead (Arnold). The draft
 selection of Outputs was monitored in terms of gender balance, and comments and input on the
 draft Environment Statement were invited from a wide selection of colleagues, including those
 taking the lead on the Athena Swan submission (Erickson) and those involved in the RHS Race,
 Ethnicity and Equality report (Sivasundaram). All colleagues were encouraged to nominate and
 rank their own choice of Output. This was supplemented by the assessment of a wide array of
 further readers within the Faculty with knowledge of the broad subject area, and ultimately by the
 collective judgment of the Faculty's REF committee.




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Cambridge provides an extraordinary research infrastructure, drawing on the massive historical
 resources of the full institution, and generating considerable additional resource to facilitate both
 research and impact at all levels. We are extraordinarily privileged in terms of the resources we
 have inherited historically within the institution, but also acutely aware of how we can best use
 the continuing financial provision to sustain and enliven the study of history both within
 Cambridge and in collaboration with the wider world.


 Income and research grant support

 The Faculty significantly improved its capture of research grant funding in this REF cycle
 thanks in part to the sustained effort by the Research Director: Projects (Warde; now Austin) in
 encouraging and supporting colleagues in their applications. We have been awarded £8.55M in
 grants since January 2014, and annual income has risen from £1.17M in 2014 to £1.5M in 2019.
 At the point of submitting the REF 2014 return we were achieving £838K per annum in external
 grant funding, thus in this REF cycle we have managed almost to double our annual grant
 income. We have long had a strong record in gaining fellowship grants (British Academy,
 Leverhulme, Newton International Fellowships, Marie-Curie), and this has continued within this
 cycle; but we have also strongly encouraged colleagues to pursue collaborative project grants
 from a variety of funders, and the increase in grant income has been a successful product of that
 strategy.

 Thus notable successes within this cycle have included a variety of large collaborative grants,
 including Laven’s ERC Synergy Grant ‘Domestic Devotions: The Place of Piety in the
 Renaissance Italian Home’ (2013-17), Walsham’s ‘Remembering the Reformation’ AHRC-
 funded project (2016-19), Briggs’ ‘Living Standards and Material Culture in English Rural
 Households, 1300-1600’ Leverhulme project (2016-19), Reynolds’ ‘Stalin’s Wartime
 Correspondence’ Leverhulme project (2015), Mandler’s ‘Secondary Education and Social
 Change in the UK since 1945’ ESRC project (2017-21) and van Houts’s ‘The Literary Heritage of
 Anglo-Dutch Relations, c. 1050-1505’ Leverhulme Project (2018-21, in collaboration with
 colleagues at Bristol). CamPop – jointly housed in History and Geography - has continued its
 world-leading work on historical demography through a variety of funding sources. The
 Faculty has also enjoyed considerable success in securing research fellowships, both for
 postdoctoral fellows (the British Academy, Leverhulme ECFs, the Marie Sklodowska-Curie Fund,
 and Cambridge’s own Newton Trust) and for more established colleagues (Leverhulme Major
 Research Fellowships for Biagini, Muldrew, Parry, Walsham; a British Academy mid-career
 fellowship for Glickman; Leverhulme Prizes for Morieux, Arsan). The Faculty has been fortunate
 to draw also on a variety of other sources of financial support for particular events, such as the
 ‘Global Carl Schmitt’ conference in 2019, supported by the DAAD Cambridge Hub and the
 German Federal Foreign Office, and the ‘Reinhard Koselleck Symposium’ in 2019 also
 supported by the DAAD.

 Support for research grants come from a variety of directions. Within the Faculty there are
 several ways in which grants are supported. As noted further above, the Research Director:
 Projects meets with all colleagues to discuss and encourage potential bids of all kinds, and the
 Faculty’s workload model allots ‘stint points’ to the work involved in preparing project grants. The
 Faculty employs (at 0.5FTE) a dedicated Research Grants Administrator, who works closely with

                                                                                               Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the academic Research Directors and the Faculty’s Chief Accounts Clerk, both in the
 preparation of bids, and in their subsequent financial administration. Additionally, at School level,
 we have a further three administrative colleagues who provide practical advice and support on
 both submitting grant applications, and then running research projects once funding is achieved.


 Infrastructure

 Cambridge has arguably unparalleled resources for the study of history. The collections of the
 University Library provide copyright-library access to UK scholarship and also extensive
 holdings in scholarship from across the world. It is one of only six libraries in the United
 Kingdom and Ireland which are entitled to copies of all works published in the United Kingdom
 under the Legal Deposit Act; it now holds over eight million printed items, both onsite in its
 extensive open-shelf collections, and in nearby off-site storage. It also provides online access to
 a host of important resources, from Early English Books Online to the Europresse, Historische
 Bibliographie to the International Medieval Bibliography, the Acta Sanctorum to the China
 Academic Journals Database, and various databases of US newspapers and government
 records. It is home also to various special collections valuable to historians, notably the Acton
 collection, the Ely Diocesan Archive, the Jardine Matheson Archive and the Baldwin Papers,
 among many others, as well as a huge number of historical manuscripts, maps and other
 primary source materials.

 Colleges also house libraries and archival collections, many of which are again notably
 important for certain areas of historical study: for example the Parker Library at Corpus Christi
 College, which among other treasures contains a collection of 600 manuscripts, and around
 8000 incunabula and books, of unparalleled importance for the study of premodern western
 Christianity and culture; the Wren Library in Trinity, which houses 1250 medieval manuscripts,
 750 incunabula, and the personal papers of various internationally important figures such as R.
 A. Butler and Ludwig Wittgenstein; and King’s College Library, which in addition to modern
 records such as the papers of John Maynard Keynes, various premodern manuscripts and early
 printed books, has a very large collection of medieval manorial charters and manor court rolls.
 For modern history, particularly notable is the Churchill Archives Centre, which has become a
 major repository not only for the archived papers of its titular honoree and founding donor, but
 makes available the papers of some 700 individuals in the fields of politics, public policy,
 diplomacy, strategy, the social sciences and science and technology. It is a collection that has
 been awarded designated status by the National Archives and which houses the personal
 archives of Ernest Bevin, Winston Churchill, Rosalind Franklin, Neil Kinnock, John Major,
 Margaret Thatcher, Michael Young and many others, as well as collections such as the Mitrohkin
 Archives and the British Diplomatic Oral History Programme. The Faculty enjoys close links with
 all these libraries, and regularly involves library and archival staff in events for graduate students
 and other scholars to promote the use of the collections, and to integrate some of their treasures
 into research training opportunities.

 Cambridge is also home to several world-class museums, the Fitzwilliam, the Museum of
 Archaeology and Anthropology and the Whipple in particular holding extensive and important
 resources for historical study, both in terms of material culture and pre-modern manuscripts. As
 noted above, we have been developing closer links with museums both locally and
 internationally, and exploring the research possibilities they engender. A number of colleagues
 (particularly medieval and early modern) work with the museums in order to use material culture
 as part of our MPhil programmes, and there are a variety of collaborations in doctoral research


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 projects with Cambridge museums (not eligible under current rules for formal Collaborative
 Doctoral Award funding, but fulfilling much the same overall intention).

 The Faculty is housed in the Grade II-listed James Stirling Building, which accommodates the
 administrative and support staff, the chief Faculty officers (Chair, Deputy Chair, Director of
 Undergraduate Teaching, and so forth), the Seeley historical library, twelve teaching rooms of
 various sizes and several shared spaces, including the Faculty Board Room which is frequently
 host to research seminars, and the Senior Common Room to which many will head after a
 seminar for refreshments and an opportunity to continue informal discussion. The building
 provides a mixture of individual and shared office space for visiting academics and postdoctoral
 fellows, and a shared Graduate Research Room equipped with desktop computers and other
 facilities, with space for a number of postgraduates to work simultaneously; colleges provide
 additional important working space for graduates and postdoctoral researchers. Adjacent
 buildings on the Sidgwick Site – particularly the Alison Richards Building, which is home to
 CRASSH – have provided additional office space for research project staff. Many colleagues
 within the UOA are housed in colleges, not only CTOs and JRFs but in fact most UTOs, all of
 which provide generous office space and accompanying facilities, whilst the Faculty building
 provides an important central hub for contact and exchange (as well as teaching), notably for
 many of the research seminars. Thus History benefits from both the centralised Faculty provision
 of resource, and from its diffusion as a subject across the collegiate university.


 Other research and Impact support

 In addition to external grant funding, there are various important ways in which research is
 supported materially and intellectually in Cambridge. In addition to the sabbatical leave
 entitlement many colleagues apply for an additional term of leave funded by an ‘Early Career
 Fellowship’ from CRASSH, a route which has frequently proved successful for Faculty members,
 with two or three such awards made to us annually. The Faculty provides all UTO and CTO
 colleagues with access to the Travelling Expenses Fund, which disburses up to £1000 per
 person per annum to cover conference attendance or other research travel. New UTO
 appointments also receive an individual research fund of £10K, to spend on research
 expenses at their discretion, ideally within the first five years of appointment (a similar scheme
 operates for appointments to established chairs, with a larger fund provided). In addition, the
 Chair of Faculty is able to support additional collaborative activities from Faculty discretionary
 funds, and from 2019 has created a Strategic Research Initiatives fund to support new
 thematic ‘clusters’, aiming at providing support for an initial exploration of a new area of potential
 collaboration within Cambridge, from which further activities (including grant applications) may
 arise. This disbursed £10K in 2019, supporting initiatives led by Sen (on Labour History),
 Bourke/Kapila (Anti-Colonial Political Thought) and Laven (on Material Histories) respectively,
 each conceived in a global context, and each involving a number of other colleagues, including
 those from other Faculties within the University (for example Asian and Middle Eastern Studies
 and English). The Faculty also supports a number of prestigious lecture series, most notably the
 biennial Trevelyan Lectures (given by James Belich in 2014, Ruth Harris in 2017 and Laurel
 Thatcher Ulrich in 2019) but also the J. R. Seeley Lectures, the Modern Intellectual History
 lecture, the annual Quentin Skinner lecture (all three focussed on Political Thought and
 Intellectual History), and the Ellen McArthur lecture series in economic history.

 The Faculty is fortunate also to house the George Macaulay Trevelyan Fund, which supports
 some of the Faculty research seminars by covering travel and accommodation expenses for

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 visiting speakers, and supports the holding of conferences within Cambridge. Each year the
 Trevelyan Fund spends about 1/3 of its annual income supporting the research seminars
 (roughly £11K), the remainder of the seminar funding (c. £20K in 2019-20) coming from the
 Faculty's annual income. For support in putting on conferences and other intellectual events, the
 Fund is open to applications led by UTOs, CTOs, JRFs, postdocs and PhD students; grants are
 normally up to £1500 per event. In this REF cycle, on top of the support for regular seminars,
 the Fund has spent an average of £18K per annum supporting too many activities to list in
 detail, but including regular conferences (for example 'Print Media in the Colonial World', 2015,
 organised by Arsan; 'Women's Suffrage and Political Activism', 2018, organised by Delap; 'The
 Intellectual History of Universal Basic Income', 2019, organised by Ramos Pinto) and
 interdisciplinary seminar series (for example ‘Conceptions of Childhood: Interdisciplinary
 Perspectives across the Ancient and Medieval Worlds’ in 2019, organised by van Houts and
 Ward).

 The University provides additional support for research activities, most notably the Isaac
 Newton Trust, Cambridge Humanities Research Grants (CHRG), and the Arts and Humanities
 Impact Fund. Applications to each are made competitively; in each area the History Faculty has
 had considerable success. The Isaac Newton Trust provides support for matched-funding
 fellowships, such as Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowships (as held by Pullin, 2016-18;
 Rivest, 2018-present). The Impact Fund provides flexible funding to support and enhance the
 impact of Arts and Humanities research, usually making awards of between £5K and £10K. The
 Faculty has been fortunate to gain support for activities both within an ICS and separately:
 among other examples, £10K for film-making with community groups as part of the ‘Feast and
 Fast’ exhibition (a component within the ‘Material Worlds’ ICS) and £10K for Erickson’s ‘City
 Women in the 18th Century’ exhibition and website resource (likely to lead to an ICS in the next
 REF cycle).

 The CHRG grants provide different levels of funding: small grants, up to £1500 in value,
 typically as pump-priming for larger projects; more substantial grants of up to £20K for larger
 projects; and matched-funding with Paris-Sciences-et-Lettres, to arrange exchange visits
 between French and UK colleagues. Once again, the Faculty has enjoyed the benefits of these
 opportunities. To give a range of examples: Ramos Pinto gained CHRG support in 2016 for a
 pilot project that has now led to a current major ERC grant application (currently at second stage
 of consideration). Spary similarly received ‘seed corn’ support in 2017 to begin her networking
 project ‘Seventeenth-century healing networks in France and Italy’, which aims to lead into a
 future Wellcome Trust bid in the next REF cycle. The Paris-Science-et-Lettres scheme enabled
 two separate medieval collaborations in 2019: ‘Medieval Exchanges: The Circulation of Texts
 and People’ (organised by Berend), and ‘The Church and Social Change’ (Arnold), in both cases
 involving workshops in Cambridge and in Paris involving early career and established scholars.
 O’Reilly has had considerable support from the CHRG, gaining £18K in 2015/16 to support initial
 research on the project ‘Migration and decision making: Contemporary echoes of historical
 phenomena’, £8K in 2019 to support the New Habsburg Studies Research Hub (in conjunction
 with DAAD funding), and further smaller sums to support connected conferences. Briggs gained
 £20K to support a research assistant on his project ‘In Search of Agrarian Capitalism’ in 2019,
 and in that same year Williams received £20K for her project ‘Paupers and the workhouse,
 1841-1911’. A number of other colleagues have received smaller sums to fund archival trips or
 similar research support activities.

 Finally, the 31 colleges within the University also support research activity, most obviously
 via their employment of JRFs and CTOs, and the number of Visiting Research Fellows they

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 support annually, but also – to differing degrees, dependent on the available means of each
 college – by supporting research seminars, lectures and other colloquia, and in many cases by
 supplying additional individual research allowances (usually between £500 and £1500 per
 annum). Some notable events and collaborations include: interdisciplinary seminars (‘Medieval
 Questions’ at King’s, the 'Arts and Humanities' seminar at Darwin), lecture series (Birkbeck
 Lectures and Lees Knowles Lectures at Trinity, Darwin lectures at Darwin College) and various
 conferences and collaborative colloquia (e.g. ‘Anti-Colonial Political Thought’ conference –
 originally scheduled for September 2020, now postponed until 2021 due to Covid-19 – supported
 by the Faculty and by King’s; ‘Music - Liturgy - History: Challenges to Medieval and Early
 Modern Research’, January 2019, supported by King’s and Trinity, in collaboration with QMUL
 and KCL; 'Middle Eastern and Balkan Mobilities in the Interwar Period', November 2017,
 organised by the Skilliter Centre at Newnham; the annual ‘History and the Law’ conference,
 supported by Trinity Hall since 2017; ‘Continental empires, imperial constitutions’ conference,
 March 2017, supported by St John’s and the Trevelyan Fund; ‘Matthew Parker: Archbishop,
 Scholar, Collector’, March 2016, supported by Corpus Christi and CRASSH). Historians benefit
 particularly well from the levels of funding available within colleges, and have proved key in
 prompting and promoting interdisciplinary research exchange of this kind, both within Cambridge
 and, as importantly, bringing international scholars into dialogue through Cambridge events.
 Whilst the Faculty has no direct governance over colleges, our collective research strategy is
 informed by the availability of college funding and research support, and the various ways in
 which it helps to sustain historical research in Cambridge.




                                                                                        Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 As the preceding sections demonstrate, History at Cambridge is a sizeable endeavour, and the
 combination of Faculty, colleges, University and external funding supports a large amount of
 activity by colleagues within the unit. But we also very much see our role nationally and
 internationally. Such an outlook is extremely important to the culture of the Faculty, because of
 our wide range of intellectual engagements, the diverse nature of our graduate community, and
 our desire to continue to facilitate and support research across a range of historical fields. Using
 the considerable resources we are fortunate to command, we have been able not only to sustain
 outstanding research within Cambridge, but to work with others to further the study of history
 throughout the UK and the wider world.

 The Faculty is involved in a number of research centres held at Cambridge, and many
 colleagues are key members in a variety of international research collaborations, both formal
 and informal. Research centres based at Cambridge to which we contribute include:

    •   CamPop (Cambridge Group for the History of Population and Social Structure)
    •   CRASSH (Centre for Research in Arts, Social Sciences and Humanities)
    •   CamCREES (Cambridge Committee for Russian and East European Studies)
    •   Cambridge Centre for Political Thought
    •   Cambridge Institute on Religion and Politics
    •   Centre for History and Economics (at Magdalene)
    •   Centre for Financial History (at Darwin)
    •   Centre of South Asian Studies
    •   Centre for Material Texts
    •   Centre of African Studies
    •   Centre of Latin American Studies
    •   DAAD Cambridge Research Hub for German Studies
    •   Lauterpacht Centre for International Law
    •   Material Culture Forum
    •   The Skilliter Centre for Ottoman Studies (at Newnham)

 In many cases, members of the Faculty provide key leadership roles in the aforementioned:
 CamPop is directed by Shaw-Taylor and Warde (plus a Geography colleague); the Centre for
 Political Thought by Bourke and Brett (alongside colleagues in Politics); Cambridge Institute for
 Religion and Politics by Preston; Centre for Financial History by Needham; Centre of South
 Asian Studies by Sivasundaram; the DAAD hub by Clark. In different ways, each of these
 Centres acts as a means to facilitate collaborative interdisciplinary enquiry, linking scholarship in
 Cambridge to academic colleagues internationally, supporting research activity directly and
 providing a platform from which to develop funding bids.

 Other international collaborations take a variety of different forms. There are several links to
 overseas institutions based upon shared doctoral training interests: thus in this REF cycle
 we have continued the long-standing medievalist connections with Vienna (via McKitterick, rtd.
 2016), have originated collaboration with Columbia University and NYU for doctoral exchange
 activities (via Mandler, Delap and McCarthy), and have had one-off doctoral exchange visits with
 several institutions in Germany and Scandinavia (facilitated by Berend). We host international
 seminar series such as the ‘New Habsburg Studies’ network, funded by DAAD and the German

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Federal Foreign Office; the Intellectual History Group, co-organised by Mandler; and collaborate
 on ‘Legal Histories beyond the State’, jointly organised by the Centre for Political Thought, the
 Lauterpacht Centre for International Law and the Centre for History and Economics. Colleagues
 are and have been Co-Is on funded international research projects, such as ‘The
 Transmission of Knowledge in the Early Middle Ages’ (McKitterick, with the Freie Universität
 Berlin/Universität Tübingen, funded by DAAD), ‘Materialized Identities: Objects, Affects and
 Effects in Early Modern Culture’ (Rublack, with the universities of Basel and Bern, funded by a
 Swiss National Foundation Grant), 'Fleeing Europe: German-Atlantic Migrants and the Crisis of
 1816-17' (O'Reilly, Fritz Thyssen Foundation), 'La guerra civil espanola y tres decadas de guerra
 en Espana: Herencias y consecuencias, (1914-1945/2014)' (Mora-Sitja, Plan Estatal de
 Investigacion Cientifica, Ministerio de Economia y Competitividad, Spain), 'El ejercicio del poder:
 espacios, agentes y escrituras' (Berend, Plan Estatal de Investigacion Cientifica, Ministerio de
 Economia y Competitividad, Spain), and the Centre for Privacy Studies, Copenhagen (Brett,
 funded by the Danish National Research Foundation). In addition, we frequently provide a
 temporary home a large number of visiting international scholars from around the world, both
 those invited by specific Colleges and others who are directly guests of the Faculty; and we are
 proud to have a biennial 'Pitt Professor' of American History within the Faculty, funded since
 1944 by the University, who contributes a research lecture series as well as collaborating with
 Americanist colleagues more generally (a position held in 2019-20 by Heather Ann Thompson
 from Michigan; within this REF cycle held by Naomi Lamoreaux, Ira Katznelson, Margaret
 Jacobs, Barry Eichengreen and David Blight).

 The Faculty has a key role in providing research expertise and learning support to
 universities elsewhere in the world. We have played a strong role on advisory and learned
 committees internationally, including on the Comité International de Paléographie Latine
 (Webber), for the Research Council of Norway-funded project 'The Self in Social Spaces'
 (Arnold), 'The Grand Tour Explored', Digitisation Project, Stanford University (Calaresu), ERC-
 funded project 'Disasters, Communication and Politics in South-Western Europe', University of
 Naples (Calaresu), ERC-funded project 'Religious Minorities in the Middle Ages', University of
 Nantes (Berend), Danish Research council-funded 'Papal Communication and Authority in the
 Central Middle Ages' (Berend) and Polish Ministry of Science-funded 'Cohesion Building in
 Multiethnic Societies, 10th-21st century' (Berend). Colleagues have also engaged in various
 specific advisory tasks for the benefit of higher education globally, for example the accreditation
 review for CEU Vienna (Brett), acting as Reviewer for the Croatian Agency for Higher Education
 regarding doctoral studies at the University of Zadar and the University of Split (Maxwell), being
 Chair of the International Advisory Panel, Institute of Advanced Study, Hungary (O'Reilly), as a
 member of the team reviewing the International Institute of Social History, Amsterdam (Austin),
 and as advisor to the Department of Economic History, University of Zimbabwe on proposals for
 new degrees (Austin). A number of colleagues have been asked to act as expert advisors for
 tenure or professorial promotions internationally, for a host of US and Canadian institutions
 and for the EHESS Paris, and the University of Geneva; and within this period have acted as
 external examiners for around 45 PhD candidates internationally, for institutions in Australia,
 India, Africa, America and across Europe. We have reviewed grants for over 40 different EU and
 overseas institutions ranging from the MacArthur Foundation in the US to the Rustaveli National
 Science Foundation in Georgia, from the Research Foundation of Flanders to the Fondo
 Nacional de Desarrollo Cientafico y Tecnolagico, Chile.

 Numerous colleagues have held international Visiting Professorships or similar invited
 roles, linking our research to other centres of excellence in Europe and the wider world, from
 New Zealand to Ghana to South Africa. Invited fellowships held in the REF period include:

                                                                                             Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Ganshof van der Meersch Visiting Professorship, Université Libre de Bruxelle (Arsan), Visiting
 Professor, University of Ghana (Austin), Visiting professor, University of Stockholm, Sweden
 (Berend), Freie Universität Berlin (Bourke), Visiting Fellow, EHESS Marseille (Calaresu), Visiting
 Fellow, Department of History, Stanford (Calaresu), Fellow of Stellenbosch Institute of Advanced
 Studies, South Africa (Dubow), Visiting Fellow, Historisches Kolleg, Munich (Jahn), Visiting
 Fellow Max Planck Institute for Legal Anthropology, Halle (Kindersley), Charles Montgomery
 Grey Fellowship, Newberry Library, Chicago (Maghenzani), Visiting Professor, Institute for
 Research in the Humanities, University of Bucharest (Mandelbrote), Visiting Research fellow
 University of Leipzig (Maxwell), St John's Visiting Scholar, University of Wellington, NZ
 (Maxwell), Pro Futura Scientia Fellow, Swedish Collegium for Advanced Study, Uppsala
 (Meckstroth), Visiting Fellow, Centre for History and Economics, Harvard (Morieux), Visiting
 Professorial Fellow, Université de Paris I-Sorbonne (O'Reilly), Visiting Professorial Fellow,
 University of Bielefeld (O'Reilly), Senior Fellow, Institute of Advanced Study, Budapest, Hungary
 (O'Reilly), Senior Fellowship, William P. Clements Center for Southwest Studies, Southern
 Methodist University, Dallas, Texas (Pearsall), Visiting Professor, Sciences-Po-Le Havre
 (Preston), Visiting Fellow, International Inequalities Institute, LSE (Ramos Pinto), Andrew W.
 Mellon Foundation Fellowship at the Huntington Library (Robson), Descartes Fellowship,
 Netherlandish Institute for Advanced Studies (Rublack), Leibniz Fellowship, Institute for
 European History, Mainz (Rublack), Senior Visiting Fellowship, Herzog-August Library
 Wolfenbüttel (Rublack), Wellcome Trust Research Fellowship, Swiss National Science
 Foundation (Rusterholz), Visiting Fellowship and Director of Spring Seminar, Folger
 Shakespeare Library, Washington DC (Walsham), Mary Robertson Fellowship, Huntington
 Library, California (Walsham), Visiting Fellow, Trinity College, Dublin (Woodman).

 Our networks and collaborations within the United Kingdom are also very strong. We have
 collectively played a large national role for the discipline, ranging from acting as external
 examiner for around 100 PhDs to sitting on various professorial appointment committees as
 external experts. Our colleagues hold key leadership roles in a variety of learned societies,
 including the Royal Historical Society (Mandler, President; Walsham, Vice-President;
 Sivasundaram, elected council member), the Past & Present Society (Arnold, Gerstle, Morieux,
 Walsham), the African Studies Association of the UK (Maxwell, to 2016) and the Society of
 Historians for American Foreign Relations (Preston). A number of colleagues were elected
 members of the British Academy within this REF cycle (joining Clark, Reynolds, Walsham and
 other emeritus colleagues): Bashford (2017), Bourke (2018), Chatterji (2018), Gerstle (2017),
 Mandler (2015), Rublack (2017), and Webber (2017). Various colleagues have participated in
 grant-funded projects held by other institutions within the UK, both as grant holders (e.g. van
 Houts’ collaboration with colleagues in Bristol, on the Leverhulme-funded project 'The Literary
 Heritage of Anglo-Dutch Relations 1030-1600') and on advisory boards (e.g. Mandler for the
 Wellcome-funded 'Hidden Persuaders' project held at Birkbeck).

 In addition to a host of plenary lectures at various international conferences, colleagues have
 been invited to contribute to a number of named lectures and lecture series within the UK and
 internationally, including the Ford lectures at Oxford (Carpenter [rtd], Walsham), the Neale
 Lecture at UCL (Walsham), the Society for Renaissance Studies annual lecture at the Warburg
 (Walsham), the 50th Anniversary Lecture, Dept of History at York (Arnold), the Wittreich Lecture
 at Louisville Kentucky (Lambert), the Ben Pimlott Memorial Lecture, Centre for Contemporary
 British History (Mandler), Emden Lecturer, St Edmund Hall Oxford (Mandler), Eugene Lunn
 Memorial Lecturer, University of California, Davis (Mandler), the African Studies Association of
 the UK Presidential Address (Maxwell), the Stuart L. Bernath Lecture, Washington, DC
 (Preston), the Byrn Lecture, Vanderbilt (Rublack), the University of Suffolk’s Wolsey Lecture

                                                                                           Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Cavill), the Lyell Lectures at Oxford (Webber) and the Tim Reuter Memorial Lecture at
 Southampton (Webber). The strength and wider contribution of individual colleagues’ research
 has been recognised by a variety of international prizes, including the RHS Prize for Public
 History (Chatterji, Delap), the Guardian Prize for Research Impact (Chatterji), the RHS Whitfield
 Prize (Gallagher, Griffin), the American Historical Association’s Leo Gershoy Award (Morieux),
 the American Historical Association’s Eugenia Palmegiano Prize (Guarnieri), the Istvan Hont
 Memorial Prize (Bourke), the Reimar-Lüst Prize, awarded by the Humboldt and Thyssen
 Foundation (Rublack), the German Historikerpreis (Rublack), the Wolfson Prize (Clark), and for
 his services to Anglo-German relations, Clark was awarded a knighthood in 2015, and in 2018
 the European Prize for Political Culture.

 We also make a major editorial contribution to the production of excellent scholarship by the
 international community. The Faculty houses and supports the Historical Journal, and
 colleagues have within this REF cycle sat on the editorial boards of fourteen generalist journals -
 including Past & Present (Arnold, Gerstle, Morieux, Walsham [lead editor]), Journal of British
 Studies (Bourke, Mandler), Economic History Review (Austin), Gender & History (Pearsall),
 Journal of Global History (Austin)- and twenty-six more specialist titles, such as Modern
 American History (Preston), International Review of Social History (Austin), Mashriq & Mahjar:
 Journal of Middle East Migration Studies (Arsan), Modern Asian Studies (Chatterji),
 Contemporary European History (Ramos Pinto), African Economic History (Austin), History of
 Political Thought (Goldie), Modern Intellectual History (Bourke, Mandler), Archiv für
 Reformationsgeschichte (Walsham), Renaissance Quarterly (Laven), Anglo-Norman Studies
 (van Houts), Bulletin of Latin American Research (Ramos), Journal of South African Studies
 (Dubow), Journal of the History of International Law (Brett) and Twentieth-Century British History
 (McCarthy). We are editors of over twenty-five noted publication series for academic presses,
 including Cambridge University Press, Oxford University Press, Princeton University Press,
 Boydell, Brill, York Medieval Press, Palgrave Macmillan and Brepols. And we have also
 frequently been grant reviewers for UK funders, including the AHRC, the ESRC, the British
 Academy, Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust and the Royal Society.

 Thus a large part of our intellectual endeavour is directed to the wider academic community
 nationally and internationally. But we also have a strong tradition of engagement with non-
 and para-academic audiences, not only in terms of bringing history to the wider general public,
 but also through contributing to historical education nationally (and indeed internationally), and in
 the focused areas of policy discussion, where we see it as vitally important that strong historical
 research can inform politicians, advisors, and activists. As set out in section 1, we have a three-
 fold strategic structure for Impact, embracing policy, heritage, and education.

 With regard to policy and politics more broadly, we have developed a number of different routes
 to engagement, some (but not all) of which are visible within our ICSs. Various colleagues
 (Abulafia [rtd], Arsan, Austin, Biagini, Chatterji [rtd], Gerstle, Mandler, Muldrew, Robertson [rtd],
 Shaw-Taylor, Szreter, Warde) have participated in knowledge exchange meetings with senior
 civil servants at the Centre for Science and Policy, and certain colleagues have played a
 particular role advising on public projects: for example, Delap has acted as consultant for Her
 Majesty's Prisons and Probation Service; and Needham was asked by HM Treasury to research
 the abandoned project to create a third airport for London in the early 1970s, and has
 subsequently presented workshops about its implications to them, to the Airports Commission,
 and to the Department of Transport. Needham also runs a seminar series at HM Treasury in
 London; and Preston convenes the Cambridge Institute for Religion and International Studies via
 Clare College.

                                                                                              Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 We have supported a large number of seminars and events directly engaging policy makers and
 related figures, and as various of our ICSs demonstrate (see for example those led by Clark,
 Delap, Mandler, Preston and Kindersley), we have been able to inform the decisions and actions
 of politicians, law-makers, charities and activists in a variety of areas. Events at Cambridge have
 included a sustained programme of activities with international diplomats delivered by the
 Cambridge Institute for Religion and International Studies, and various individual events, such as
 a major panel discussion on ‘The Challenges of Delivering the Good Friday Agreement’
 (November 2019) involving several key former ministers (chaired by Gallagher and hosted at St
 Catharine’s College).

 Cambridge is also home to History & Policy (founded by Szreter and co-directed with
 Needham, with input from many colleagues here), whose website has now published over 200
 policy papers and over 200 opinion articles, among various other publications, in which cutting-
 edge historical research is presented in regard to current political and policy issues. The History
 and Policy website has many users and still-increasing traffic, with an average of 20,762 unique
 page-views per month (1 Jan 2017 – 30 June 2019), 10,077 followers on Twitter, 5,128 plays of
 podcasts on Soundcloud (since 1 Jan 2017) and 1,616 ebook downloads (since same date). UK
 users form the majority (59%) but History & Policy is also global in reach with over 15% from
 USA, and other users from Australia, India, Canada, France, Germany, South Africa, Philippines
 and China. There are now emulator institutions in other countries and in December 2019 the first
 international H&P meeting was held with scholars from USA, Australia, South Africa, Singapore
 and Germany. This sustained activity has helped to consolidate the position of Cambridge as a
 key facilitator of expert policy advice from an historical perspective. Szreter was called to give
 oral evidence to the House of Commons Public Administration Select Committee enquiry into
 Building Civil Service Skills, following History & Policy’s written submission on this subject. The
 No. 10 Downing Street website invited History & Policy to provide content, two of our colleagues
 (Griffin and Thompson) gladly complying. Cambridge historians including Szreter and Delap
 organised a conference with Friends of the Earth’s Head of Research, Mike Childs,
 subsequently producing the online publication, Campaigning for Change: Lessons from History.

 More general forms of public engagement are important to the Faculty as we engage in the
 historical element of current public culture and discussion. To that end colleagues have been
 involved in outreach initiatives for the wider public, including talks at the annual Cambridge
 Festival of Ideas (Gonzalez, Griffin, Laven, Maxwell, McCarthy, Simpson, Sivasundaram, Spary,
 van Houts, Williams), at international literary events such as the Hay Festival (Delap, Mandler,
 McCarthy, Rublack, Sivasundaram), on television (for example Jackson’s series The Stuarts for
 the BBC in 2014-15, Clark’s Deutschland Saga for RZA in Germany, 2019 [part of his ICS]), and
 as part of high-audience radio programmes such as In Our Time, Free-Thinking, and Woman’s
 Hour (Asseraf, Berend, Bourke, Delap, Fleet, Griffin, Guyatt, Jahn, Laven, Mandler, McCarthy,
 Rublack), as well as contributing to various podcasts and other online media of different kinds,
 such as the ‘History of Now’ podcast series (Clark).

 Also in line with our strategic aims, discussed in section 1, we have engaged closely with
 heritage providers and museums. The Fitzwilliam museum has already collaborated with
 colleagues on a sequence of major exhibitions linked to wider research projects (Laven et al.,
 'Madonnas and Miracles'; Calaresu, 'Eat Feast Fast'; Rublack et al., 'Treasured Possessions');
 whilst on a national scale, Walsham's 'Remembering the Reformation' project has led to
 exhibitions and collaboration with Cambridge University Library, York Minster, Lambeth Palace,
 and The National Archives; these have led to Impact Case Studies. Our research expertise has

                                                                                            Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 fed into additional projects internationally, for example Fulda's co-curation of a major exhibition
 on the artist Emile Nolde at the Nationalgalerie in Berlin (April-Sept 2019); Dinwoodie as advisor
 to ‘We Never Left: Artists of the Southeast Indian Tribes’, Museum of Arts and Sciences, Florida
 (Jan-April 2019, and subsequent tour); Griffin and Delap co-curated ‘The Rising Tide: Women at
 Cambridge’ exhibition, University Library, Cambridge (2019-20); Simpson advised on the
 ‘Surveying the Nagas’ exhibition, Pitt Rivers Museum Oxford, November 2018-May 2019;
 Mandelbrote advised ‘Les livres due jardin’ exhibition, Fondation Martin Bodmer, Coligny,
 Switzerland (2018); Delap advised the British Library's 'Dreams and Demands: Women's Lives
 in Modern Britain' (2020); in addition to her work with the Fitzwilliam, Rublack advised ‘Dressed
 for Success’ exhibition, Herzog Anton-Ulrich Museum, Brunswick (2018-19); Jahn advised
 ‘Germans and Georgians’ exhibition, Georgian National Gallery Tblisi (2017); Webber co-
 curated ‘Scribes and Royal Authority’ exhibition, National Archives, Kew (2017); and as Leibniz
 Honorary Professor at the German National Maritime Museum, O’Reilly consults on various
 exhibitions there. Mandler advised on the Waddesdon Gallery at the British Museum, and
 subsequently supervised a Collaborative Doctoral Award (CDA) with their curator. We have also
 supervised CDAs with the National Maritime Museum.

 Turning to education, we contribute via the Faculty and our colleges to a variety of outreach
 activities nationally, in which we seek to make our current research - and its intellectual
 excitement - accessible and legible to a broad and diverse audience. The Faculty began the
 important ‘History for Schools’ programme in 2011 (director: Rublack) and this runs an annual
 programme of free events held within the Faculty and at the Fitzwilliam museum, usually
 structured as day workshops aimed at Keystage 2 and 3 children, drawing on the considerable
 research expertise of colleagues (www.hist.cam.ac.uk/schools/). In addition, we have put on
 particular one-off events to support school education, such as ‘Medieval History Day’ (organised
 by Berend) in 2017, which was attended by over seventy teachers, and to which various
 colleagues contributed (Arnold, Berend, Burt, Partington, Spencer, van Houts, Webber); and
 various colleagues have given talks for the Historical Association (of which Mandler was elected
 President in 2020) in a variety of locales across the country. Many colleagues engage in
 outreach activities both through the Faculty and via their colleges; the Faculty has two Schools
 Liaison Officers (currently Leow and Lawlor) who coordinate activities with schools nationally.
 We have been actively engaged with organisations which seek, via educational activities, to
 promote social justice and social engagement in communities nationally, notably via the Princes
 Teaching Institute (Briggs), the Sutton Trust (Simpson, Ward) and the Speakers for Schools
 charity (Rublack). The importance of educational engagement is visible in several of our ICSs
 (see those led by Chatterji [rtd], Mandler, Walsham)

 A number of colleagues have helped to produce teaching resources for schools, such as the
 short lecture series made commercially available by Massolit (www.massolit.io; contributions by
 Arnold, Asseraf, and former colleagues Hamilton and Haeussler), as well as contributing pieces
 to broad-audience publications such as BBC History magazine and History Today. Arsan has
 acted as syllabus consultant for new A-level module, for OCR History, and Mandler's ESRC-
 funded research project 'Secondary Education and Social Change in the UK since 1945' has the
 Historical Association as a project partner, and engages in considerable Impact work with
 schools and school teachers. More broadly, many colleagues have published outputs – books
 and newspaper or magazine articles - which address a wider public audience beyond academia
 (Arnold, Bourke, Clark, Foyster, Jackson, Mandler, Mandelbrote, Rublack, Smith, Waldmann,
 Williams among others).



                                                                                             Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In conclusion

 The History Faculty at Cambridge has two great strengths, which are central to all we do: we are
 large, and we are diverse in our interests. These strengths are also challenges – as discussed in
 the first section above – but they mean that we do not simply possess 'critical mass', but
 comprise a series of interlocking critical masses. Thus the wide-ranging interests of World
 History colleagues intermesh with both the socioeconomic and the political research pursued by
 the European historians; a shared focus on cultural and religious history connects many of the
 pre-modernists, as well as certain of the World Historians; interests in gender, race and sexuality
 are spread across Subject Groups, as are a concern with power, authority and national
 ideologies. One effect of these interconnections is the way that new initiatives appear from within
 the whole, through the growth of horizontal links and intellectual inspiration. In this way History &
 Policy, whilst often focussed on modern historical topics, has successfully drawn collaboration
 from medievalists and early modernists. Similarly, the success in working with museums among
 the early modernists has opened up these possibilities for other colleagues. Overall, the sense
 of a broadly shared project in bringing the fruits of historical enquiry to the widest possible
 international audience sits at the heart of our collective endeavours, and provides the essential
 basis for our research environment at all levels.

 We are proud of our collective research contribution, our ability to support new generations of
 researchers at both postgraduate and postdoctoral level, and the broader ways in which the
 considerable resources within Cambridge help to form and sustain national and international
 research collaboration. Reflecting on our many areas of strength, we note some which are very
 long established, such the medieval and early modern history of Europe, British and European
 social, economic and political history, American history, and the history of Africa and of south-
 east Asia. Within this REF cycle we note also in conclusion the emergence of new areas of
 expertise, where we are particularly pleased to have built on our strong foundations to expand
 into fresh topics and approaches. One such expansion is the move from imperial to more truly
 global history, for example expanding the global into pre-modern history: in addition to our
 existing early Ottomanist, we will have two new colleagues arriving in 2020-21 who work on East
 Asia (one early-modernist, one modernist). Political Thought and Intellectual History have
 similarly been expanding their interests beyond the European tradition to engage in colonial and
 post-colonial political thought and the intersection with international law. We have developed
 environmental history within both a European and a global context, strengthened American
 history beyond the US and have broadened our reach within the history of modern Asia. We
 have advertised a new lectureship, in Black British history. And we are excited by the work which
 many colleagues are pursuing in an interdisciplinary fashion in the historical understanding and
 use of material culture. As we look to the next cycle of research, we remain determined to build
 and sustain further intellectual connections and international links, so essential to the meaningful
 study of history.




                                                                                              Page 26
