Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: The University of Manchester

 Unit of assessment: 32 (Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory)

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Context and Structure

 Art History and Cultural Practices (AHCP), is a nexus of art history, curation, and
 heritage studies within the School of Arts, Languages, and Cultures (SALC), and the
 Faculty of Humanities. Our distinctive approach to research is channelled through
 place-based public engagement and driven by a decolonised approach to art history
 and cultural practice. Our department stands out for its unique concentration on art
 writing, and the intersection of art, science and digital heritage.
 Since REF2014, we have evolved as a vibrant unit with a distinctive configuration that
 facilitates our work on global approaches to art historical and cultural studies in
 tandem with a localised vision for action as scholars and practitioners. We produce
 field-leading research, supporting dynamic impact across multiple cultural sectors.
 Our configuration is the result of a strategic initiative bringing together:

       The Department of Art History (Gerbino, Holmes, Mavor, Miller,
        Skrebowski, Terracciano, Trodd, Warr, Wouk),
       The Institute of Cultural Practices (ICP) (Ashton, Arvanitis, Gilmore, Martin,
        Parry (returned with Drama)), an interdisciplinary unit, formed around the core
        of the historic Centre for Museology, foregrounding practice-based research
        which engages with cultural and heritage producers and organisations.
 Our amalgamation (2015) builds on mutual interests and strengths, and our
 established connections to artistic and cultural resources. It has created dynamic new
 synergies that exemplify our shared objectives and is strengthened by our 2 current
 post-doctoral research fellows (PDRFs) with their focus on cultural politics (Lionis)
 and epistemic images (Whiteley).

 In the REF2021 cycle we have:

       Published over 65 books, articles, and book chapters,
       Continued to increase our engagement with museums, and cultural and
        heritage organisations, including exhibitions curated with a range of local and
        national partners (14 from 6 in the REF2014 cycle),
       Supervised 34 PhD students from wide-ranging international backgrounds to
        completion (24 FTE),
       Performed academic service for 29 leading journals, 9 major presses, and 8
        professional associations across art history and cultural practice,
       Achieved an average per capita research funding of £68,532.
 We have brought cultural resources in Manchester and beyond increasingly to the
 foreground of our research and impact, helping to change the ways in which
 collections are understood and to shape heritage management and cultural policy.
 We have both led and contributed to initiatives within the University, the region, and
 internationally:


                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        The investment in Creative Manchester, established in 2018 as a SALC-led
         multidisciplinary platform (Arvanitis, Manchester Together Archive; Gilmore,
         Creative Industries Policy and Evidence Centre),
        The new South Asian gallery, part of the £13.5 million transformation of the
         Manchester Museum (Holmes, Martin, Terracciano),
        Deepening collaborations with the Whitworth Art Gallery and the John
         Rylands Research Institute (JRRI) (Trodd, Warr, Whiteley, Wouk),
        Working with the SALC-based Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Studies
         (CMEMS) (Gerbino, Warr, Wouk),
        Collaborations with local authorities and national institutions influencing
         cultural policy (Arvanitis, Gilmore, Ashton),
        International advisory positions (Martin, Museum advisor for the Central
         Tibetan Government).
 As art historians, museologists, and arts and heritage management researchers, we
 embrace diverse methodological approaches and collaborate on a range of practice-
 based initiatives of international significance. Our work privileges art historical
 research across a wide geographic and temporal scope, alongside practical
 engagement with the cultural sector. We foster critical dialogue around institutional
 ideas, policies and practices in ways that reflect the mix of global and local
 perspectives that are a distinctive feature of our department. Our REF2021
 submission reflects our deep commitment to the study of art and its publics and our
 contributions towards policy development and co-production within the heritage
 sector.
 1.2. Research and Impact Strategy

 Investment in the department since REF2014 has increased our FTE permanent
 research staff from 10.5 to 12.5. Together with replacement posts, this has allowed
 us to consolidate and expand strategically our cross-disciplinary profile with
 emphases on:

        Non-European fields of study (Asian, South Asian, diasporic, and global
         contemporary art),
        Engagement with collections and creative economy policies, including:
             o Socially responsible heritage and curating (ethics of collecting, climate
                resilience, decolonisation and the museum, feminist curatorial practices,
                underrepresented groups),
             o Creative economy policy development with cultural and heritage
                partners,
        Art and science, Digital Heritage (theory and practice of digital technology in
         museums, galleries and heritage sites).

 Our broadening relationships with galleries, museums, and the heritage sector,
 together with our collective decision to increase our work on decolonisation and the
 ethics and political implications of collecting are exemplified in our chosen impact
 case studies. Together they demonstrate the positive force of our research within the
 cultural sector, both in the North West and internationally.




                                                                                   Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 1.2.1. Implementation of REF2014 Research and Impact Objectives

 Building on REF2014, we have implemented three key research objectives:
 (1) Advancing dialogue between art history and cultural practices.
     Whitworth Studies was established in 2015 in direct response to a need identified
     in REF2014 for a forum to facilitate dialogue among art historians, curators,
     cultural practitioners and a broader public. This embodies one key means to
     enhance dialogue across our fields of art history and cultural practice. With
     approximately six events per year, it brings the department together with the
     University’s Whitworth Art Gallery to explore common research interests. It
     emphasises the participation of non-academic audiences in the formulation,
     production, and reception of research by foregrounding community-based
     curatorial practices. The focus on cross-disciplinary dialogue in the arts also
     shapes our Pilkington Visiting Professorship, which attracts world-famous
     academics and practitioners for a week of public lectures, student seminars, and
     master classes (Horst Bredekamp, 2014; Cornelia Parker, Malcolm Bull, 2015;
     David Freedberg, Alex Potts, Marina Warner, 2016; Nicholas Penny, T.J. Clark,
     2017; Claire Bishop, 2019).

 (2) Decolonising our research and teaching particularly in contemporary art.
     Our research and curriculum profile now demonstrate a significant commitment to
     non-European art, with investment in the fields of Asian and South Asian art
     (Holmes, Martin, Terracciano) and leading work with impact in the field (Martin,
     see 1.2.1(3)). Additionally, building on one of our department’s long-standing
     strengths, we actively promote research into gender and sexuality in the visual
     arts and cultural practices (Ashton, Lomas, Mavor, Miller, Terracciano, Warr).
     We continue to build our strengths in modern and contemporary art, particularly
     from a global or non-European perspective: appointing new colleagues
     (Skrebowski, Holmes, Terracciano), and hosting a PDRF in the field (Lionis).

 (3) Deepening engagement with local and national cultural partners and
     implementing co-designed and collaborative cultural professional policies.
     Our hybrid approach to Art History and Cultural Heritage is mediated through our
     engagement with museums and galleries locally and internationally, which has
     increased significantly since REF2014. Nearly all members of AHCP are
     research-active curators embedded in the cultural economy in the North West and
     beyond. Colleagues have curated exhibitions arising from research in the history
     of printmaking (Wouk); surgical illustration (Warr); contemporary literature and art
     (Skrebowski); women’s cultural heritage and exhibition practices relating to
     female, refugee and BAME artists (Ashton); the political implications of online
     digital art; and art, creativity, and reproduction (Holmes). They have also
     contributed to, and acted as advisors for, national and international exhibitions in,
     for example, Paris, Barcelona, London, Paris and Mantua (Gerbino, Miller,
     Trodd, Wouk).

    Our two Impact Case Studies (ICSs) arise out of this expanding departmental
    culture, demonstrating how members of AHCP inform exhibition and archival
    practice:



                                                                                    Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           Martin’s research has led to fundamental, permanent change in the
            approach to Tibetan art collections, policies, and displays at World
            Museums, Liverpool (WML), and has reshaped museum practice and
            governance at the Tibet Museum, Dharamshala, India.
           Arvanitis’s work has had a transformative effect on thinking around the
            ethics of collecting and documenting, through his studies of the contents of
            spontaneous memorials to the Manchester Arena Bombing housed at the
            Manchester Art Gallery. His research connects to the SALC Humanitarian
            and Conflict Response Institute in its concentration on responses to large
            traumatic violent events.
 1.2.2. Future Research and Impact Strategy

 We have identified four key foci for our future research strategy, further developing
 existing areas of strength and determining new pathways for research:
 (1) Exhibitions as research methodology, particularly in a decolonising context.
     Colleagues will explore the exhibition as a research methodology across a range
     of topics with a particular focus on decolonising contexts and the archive. These
     projects, developed through collaborative design, seek to engage partners and
     audiences in assessing ethical issues, as well as involving under-represented
     demographics. They encompass new exhibitions of Tibetan and diasporic art at
     the WML and Tibet Museum (Martin); South Asian and diasporic art at the
     Manchester Museum and the Whitworth Art Gallery (Martin, Terracciano);
     memorials to trauma at the Manchester Art Gallery and Manchester City Library
     (Arvanitis); creative communities and British civil society in the long nineteenth
     century at the John Rylands Library, Deansgate (JRL), and the Salford Museum
     and Art Gallery (Trodd); and German art and collecting practices at the Whitworth
     Art Gallery and JRL (Wouk).

 (2) Socially engaged and collaborative heritage practice.
    We will continue to expand our relationships with galleries, museums and the
    heritage industry through advising and co-development of policy in Manchester
    and the North West, as well as at a national and international level, around topics
    including decolonising museum and exhibition display, and the ethics of collection
    and archiving. We will maintain our support for dynamic and sustained
    engagement with the cultural sector in projects with the potential to influence
    heritage, museum, collection, and display policies. This forms part of the
    continuing development of Creative Manchester, established in 2018 with
    University endowment investment and led by SALC, with Sir Peter Bazalgette
    appointed Honorary Professor of Creative Industries in 2019. This is an
    interdisciplinary platform designed to support the creative industries and to drive
    forward the creative and cultural economy of Greater Manchester.

   Areas of activity include:

           Climate: Ashton’s ‘Community Climate Resilience through Folk Pageantry’
            (PI, AHRC and Met Office, UK Climate Resilience Programme, 2020-2022,
            £417,445). This is part of a long-term engagement with environmental
            issues evidenced by her work as Co-I on the ‘Green infrastructure and the


                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


           Health and wellbeing Influences on an Ageing Population’ project (National
           Environment Research Council, AHRC, ESRC, 2016-2019).
          Trauma and spontaneous memorials: Arvanitis’s work is developing its
           international scope and authority with international collaborations for grant
           applications planned with colleagues in Oslo and Greece.
          Ethics of collections and archiving: Martin’s research informs collecting
           practices in the UK and Tibet (see 4.2 and 1.2.1(3)). Activities include her
           research network ‘Object lessons from Tibet and the Himalayas’, and her
           expanding work on colonial archives (forthcoming book Beyond the Colonial
           Collector).

 (3) The intersections of art, science, and digital heritage.
     We will develop our research in these areas, facilitated by University-supported
     initiatives including the cross-faculty Manchester Medical Laboratory, and SALC’s
     investments in Digital Humanities, both of which have provided enhanced
     research infrastructure. Our evolving work includes research into artificial
     intelligence and contemporary art practices (Skrebowski), visual culture of
     mapping practices with GIS (Gerbino), big data modelling in the heritage sector
     (Arvanitis and Gilmore), medical humanities (Ashton, Warr), and art and
     ecology (Skrebowski, Terracciano).

 (4) Art writing as practice, research focus, and creative process.
     We are committed to work in the field of art writing as both practice and focus of
     research. Mavor’s pioneering and on-going work bridging art history and creative
     writing, together with her extensive mentoring of interdisciplinary postgraduate
     researchers, continues to shape departmental culture and objectives. Miller’s
     work on surrealist writing practices, and Skrebowski’s expanding research into
     post-conceptual art and the novel explore writing as both an art historical and
     creative process. Our collective interests in the links between the visual and the
     textual are developed through Trodd’s examination of canon formation in histories
     of British art in the long nineteenth century, Warr’s work on the written and visual
     representation of stigmata, and Wouk’s study of art discourses outside Italy
     during the Renaissance. We continue to build close links with the Centre for New
     Writing, English and American Studies, and Italian Studies, with new collaborative
     postgraduate research projects around themes of art writing as practice, including
     projects on Rasheed Araeen, Lodovico Dolce, and Barbara Hepworth, which
     combine art historical research with filmic production, personal narrative, and
     poetry.


 Section 2: People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy and Development
 2.1.1. Appointments

 Since REF2014 AHCP’s staff profile has been transformed as part of our strategic
 goals to develop non-European fields of study, as well as engagement with
 collections, cultural policy, and heritage studies. We have been able to achieve this
 through replacement posts and increased investment. 2 professors retired (Rees-
 Leahy, Lomas) and 3 colleagues (2.5 FTE) moved elsewhere: one professor (Crinson

                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 to Birkbeck), Tythacott (to SOAS as Pratapaditya Pal Senior Lecturer, subsequently
 to Woon Tai Jee Professor of Asian Art at Northumbria University), and Lovatt (to
 Southern Methodist University). Martin, an expert in the history, collection, and
 display of Asian art joined in 2015 at 0.5 FTE (0.5 at National Museums Liverpool).
 Ashton was appointed in 2018 as part of a concerted move into Heritage
 Studies. We have considerably enhanced our profile in modern and contemporary art
 with Skrebowski (2016); Holmes, appointed to a prestigious research-focused
 Presidential Fellowship (2019-2020), and now part of the department of Chinese
 Studies at the University of St Andrews (August 2020-); and Terracciano (2020). The
 latter two, together with Martin, demonstrate our investment in Asian and South
 Asian art. Arvanitis moved to a teaching and research contract (2019), recognising
 his increasingly important contribution to research in collecting practices relating to
 trauma.
 We have benefitted from hosting externally funded PDRFs whose research
 contributes towards our goals. Billingsley, Leverhulme Early Career Fellow/John
 Rylands Research Institute (JRRI) Fellow (2017-2019); Pawlik, Leverhulme Early
 Career Fellow (2011-2014); Lionis, Marie Sklodowska-Curie Research Fellow
 (2018-); and Whiteley, Shreeve Fellow in the History of Medicine (research post
 created through philanthropic donation), jointly with the JRRI (2018-), have expanded
 our work in strategic areas including: decolonisation (Lionis), art and science
 (Whiteley).
 2.1.2. Equality and diversity

 Our staff profile has developed since 2014 when over one third (2F/2M, of 10.5 FTE
 permanent) were at professorial level. Reflecting the vitality of AHCP and our
 investment in new talent, there has been an overall shift with 9.5 FTE now at lecturer
 and senior lecturer level. The majority of our colleagues (permanent academic staff
 and PDRFs) are under 50 (11.5 FTE). We have continued our commitment to equal
 gender representation. In 2014 there was gender parity in our UoA. For REF2021
 permanent colleagues number 6.5F/6M, with 2F PDRFs. The departure of senior staff
 has given us the opportunity to support the careers of new female colleagues. Of our
 6 lecturers in post at the census date (4F/2M), 5 were appointed in this REF cycle, of
 whom 4 are female. We actively mentor colleagues and are working towards gender
 equality at all career levels (currently 3F/4M at senior lecturer and above).
 Since REF2014 we have worked towards a curriculum and research culture that
 better reflect the demographics of our population at a local and national level. We
 have moved to decolonise our scholarship, appointing colleagues with expertise in
 non-European art and in the cultural politics of collecting, displaying and interpreting
 objects from non-Western cultures (Holmes, Martin, Terracciano). We have
 supported EDI initiatives within SALC (Ashton, AHCP representative on the SALC
 EDI Committee), including a departmental Race Awareness Workshop. We have
 supported BAME artists through work with local organisations (Ashton); and work
 closely with BAME students to improve our curriculum as part of our long-term
 strategy to cultivate an inclusive research culture. At national level, we have worked
 with the Association for Art History to increase BAME representation within the
 discipline (Wouk, AAH Higher Education Committee, Sub-Committee for De-



                                                                                     Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Colonising Art History). Staff contribute to on-going work on EDI including themed
 research seminars series on decolonisation (Wouk, Terracciano).

 AHCP benefits from SALC and University support for the well being of staff. This
 includes Carers’ Leave, enhanced Carers’ Research Support, Parental Leave,
 Flexible Working Arrangements, and support for return to work after Sickness Leave.
 EDI training is embedded in the Faculty induction programme for new staff. All staff
 undertake compulsory research-integrity training. Staff involved in recruitment and
 management also complete unconscious bias and equality-and-diversity training
 programmes.
 2.1.3. Staff Development Strategy

 Staff development is integral to colleagues’ well being and to research strategies for
 the unit. Our UoA benefits from University and Faculty support for colleagues at all
 levels including the award-winning Manchester Gold Staff programme managed by
 the University’s Staff Learning and Development Unit, which links participants to a
 more experienced colleague to act as a career mentor over nine-months. The Faculty
 of Humanities has a dedicated Researcher Development Team offering professional
 development for researchers at all career stages. At departmental level, research
 support is both individual and collective. It is tailored to the needs of staff and
 appropriate to their career stage.
 Postdoctoral researchers are mentored in research development, career planning,
 and are fully integrated into the department. We have successfully implemented a
 strategy of working with University of Manchester collections to develop externally
 funded projects aligned with our priorities around object-based research and cultural
 practices (Billingsley, Whiteley). PDRFs have close ties to the special collections of
 The University’s Library and the JRRI (Billingsley as one of the founders of the ‘Life of
 Letters’ network, Whiteley’s research into UoM Medical Collections). Researchers
 work closely with the Whitworth Art Gallery (Homeless Sculpture conference, 2016,
 organised by O’Dowd, Art History PhD, Manchester, 2013) supported by the Henry
 Moore Foundation/Arts Council England. Professionalisation is facilitated through the
 development of teaching skills and through presenting in our research seminar series
 (Billingsley, Lionis, Pawlik, Whiteley). This has resulted in successful moves to
 permanent positions: Pawlik is lecturer at the University of Sussex; Billingsley is
 research development manager at the British Library.
 New colleagues have a probationary period (normally four years), with reduced
 teaching and administrative loads in their first three years, and mentoring
 underpinned by a schedule of agreed probation research plans which are reviewed
 each year. For new starters and ECRs, the Humanities New Academics Programme,
 accredited by Advance HE, includes sessions on research career planning.
 All colleagues are entitled to apply for institutional research leave (one semester in
 seven, with inbuilt flexibility to accommodate research-planning cycles) and are
 encouraged to apply for additional leave through internal and external funding.
 Teaching loads are carefully reviewed to ensure provision of research time both
 throughout the academic year and at key points in project trajectories, with additional
 semesters of teaching relief occasionally granted through competitive SALC-wide
 support funds. Gilmore, Miller, Warr, Wouk received supplementary research leave
 during the current cycle. Collectively, all colleagues participate in our buoyant

                                                                                    Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 research culture underpinned by the regular seminar series, a focal point for debate
 and engagement. The series, organised around annual themes determined by staff
 and students, brings together external speakers and internal contributions from staff,
 post-doctoral researchers, and PhD students.
 The Research Coordinator runs regular surgeries organised around the Personal
 Research Expectation Plan (PREP) encompassing discussion of plans to achieve
 research and impact goals. Staff are offered annual Performance and Development
 Reviews, focused on research training needs, mentoring, and other forms of support.
 The Head of Department holds regular meetings with colleagues holding key posts in
 order to share best practice and to provide advice on internal promotion. During the
 REF 2021 cycle two colleagues have been promoted: Gerbino to Senior Lecturer,
 Wouk to Reader. Colleagues also provide informal mentoring on developing
 collaborations with museums, galleries and heritage organisations, supported by
 partners at the Whitworth Art Gallery, Manchester Museum, and JRRI. All research
 staff are entitled to a Personal Research Allowance (raised from £600 to £1000
 during the current cycle). The SALC Research Support and Development Fund
 provides up to £6,000 on a competitive basis for research development. The
 Research Networking Fund provides up to £5.000. Staff have a strong track record of
 successful applications (Arvanitis, Gerbino, Gilmore, Martin, Skrebowski, Trodd,
 Warr, Wouk), and of converting internal funding into larger external grant bids. They
 work closely with SALC’s Research Office and grant writing support team to develop
 grant capture plans.

 2.1.4. Impact support

 AHCP benefits from generous support for impact from SALC: supplementary and
 impact-related research leave, grants to assist with dissemination and evidence
 gathering, and extensive support of ICS development from the Associate Director for
 Research (Impact), and SALC’s Knowledge Exchange and Impact Officer. Both
 authors of our ICSs, Martin and Arvanitis, received supplementary leave to develop
 their research. Arvanitis’s research on spontaneous memorials went on to receive
 funding from the British Academy and National Lottery Heritage Fund. Colleagues are
 supported to pursue funding to sustain long-term collaborative and inter-disciplinary
 projects with impact potential in health, creative and heritage experience, cultural
 policy, and feminist curatorial practice. These include:

       The Medical Humanities Laboratory, a collaboration between the Faculties of
        Humanities; Biology Medicine and Health; and NHS partners (Warr, steering
        committee),
       Digital Futures (Arvanitis, lead for Creative and Heritage strand),
       Creative Manchester, engaging with cultural institutions (Arvanitis and
        Gilmore),
       Digital Women’s Archive North (DWAN, Ashton, creative director and
        founder).

 2.2. Research Students

 AHCP has a thriving doctoral research culture with PhD programmes in Art History,
 Arts Management and Cultural Policy, and Museology. We also offer two professional
 practice-focused doctoral degrees: Arts and Cultural Management, and Museum

                                                                                  Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Practice. These strengthen and diversify our research culture by engaging
 experienced professionals in advanced research. They are designed so that students
 can study part-time while continuing their professional careers, and feature bi-annual
 residential programmes in addition to the standard supervisory arrangements. PGR
 students frequently join us with professional expertise in curating, library science and
 art practice. The make-up of our PGR cohort is international. Since 2014, we have
 welcomed students from Canada, Columbia, Croatia, Germany, Italy, Kuwait, and the
 USA.

 Research in the department is explicitly inter-disciplinary, reflecting AHCP’s
 commitment to fostering post-graduate education grounded in both scholarship and
 professional training. PGR students are integrated into the research culture of the
 department and SALC. Projects that investigate and reflect on arts practice are a key
 feature of our departmental and PGR culture through which we engage with issues in
 the wider community, especially the intersections between museum practice, digital
 heritage, colonial collecting, and cultural policy. They encompass drawing practices,
 creative writing, film production, and curatorial practices. Projects are carried out in
 dialogue with cultural institutions within and outside the University: the University’s
 JRRI and Whitworth Art Gallery; Manchester Art Gallery; the National Gallery,
 London; the Bundeskunsthalle, Bonn, Germany; National Museums, Liverpool; Indigo
 Arts. The interdisciplinary nature of many of these projects means that we co-
 supervise with staff in other parts of SALC including Archaeology, the Centre for New
 Writing, Drama, Film Studies, the Humanitarian Conflict Response Institute, and
 Italian, as well as outside the School, for example an EPSRC-funded doctorate with
 the School of Computer Science.


 2.2.1. PGR Recruitment, monitoring and progression

 We have maintained strong recruitment with numbers similar to those in the REF2014
 period. 34 students completed PhDs. Cross-disciplinary supervision results in an
 accreditation of 24.79 FTE to UoA 32. At the census date 22 students were
 registered.

 Our students are supported by highly competitive research funding. Over the
 REF2021 period 19 students (7 current/12 completed) working with Arvanitis,
 Crinson, Lomas, Mavor, Miller, Rees-Leahy, Skrebowski, Trodd, Warr and Wouk
 have been funded through the AHRC NW Consortium Doctoral Training Partnership
 (including a Collaborative Doctoral award) (18), EPSRC (1), and the University’s
 Presidential Scholarship (2, held in conjunction with AHRC funding). Arvanitis’s
 Spontaneous Memorials project recruited one PGR studentship funded by the AHRC
 Collaborative Doctoral Award scheme (2019-2022), the first such award with
 Manchester Art Gallery. In addition: Arvanitis’s research supports a student funded
 by the National Productivity Investment Fund with a project on ‘The Digital Lives of
 Cultural Objects’; Mavor’s Novo Nordic Foundation professorship supported a
 doctoral students’ filmic project. One student secured prestigious external funding
 from the Belgian American Educational Foundation and another from the Kuwaiti
 Government Scholarship fund. The departmental Henriques, Nash, and Usher
 endowments totalling £16,390 per annum, also provide support towards fees and
 living expenses.


                                                                                   Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 Support for PGR students is holistic and structured by a programme of training, and
 supervisory and academic advising input at Departmental and School level. SALC
 oversees a programme of PGR training taking into account the specific requirements
 set by the funding bodies. All PhD students are assigned two supervisors and an
 advisor. The departmental PGR Officer coordinates admissions and offers pastoral
 support to students in the role of academic advisor. Students have fortnightly
 supervisory meetings and formal progression assessment panels twice a year, which
 include an independent reviewer. Progress is charted through the University’s online
 e-Prog system, which provides an overview of progression and reflection on
 academic and professional development. Students prepare self-evaluative reports
 after each panel.

 2.2.2. Training, career development and employability

 PGR students have access to extensive career development resources, including the
 University Careers Service (open to students for two years after graduation), the
 Faculty of Humanities PGR training hub, the SALC Graduate School.
 Artsmethods@manchester provides theoretical and technical training. SALC’s
 Graduate School offers training focused on early professionalization (accessing
 academic careers, publication strategy, generating impact). Support is also provided
 through funding schemes that complement AHRC/DTP provision, including funding to
 support the student-led organisation of interdisciplinary initiatives and conferences.
 SALC strongly encourages participation in academic conferences with a dedicated
 budget (£400 per student per year), and fieldwork expenses (up to £3K per student).
 Our PGR students have also benefitted from support for practice-based research and
 language training in this cycle. Every student has free printing and access to priority
 ordering of library items.
 AHCP encourages all students to present a paper in the departmental research
 seminar series as part of their training for conference presentations and job
 interviews (see 2.1.3). PGR students are guided through additional grant-capture
 exercises, mock vivas and interviews. This support has resulted in PGR students
 securing major research awards during their studies including the Belgian American
 Academic Foundation grant for research in Belgium, and the Harley Fellowship in
 Cartographic Studies (student Gravon). Students gain further professional training
 and exposure by speaking at major international conferences, contributing to
 conference organisation (e.g. Ethics of Using Digital Media in Arts and Humanities
 Research, 2018), and organising conferences, most recently Butler, Gestures: Writing
 that Moves Between (2019). AHCP PGRs also play a leading role in the Sexuality
 Summer School and the Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Arts and Letters
 (CIDRAL). Nearly all of our postgraduate students work with regional cultural partners
 and emerge from their degrees with hands-on professional experience in the cultural
 sector.
 PGR students can apply to work as paid Graduate Teaching Assistants (GTAs)
 enabling them to gain pedagogical experience for careers in HEIs. All GTAs receive
 SALC training and are mentored by course unit directors with teaching observations
 and feedback. PGR students also have paid opportunities to contribute to staff
 research projects with mentoring provided by the PIs and our cultural partners.
 Students gain insights into research management and dissemination, as well as

                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 specific writing, technical, collections management, and exhibition planning skills.
 Collaborative research projects involving our PGRs include Trodd’s Networking
 Ruskin and William Blake, Neo-Romanticism & Counter Culture, funded through the
 JRRI (2018); Warr’s Connecting Collections (Manchester-Melbourne, Faculty of
 Humanities Collaboration Grant, 2016-2019); and Wouk’s Marcantonio Raimondi and
 Raphael (2016-2017) (see 4.1).
 PGR students are mentored in publishing and dissemination of their research. Since
 REF2014 articles by current or newly graduated students have appeared in journals
 including Cabinet, Bulletin of the John Rylands Library, Fashion Theory, InFormation:
 The Nordic Journal of Arts Research, Visual Culture in Britain and Architectural
 History. PGR students have also published essays in edited volumes: Music Theater
 as Global Culture: Wagner’s Legacy Today (2017); The Enduring Legacy of the
 Venetian Renaissance (2016); Identity, Difference, and Belonging (2014); The Birch
 and the Star: Finnish Perspectives on the Long 19th Century (2019). Recent
 graduates have published or contracted monographs with prestigious publishers on,
 for example, William Blake (Billingsley, IB Tauris, 2018), and Fortuny and Wagner
 (Ligon Smith, Yale, 2021).
 We have a strong track record of post-graduate employment. Graduates since 2014
 have built on their Manchester training by securing fellowships and jobs in a range of
 sectors including HEIs (including Jaber al Ahmad University, Kuwait; Leeds
 University; the University of Manchester; Manchester School of Architecture;
 University of St Andrews; University of Virginia, USA;), museums and galleries
 (Victoria and Albert Museum, Freud Museum), research libraries (British Library),
 publishing houses (Elsevier), and have also set up their own businesses (Belle Vue
 Productions).

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Income

 Our research income strategy since REF2014 has aimed to consolidate and further
 develop our key research themes in de-colonising museum and art practices;
 participatory, and socially-engaged curatorial practices; and heritage activism. We
 have prioritised external research funding applications that build collaborations with
 cultural partners in Manchester, the UK and beyond. The overarching principle has
 been that, where possible and appropriate, research income generation should from
 the outset benefit cultural partners’ capacity, expertise and skills needs. In line with
 this principle, we have actively diversified the research funding bodies to which we
 applied for grants (e.g. National Lottery Heritage Fund, Arts Council England,
 Wellcome Trust) and horizon-scanned to identify new streams of funding within UKRI
 research councils (the AHRC Creative Industries Clusters Programme).
 Our research funding success has enabled us to maintain our research quality,
 international influence and reputation. Since 2014 we have secured 16 large research
 grants, for approximately £700k, most of which have been for projects with cultural
 organisations. More than 80% of our staff have received external research funding
 since REF2014.
 In bids with cultural organisations (e.g.HOME, Manchester Art Gallery) we embed
 impact from the outset in the research design. This approach has resulted in several

                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 awards and indicates a positive trend on course to increase in productivity after the
 census date. Our research grant awards have furthered our collaborative work
 around key strategic themes, highlighting interdisciplinary practices and our work with
 cultural partners. Colleagues in AHCP contribute to major consortia such as
 Gilmore’s Co-I research for the AHRC Creative Economy Policy and Evidence
 Centre (PEC), a key pillar of the Creative Industries sector deal, part of the UK
 Government’s Industrial Strategy (RC funded value £5,997,915). AHRC funding has
 supported three further projects led by Gilmore totalling £300K - Connecting the
 Museum and the Park, Beyond the Campus, and the suite of Creative Economy
 Engagement Fellowships; Arvanitis and Gilmore received funds for digital and data-
 driven work from the Digital R&D Fund for the Arts (Arts Council England, AHRC and
 Nesta); Rees-Leahy’s Development of a Clear Strategy was supported by the
 National Trust and Innovate UK; Ashton received support from the Heritage Lottery
 Fund for the Travelling Heritage Bureau of Women Artists (£48K) and Arts Council
 England for the Digital Women’s Archive North.
 We have laid the foundations for future substantial projects by supporting mid-sized
 grant applications as building blocks to larger applications in the next 2-3 years
 (Martin, Arvanitis). Smaller grants from the British Academy supported Spontaneous
 Memorials (Arvanitis), and Marcantonio Raimondi and Raphael (Wouk). Arvanitis
 has found further support for Spontaneous Memorials from the National Lottery
 Heritage Fund (£6k) and the Wellcome Trust (£5k); Mavor’s film Full: Ivo Prefers not
 to Eat received support from Arts Council England.
 We have also succeeded in obtaining smaller internal stepping-stone funding
 including: JRRI (Gerbino, Trodd, Warr, Wouk); Centre for Higher Education
 Research, Innovation, and Learning (Arvanitis, Ashton, Gilmore). We are well
 positioned to take advantage of the new SALC Strategic Initiatives Grant, which has
 already supported Martin’s ‘Knowing Things’ network, Skrebowski’s research on AI,
 as well as Gilmore’s research into parks and participation.

 Colleagues have applied successfully for competitive research funding to complete
 monographs: British Academy (Crinson), Villa I Tatti/Harvard Centre for Italian
 Renaissance Studies (Wouk), Leverhulme Trust (Miller), Terra Foundation
 (Skrebowski), Novo Nordic Foundation (Mavor), Paul Mellon Centre (Trodd).

 3.2. Scholarly infrastructure

 In terms of support, diversity, access, and openness to collaboration, AHCP enjoys
 an extensive research infrastructure. The University of Manchester Library provides
 outstanding resources to support our research (Section 4.2 REF5a) With a dedicated
 Art History site library complemented by a full research collection in the Main Library,
 we benefit from one of the largest and most up-to-date print collections on the arts in
 the UK. Researchers work with the Library to build and expand its collection through
 new acquisitions. The Library has one of the largest e-collections in the country, and
 is particularly strong for e-journals (over 43,000 titles) with virtually all arts journals
 available. The recently launched (2020) Manchester Digital Collections Viewer,
 developed by Manchester and Cambridge universities, allows detailed engagement
 with images in a way that offers transformative possibilities for aspects of our
 research. Arvanitis leads the ‘Creative and Heritage’ strand of Societal Challenges,


                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 part of the University-wide Digital Futures initiative, investigating how digital
 technologies can transform cultural experiences and creative industries.
 AHCP works closely with the University John Rylands Library, which houses the
 University’s Special Collections and has extensive holdings in arts and humanities
 disciplines (over 250,000 printed volumes, over a million manuscripts and
 incunabula). We collaborate with curators, actively teach in collections, and organise
 exhibitions with Library materials both online (Warr with PhD student Gravon, Foreign
 Bodies, part of the Manchester Melbourne Humanities Strategic Investment Fund-
 supported ‘Connecting Collections’ project) and in the Library’s galleries (Wouk,
 Imprinting the Imagination), as well as symposia (Trodd, William Blake). The JRRI
 has hosted two of our postdoctoral researchers (Billingsley and Whiteley). Billingsley
 was one of the founders of the Manchester Centre for Correspondence Studies.
 Whiteley organised the inter-disciplinary conference ‘Veiling the Body: Cloth, Skin,
 Membrane, Paper’ (2020) and has worked with The University Library’s curatorial
 staff on funding applications for work with printed medical illustrations in the
 University’s renowned collections.
 Alistair Hudson, Director of the Whitworth Art Gallery (2018-), and Maria Balshaw,
 formerly director of the Whitworth Art Gallery, now of Tate, are honorary AHCP
 professors. Both have worked actively to support Whitworth Studies and facilitate
 exhibitions and other research events in the Whitworth Art Gallery and on campus. In
 response to AHCP feedback the Whitworth Art Gallery’s award-winning 2015
 redevelopment included the opening of a Study Centre, a dynamic hub of academic
 and engagement activity where staff and students are able to examine collections for
 teaching, study, and research. Many of our Whitworth Studies events take place there
 (see 1.2.1(1)), bringing together University of Manchester staff, students, and
 members of the public for visiting speakers and object-based seminars.
 Esme Ward, Director of the Manchester Museum, is also an honorary Professor in
 AHCP. Her appointment solidifies our longstanding collaborations with the
 Manchester Museum (as evidenced through Endt-Jones’s, postdoctoral research
 fellow between 2010 and 2013, Coral exhibition, 2013-2014) and signals the
 increasingly important role it plays in our teaching and research. Our researchers
 (Holmes, Martin, Terracciano, PGR student Gilchrist) are working with Manchester
 Museum curators and the British Museum to develop the new South Asian gallery as
 part of a £13.5 million investment in the Museum with support from Arts Council
 England and the Heritage Lottery Fund. The new gallery, due to open in 2021, will
 explore the experiences and contributions of diaspora communities in parallel with the
 department’s strategic plans for decolonising research and teaching.
 Manchester Art Gallery (MAG), also under the direction of Alistair Hudson, is not
 formally part of the University, yet is an indispensable part of our broader
 infrastructure. The MAG works closely with Arvanitis (evidenced in his ICS); Trodd,
 in his research on Blake, Ruskin, and Madox Brown; as well as Gilmore and
 Arvanitis in their work in Heritage Activism. These local resources distinguish our
 department as having an exceptional degree of support that is central to the cultural
 life of the University and of Manchester, providing a platform for our distinctive
 approach to innovations in cultural heritage advocacy and object- and collection-



                                                                                     Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 based research and supporting dissemination of our research within a context that
 reaches a wide public.
 ICP will continue to play a leading role in Creative Manchester (see 1.2.2(2)), notably
 with Gilmore’s collaborative work for the AHRC Creative Industries Policy and
 Evidence Centre (PEC), helping to shape policy surrounding the changing nature of
 creative careers. Arvanitis’s work on the ‘Manchester Together Archive’, in
 collaboration with MAG, Archives+, and Belle Vue Productions forms one of the
 current Creative Manchester projects.
 3.3. Organisational and operational infrastructure

 Our research structures operate at departmental, School, and Faculty levels. The
 AHCP Research Coordinator works closely with the School’s Director of Research,
 the SALC research committee and the research support team. Grant writing support
 officers are teamed with individual researchers to provide appropriate support in
 preparing major grant applications, and SALC organises peer review of major grant
 applications. Applications are prepared with the support of the Research Office, which
 facilitates research collaborations, informs staff regularly of funding opportunities,
 assists in developing grant applications, manages grants, and monitors the progress
 of funded projects against deadlines. The University Library supports Open Access
 funding for staff, with particular attention to costs incurred when publishing images,
 e.g. for ‘gold’ OA publications by Miller (in October) and Wouk (in Word & Image).

 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 4.1. Local, national and international collaborations

 Following REF2014 and the transformation of our staff profile, our goals have been
 driven by our strategic union as a department of art historians and cultural
 practitioners. Research collaborations with cultural partners have informed,
 developed and changed cultural policy and practice, particularly in the North West.
 This includes work co-produced with local cultural bodies: by Martin (see section
 1.2.1(3)); by Arvanitis with the MAG, Archives+ and a network of twenty more
 museums, archives and libraries around the world on collecting, digitising and using
 objects from spontaneous memorials; by Ashton with the People’s History Museum,
 Victoria Baths and HOME on the role, value and ethics of activism in cultural
 professional work; by Holmes with Centre for Chinese Contemporary Art (CFCCA)
 on interpreting and exhibiting contemporary Chinese Art; by Rees-Leahy with Gaskell
 House on organisational policy and practice; and by Mavor with the Royal College of
 Art on informing their creative writing degree.
 The international research collaboration with the University of Melbourne on
 Connecting Collections (Warr with Dunlop, Melbourne) has completed its first project
 on ‘Foreign Bodies’ with colleagues from AHCP (Wouk, PhD student Gravon) and
 other HEIs within the UK and Australia. Two workshops (Manchester 2017,
 Melbourne 2018) involved museum, library and gallery professionals and culminated
 in a special issue of the Bulletin of the John Rylands Library, 2019, focused on the
 UK research and a forthcoming publication focused on the Australian research.
 Further Manchester-Melbourne collaborations include Embodied Emotions, based in

                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 History (Warr, Wouk), and Albrecht Dürer’s Material World (Wouk with colleagues at
 Melbourne). Members of the department are active members of the Manchester
 Centre for Medieval and Early Modern Studies (Warr, Wouk, Gerbino).

 Together, we make a positive contribution to the creative economy, with particular
 emphasis on social responsibility and wellbeing. Gilmore (through PEC), leads
 research on the development of local strategies for creative places and the skills that
 local organisations and entrepreneurs require to engage in creative economy-related
 work, exemplified in her work with AHRC Fellow Dr Jessica Symons and Cheshire
 East Council on ‘Connecting rural areas to the creative economy’. Gilmore and
 Arvanitis have carried out research into the use of big data to support decisions in
 the cultural economy (working with 20 arts and culture organisations in the North
 West). Our collaborations develop academic understanding and professional practice
 on initiatives that aim to improve people’s lives including Arvanitis’ research on
 understanding the potential therapeutic value of material and digital collections of
 spontaneous memorials.

 Collaborative practices contributing to the research base are evident in our work as
 curator-researchers at leading local, national and international institutions including:

       The Courtauld Institute: Renaissance Modern (Wouk with Rebecchini, 2015)
       The Whitworth Art Gallery: Marcantonio Raimondi and Raphael (Wouk and
        Morris, 2016-2017), Alice Kettle (Ashton, 2018-2019),
       The John Rylands Library: Imprinting the Imagination (Wouk, 2014), and Art,
        Medicine, and Knowledge (Warr with Bonnell, Manchester Metropolitan
        University, 2014),
       CFCCA: Chinternet Ugly (Holmes, 2019).
       Raven Row Gallery: Plastic Words (Skrebowski, 2014-2015).

 Colleagues have also acted as advisors and collaborators for national and
 international exhibitions including: Picasso/Dalì, Dalì, Picasso (Miller, advisor, Museu
 Picasso, Barcelona and Dalì Museum, St Petersburg, FL, 2014-2015); Conceptual Art
 in Britain (Skrebowski, contributor, Tate, 2016); William Blake (Trodd, advisory
 panel member, Tate Britain, 2019-2020); From Renaissance to Regent Street: The
 Della Robbia Pottery (Trodd, contributor, Williamson Art Gallery, Birkenhead, 2016);
 Quand les artistes dessinaient les cartes (Gerbino, collaborator, Archives Nationales
 de France, Paris, 2019-2020); Giulio Romano (Wouk, collaborator, Mantua, Palazzo
 Te, 2020).

 Staff in AHCP contribute to public engagement and debate based on their research,
 through interviews and appearances on TV and radio, through blogs, and newspaper
 reports about their work: Arvanitis on ethical issues relating to museum collections
 (Deutsche Welle, Ukraine, 5 October 2015); Gilmore on the benefits of arts funding
 (BBC1, Sunday Politics, 2019), on the future of city parks (That’s Manchester, 2017).
 Holmes has provided comment pieces in Wired Magazine (2017), and Apollo (2015,
 2017); Mavor has been interviewed for Essay Press 80 (2015) and PN Review 43:5,
 2017); Miller has spoken about his research on Picasso on the BBC World Service
 (2017).



                                                                                    Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4.2. Membership of national and international committees

 We are active participants in committees that represent our fields of research and our
 practice-based involvement in heritage: Arvanitis, founding member of the
 Association of Greek Museologists; Ashton, member of the National Trust North
 Regional Advisory Board (2018-); Gerbino, trustee of the Society of Architectural
 Historians of Great Britain (2017-); Martin, Fellow of the Royal Asiatic Society,
 Museum Ethnographers Group committee member, museum advisor to the Central
 Tibetan Government; Warr, member of the UK Sub-Committee of the Comité
 International d'Histoire de l'Art (2011-2015), the Manchester University Press Editorial
 Committee (2012-2015), and the Ecclesiastical History Society Committee (2015-
 2018); Wouk, Board Member of the Historians of Netherlandish Art (2019-), Higher
 Education Committee of the Association of Art Historians (2019-).
 Colleagues further contribute to society by advising heritage charities. Ashton is a
 Research Consultant for National Public Programming (2017-) for the National Trust;
 a Trustee Treasurer for the Delia Derbyshire Day Charity (2015-); and Trustee and
 Chair for Public Engagement and Arts Programming Victoria Baths Trust (2015-
 2017); Billingsley was an advisor to Manchester Cathedral’s Cultural and Arts
 Strategy Group (2017-2019).

 4.3. Editorial positions
 We make far-reaching contributions to the scholarly community through service to
 major journals in our fields. Staff work as editors and co-editors: Arvanitis, managing
 editor of Museums and Society (2017-); Gerbino, lead editor of Architectural History
 (2017-); Warr, co-editor of the Bulletin of the John Rylands Library (2017-). Staff also
 serve on editorial boards and committees: Arvanitis for Her&Mus: Heritage and
 Museography (2012-); Gerbino for the Journal of the Society of Architectural
 Historians (2013-2016); Gilmore for the Journal of Arts Management, Law and
 Society (2018-) and Cultural Trends (2010-17); Martin for the Journal of Museum
 Ethnography, the Journal of Museum History, and the Copenhagen Journal of Asian
 Studies; Skrebowski for Art Margins (MIT); Warr for Medieval Clothing and Textiles
 (2020-); Wouk for the Open Arts Journal and the Nederlands Kunsthistorish
 Jaarboek/Dutch Yearbook for Art History.
 Colleagues lead scholarly debate through editing journal special issues: Gilmore with
 Comunian (King’s College London) on ‘Beyond the Campus: Higher Education,
 Cultural Policy and the Creative Economy’ (International Journal of Cultural Policy,
 2016); Gilmore, with Jancovich, Stevenson and Durrer on ‘Situating the Local in
 Global Cultural Policy’ (Cultural Trends, 2019); Skrebowski ‘On Untranslatability’
 (ARTMargins, 2018); Trodd with Whittaker (Lincoln) on ‘William Blake: The Man from
 the Future?’ (Visual Culture in Britain, 2018); Wouk on ‘Investigating Marcantonio
 Raimondi’ and Warr with Dunlop (Melbourne) on ‘Foreign Bodies’ (Bulletin of the
 John Rylands Library, 2016 and 2019, respectively); Wouk on ‘Early Netherlandish
 Art in the Long Nineteenth Century’ (Oud Holland, 2020).
 4.4. Peer review of publications and funding applications

 AHCP Staff regularly contribute to the development of the discipline by serving as
 peer reviewers. Articles submitted to national and international journals have been
 assessed by: Arvanitis (Journal of Material Culture, Culture Unbound, Museology,

                                                                                  Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Journal of Conservation and Museum Studies, Participation), Billingsley (Milton
 Studies), Gerbino (Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians, Architectural
 History, Technology and Culture, French Historical Studies, Burlington Magazine),
 Skrebowski (Art Margins, Art History), Warr (Art History, Gesta, Medieval Clothing
 and Textiles, Religions), and Wouk (Art History, Journal of the Warburg and
 Courtauld Institutes). Book proposals have been reviewed for Princeton University
 Press (Gerbino); Oxford University Press (Gerbino, Warr); Routledge (Arvanitis,
 Martin, Warr); Yale University Press, Tate Publishing, Reaktion, MIT Press
 (Skrebowski); Manchester University Press (Trodd); Boydell and Brewer,
 Bloomsbury, Brill (Warr). Senior colleagues are also involved in reviewing
 international funding bids: Gerbino for the Netherlands Organisation for Scientific
 Research (HERA Handling Agency); and Wouk for the Belgian Fonds National de la
 Recherche Scientifique, and Villa I Tatti.
 4.5. Prizes

 The Manchester Together Archive Team on whose work one of our ICSs is based
 (Arvanitis), was recognised with the ‘Working Together for Manchester’ Award from
 the Manchester City Council (2019). Holmes was awarded the Early Career
 Researcher Prize (2018) from the British Association of Chinese Studies for her
 article ‘Bad Citizens and Symbolic Subjects’. Whiteley received the Roy Porter Essay
 Prize (2015) from the Society for the Social History of Medicine for her article
 'Figuring Pictures and Picturing Figures: Images of the Pregnant Body and the
 Unborn Child in England, 1540–c.1680’.
 4.6. Fellowships
 Ashton was Global Cultural Fellow, Institute for International Cultural Relations,
 University of Edinburgh (2017-2017); Billingsley held visiting fellowships at the Harry
 Ransom Center, University of Texas, Austin (2018), and the Library Company of
 Philadelphia and Historical Society of Pennsylvania (2018); Mavor was Novo Nordic
 Foundation Professor, Copenhagen University (2019); and Wouk was Rush H. Kress
 Fellow at I Tatti/The Harvard University Center for Italian Renaissance Studies (2016-
 2017).
 4.7. Examination of doctorates

 Colleagues across AHCP are sought as examiners of doctorates on a regular basis
 both nationally and internationally. The following is a representative sample of
 external examining since REF2014: Arvanitis at Aalto (Finland), Bologna (Italy),
 Leicester, Salford, University of South Wales, Kent, Newcastle; Gilmore at
 Newcastle, UCL London, Leeds, Lancaster, City University (London), University of
 Western Scotland, King’s College London/the Humboldt, and Deakin University
 (Australia); Gerbino at the Courtauld; Martin at SOAS and Oxford; Warr at Padua
 (Italy) and Macquarie University (Australia); Wouk at the Courtauld.
 4.8. Conference organisation and invited keynotes and lectures

 AHCP colleagues are regularly involved in conference organisation and are invited to
 give keynote and plenary papers. This activity results from and facilitates international




                                                                                   Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 networks and partnerships with museums, galleries and the heritage industry, and
 feeds into research outputs and socially responsible heritage and curating practices.
 We have organised conferences and workshops with our cultural partners in
 Manchester, particularly the Whitworth Art Gallery: Miller, Contemporary
 Enchantments, 2018; Wouk, Reconsidering Marcantonio Raimondi, 2015 (supported
 by the British Academy); Trodd, Ruskin Matters, 2019; Skrebowski, Machine
 Visions, 2019; postgraduate Butler, Gestures: Writing that Moves Between, 2019;
 Lionis, Laughing in an Emergency: Humour in Contemporary Art, scheduled for 2020
 (supported by the EU Horizon 2020 Research and Innovation Programme). Trodd’s
 William Blake ‘The Artist of the Future Age’ took place at the JRL (2019); he was also
 an advisory committee member for the International Conference on Romanticism
 (Department of English and American Studies, University of Manchester, 2019).
 In sum, AHCP at Manchester is a dynamically evolving department made stronger by
 shared research themes. Our team of researchers distinguishes itself through its
 commitment to strong and evolving strategic collaborations and policy development
 with local, national, and overseas galleries, museums, and heritage organisations.
 Our work within the wider area of the creative industries complements our research
 strengths. Our research is firmly rooted in questions which are relevant to our society.
 Our collaborative practice ensures that pressing issues - decolonisation, ethics of
 collecting, gender, climate resilience, wellbeing - are debated outside the academy
 and that, as a group, we contribute towards and influence thinking and practice within
 and beyond the cultural sector.




                                                                                  Page 18
