Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Anglia Ruskin University

 Unit of Assessment: UoA3 (Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Overview

 Allied health research at ARU has expanded considerably in scope, depth and volume, and has
 undergone considerable restructuring since REF2014. As shown in Figure 1 below, we have
 significantly increased external research funding, expanded the number of research active
 staff, increased doctoral degree completions, recruited more early career researchers
 (ECRs) and senior research staff, and supported our researchers by substantial
 improvements to the research infrastructure. We have demonstrably achieved considerable
 successes and surpassed many of the strategic targets set for this REF cycle.




   Figure 1: Graphical representation of the significant improvements to the unit’s environment
   metrics between submissions to REF2014 (black columns), and REF2021 (white columns).

 Our fundamental strategic goal has been to create a research environment that identifies and
 supports research which is innovative in approach and application, addresses national and
 international needs, involves key collaborators and embraces a variety of disciplines. The
 results are aimed to be world-leading, novel, reproducible and translational, with potential to
 improve knowledge, practice and theory. An essential outcome of this approach is to ensure
 sustainability and to train the next generation of researchers in the healthcare and
 biomedicine sectors.

 1.2 How is research structured in the unit?

 The submission for this unit draws on the research and innovation activities of three Faculties:

    •   Faculty of Health, Education, Medicine and Social Care (FHEMS),

    •   Faculty of Science and Engineering (FSE), and

    •   Faculty of Business and Law (FBL),

 with laboratories and research spaces at both the Cambridge and Chelmsford campuses,
 drawing on the collective experience and expertise of 58 research-active staff including 5
 readers and 11 professors.

 The unit is composed of four research clusters: Vision and Eye Research Institute (VERI),
 Medical Technology Research Centre (MTRC), Health Research Cluster (HRC), and Biomedical
 & Forensic Research Group (BFRG). The clusters are strategically aligned to four of the eleven

                                                                                            Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ARU research priority areas: healthy ageing, sustainable health care, vision, and medical
 devices and technology. Whilst the research clusters form foci for researchers in specific subject
 areas, there is considerable collaborative work, exchange of ideas, and communication of
 research between the clusters (see Section 4.1). These clusters not only produce high quality
 research outputs, but also act to benefit and improve the student experience by providing a
 research-enriched curriculum. The coordination and strategic leadership within the unit are
 provided by Deputy Deans in each Faculty, alongside cluster leads.

 1.2.1 The Vision and Eye Research Institute (VERI; 11.15 FTE) was designated a Research
 Institute in 2018 in strategic institutional recognition of the sustained excellence of its work; it
 was originally established in 2009 as the Vision and Eye Research Unit (VERU). VERI is a
 multidisciplinary research platform comprising staff from two faculties (FHEMS and FSE) who
 carry out ground-breaking research in key areas of vision, eye and hearing research such as
 ophthalmic epidemiology, diabetic retinopathy, impact of low vision, anterior eye research, vision
 and handedness in sports, visual acuity and crowding in children, refractive error development,
 audiology and visual short-term memory. In addition to a team of three professors, two readers,
 two ECRs, four senior lecturers, and two research fellows, VERI also collaborates with staff from
 other departments at ARU including Life Sciences, Sports Sciences, Psychology, and
 Computing and Technology, and with researchers from prestigious laboratories/hospitals across
 the world, including in China, India, Italy, Nepal and Thailand. The team is further strengthened
 by public and private stakeholder partners from the NHS and industry.

 Within this REF period, VERI has produced 210 outputs (including 26 in The Lancet) and
 secured £2,093,564 in external research funding from the following bodies: European Union,
 NIHR, College of Optometrists, British Society of Audiology, Wellcome Trust, British Council,
 Agitos Foundation, International Paralympic Committee, International Glaucoma Association and
 Brien Holden Vision Institute. Key achievements: (i) the first global, temporal analysis of
 change in the burden of blindness and vision impairment; (ii) first time demonstration of how
 barriers across various demographics affect the risk of diabetic sight threatening retinopathy in
 China, India, Nepal, and UK; and (iii) development of a new sport-specific, evidence-based
 classification system for athletes with vision impairment.

 VERI’s research has led to the development of two impact case studies for REF2021 (see
 1.6.1).

 1.2.2 The Medical Technology Research Centre (MTRC; 6.0 FTE) was initiated in 2018 and
 aims to research and develop novel biomedical technology solutions for sectors including
 healthcare, pharmaceuticals, medical engineering, and medical devices. MTRC’s research has
 focussed on drug discovery using phenotypic screening, development of polymerase chain
 reaction (PCR)-based diagnostics, medical devices and novel drug delivery platforms. The
 Centre is comprised of two professors, three ECRs and a senior lecturer. Its outputs include 55
 publications and two patents, and its funding (total £4,211,154) from EU Horizon 2020, Innovate
 UK, the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, Royal Academy of Engineering, and the Newton
 Fund; charities such as European Society for Sexual Medicine and Peterborough Burns Unit
 Appeal Fund; and pharmaceutical and medical device companies such as GlaxoSmithKline,
 AstraZeneca, and Life Technologies. Key achievements: (i) development of four CE-marked
 PCR-based diagnostics kits for fungal infections; (ii) the first demonstration of a synergy
 between two FDA-approved drugs for treatment of Peyronie’s disease; and (iii) development of
 disulfiram-loaded nanoparticles for treatment of lung cancer.

 1.2.3 The Health Research Cluster (HRC; 17.15 FTE) was established in 2017 and represents
 research and innovation activities in the health sector across the three Faculties. The cluster
 comprises sub-groups including the Circulatory Research Group, Ageing Research Group, and
 Global Public Health, Migration & Ethics Research Group. It includes four professors, two
 readers, five ECRs, six research fellows and five senior lecturers. The work of the cluster has
 been supported by external funding (total £4,187,308) from EU Horizon 2020, AHRC, MRC,
 ESRC, NIHR, the Royal College of Nursing, Institute for Healthcare Management, Dunhill

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Medical Trust, Enhancing Learning and Research for Humanitarian Assistance (ELHRA), Essex
 Hertfordshire Air Ambulance Trust and the pharmaceutical industry (such as AstraZeneca,
 Takeda, Eli Lilly). It has produced 360 outputs. Partnership working has primarily been with NHS
 Trusts, Public Health England and Health Education England. Key achievements: (i) the first
 demonstration that continuous thermodilution is predictive of microvascular dysfunction in
 patients with myocardial infarction; (ii) the first demonstration that muscle mass measures
 adjusted for height only are better risk factors for incident osteoporosis in postmenopausal
 women; and (iii) the first study at the primary care level to investigate prevalence of mental
 health disorders among conflict-affected populations in the Northern Province, Sri Lanka.

 The cluster’s research has led to the development one of the impact cases studies submitted
 to REF2021 (see 1.6.1).

 1.2.4 The Biomedical & Forensic Research Group (BFRG; 16.6 FTE) was established prior to
 REF2014 with the aim of coordinating research activities in different aspects of biomedical and
 forensic sciences such as cardiovascular sciences, cancer cell biology, microbiology, genetics,
 molecular biology, forensic and investigative sciences. The BFRG includes two professors, one
 reader, five ECRs, eight senior lecturers and one research fellow. The BFRG has produced 78
 outputs and one patent. In the current REF cycle, it has received funding (£605,882) from
 Innovate UK, British Heart Foundation, Diabetes UK, Wellcome Trust, Royal Society for
 Chemistry, Essex Police, Analytical Chemistry Trust Fund, Edith Florence Spencer Memorial
 Trust, Microbiology Society, MedAnnex Ltd and OnchoBioPharm Ltd. Key achievements: (i)
 the first demonstration of an inhibitory effect of an artificial sweetener on vasculogenesis; (ii) the
 first demonstration of fluctuations in zinc levels regulating reactive oxygen species in platelets
 and (iii) development of new analytical methods to detect drugs of abuse in drinks.

 The group has developed two impact case studies in this submission (see 1.6.1).


 1.3 Review of the strategic research goals set in REF 2014

 The UoA3 submission to REF2014 was led by VERU (now VERI). VERU set the following
 strategic aims in REF2014, all of which have been met:

 1.3.1 Enhance VERU’s reputation as a world class research centre:
 a. We have further built on key areas identified in REF2014 for which we have an established
 international profile:
     i. Ophthalmic epidemiology: Bourne heads the Vision Loss Expert Group (VLEG)
 comprising over 102 epidemiologists worldwide, which is part of the International Agency for
 Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) and funded by the Brien Holden Vision Institute, Fondation Théa,
 Gates Foundation, Lions Clubs International Foundation, Sightsavers International, Fred Hollows
 Foundation and the University of Heidelberg. The research, published in 57 journal articles
 including 13 in The Lancet within this REF period, has informed eyecare policies within the
 WHO, IAPB, Fred Hollows Foundation, UK National Eye and Hearing Survey (UKNEHS) and
 Vision Aid Overseas. This research was utilised by the Adviser for the Science and Technology
 Committee to inform the House of Commons in 2018 and forms the basis of a REF2021 impact
 case study (see 1.6.1).
     ii. Visual impairment: research led by Pardhan, in collaboration with the University of
 Cambridge, provides breakthrough on how people with vision loss utilise hearing cues. Further
 research collaboration with the University of Cambridge and NHS Trusts explores associations
 between cortical and retinal changes in people with Down’s syndrome.
     iii. Myopia research led by Allen has continued in the unit, and we are currently one of five
 sites for The Childhood Atropine for Myopia Progression (CHAMP) study. CHAMP-UK is an
 NIHR-EME funded trial (started in 2016 and ongoing) that aims to evaluate the efficacy of low
 dose atropine eye drops to reduce the progression of myopia, determine the mechanism of
 atropine eye drops and explore the influence of other factors in the progression of myopia in
 children.

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     iv. Anterior eye disease research led by Bourne and Pardhan resulted in two PhD student
 completions in dry eye and corneal endothelium as well as an EU Marie Curie Fellowship.
     v. Diabetic retinopathy: responding to global initiatives through various agencies and key
 stakeholders in China, India, Nepal and Thailand, research by Pardhan has led to improved
 eyecare for patients with diabetic retinopathy in those countries. This work led to seven peer
 reviewed publications, decreased the risk of blindness in people with diabetes and formed the
 basis of the second impact case study in this submission (1.6.1).
     vi. Sports Vision: This is a new area that has been developed in this REF period. Allen and
 colleagues have been investigating the impact of visual function on elite athletes. Strands of this
 research include eye and hand dominance and their relationship to performance, working with
 the International Paralympic Committee to establish sport-specific evidence-based classification
 systems for athletes with vision impairment, and working with the England and Wales Cricket
 Board to investigate the visibility of the new pink cricket ball.
 b. We have increased collaboration with world-class research centres and bodies such as
 the WHO, IAPB and US Global Ophthalmology Network, by expanding our visiting professoriate:
 Raman (India), Moore (University of Cambridge), and Davies (past Chairman of Public Health
 England) all joined VERI during the assessment period.
 c. We have developed our research infrastructure and facilities: in December 2014 VERI
 moved into a purpose-built research centre (190 m2) in Young Street, Cambridge, following a
 capital investment of £900,000 from ARU.

 1.3.2 We have translated our research into improved patient outcomes by disseminating
 findings through the newly formed infrastructure of the School of Medicine (2018) and partners
 throughout the region, as well as increasing our collaboration with NHS clinicians working in
 VERI, the WHO and 14 collaborators in China, India, Nepal and Thailand. Supported by the
 Anglia Ruskin Clinical Trials Unit (3.2), we initiated two NIHR-funded clinical trials – one on dry
 eyes, with partners from Moorfields Eye Hospital and Bedford NHS Trust (2016-2020), and the
 other on myopia, with partners from Queen’s University Belfast, Aston University, Glasgow
 Caledonian University, Ulster University and Moorfields Eye Hospital (2016-ongoing).

 1.3.3 We have responded to global initiatives through collaborations with various national
 and international organizations including Sightsavers, Vision Aid Overseas, International Agency
 for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB), International Paralympic Committee (IPC), Royal
 National Institute of Blind People (RNIB) and England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB). Our
 collaboration with the European Coalition for Vision led to an invited session at World Sight Day
 in October 2020.

 1.3.4 We have responded to national priorities though our close collaboration with NHS
 clinicians who form part of our visiting staff, to quickly identify and respond to new NHS
 initiatives on issues such as dry eye and the effect of environmental stress on patient
 compliance for glaucoma treatment.

 1.3.5 We have engaged with industry partners by capitalising on the expertise of previous
 KTPs, leading to partnerships with Bausch + Lomb (eye health products), Welch Allyn
 (diagnostic devices), and SPARCA (medical imaging).

 VERI has made significant progress towards the targets that were stated in REF2014:
 1. Increase our research outputs in key research areas by 100%: Within this REF period,
 VERI has produced 210 outputs compared to 76 in REF2014 (276% increase). Publication
 numbers per FTE increased from 6.7 (REF2014) to 18.8 (REF2021) (280% increase).
 2. Increase our postgraduate research student population by 50%: VERI has hosted 16
 postgraduate research students to successful completion in this REF period, compared to 13.5
 students in REF2014 (19% increase).
 3. Increase our strategic partnerships (NHS and industry) by 100%: This is evidenced by
 increased satellite clinics as well as new partnerships with the WHO, International Agency for
 the Prevention of Blindness, plus a number of international partners in Nepal, India, Thailand,


                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 China (see 1.6.1) and Italy. Further partnerships have been developed with the International
 Paralympic Committee and International Blind Sports Federation for the sports vision work.
 4. Increase our research income by 10% per annum: In this REF period, VERI was
 successful in securing £2,093,564 in research income, compared to £973,570 in REF2014
 period (115% increase).
 5. Increase our research staff base by 50%: FTE decreased marginally from 11.3 in REF2014
 to 11.15 in this REF period. This was due to difficulties in staff recruitment in 2020 caused by
 Covid-19 and Brexit.


 1.4 Revision of strategic research objectives during the assessment period

 Strategic planning for sustainable, world-leading impactful research programmes has been at
 the core of the unit’s development since before REF2014, and the positive feedback we received
 in 2014 has encouraged us to hone our strategic approach further. Our key strategic goals are
 aligned with our University’s Research and Innovation Strategies (2014-18, 2018-22),
 addressing four of the eleven priority research areas: healthy ageing, sustainable health care,
 vision, and medical device & technology.

 The expansion of the unit during the REF period has necessitated a reassessment of our
 strategic objectives, as outlined below. We have successfully implemented our new strategy
 through the development and restructuring of research clusters, through strategic
 investment in priority areas and staff.

 Our strategy also dovetails with and enhances the teaching curricula as it provides students with
 a research-driven and research-enriched curriculum, providing opportunities for them to
 participate in research linked to these priorities. This is aimed at attracting and developing the
 next generation of research scientists.

 The research and innovation strategy of the unit during the assessment period can be
 summarised by the following three areas:

 1.4.1 Increase research capacity in strategic research areas:
 Research capacity has been supported from investment in, and development of our research
 clusters, which are designed to address unmet needs in healthy ageing, sustainable health care,
 vision, and medical device & technology. During the REF period, two new research clusters
 (MTRC and HRC) were established, to support the two existing clusters (VERI and BFRG)
 submitted in REF2014 to UoA3 and UoA5 respectively. Research and innovation activities are
 led by directors in each cluster, who coordinate and support research from the members, and
 liaise with other teams to identify areas of mutual interest with potential for collaboration.

 We have increased the external income generated and have diversified our external income
 sources. Our external income has increased eleven-fold from £973,570 (REF2014) to
 £11,097,908 (REF2021) (Figure 1), and includes funding from RCUK/UKRI, EU Horizon 2020,
 Innovate UK, NIHR, national and international charities (such as Wellcome Trust, British Heart
 Foundation, Diabetes UK), and commercial enterprises. The annual average external income
 per FTE significantly increased from £17,231 (REF 2014) to £31,147 (REF2021).

 University funds including QR income have been targeted towards pump-priming projects that
 are most likely to lead to the generation of impactful research and improving our research
 capacity and supporting ECRs. £332,992 has been distributed to the research groups across
 the unit to support staff, resources and research costs.

 1.4.2 Invest in research staff:
 A key strategic goal has been the investment in dedicated research staff, including professors
 and readers. We have an increased number of staff submitted in the unit from 11.3 FTE in
 REF2014 to 50.9 in REF2021 (Figure 1).

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Increasing the ECR population was a key aim for the REF period. This provided dedicated
 professionals to drive externally funded research projects while increasing our research capacity
 and vitality in a sustainable manner. The number of ECRs has increased from 3 (REF2014) to
 15 (REF2021) (Figure 1). This strategy has recently been gaining momentum, and has attracted
 further external research income, including from RCUK/UKRI, commercial sources and charities,
 as detailed in Section 3.1.

 1.4.3 Increase national and international collaborations:
 Part of our mission of “world-leading, novel, interdisciplinary, collaborative, translational
 research and innovation” is collaboration; this is particularly important in this unit because of its
 size and diversity. Collaborations within the unit, across the university and with external partners
 are always encouraged, supported at all management levels and coordinated through Deputy
 Deans for Research and Innovation and colleagues in the Research and Innovation
 Development Office (RIDO – see 3.1 and Institutional Environment Statement [IES] 1.1 and 2.1).
 Accordingly, several successful collaborations have been established with other universities,
 private sector bodies, charities, NHS Trusts and NGOs (details in Section 4.2).

 1.4.4 Grow the doctoral student community:
 Developing the next generation of scientists capable of addressing future healthcare problems
 remains an important part of our unit’s role and mission. We have increased the number of
 research doctoral degrees awarded from 13.5 (REF2014) to 69 (REF2021) (Figure 1). Our
 support mechanisms for our doctoral students are explained in Section 2.4.


 1.5 Strategic plans for the next five years

 A recent review of the University’s research and innovation strategy has led to the emergence of
 three new research and innovation themes: health, performance and wellbeing; sustainable
 futures, and safe and inclusive communities. This unit will be making significant contributions to
 all themes while being pivotal to the success and further development of the health, performance
 and wellbeing theme.

 The unit’s goals for the next five years are to:
 1) Continue increasing research capacity: We will aim to support the organic growth of
 researcher numbers and to improve the staff profile across the unit’s four clusters by ensuring
 that there is an appropriate balance of ECRs and senior researchers. We will support our
 researchers with dedicated funding, ensuring they have sufficient and appropriate time allocation
 for research and innovation activities, and opportunities for doctoral student supervision. We will
 build upon ARU’s ECR charter (launched in 2019, see IES 3.9) to support our ECRs.
 2) Continue the growth of national and international collaborations: We will aim to nurture
 existing collaborations and build new ones that are in alignment with research and innovation
 themes and our impact strategy.
 3) Consolidate the growth of doctoral student community: We will aim to improve the
 completion times and student experience of our doctoral students across the four clusters within
 the unit while maintaining the number of completions.


 1.6 Impact strategy

 1.6.1 For the assessment period:
 Our impact strategy builds on the positive feedback the unit received following REF2014. It
 prioritises the identification and development of and investment in projects that have the
 potential to achieve research impact at national and international level.

 For the development of new research projects, identification of potential impact has been key,
 with impact awareness being written into project design. For ongoing research projects, the

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 approach has been to identify their potential impact with clear pinpointing of end-users and key
 stakeholders and subsequent allocation of funding and support to target specific problems. This
 approach has mobilised our research projects to engage with contemporary health care
 questions.

 We have invested QR funding (total £234,296) in this unit to develop the impact case studies
 submitted in REF2021. All five of our impact case studies are embedded in the core strategic
 aims of our research clusters:

 VERI:
 ICS1: New Policies and Strategies Addressing the Global Burden of Eye Diseases.
 ICS2: Reducing the Risk of Sight-threatening Diabetic Retinopathy in People of Asian Origin in
 the UK, Nepal, India, Thailand and China.

 HRC:
 ICS4: Developing Compassion and Compassionate Resilience in Health Care Workers and
 Family Carers.

 BFRG:
 ICS3: Drug-Facilitated Sexual Assault in Nepal: Enhancing Forensic Capacity and Raising
 Public Awareness.
 ICS5: Reducing the Fire Risk from Emollient-Impregnated Fabrics.

 The leads of the impact case studies shared their best practice with the rest of the institution
 through Research Impact Seminars in 2020.

 For more details on our impact-focused stakeholder relationships please see Section 4.1-4.3.

 1.6.2 For the next five years:
 In collaboration with our external partners, we have identified and started to support projects that
 have the potential to generate impact in the future, such as development of diagnostics for
 sepsis, development of novel antifibrotic medicines, use of sweet taste receptor agonists in the
 treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome, development of assays to detect pathogen-
 associated molecular patterns, investigation of antibiotic resistance genes in pathogens from
 bird faeces, and identification of novel biomarkers from fingerprints.

 We will develop these over the next assessment period, ultimately benefiting stakeholders
 including the NHS, specialist companies, healthcare professionals and patients in the UK and
 worldwide.


 1.7 Interdisciplinary research

 Since our unit is at the intersection of technological advancements in the healthcare and
 biomedicine sectors, it is not surprising that the majority of the unit’s research activities are
 interdisciplinary, ranging from engineering and pharmaceutical sciences to biomedical, medical
 and social sciences. Our interdisciplinary work is exemplified in our outputs as well as our
 collaborations (see Section 4.2).

 The unit has taken the following approach to support interdisciplinary research, which enhanced
 the vitality and sustainability of the unit’s research environment:
    - We encourage staff and research students to actively take part in interdisciplinary projects
       from inception to delivery (see Section 2),
    - We support staff and research students to attend and present at national and international
       interdisciplinary research meetings (see Section 2),
    - We reinvest research funds in infrastructure and facilities to support interdisciplinary
       research (see Section 3).

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 For further details on ARU’s approach to interdisciplinary research see IES 2.4.


 1.8 Open research environment

 The University is supportive of open access and has an Open Access Fund which funds the
 cost of publication in Open Access journals. The unit actively promotes open research by
 supporting staff to publish through gold or green open access. Throughout this REF period, a
 total of 60 publications in this unit have received funding totalling £104,134 from the Open
 Access Fund. All of our publications are deposited in the Anglia Ruskin Research Online
 Repository (ARRO). The unit is supportive of the Concordat on Open Research Data and
 where possible makes its research data is made publicly available through online open
 access repository (Figshare). (Further details on open research: IES 2.2).


 1.9 Reproducibility of research

 Our staff and research students in this unit are encouraged to publish experimental methods in
 full detail and use reporting checklists such as (but not limited to) CONSORT for clinical trials,
 PRISMA for systematic reviews and meta-analysis, and ARRIVE for animal studies during the
 design and reporting of their research. Moreover, some staff have been involved in developing
 international guidelines for the reproducibility of research:
      1) Bustin led a consortium of scientists that developed “Minimum Information for Publication
          of Quantitative Real-Time PCR Experiments (MIQE)” guidelines in 2009, which aims to
          guide scientists how to perform qPCR and what forms of data should be collected and
          published in the process. This allowed editors and reviewers of scientific journals to
          employ the guidelines when reviewing submitted papers that included qPCR data. The
          uptake of the MIQE guidelines by the publishers grew over the years including this REF
          submission period. An update of the guidelines for digital PCR was published in 2020.
      2) Cellek co-authored “Guidelines for Protein Detection and PCR” for the Journal of Sexual
          Medicine (Elsevier) in 2018, which comprises reporting checklists for antibody-based
          protein detection systems as well as the MIQE Guidelines.
      3) Ilg co-authored “Consensus Statement on the Use of the Cavernous Nerve Injury Rodent
          Model to Study Postradical Prostatectomy Erectile Dysfunction” in 2020, which aims to
          guide researchers in the field how to best perform experiments using the rodent
          cavernous nerve injury model, lays out details of the technique, and highlights possible
          pitfalls.
      4) Meads co-authored guidance on conducting evidence reviews (2017) for the What Works
          for Wellbeing Centre, which was established by the UK Prime Minister in response to the
          Commission on Wellbeing & Policy in 2014, to continue the implementation of the UK
          Measuring National Well-being Programme 2010. The guidance was funded by ESRC
          and aimed at developing a common currency for measuring wellbeing outcomes.
 (See also: IES, Section 4.1)


 1.10 Research integrity

 A culture of ethical research with integrity is engrained in the mindset of our researchers in this
 unit as ARU is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (IES 2.5). All
 research active staff in this unit have completed research ethics and integrity training
 courses; all of our research projects have been ethically approved by Faculty Research Ethics
 Panels and NHS Research Ethics Committees if they involve NHS patients/staff. Staff in this unit
 (Allen, Cellek, Claydon, Cole, Coussons, Doherty, Formankiewicz, Gautam, Jones, Knight-
 Davidson, McVicar, Nisbet, Pugh, Schutte, S Walker, Waugh) take an active role in reviewing
 ethics applications in their capacity as members of Faculty Research Ethics Panels. ECRs are
 particularly encouraged to act as panel members to support their development and training.
 Furthermore, Doherty is one of the co-authors of a Research Ethics Tool to aid research during

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 humanitarian crises, published by Enhancing Learning and Research for Humanitarian
 Assistance (ELHRA).

 Some of the research undertaken in this unit involves human biological material; accordingly,
 such research activities are licenced by the Human Tissue Authority in both campuses. Staff in
 this unit are co-chair (Cellek) or members (Pugh, Nisbet) of University and Faculty Human
 Biological Material Committees where all research involving human biological material is
 reviewed.

 Although we do not undertake animal research on our University premises, some of our
 research involving animals was carried out through external collaborations. All necessary
 Home Office regulations and/or ethics requirements were met.

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing and recruitment strategy

 The aim of the unit’s staffing strategy is to grow and develop researchers who have the
 expertise, experience and motivation to address contemporary health challenges. Our strategy is
 aligned with institutional strategy, and commits to “transform lives through innovative, inclusive
 and entrepreneurial education and research.”

 This strategy has delivered a significant increase in the number of staff alongside
 corresponding increases in the volume, quality and impact of outputs. 50.9 FTE are included in
 the current submission (compared to 13.5 FTE in REF2014). We have recruited staff to
 strengthen our core strategic aims. This significant increase in the number of staff was a result of
 a key strategic recruitment initiative that took place immediately after REF2014. As a result, 60%
 of staff returned in REF2021 were recruited between 2014 and the 2020 census date.

 The unit provides a secure and sustainable research environment to researchers. 19% of the
 staff in the unit have fixed short-term contracts; at the end of their contracts, they are given the
 opportunity to become permanent members of staff. The percentage of staff who are ECRs,
 research fellows, senior lecturers, readers and professors are 26%, 17%, 29%, 9% and 19%
 respectively. Furthermore, succession plans for senior staff approaching retirement are in place.

 The demographic profile of the unit has improved in diversity since REF2014: 36% female in
 REF2014 vs 47% female in REF2021; and 14% BAME in REF2014 vs 21% BAME in REF2021
 (see also 2.6).


 2.2 Staff Development

 The unit implemented the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (IES
 3.8) by recruiting and retaining researchers with the highest potential to achieve excellence in
 research, and by ensuring that our researchers are equipped and supported to be adaptable and
 flexible in an increasingly diverse, mobile, global research environment. Accordingly, ARU
 retained the European Commission HR Excellence in Research Award in 2015, 2017 and 2019.

 One key measure of success in supporting our staff has been the promotion of academic
 researchers in the REF 2021 assessment period. One staff member (Knight-Davidson) was
 promoted from research assistant to research fellow, four (Francis, Rose, Sapkota, Wilson) from
 research fellow to senior research fellow, four (Jones, Nisbet, O’Kane, C. Walker) from lecturer
 to senior lecturer, and four (Bungay, Gautam, Pugh, S. Walker) from senior lecturer to reader.
 Two staff (Corrigan, Doherty) were promoted from senior research fellow to senior lecturer, and
 one (McVicar) from reader to professor.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The unit utilises the Academic Work Balance Model (AWBM) to ensure that all staff have the
 opportunity to engage with research activities. All research staff are allocated an experienced
 mentor (IES 2.6, 3.1, 3.9) to provide guidance on scholarly and research activities. All staff
 undertake a collaborative annual appraisal with their line manager (IES 3.3), which
 incorporates an individual research report (IRR). The IRR outlines annual achievements,
 delivered objectives, reflective learnings, and future action planning. This system not only
 supports targeted growth in line with personalised research objectives but also enhances and
 streamlines planned targets in alignment with cluster and unit objectives.

 Staff are further supported by flexible and remote working (IES 3.2) and investment in IT
 services, which facilitates communication and collaboration between colleagues working in
 different campuses and remotely. Career pathways for fixed-term and part-time staff are
 comparable to those for permanent and full-time staff (IES 3.6).

 Staff in the unit are encouraged to engage with student internship programmes, which provide
 researchers with assistance to generate data and pump-prime projects, but primarily support
 undergraduates with valuable training and research experience. 21 supervisors in this unit
 engaged with internships over the REF period, recruiting 48 students, which resulted in 6
 publications. Some of the student internships were funded by the Wellcome Trust and Royal
 Society of Chemistry.

 The unit provides short writing retreats (IES 3.1) and research awaydays, in which staff and
 research students are given days on campus or week-long retreats off campus to prepare bids
 or outputs, or to generate collaborations. 18 staff in this unit benefitted from 35 writing retreats in
 this REF period, resulting in the generation of 24 outputs and 1 funding bid.

 Staff are supported by the University Sabbatical Scheme (IES 3.1), which relieves academics
 of teaching responsibilities in order to support research activities. This competitively awarded
 sabbatical scheme provides staff with dedicated research time to support the generation of
 outputs or the initiation of new research projects and collaborations. It also supports completions
 for staff working towards a doctorate. In the REF period, ten staff in this unit have taken
 advantage of the sabbatical scheme, two of them to support doctorate completions. These
 sabbaticals led to ten publications and several funding applications. Gautam used her sabbatical
 period to support work on her impact case study on drug-facilitated sexual assault (1.6.1).
 Chichger spent her sabbatical period at Brown University, USA, and produced four joint
 publications.

 We facilitate exchanges between the unit and business, industry, public and third sector bodies
 through a number of different routes, including honorary positions, voluntary positions and
 events. The unit has been supported by one emeritus professor and 23 visiting honorary
 professors, most of whom are based at local NHS Trusts. These links not only build strategic
 connections and support our research funding bids, but also enrich the postgraduate research
 students’ journey in ARU. The staff in this unit volunteered their time in advisory groups of
 public and third sector bodies particularly in the NHS, Public Health England and Health
 Education England, as detailed under Indicators of Recognition and Esteem (section 4.4). We
 also hosted events that involved business and industry (sections 4.2 and 4.3).


 2.3 Early Career Researchers

 We place particular importance on recruiting and supporting early career researchers (ECRs).
 Since 2014, the number of ECRs in this unit has increased from 3 to 15, again in response to the
 significant investment by the University and through external funding. Some of the current ECRs
 were previous ARU research students (Ahmed, Beukes, Ilg, Karamasis), demonstrating our
 commitment to nurture, retain and develop our own talent.



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We support ECRs through engagement with the ARU ECR Charter (2019), which ensures that
 all ECRs have appropriate time allocated to research on their work balance models, providing
 concentrated periods of time to research activities. ECRs are allocated £2,000 each to support
 their research and are provided with an appropriate mentor to assist with their CPD needs
 during their time as an ECR. All ECRs are aligned to one of our four research clusters, where
 they receive peer support with outputs and grants. ECRs are regularly invited to review
 research papers and grants, with feedback provided by senior staff. Other benefits for ECRs
 include invitations to internal research sandpits, and inclusion on doctorate supervisory
 teams. ECRs are successfully integrated into our research culture, benefitting from access to
 QR funds, support and training for grant preparation, statistics, research methods, knowledge
 transfer and intellectual property through the Researcher Development Programme (IES 3.8).

 We further facilitate the academic career development of our ECRs by providing them with
 opportunities to develop their teaching profiles with the opportunity to gain their PGCert and
 fellowship of the Higher Education Academy. Such initiatives have helped our ECRs to gain the
 skill sets they need to obtain substantial academic posts also enriched our teaching curriculum.
 18 staff (24%) in this unit hold PGCert and 32 (55%) are fellows or senior fellows of HEA.

 As a result of our unit’s support, our ECRs have made exemplary career progress to
 substantial academic posts. Previous research fellows now hold lectureship positions in other
 parts of ARU (Garcia-Porta, O’Mahoney) or in other HEIs (Hoque-Tania to University of Oxford,
 Liu to Coventry University, Nakafero to University of Nottingham, Taylor and Lopes Pires to
 Imperial College London). One career progression story of particular note is that of Allen, who
 undertook his PhD in at ARU in 2004, worked as an ECR and subsequently achieved promotion
 to a professorship in 2014. Other notable successes are those of Gautam and Price, who
 obtained their PhDs at ARU in 2006 and 2010 and were promoted to senior lecturer positions in
 2019 and 2012, respectively. (See also IES, 3.3).


 2.4 Research Students

 Developing the next generation of scientists capable of addressing future healthcare problems
 remains an important part of our unit’s role. We had 109 Postgraduate Research (PGR)
 students in this unit as of the census date, of whom 39 were part-time students. We have
 increased the number of research doctoral degrees awarded from 13.5 in REF2014 to 69 in
 this cycle. Notable destinations of some of our PGR students after leaving ARU are other
 HEIs in the UK (such as Bath, Bournemouth, Cambridge, Leicester, London, Manchester,
 Oxford, Sheffield, Warwick), and abroad (Australia, Bangladesh, Botswana, China, France,
 Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, Nigeria, USA), the private sector (Charles River, UK; A-TEK Inc,
 USA; Gamma Delta Therapeutics, UK) and NHS Trusts (Cambridge, London, Nottingham,
 Sheffield).

 University strategies, including the centrally funded Vice Chancellor’s Studentship
 Programme have played a part in increasing the PGR population. This programme aims to
 recruit high calibre candidates to specific research projects, some of which are externally
 funded. Recruitment rounds are run annually, based on a competitive and rigorous selection
 process. The stipend and fees of successful students are covered by University central funds. 5
 out of 69 doctorate completions in this REF period were supported by the VC’s Studentship
 Programme.

 We have also successfully recruited PGR students who are partly or fully funded externally by
 institutes such as the Sanger Genome Centre, Babraham Institute, GlaxoSmithKline and
 charities such as the European Society for Sexual Medicine and Peterborough Burns Unit
 Appeal Fund. All of our twelve MD (research) students at the census date are clinicians who are
 funded, and their projects are sponsored by NHS Trusts such as Basildon & Thurrock
 University Hospital Trust, Mid Essex Hospital Trust and Southend University Hospital
 Foundation Trust.

                                                                                           Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 PGR student development is supported by the ARU Doctoral School (IES 3.10), which
 provides supportive educational and training programmes to all PGR students across the
 University. These programmes comprise several mandatory training elements (welcome and
 induction, writing, presentation, thesis preparation and viva) that are spread evenly throughout
 the PGR student journey. Moreover, the Doctoral School offers further optional training
 programmes such as statistics, research methodology, leadership skills, entrepreneurship,
 career development and public engagement. Our PGR students in this unit take advantage of
 these training programmes, and our unit staff make a significant contribution to the delivery of
 the programmes content.

 The progression of our PGR students is closely monitored through several milestones in their
 journeys such as project proposal, research ethics application, annual review, upgrade of
 registration and mock viva. At each milestone, their progress is assessed by at least two
 examiners who are independent of the supervisory team. Our unit staff take an active part in
 these milestones as supervisors, examiners and chairs.

 Our PGR students are allocated at least two supervisors, one of whom is always a member of
 staff. Most of our PGR students, particularly those on the MD(Res) programme, have an external
 clinical supervisor. All supervisors attend the mandatory supervisor training programme and are
 offered further career development opportunities through the training opportunities delivered via
 our Researcher Development Programme.

 Our PGR students are offered opportunities to present their work and form new networks at
 Departmental Research Seminars, the Annual Faculty Research Conference and the Annual
 Research Student Conference, where the best presentations are rewarded. The Faculties also
 support the presentation of PGR student work at national and international meetings by utilising
 Faculty research funding schemes. Some of our PGR students in this unit have presented their
 work at national and international meetings in the UK, Australia, Canada, China, Denmark,
 France, Greece, India, Italy, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovenia, Sweden, Switzerland and
 USA.

 We provide PGR students with open plan office space and social spaces, including PGR
 lounges, where PGR students from different subjects can meet and discuss ideas. The
 laboratory spaces provided for postgraduate research students are further described in Section
 3.3.


 2.5 Clinical academics

 Five of our unit staff are clinical academics and have part-time clinical contracts with the NHS
 (Bourne, Frame, Karamasis, Keeble) or Royal Air Force (Almond). They are effectively
 integrated into HRC (Almond, Frame, Karamasis, Keeble) and VERI (Bourne) by taking part in
 and leading joint grant applications, impact case studies, supervision of research students and
 training of researchers and research students, while playing an essential part in maintaining our
 links with the NHS partners. Part of the pay costs of the clinical academics are supported by QR
 funds.


 2.6 Equality and Diversity

 ARU actively promotes equality, diversity and inclusivity (IES 3.11) in its research activities,
 providing a supportive environment where everyone is treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
 Of our research-active staff, 47% are female and 21% BAME.

 All researchers undertake a mandatory training programme covering all aspects of diversity
 including gender, race/ethnicity, disability, sexuality, religion/belief, age, and the other

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 characteristics given protection by the Equality Act 2010. Institutional membership of Athena
 SWAN was granted in 2012, and our Institutional Bronze Award in 2015 (renewed 2018) was
 enhanced by FSE’s Bronze Awards in 2019; the other two Faculties represented in this
 submission (FHEMS and FBL) are currently working towards bronze awards. Chichger, Cole,
 Latham, MacKinnon, Meads, Parris, Schutte and Walker from this unit have contributed to
 Athena SWAN Working Groups.

 We have embedded the university’s equality and diversity guidelines into our unit, promoting
 flexible and part time working. We support staff who wish to utilise the University’s Flexible
 Working Policy, which has options for condensed hours and frequent homeworking. A number of
 staff in this unit have benefited from this scheme, with options such as home and flexible
 working being embedded in their contracts.

 We support research-active staff returning from maternity leave with up to £4,000 in internal
 grant funding to re-establish their research. This was taken up by one member of staff during
 this REF cycle.

 Staff are further supported by inclusivity networks such as the Women’s Network, Part-time
 and Flexible Working Staff Forum, Aurora (leadership development initiative for women),
 Diversifying Leadership Programme, BME Network, LGBTQ+ Network and Disabled Staff
 Network, which aim to support staff and share good practice. Price co-chaired the Part-Time and
 Flexible Working Forum, and Meads is the chair of the LGBTQ+ Network. Several staff from this
 unit have attended these programmes.

 ARU is committed to supporting staff with disability and helping colleagues to progress
 regardless of disability. We offer a Job Interview Guarantee Scheme for disabled applicants who
 meet the essential criteria for an advertised role. We are committed to promoting disability
 awareness in the workplace as evidenced by our accreditation as a Disability Confident
 Employer.

 Furthermore, Gautam, MacKinnon and Nisbet were given two awards from the Royal Society of
 Chemistry Inclusion and Diversity Fund to investigate 1) the enablers and barriers to access
 and participation of black chemists in higher education and workplace environments; and 2) the
 effect of pre-university chemistry education on engagement, to identify the barriers to inclusivity.
 Pardhan has contributed two invited editorials on vision scientists breaking the glass ceiling to
 Ophthalmic & Physiological Optics and has delivered invited keynote talks on Women in
 Vision and Women in Leadership at local and international conferences.


 2.7 Health, safety and wellbeing

 We take health and safety of our staff and PGR students extremely seriously. All of our staff
 and PGR students who work in research laboratories are regularly trained in protection from
 biological and chemical hazards. Their health is regularly monitored by Occupational Health
 through University Health Surveillance Policy. Any research work that will utilise biological or
 chemical hazardous material is reviewed and monitored through well-established health and
 safety risk management systems. ARU holds an ISO 14001 certificate for effective
 environmental management systems and the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents
 (RoSPA) Gold Award for excellence in health and safety.

 Ensuring staff and student wellbeing is a priority within the unit, and we are supported by the
 Institution with regards to information, support, initiatives and helplines for staff and students
 (IES 3.7).

 We place great importance on our staff and students’ mental health as demonstrated by our
 pledges to the Mindful Employer Scheme, committing to support people with mental health
 problems in the workplace; the Time to Change Scheme, helping to change the way we all think

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and act about mental health; and our membership of Inclusive Employers, who work with us on
 building our inclusive culture.

 We support our staff through the Employee Assistance Programme, which is a confidential
 employee benefit designed to help staff deal with personal and professional problems that could
 be affecting their home or work life, health and general wellbeing. The programme offers a 24/7
 helpline available 365 days a year.

 Our staff are further supported by Workplace Health & Wellbeing Champions and Mental
 Health First Aiders, who are trained volunteers from across the university and play a vital role
 in promoting healthy lifestyles and encouraging positive mental health in and outside of the
 workplace.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 During this REF period, the research and innovation activities within this unit have attracted
 £11,097,908 from external sources, an eleven-fold increase compared to the research income
 in REF2014. This amount comprised funding from the EU (33%), NHS and NIHR (28.5%),
 industry (17.3%), charities (11.5%), UK research councils (2.6%) and others (7.2%),
 demonstrating the international and translational nature of the research and innovation
 activities undertaken by this unit.

 Research and innovation activities in this unit have been further supported by allocations from
 QR funding; we have allocated £334k from the University’s QR funding to support research
 fellows, PGR students, dissemination activities, seed funding, impact development, and the
 purchase of equipment and consumables.

 Furthermore, the unit has been supported by the University’s central budget to a total of
 £2.6m within this REF period to support the staffing of VERI and MTRC.


 3.2 Infrastructure

 Staff and research students in this unit receive a significant amount of support from the
 Research and Innovation Development Office (RIDO, IES 1.1, 2.1), which supports research
 and innovation activities across the University. RIDO provides support on research funding
 management, partnership development, research data management, research ethics and
 integrity, commercialisation, intellectual property, project management and researcher
 development. Every Faculty is supported by at least one Research and Innovation Funding
 Manager and Partnership Development Manager based in RIDO. Since this unit is formed of
 staff from three Faculties, the coordination and synchronisation of these managers are
 undertaken by Deputy Directors of RIDO and the Research and Innovation Leadership Team.
 These managers are further supported by each Faculty’s finance teams. This coherent and
 coordinated way of working has resulted in a 14% average increase in successful funding
 applications for this unit in the 2019-2020 financial year, compared to the previous year.

 The research and innovation activities in this unit are further supported by the RIDO
 Commercialisation Officer and the University Legal Team who collectively ensure that
 intellectual property created by the unit’s work is appropriately protected. This includes financial
 support for patenting costs and a generous revenue sharing policy. In this REF period, two
 patent applications (Cellek, Chichger) from this unit have been supported. Furthermore, the
 ARU Innovation Centre (see 4.3.1) and ARU Biometrics (4.3.9) have been supported by these
 mechanisms.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Clinical research activities in this unit are supported by the ARU Clinical Trials Unit (CTU),
 which gives support in clinical trial design and coordination, project and data management,
 costing and budget management, site management, trial oversight, randomisation, data analysis
 and reporting. During this REF period, CTU supported 14 projects for this unit, worth £466,923 in
 total.


 3.3 Facilities

 Significant investment by the University has increased dedicated research space from 344m2
 to 1,555 m2 during this REF period.

 The £45M Science Centre on the Cambridge campus (completed in 2018) is home to 410 m2 of
 dedicated research space with cutting edge research facilities. This includes containment level 2
 (CL2) research space for over 50 researchers, with dedicated cell culture and microbiology
 laboratories, venepuncture room, microscopy suite, clean DNA/RNA preparation room, GC-MS
 suite, chemical storeroom, cold room, dark room and large equipment room. The centre is
 equipped with a confocal microscope, HPLC systems, gas/liquid chromatography mass
 spectrometry, flow cytometry systems, spectrophotometers, PCR/qPCR equipment and freezers.
 Further research laboratories in the David Building (209 m2) on the same campus provide CL2
 space for this unit for microbiology, chemistry and forensic analytical equipment.

 State-of-the-art laboratories and clinical areas (190 m2) which were opened in our Young Street
 building in December 2014 support research in VERI. Facilities include: (i) the Low-Vision Suite
 featuring a new Vicon mobility analysis system to examine the impact of low vision on everyday
 tasks such as step ascent and obstacle crossing; (ii) the Diagnostic Suite which includes anterior
 and posterior OCTs, microperimeter, fundus camera, and wide-field specular photomicroscope;
 (iii) an Anterior Eye Research Suite, incorporating a room-sized environmental chamber which
 allows independent manipulation of temperature, wind speed and humidity; wavefront sensor,
 IOL Master and a power refractor; (iv) the Psychophysics Suite with Cambridge Research
 Systems Visage and SR Research EyeLink 1000 eye tracker. Vision and eye research in this
 unit is further supported by the University Eye Clinic Labs on the same campus, which are
 also utilised as research space (33 m2; opened in 2014) and include relevant equipment for low
 vision, colour vision and electrophysiology.

 The Medical Technology Research Centre has three research laboratory spaces: i) Molecular
 and Cell Biology Laboratory (135 m2; opened in 2009) comprising CL2 laboratory equipped
 with cell culture suite, microscopy suite, PCR/qPCR equipment, FACS, protein detection
 equipment, automated liquid handling machine for drug screening and cryostat; ii) Medical
 Technology Research Laboratory (36 m2; opened in 2018), which comprises small device
 fabrication area and human volunteer testing area; iii) Pharmaceutical Research Laboratory
 (131 m2; opened in 2016), comprising a chemical analytical laboratory and cell culture suite
 equipped with high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), differential scanning calorimetry
 (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), advanced rheometer, micro viscometer, rotary
 evaporator, freeze-dryer, UV double beam spectrometer, Zeta sizer, FT-IR spectrometer, high
 pressure homogeniser, breathing simulator, next generation impactor and spray droplet
 measurement system.

 The researchers and PGR students are further supported by the Chelmsford SuperLab (411 m2;
 opened in 2015) which is used for teaching, training and research. It comprises a human
 physiology suite and CL2 laboratories which are equipped with spectrophotometers,
 microscopes and a tableting machine, a fat extraction unit, imaging systems, rotary evaporators,
 and a stability chamber.

 All staff and lab-based PGR students have desk space within easy reach of their labs and are
 further supported with refreshment areas, cafes, kitchenettes, social interaction areas and
 meeting rooms. Non-lab-based PGR students also have access to dedicated PGR Rooms,

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 which are open plan offices that are dedicated to only PGR students and equipped with desktop
 computers and teleconference facilities.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Part of this unit’s mission is collaboration, which is particularly important in this unit because of
 its size and diversity. Collaborations within the unit, across the university and with external
 partners are always encouraged, supported at all management levels and coordinated through
 Deputy Deans for Research and Innovation and colleagues in RIDO.


 4.1 Intra-unit and inter-unit collaborations

 Interaction and collaboration between different research groups has been successful and
 ongoing and is evidenced through joint research papers and projects. The clusters are
 encouraged to undertake inter-disciplinary and collaborative research activities not only among
 each other but also with other clusters in the University. This has been facilitated through
 Sandpits and Interdisciplinary Research Conferences organised either by Faculties or RIDO.

 Some notable examples of collaborations by the researchers within this unit and across the
 University are:
 1.    VERI researchers have actively participated in collaborative and inter-disciplinary research
       and innovation activities with colleagues from other clusters in this unit (BFRG; Chichger)
       and other parts of the University such as computing sciences, human movement sciences,
       psychology and sports sciences, as detailed in Section 1.2.
 2.    MTRC and BFRG jointly organised three annual ARU Biomedical Research
       Conferences between 2016 and 2019, which were open to external attendees. From
       these interactions, one successful funding bid (Ilg, Dyer, Cellek; ESSM €30,000) arose.
 3.    A collaboration between Meads and colleagues in UoA4 and UoA17 on preparing for later
       life, secured funding from the Centre of Ageing Better (£47k) and resulted in a publication.
 4.    A collaboration between Bungay and colleagues in UoA20 on arts in therapeutic
       interventions secured funding from AHRC (£23,750).
 5.    A collaboration between McVicar and colleagues in UoA20 on citizen research groups
       resulted in further collaborations with Age UK and Essex County Council, and a successful
       funding bid to the National Lottery Grant scheme.


 4.2 External collaborations

 The research and innovation activities of the clusters have involved external organisations in
 both the public and private sectors such as local councils, charities, NHS Trusts, commercial
 companies, and academics in the UK and abroad, supported through the involvement of RIDO-
 based Partnership Development Managers (IES, Section 4). Within this REF period, researchers
 in this unit established collaborations with academics and clinicians at 41 other HEIs in the UK,
 HEIs in 31 other countries, 14 NHS Trusts, and a wealth of other external organisations.

 Some notable examples of such collaborations include (full list could not be shown due to space
 limitations):
  1.    In partnership with the World Health Organisation (WHO), VERI (Bourne) has initiated
        and led a worldwide consortium (Vision Loss Expert Group; VLEG) of more than 100
        ophthalmic epidemiologists to ascertain the global burden of visual impairment and
        blindness. The work has been published in 13 papers in The Lancet and has led to the
        formation of the UK National Eye-Health and Hearing Survey (UKNEHS). This work forms
        the basis of our first impact case study (1.6.1)
  2.    VERI’s research (Pardhan, Sapkota) on diabetic retinopathy was conducted through
        collaborations with academics and clinicians at the University of Cambridge and in


                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       China, Hong Kong, India, Nepal, and USA. The work attracted £200k in funding and
       resulted in 18 publications; it forms the basis of our second impact case study (1.6.1).
 3.    Gautam’s research on drug-facilitated sexual assault, which is featured in our third impact
       case study (1.6.1), involved collaborations with academics and clinicians in Botswana,
       India, Nepal, and the UK and resulted in six publications.
 4.    McVicar and Wilson collaborated with the Mid-South Essex NHS Trust and Cambridge
       NHS Trust on reducing physical restraint in mental health patients, which was funded by
       NIHR and led to the development of our fourth impact case study (1.6.1).
 5.    Hall’s research on the flammability of skin creams/emollients involved collaboration with
       the West Yorkshire Fire and Rescue Service, London Fire Brigade and Essex Fire
       and Rescue Service. It won FIRE Magazine’s Collaboration of the Year Award in 2019
       and formed the basis of our fifth impact case study (1.6.1).
 6.    Collaborations between Cole and academics in Botswana, Poland, South Africa and
       Forensic Science Services in South Africa and Botswana on forensic science, drug
       analysis and public health resulted in eight publications.
 7.    Support Monitoring and Reminder Technology for Mild Dementia (SMART4MD) was an
       EU Horizon 2020-funded project (€3M) led by ARU (Cellek, Zhang) and supported by the
       ARU Clinical Trials Unit. It comprised eight international partners in Belgium, Czech
       Republic, Israel, Spain, and Sweden, and aimed to develop a global health management
       platform to empower people living with dementia and support their carers. It resulted in two
       publications and a prototype app which is being further developed.
 8.    Knight-Davidson, Rose and Sanchez-Vasquez are part of an international consortium with
       partners from the UK, Belgium, France and Netherlands in the SEAS2 Grow project
       funded by European Regional Development Fund (€3.2M), which aims to develop a
       proactive silver economy ecosystem (focused on the over-60s) in the EU.
 9.    A collaboration between Meads and Brunel University on wellbeing in culture and sport
       resulted in joint funding from ESRC (£1.2M) and five joint publications.
 10.   Collaborations between Meads, Public Health England, the University of Leeds and the
       University of Cambridge on evidence synthesis about NHS Health Checks attracted
       funding from PHE (£75k) and produced four joint publications.
 11.   Collaborations between Karamasis, Keeble, and clinicians at Imperial College London, in
       the Netherlands and Sweden, with private sector funds from Abbott Vascular, Zoll
       Corporation, Philips Volcano and Astra Zeneca, focused on the clinical management of
       coronary disease and cardiac arrest. The work led to 35 publications, the completion of
       four PGR students and £720k in funding.
 12.   COM-GAP-S (Integrating mental health into primary care for post-conflict populations in
       Northern Sri Lanka) was a collaborative project between ARU (Doherty), London School
       of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, King’s College London and partners in Sri Lanka
       aiming to reduce the treatment gap for conflict-affected populations with mental disorders.
       It was funded by Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (USA) ($752k) and produced
       three publications.
 13.   Post-Research Ethics Analysis (PREA) is a research project investigating ethical issues in
       health research in humanitarian crises and comprised partners at ARU (Doherty), Dublin
       City University, University of Sydney and London School of Hygiene and Tropical
       Medicine. It was funded (£417k) by ELHRA and produced two publications.
 14.   A collaboration between MTRC (Cellek, Ilg), clinicians from University College London,
       Broomfield Hospital Burns Unit and academics from Belgium on the discovery of novel
       medicines for fibrotic diseases through phenotypic screening attracted funding from
       charities totalling £120k. It produced one patent, four publications and two PhD
       completions.
 15.   A project investigating the optimal method for measuring visual fields in people with low
       vision involved a collaboration between Latham, clinicians from Moorfields Eye Hospital
       and academics from the University of Hertfordshire. The project was funded by the
       College of Optometrists (£60k) and resulted in two publications and one PhD completion.
 16.   Collaboration between Allen, Beukes and academics from the University of Nottingham,
       Sweden and the USA focussed on developing an internet-based intervention for tinnitus


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       and attracted funding from the British Society of Audiology (£5k). It resulted in ten
       publications and one PhD completion.
 17.   Allen has been working with the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) and
       colleagues from Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam to develop evidence-based, sport-specific
       classification systems for athletes with a vision impairment. The project attracted funding
       (£33k) from the Agitos Foundation, IPC and College of Optometrists and resulted in six
       publications and a new classification system approved by the IPC in 2019.
 18.   Collaborations between Chichger and academics at the University of Cambridge,
       University College London and Brown University (USA) on vascular biology attracted
       £217k in funding and resulted in one patent application and three PhD completions. It
       produced 14 publications.
 19.   Collaborations between Pugh and academics at the Universities of Cambridge,
       Leicester, and Reading, as well as researchers in Germany on platelet biology attracted
       £392k in funding and produced 12 publications.
 20.   Collaborations between Najlah and academics at the Universities of Wolverhampton,
       Lincoln and Qatar on nanoencapsulation of drugs attracted $700k in funding from the
       Qatar Research Fund and produced three publications.


 4.3 Commercial activities

 In alignment with our University Research and Innovation Strategy (IES Section 1) to “build and
 develop stronger and more productive relationships with collaborators and stakeholders,
 including industry, public sector and businesses in areas linked to our research strengths”, this
 unit has taken a proactive approach to initiating, developing and nurturing relationships with
 industry.

 Some notable examples of interactions by researchers in this unit with the private sector are:

 1.    Parris and Pugh have led the University’s Innovation Centre plans since 2019. The
       Centre aims to drive the growth of the life sciences sector in the city of Cambridge through
       innovative, inclusive and entrepreneurial activity, working closely with the city’s thriving
       business sector. It is envisaged that 15 life science companies will be given business-
       laboratory space which will create collaborative academic research projects, joint grant
       funding applications, contract research projects and student employment opportunities
       such as internships, work placement and graduate jobs.
 2.    Bourne has been responsible for setting up and co-ordinating the US Global
       Ophthalmology Network, which received £63k in funding from the NIHR, and has
       worked with Santen Pharmaceuticals on uveitis trials which attracted funding of £479k.
 3.    Working with VOPTICA, Pardhan worked on validating new techniques for anterior eye
       measurement, funded by a Horizon 2020 SME partnership grant.
 4.    Cellek has collaborated with GlaxoSmithKline on the effect of microenvironment on
       endotoxin tolerance, which resulted in a doctoral completion.
 5.    Parris established a collaboration with Hydrophis Gas Ltd (£339k) for the development of
       a carbon capture device for marine environments.
 6.    Parris established collaborations with Advanced Oncotherapy and MedAnnex on cancer
       biology that resulted in £450k in funding.
 7.    Bustin established collaborations with Olm Diagnostics, Optisense, Applied
       Biosystems, PCRMax/Techne, Nanostring, Thermofisher and Agilent for the
       development of novel PCR platforms for research and diagnostic purposes. These
       collaborations resulted in twelve publications and four new CE-marked diagnostic kits.
 8.    Collaborations between Najlah, Arafat and Lipolife, Detox People and GMPharma on the
       nanoencapsulation of drugs attracted £300k in funding.
 9.    BFRG (Nisbet, Pugh, Chichger, Dyer, Parris, Pirianov) established an independently
       branded commercial arm, known as ‘Anglia Biometrics’ within ARU research facilities in
       2019, providing consultancy opportunities, expertise, and service.


                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.4 Other contributions to the research base and indicators of recognition and esteem

 Staff in this unit made significant contributions to the research base during this REF period in the
 following ways:

 4.4.1 Editorial:
 Bourne has been a section editor (since 2016) and an associate editor (since of May 2020) of
 Eye (the journal of Royal College of Ophthalmologists); Bustin was editor-in-chief of
 Biomolecular Detection and Quantification between 2014 and 2020 and is currently editor-in-
 chief of the International Journal of Molecular Sciences (since 2010); Cellek has been an
 associate editor for the Journal of Sexual Medicine since 2017; Meads was deputy editor for
 the International Journal of Technology Assessment in Healthcare between 2013 and 2019;
 Zhang has been statistical adviser to Developmental Medicine & Child Neurology since 2017.

 The staff in this unit have been editorial board members of Aesthetic Surgery Journal;
 American Journal of Physiology; Biomarkers in Medicine; BMC Molecular Biology; British
 Journal of Nursing; Cambridge Scholars Publishing; Clinical Medicine; Drug Delivery Letters;
 Experimental Physiology; Eye; Forensic, Legal and Investigative Sciences; Gene Regulation and
 Systems Biology; International Glaucoma Review; Journal of Intellectual Disability - Diagnosis
 and Treatment; International Journal of Stress Management; International Journal of Technology
 Assessment in Healthcare; Journal of Forensic Chemistry and Toxicology; Journal of
 Personalised Medicine; Journal of Sexual Medicine; Materials Science in Semiconductor
 Processing; Molecules; Nutrients; Ophthalmic and Physiological Optics; Physiology News; PLOS
 One; Problems of Forensic Sciences; Public Health Journal; Sociology of Health and Illness;
 Scientific Reports.

 4.4.2 Invited keynote lectures:
 Unit staff have been invited to give keynote lectures at national and international research
 conferences in the UK, Australia, Austria, Belgium, China, Denmark, Finland, France,
 Germany, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Italy, Malaysia, Malta, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
 North Korea, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Sri
 Lanka, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand and the USA.

 4.4.3 Advisory committee memberships:
 Staff have sat on, or chaired, the following councils, committees and similar bodies:
     • Allen (member of Council as well as Research and Education Committees at College of
         Optometrists)
     • Bourne (National Specialty Lead for NIHR; Chair of the Early Detection of Neovascular
         Age-related Macular Degeneration [EDNA] Steering Committee; technical advisor to
         WHO; member of the Advisory Board, Retina Global)
     • Bungay (member of Arts & Wellbeing Group at the Royal Society of Public Health)
     • Bustin (member of Scientific Board, TATAA Biocentre, Gothenburg, Sweden; scientific
         advisor to Momentum Biotechnology; member of Programme Expert Group in Chemical
         and Biological Metrology Programme, LGC and BEIS; member of Scientific Advisory
         Board Pentabase, Copenhagen, Denmark)
     • Cellek (Grants Committee Chairman and Executive Committee Member of European
         Society for Sexual Medicine)
     • Chichger (member of Covid-19 review panel for lung research related to infection since
         July 2020; member of diabetes research steering group for Diabetes UK since June
         2020)
     • Frame (president of UK Association of Aesthetic and Plastic Surgeons, national
         representative for International Society of Aesthetic Plastic Surgery; member of
         organising committee of Annual Conference UK Association of Plastic Surgeons)
     • Gautam (UK representative on the UNESCO Associated Schools Cooperation Council,
         Nepal)


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Ilg (member of Basic Science Committee of European Society for Sexual Medicine)
    •   Knight-Davidson (member of Social Isolation Forum at Essex County Council)
    •   Latham (Executive Secretary of European Society for Low Vision Research and
        Rehabilitation)
    •   MacKinnon (founding member of Physiological and Psychological Acoustics Special
        Interests Group - Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council)
    •   McLachlan (founding member of Helicopter Emergency Medical Service Regional
        Research Group for the East of England)
    •   McVicar (associate member of International Consortium for Occupation Resilience
        (ICOR), Central Queens University, Australia)
    •   Meads (member of East of England Public Health Research and Evaluation Hub Steering
        Group, member of LGBT Advisory Panel in UK Government Equalities Office, member of
        Reproductive Health Expert Reference Group in Public Health England, member of
        ESRC-funded Wellbeing Methods Group)
    •   Norgett (member of Examination and Editing & Writing Committees of College of
        Optometrists).

 4.4.4 Grant review panel memberships:
 Bourne (Fight for Sight; Wellcome Trust); Bungay (Arts and Humanities Research Council);
 Bustin (BBSRC, MRC); Cellek (EU Horizon 2020); Chichger (American Heart Association;
 Physiological Society); Cole (Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council); Keeble,
 Pugh (British Heart Foundation); Hooks, McVicar, Wilson, Zhang (NIHR); Parris (BBSRC; Breast
 Cancer Now); Kolarik (Italian Ministry of Education).

 4.4.5 Fellowships, prizes and awards:
 The excellence of our research was recognized through the following fellowships, prizes and
 awards for individual staff members:
     • Allen (fellow of European Academy of Optometry and Optics since 2019; fellow of
       American Academy of Optometry since 2018; fellow of College of Optometrists since
       2013; Shapiro Prize from British Tinnitus Association in 2017, 2018, 2019)
     • Beukes (Halpike Prize from British Association of Audiovestibular Physicians 2019;
       Shapiro Prize from British Academy of Audiology 2017, 2018, 2019)
     • Bourne (fellow of Royal College of Ophthalmologists; Vision Excellence Award from IAPB
       2020)
     • Cellek (fellow of British Pharmacological Society since 2017)
     • Cole (fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry since 2018)
     • Frame (member of Royal Colleges of Surgeons London & Edinburgh)
     • Gautam (award from UNESCO Schools Cooperation Council)
     • Latham (Neil Charman Medal for outstanding research by College of Optometrists 2017;
       fellow of College of Optometrists since 2013)
     • Meads (David Harvey Award from GLADD [LGBT Association of Doctors and Dentists]
       2018)
     • Najlah (fellow of Royal Society of Chemistry since 2019)
     • Nisbet (Experimental Design and Impact on Toxicology (EDIT) Award from Society of
       Forensic Toxicology 2018; Education Research Award from Society of Forensic
       Toxicology 2016; Student Scholarship Award from Forensic Science Foundation 2016;
       Excellence in Solid Phase Extraction Award from United Chemical Technologies 2014)
     • Norgett (fellow of College of Optometrists since 2014)
     • Pardhan (listed on Ophthalmologist’s Powerlist as Champion of Change 2019)
     • Waugh (fellow of American Academy of Optometry since 1994)
     • Bungay and Wilson (Outstanding Achievement Award at You Make a Difference Awards
       from Essex County Council 2019).

 4.4.6 Expert witness:
 Bustin served as an expert witness in two cases in Court of Appeal in New Zealand (2014-2015)
 and Swiss Patent Office (2014-2017).

                                                                                       Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4.5 Dissemination of research

 Unit staff hosted the following research conferences:
     • International Symposium & Imaging Workshop on Giant Cell Arteritis, Polymyalgia
         Rheumatica and Large Vessel Vasculitis (2016, Southend)
     • Heads of University Centres of Biomedical Sciences Conference (2017, ARU)
     • Innovate UK, East of England Conference (2019, ARU)
     • Cambridge New Therapeutics Forum (2019, ARU)
     • Zinc Net (2019, ARU)

 Staff also took active roles in organising University and Faculty annual research conferences
 and disseminated their research through publications and presentations at national and
 international meetings.


 4.6 Public engagement: media and community level

 The staff in this unit and their research have featured in 2,905 news pieces, 145 of which were
 printed by local and national newspapers. 1,509 pieces were featured in online news outlets and
 441 in television and radio broadcasts.

 Unit staff have also taken active roles in engaging with local primary and secondary schools,
 where either the staff visited the schools to give lectures about science, or the schoolchildren
 were invited to visit our research facilities. Gautam was awarded £2k from the Royal Society of
 Chemistry in 2017 for a school engagement project entitled “Applying Chemistry to Solve
 Crimes”.

 The unit staff have taken part in the annual Cambridge Science Festival since 2015 and were
 part of the first Chelmsford Science Festival in 2019. The research in the unit has featured in
 University’s publications such as Research & Innovation Highlights and Connect, which aims
 to engage with the public and alumni. ARU has agreed to host the next British Science
 Festival on the Chelmsford campus in 2021 (originally scheduled for 2020, but postponed due
 to Covid-19), a project with which our unit staff will be fully engaged.




                                                                                           Page 21
