Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


  Institution: Ulster University

  Unit of Assessment: Education UOA 23

  1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Context

Education at Ulster is a vibrant unit that is recognised for enabling the achievement of impact
through local engagement and internationally excellent research. Having marked its 50th
anniversary in 2019, the School of Education has an established tradition of leadership,
developing audiences beyond the academy through regional, national and global partnerships.
Part of the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Social Sciences, the Unit’s collaborative,
interdisciplinary, dynamic and innovative approach to research and impact embodies Ulster
University’s mission of “addressing issues of global relevance but with meaningful local impact on
the social, economic and cultural life of Northern Ireland”. The School aims to ensure its research
is impactful by taking dimensions of education in the Northern Ireland (NI) community as points of
departure and contextualising the challenges, contributing expertise in the service of education as
agent of change, and facilitating responsive and productive impact on policy and practice at local,
national and international levels. Since 2014, the Unit has been awarded £5.5M in research and
development grants from a very wide range of funders including research councils, government
departments and charities (cf. £2.2M million, 2008–14). As detailed in section 1 below we have
met the three objectives set out in the last REF submission around increased funding,
collaboration across the unit and building staff capacity (in section 2).

UNESCO Centre

The local and international work of UNESCO Centre staff underpins our two Impact Case Studies.
The UNESCO Centre is home to the longest continuously operating UNESCO Chair in the
United Kingdom (Smith, 1999) and the first on the island of Ireland. The Centre has achieved
its foremost aim as identified in REF2014 by obtaining more than £2.7M of funding “to
develop, monitor and research intervention programmes in conflict-afflicted states” through
partnerships with UNICEF and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) and through
the development of the Political Economy of Education Research (PEER) network funded via the
AHRC from the UKRI Global Challenges Research Fund (GCRF).

The research which was the basis of the UNESCO Chair’s outstanding REF 2014 ICS led to
increasing demand for the Centre’s expertise in conflict analysis to be applied to the work of
education donors and international development organisations in conflict-affected countries.
Research projects have included the UNICEF Peacebuilding, Education and Advocacy programme
(2011–16), a €150 million initiative funded by the government of the Netherlands across fourteen
conflict-affected countries. A particular contribution to the development of the theory base is the
4Rs Framework (Novelli, Lopes Cardozo and Smith, 2017) which has been used by key
development organisations – UNICEF, UK Department for International Development (DFID) and
Oxfam – to analyse education's contribution to sustainable peacebuilding in conflict-affected
contexts. The application of this framework by UNICEF and other international development
organisations is the focus of one of the Unit’s REF 2021 Impact Case Studies.

Smith (PI) was awarded £2M from GCRF to establish the four-university (Ulster, Cape Town,
Nazarbayev and Sussex) PEER Network (2020–23). Looking forward, the PEER Network’s
core aim is its research impact: to help national, regional and global level policymakers and
practitioners make socially just decisions about investments in education that benefit children in
contexts of conflict and crisis. The Network’s activities include establishing two regional hubs of
Political Economy Analysis (PEA) of education expertise across conflict-affected countries in
Central Asia and Africa, inviting policymakers, practitioners and academics to co-produce and
develop online PEA tools, knowledge and expertise, and commissioning of up to ten small

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

(£30,000) research studies which will facilitate locally owned knowledge bases in each hub
location.

The UNESCO Chair at Ulster is featured in two case studies in a report by the UK National
Commission for UNESCO, which highlighted an estimated £151M per year financial benefit to the
UK economy from UNESCO. Professor Smith’s work was the basis for a Commonwealth Day
keynote presentation at the Houses of Parliament, Westminster and was recognised with the
award of an OBE for services to education in the 2020 New Year’s Honours list.

Research and Impact strategy and Achievements

Our research is underpinned by the Ulster University (UU) Five & Fifty strategic priorities and the
Research and Impact Strategy (2017–22) which designates four strategic priorities: social renewal,
sustainability, healthy communities, and creativity and culture. The Unit’s long-standing
research strategy has a janiform outlook: building on sustainable research from the past
and developing innovative, impactful research for the future. This is built on a foundation of
compulsory online training for all research staff, PhD Researchers and Masters students on
Ethical Integrity in Research - 100% of REF eligible staff have completed this.

Ulster University is a signatory of DORA and a supporter of the principles of the Leiden Manifesto
and the Metric Tide. The Unit recognises and values that their research should be openly
accessible to all. Researchers are encouraged to publish in open access outlets. Our
research is published publicly on the PURE database.

Our Unit’s development strategy centres on three core impact-oriented themes

   •   Theme 1: Professional Education, Policy Development and Pedagogical Practice
   •   Theme 2: Education, Conflict Transformation and Peacebuilding (International)
   •   Theme 3: Education, Conflict Transformation and Peacebuilding (Northern Ireland)

Each of the themes have been long-standing focal points, where the Unit has developed capacity
to achieve impact both from research it initiates proactively and from its response to emerging
challenges. The sections below point towards the future development of each theme and UNESCO
Centre works across Themes 2 and 3.

Theme 1: Professional Education, Policy Development and Pedagogical Practice

Building on collaborations that were commended in REF 2014, the Unit continues to provide both
proactive and responsive research-based leadership and collaboration for teacher and
librarian education, locally, nationally and internationally. As Chair of the Universities’ Council for
the Education of Teachers Northern Ireland (UCETNI), Clarke initiated a novel research
collaboration in which she led a team of colleagues from all the local (competing) HEIs, who were
commissioned to undertake two research studies. Firstly, as part of the roll out of the Department
of Education’s Learning Leaders Strategy, the Teacher Education branch of the Department
commissioned UCETNI to conduct a study and identify principles which would inform a framework
for teacher professional learning in NI. This innovative framework (Clarke et al, 2019) will underpin
the implementation of the Learning Leaders Strategy over the next six years. Secondly, to
establish a baseline for the development of a Strategy for Digital Education in schools, NI Screen
funded UCETNI for a two-phase empirical study of teachers’ perceptions of Information and
Communication Technology (ICT) and professional learning in this area. A full time PhD
researcher (McCafferty-Lau) is taking this work forward and has used the disruptive effects of the
COVID-19 pandemic to probe the nature of teachers’ education technology skills and ambitions.

Further evidence of the Unit's vitality and agility is found in studies of home schooling and
school leadership during the pandemic that have been undertaken across all school sectors,
both locally and with colleagues across the island and within the UK (O’Connor, Bates, Finlay,

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Roulston & Taggart, 2020) and within the UK (Beauchamp, Hulme, Clarke and Hamilton, 2020).
The research also included a study of the distinctive needs of newcomer pupils and their parents
during the pandemic, findings of which are to be disseminated by Skinner and two PhD
researchers (Stewart and Kelly) in a British Educational Research Association (BERA) webinar in
September 2020. Roulston is to share key outcomes of the post-primary parents’ study at the
Standing Conference for Teacher Education North and South (SCoTENS) webinar for which
Clarke invited Neil Selwyn of Monash University to provide a keynote address – eight members of
Department of Education staff, including the newly appointed Chief Inspector for NI, took part in
lively panel discussions.

 In July 2020, O’Connor was invited to participate in a high-level working group to mobilise
research evidence to support recovery from COVID-19. Led by the UK Government Chief
Scientific Adviser and the Executive Chair of the ESRC, the working group identified a range of
areas of research interest for the Re-building a Resilient Britain programme. O’Connor convened
the Supporting Services sub-group, which is to complete its reports before the end of
2020. Austin, with partners in the Irish government Department of Education, Dublin City
University, the University of Cyprus and the VisMednet training organisation in Malta, has
developed a bid to the EU for the ‘Repurposing Education through Blended Learning’ (REBEL)
project, supported by Roulston, Taggart and Skinner, which will provide professional development
in digital skills for teachers and teacher educators from 2021–2023 to enable them to meet the
challenges of COVID-19.

The use of ICT to enhance teaching and learning has been part of this research theme since
2008. By 2014, projects had examined the use of laptops (Austin, Clarke, Abbott), Virtual Learning
Environments (Lambe, Clarke) and E-Portfolios in Initial Teacher Education (McNair). Continuing
to build on a twin-track trajectory of innovation and critique around successive waves of
technology, Clarke and Abbott undertook an appraisal of the use of iPads in a local primary school,
and McGill is carrying out PhD research on the use of tablets in teaching mathematics in primary
schools and within teacher education. Taggart and Roulston are developing the use of Virtual
Reality and Augmented Reality (using VIAR 360) in teacher education, with colleagues in the
School of Nursing and in the School of Computing and Engineering who co-supervise a PhD
researcher (Murtagh). A further interdisciplinary part time PhD researcher has begun a project
(supervised by Irwin from FE sector Teacher Education and Chen from Computing) examining the
use of AI to evaluate students’ engagement during online classes.

Staff research has included the interdisciplinary deconstruction of aspects of professionalism using
Clarke’s innovative interdisciplinary Place Model (Clarke, 2016, 2019; Clarke and McFlynn 2020)
and of managerialism (Skinner and Leavy). The Place Model is a novel interdisciplinary
conceptualisation which draws on, and develops, geographical and sociological understandings of
place, particularly Massey’s notion of Geographical Imagination, providing an innovative lens with
which to deconstruct the concepts of profession and professional. Dissemination of research using
the Place Model has been via invited keynotes at UCET and Teacher Education Advancement
Network (TEAN) Conferences in the UK, and the Australian and New Zealand Teacher Education
Networks (TEFANZ/ATEA) Conference in Auckland. Publication highlights include a Special Issue
(SI) of the US Journal of Education Sciences (edited by Clarke, 2020) with a foreword by Professor
Howard Gardner of Harvard University, director of the Good Work Project, who describes the
research as “timely and useful”. Contributing authors are researchers (both PhD students and
academic staff) from across the University and international authors in a range of professions
including social work, speech therapy, midwifery, policing, journalism and teacher education
(Clarke and McFlynn, 2020). The Place Model is used as part of course induction for all PGCE
students and for postgraduate students in social work, and the social work article is one of the
elements of McDermott’s PhD by published work.

The Unit’s research in teacher education was recognised as a key underpinning for the recent
Education Training Inspectorate’s (ETI) ‘Outstanding’ grading of Ulster course provision
and has paved the way for the research-led development of the first Campus School on the

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

island of Ireland, which is in the early stages of planning with local schools, the Education
Authority and the Department of Education. The Campus School Research Group is
interdisciplinary, comprising current and former staff and PhD researchers, and builds on Moran
and Clarke’s (2012) analysis of the historical Model School approach in Ireland, which they
contrasted with current practice in Finland.

Theme 2: Education, Conflict Transformation and Peacebuilding (International)

The Unit’s approach to research related to education, conflict and peacebuilding emerged in the
1970s through engagement with education providers during the conflict in NI and has developed to
support work on the role of education in community relations, religiously segregated and integrated
schools, and research-informed curriculum change in areas such as history and citizenship
education.

Austin led a ten-year ICT-enabled project, Dissolving Boundaries (in conjunction with the National
University of Ireland (NUI) Maynooth), which involved 600 schools north and south of the Irish
border working on topics common to school curricula. The project was the basis of an outstanding
REF 2014 ICS and Austin’s co-authored Routledge book (Austin and Anderson, 2013) was
described by one reviewer as representing a paradigm shift in how public education should be
viewed. Since then, he has applied the lessons of the project to blended learning in Shared
Education, the government policy on promoting collaborative links between schools (Austin and
Turner 2020). Building on this in turn, Hunter and Austin’s latest Routledge book (2020) on
blended learning in intercultural education has distilled insights from the project into theoretical
models for inter-school collaboration and introduced new case studies, such as a study of linguistic
and cultural issues in Spain/Catalonia and Israel/Palestine.

Shanks has conducted research with application to post-conflict stabilisation and peacebuilding
agendas in countries including Iraq (the focus of her well-received Routledge book (2016)),
Ukraine, Somalia and Syria, through projects commissioned by key development organisations
including the UN Assistance Mission for Iraq, Office of the UN High Commissioner for Human
Rights and US Agency for International Development (USAID). Shanks is an invited contributor
to debates at government and intergovernmental level, such as those convened by the FCDO
on improving ethical research standards in fragile environments. This is a key part of Shanks’s
ongoing role as UKRI GCRF Challenge Leader for Education. Smith and Shanks have a
partnership with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), Geneva involving analysis
of the inclusion of education as a priority in humanitarian response to the needs of children in
conflict.

The GCRF PEER Network is funded by AHRC to establish two regional hubs of education
expertise across conflict-affected countries in Central Asia and Africa and make all tools and
resources freely available to students, researchers and practitioners. An important element of
the Network’s impact will be in supporting and enabling a new generation of researchers to
analyse and influence education systems in their own contexts.

Theme 3: Education for Conflict Transformation (Northern Ireland)

This theme contributes particularly strongly to the University’s civic mission, with impacts on policy
and practice in linking schools and their communities, while building theory for future application
and addresses the 2014 aim of developing the UNESCO Centre as a hub for the UOA by
fostering collaborative projects focused on inclusion by synergising the expertise of unit
members. The approach to work under this theme is distinctive in its emphasis on communicating
findings in cogent and user-friendly ways that are accessible to a range of audiences. An ICS
derives from the application of the novel Community Conversations approach in a range of
contexts (Bates et al, 2020) and the work of the Transforming Education project.




                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Transforming Education Project carries out research into policies related to: integration and
separate schooling; pupil demography and enrolment patterns across school types, sectors and
geographic areas; current arrangements for school governance; and teacher education,
recruitment, and employment practices, including implications for fair employment and statutory
requirements for religious education and worship in schools. Recent studies have involved the
innovative interdisciplinary application of Geographic Information Systems for the spatial analysis
of issues such as levels of integration and segregation, and school planning and transport
arrangements (Roulston (Education) and Cook (Geography)).The project’s infographic-rich
briefing papers have already achieved considerable traction with a wide local audience, for
example influencing debates relating to NI legislation on the employment of teachers and the
appointment of school governors. Hunter, McCully and Bates examined the sustainability of small
rural schools including the novel and controversial concept of employing ‘Shared Teachers’ across
inter-communal school partnerships (Bates and McCully, 2020). Findings from the Transforming
Education project have received significant attention from local media (BBC NI, newspapers and
social media), politicians policy-makers and education stakeholders and will form part of the
evidence base to inform an ‘external, independent review of education provision’ being
established by the NI Executive in 2021. Collated findings from the Transforming Education
project will be published in March 2021 and Milliken and Roulston have been invited to provide
evidence to the NI Education Committee.

The Community Conversations methodology, (Bates & O’Connor-Bones, 2020) an innovative,
participative method for consulting the community about planned changes in education provision,
was developed to facilitate community engagement in decision making around the area-based
planning of schools, which has been a prominent and contentious issue in NI in recent years in the
context of efforts to build a more sustainable education system. The research has frequently been
applied to the intensely debated closure of small schools of various (competing and communally
divided) kinds, but the methodology has also facilitated planning for new/extended provision in
places where there are strong communal and intra-communal tensions.

O’Connor-Bones’ (PI) ESRC project is part of the UK-wide Secondary Data Analysis
Initiative enabling researchers to engage in large-scale secondary analysis. This novel,
interdisciplinary eighteen-month project will enable comprehensive mapping of SEN and disability
in NI for the first time. Using Department of Education school census data (2010–19) and regional
census data (2001 and 2011), researchers have adopted a two-phase approach: (i) to explore
SEN incidence and prevalence rates in educational terms and (ii) to explore the relationship
between disability and wider socio-environmental factors. Two PhD researchers (Mullholland and
Curran) are currently exploring this on either side of the Irish border.

The Unit’s researchers have played a key role in the development of the distinctive Local and
Global Citizenship component of the Northern Ireland Curriculum (CCEA, 2007). Reilly, Bates and
O’Connor-Bones obtained funding (£25,000) from the UU Research Challenge Fund for the study
Children and Young People’s Political Literacy: Twenty Years after Signing the Good Friday
Agreement, which included interviews with key stakeholders from statutory policy, teaching and
academic sectors involved in the development, design and implementation of the Citizenship
curriculum. The study informed the design of two new modules for inclusion in the Kids’ Life and
Times and Young Life and Times surveys, which have for the first time provided large-scale data
on pupils’ views on the local citizenship elements of the curriculum.

Clarke and Abbott were commissioned to conduct an evaluation of DfID’s Global Learning
Programme in NI, seeking the views of pupils in primary and secondary schools. This study
(Clarke and Abbott, 2019) provided hard evidence of the benefits for participating local schools,
teachers and pupils but also highlighted systemic challenges for sustaining global learning
practice, such as competing curricular demands, particularly at post-primary level where 'subject
silos' persist. The Unit also provided PhD supervision for a Commonwealth Fellowship Scholar
(Namphande, a former senior school inspector and an academic at Chancellor College Malawi)
examining citizenship education in Malawi, where a newly introduced social studies curriculum

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

aims to promote learning for democracy following a period of dictatorship. A joint paper in
Compare was a well-received first academic publication in this distinctive national context
(Namphande, Clarke, Farren, McCully, 2017).

Future research and impact strategy

Moving forward to our future research strategy, our focus over the 2014-20 cycle has now solidified
into a shared commitment to critical, ethical, open, impactful and collaborative education research
that:

   -   Informs policy and practice in education in Northern Ireland through inclusive approaches
       to learning and research which support direct engagement with policy-makers, users and
       practitioners.

   -   Continues to develop monitor and research intervention programmes in conflict affected
       states, in particular through the development of the PEER Network.

   -   Purposively, and from the outset, builds the research capacity and careers of staff and PhD
       researchers across the unit providing opportunities and support for impactful,
       interdisciplinary approaches.



  2. People

Unit Staffing Strategy and Staff Development – key elements and exemplars

The Unit’s staffing strategy is closely linked to our strategic objectives for research and impact –
from recruitment and career-long support through to the succession planning noted in the
REF2014 aims.

The Research Director is a member of all academic appointment panels in the Unit and all
panels are mixed gender. We aim to recruit a diverse range of highly talented academics with
deep professional experience and expertise gained by working in, or with, the public sector and
civic society.

In a transitional phase during which several senior researchers (Moran, Pritchard, Austin and
McCully) have retired and Reilly has been appointed to Head the Doctoral College in Coleraine
and Magee. In a commitment to building vitality and sustainability across all of the thematic areas
has ensured the appointment of their successors to full-time, permanent contracts, ensuring
a stable staff profile. This commitment is particularly evident in the Teacher Education team,
where five new subject/phase experts with strong local professional reputations have been added
since REF2014. Three Teacher Education staff have completed doctorates since 2014, each
focused on aspects of teacher education (McFlynn, McAuley, McGill). Marlow and McQueen are
completing interdisciplinary PhDs, focused on English Education (teaching poetry) and Music
Education (teaching composition) respectively. The ‘Outstanding’ outcome of the recent PGCE
inspection particularly commended the underpinning of this teaching excellence by research, and
by the commitment to ensuring that all new Teacher Education staff are supported in becoming
research-active. The Inspectorate commended the ways in which staff conduct research in
collaboration with a wide range of stakeholders. The Unit aims to support the undertaking of
shared action research for the purpose of enhancing both practice and policy, with an approach
reflected in the globally significant BERA-RSA Review of the Role of Research in Initial Teacher
Education (2014) to which Clarke was commissioned to contribute.

The appointment of Shanks to the UNESCO Centre is part of a succession plan supported
by senior management to facilitate the flexible retirement of the current UNESCO Chair. A

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

newly appointed professor will take on a significant leadership role for international development
research, including responsibility as PI for current ICRC and GCRF research projects and
extending the range of countries (particularly in the conflict-affected parts of the Middle East and
Africa). This transition is well underway and includes new research applications and appointment
of research staff. Recent PhD graduates, Milliken and Finlay, have been brought in as
postdoctoral researchers to assist on key UNESCO Centre projects and both have contributed to
the Impact Case Studies.

Support for developing research careers

Working alongside the UU Doctoral College, the UOA supports early career staff (ECR) and PhD
researchers and their supervisors. All new academics develop their research capacity with the
help of the Unit’s three-pronged approach. ECRs:

   •   work together in a New Researcher Support Group led by the Research Director and are
       also mentored by an Honorary Fellow within the Unit (Abbott). They meet with Visiting
       Professor Ian Menter to develop small-scale but high-impact research projects, to consider
       their individual training needs and to begin to shape the foci for their PhDs.
   •   are given opportunities to discuss nascent ideas and to share draft papers and proposals
       with more experienced colleagues across the Unit, and, before external conference
       presentations, to present papers at lunchtime seminars.
   •   are encouraged (and funded) to undertake part-time PhDs and to join more experienced
       researchers as members of project teams, co-authors of reports and papers, and as
       advisors on PhD supervisory teams as detailed elsewhere in this document.

The following research career vignette illustrates the success of the staffing strategy in
underpinning the Unit’s research strategy. Davidson’s work demonstrates both the janiform reach
across time and the interdisciplinary and geographic search for impact which are characteristic of
the Unit. She is working with a Visiting Professor (Farren, a former Teacher Educator at Ulster and
former Minister for Further and Higher Education) to write the first history of Teacher Education for
Home Economics in NI. She is collaborating with colleagues in Food Technology at Ulster to
examine student teachers’ changing awareness of food poverty through a longitudinal study across
their ITE course. She has also collaborated with St Angela’s College in Sligo (a specialist Home
Economics College, affiliated to NUI Galway) to undertake the first cross-border comparison of
Home Economics as a curriculum component. These projects will feature in outputs submitted for
the next REF exercise.

All colleagues who are research-active receive support for their research. Annual meetings are
held with the Research Director and Head of School to discuss yearly plans and individual needs
in respect of support, training and personal research development. Research is an integral part of
the Development and Appraisal Review (DAR) system, a process conducted with all staff at least
every two years (and involving both the Head of School and the Research Director). Staff have
protected time for research through keeping teaching and administrative loads relatively low and
equal - research active staff have between 2 and 3 hours less teaching per week. The average
number of teaching hours per week is 12. Discussions are had explicitly focus on career
progression and how staff might meet promotion criteria. Staff completing PhDs are
encouraged to take part in the Researcher Development Programme (RDP) training provided by
the Doctoral College. Small grants are also made available for capacity building and staff are
eligible to apply for Ulster’s Distinguished Research Fellowships and the Ulster Research
Challenge Fund (pump priming which has supported the work of Bates and O’Connor-
Bones (£25,000) and fed into ICS 2). These awards provide both recognition of achievement in
research, and resources to enable impact.

Ulster’s sabbatical policy has enabled us to extend sabbatical opportunities to all academic staff.
Three members of the Unit (O’Connor-Bones, Irwin and Bates) have each had a period of
sabbatical leave, used to conduct research, develop ICSs and write for publication.

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Outreach for impact

The University's Department for Research and Impact provides guidance on funding agencies and
regular updates on funding sources are circulated to staff. The majority of staff have taken part in
Ulster’s SOARING, RIGOUR and Impact Development Series, to network within the wider
academic community as well as with key stakeholders in government, statutory, non-statutory and
voluntary sectors, and to present papers at local, national and international conferences. A
conference budget is available for staff presenting papers – these are initially presented in
lunchtime seminars and research days within the Unit and are all developed for submission to
peer-reviewed international journals.

The Unit has active social media accounts to increase visibility and opportunities for
engagement and staff are encouraged to contribute to relevant research blogs – for example,
Clarke was invited to contribute to the Harvard Good Project blog on Professions and to the British
Curriculum Foundation/BERA Blog on Teacher Education curricula in NI. A team of Ulster
researchers (O’Connor-Bones, Bates) including a PhD researcher (Finlay) and a Visiting Professor
(Worden) published a BERA Blog piece on “Implementing citizenship education in a post-conflict
society: Lessons from Northern Ireland”. Several thought pieces for the Slugger O’Toole blog
about controversial aspects of the Transforming Education Project (Roulston, Milliken) have
brought over 1,000 replies and stimulated some intense online debate around these issues (ICS
2). Milliken has published two articles on aspects of the Transforming Education Project on RTE
Brainstorm, the Irish national broadcaster’s thriving online platform for the research community’s
contribution to public debate. The annual away day, held each June, has become an integral
feature of the Unit’s work, affording opportunities to strengthen the research rationale, build
research capacity, share research activity and outputs, and foster professional relationships.

Visiting professorships

Visiting Professors are an integral part of capacity building, hosting seminars and providing advice
both formally and informally, on campus and online. They also contribute to the vitality of our
research environment. Ian Menter (University of Oxford) has worked with staff across the unit to
shape papers and PhD projects. Elizabeth Worden of American University, Washington DC, has
co-authored both papers and funding bids (with Bates, O’Connor-Bones and Reilly). Professor
Judy Pace, from the University of San Francisco, used part of her Spencer Foundation funding to
conduct research with McCully on History Teaching in NI which is the focus of part of her
forthcoming book. The UNESCO Centre has hosted Meenakshi Chhabra, a Fulbright Scholar from
Lesley University, Massachusetts (where she is the Director of the Global Interdisciplinary Studies
Program), who is working with McCully to compare high school history textbooks and teaching on
events of violence in three countries: India, NI and South Africa. The study combines the lenses of
peace studies and history education, and theories of social psychology related to trauma, violence,
and collective memory. As a visiting PhD researcher in 2015–16, Tom Kavanagh of the University
of Waikato was supervised by McCully and Stringer (Psychology) for his study of sectarianism,
masculinity and racism in an NI rugby club.

Research Students

In this REF period, the Unit has produced 12.95 successful PhD completions relative to 11.67 in
2014, an 11% increase. This completion figure is set to rise as we currently have ten full time and
eight part time PhD researchers within a newly flourishing postgraduate community of doctoral
candidates, 40 percent of whom have interdisciplinary supervisory teams. The Doctoral
College supports PhD supervisors with a development programme to enhance their understanding
of their roles and responsibilities. Each semester, workshops are provided for new and
experienced PhD supervisors to encourage them to explore the key features of an effective
supervisor–PhD researcher relationship, consider common challenges faced by PhD supervisors
and discuss potential solutions. These workshops ensure a shared common understanding of the

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

PhD process, including the associated timelines, milestones and assessment procedures from
enrolment to graduation. The workshops are mandatory for all PhD supervisors who wish to apply
for studentship funding. Bates was nominated for UU Students’ Union PhD Supervisor Award
(2019). Results of the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey indicate rising levels of
satisfaction amongst our researchers – increasing year on year, from 83% in 2017 to 88% in 2019,
when UU was ranked eighth out of 103 UK universities for postgraduate researcher satisfaction
and third out of 103 for research culture.

Recruitment

PhD recruitment is aligned to the research strategy with a growing focus on encouraging
interdisciplinarity (40 per cent of our projects have interdisciplinary supervision teams –
including Nursing, Computing, Social Policy, English and Languages) and the involvement of new
staff members and external experts (including a member of the ETI, our Visiting Professors, and
academics from other HEIs) in advisory roles on one third of the PhD projects. The Unit has
provided 13 fully-funded PhD scholarships during the current REF cycle. These include tuition
fees, a stipend (£15,100 p.a.) and a research training grant (£900 p.a.). PhD research projects are
proposed by supervisors and funded on a competitive basis, with the Research Director
considering the strategic fit of the research to the Unit and ensuring that appropriate supervision is
in place. Clarke and Ferguson (English) have succeeded in attracting a Northern Bridge PhD
scholarship focused on Ulster Scots Education and the music of Sam Henry, (Milner-McLoone)
and a Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship (focused on the political economy of teacher
education) is shared between Social Policy and Education (Shanks).

Induction, environment and ongoing support

At the start of their studies and annually thereafter, PhD researchers, in consultation with their
supervisors, undertake a Training Needs Analysis (TNA) leading to a bespoke training plan. The
TNA is structured around the Vitae Researcher Development Framework domains and is used to
develop a Personal Development Plan, which is mapped on to the courses within the Researcher
Development Programme (RDP) which provides workshops, online training and other
development opportunities facilitated by both internal and external trainers. It provides PhD
researchers with opportunities to gain the experience and skills to complete their PhD and become
professional researchers with transferable skills that are valued by both academic and non-
academic employers in an increasingly interdisciplinary and international context. The workshops
include a career focus from the outset with an early session focus on ‘Life Beyond the PhD:
Planning for an Academic Career’.

As part of the RDP, the Doctoral College provides a comprehensive two-day induction
programme for new PhD Researchers at each campus. This induction is complemented by a
local induction where an interdisciplinary welcome lunch allows new researchers to meet
supervisors, former and current researchers. Within a more formal local induction the Research
Director provides a face-to-face workshop. As part of the Doctoral College development, the PhD
journey at UU has been reviewed to ensure a consistent university-wide approach to postgraduate
research education and training. Clearly established milestones (initial, confirmation and final
assessments), assessment criteria, annual reviews and close monitoring by supervisors and the
postgraduate tutor are facilitated through the introduction of the PhD Manager workflow
software.

PhD researchers benefit from having a superb working environment in a dedicated suite of
rooms on the top floor of our new building. Researchers from other parts of the Faculty share the
suite, which encourages the development of interdisciplinary networks, including a lively,
researcher-instigated group who provide supportive critiques for each other’s presentations in
advance of assessment seminars and conference presentations. Research students also have the
support of the Postgraduate Tutor who provides additional pastoral care. Researchers are


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

encouraged to take part in Doctoral College events and competitions and other celebrations of
success.

The Doctoral College organises a week-long Annual Festival of our PhD research across all four
campuses. The Festival brings together PhD researchers and research staff in a programme that
includes keynotes, poster and oral presentations, and social interaction. The conference
programme is developed entirely by PhD researchers, supported by Doctoral College staff. Since
2018, UU has taken part in the Three Minute Thesis (3MT®) Competition with the 2019 Ulster
winner being selected for the UK final. The 3MT finalists from UU and Queen’s University Belfast
deliver a public engagement event showcasing the value of a PhD to society. Unit successes
include a runner up in the inaugural university-wide 3MT competition (Milliken, 2017–18)
and the winner of the Campus Festival of Research competition (Stewart, 2018–19).


Equality and Diversity

The Unit has a proactive and enabling approach to equality of opportunity, supporting capacity
building, and ensuring that all colleagues have the requisite mentorship, skills training and
time to realise their potential. Staff recruitment occurs within the tightly regulated frameworks for
fair employment in NI and the University’s promotions process is designed to promote equality and
diversity, recognising and rewarding staff fairly for achievements in research and creating impact.
The Unit has equality and diversity heavily embedded in its teaching and research, for
example as part of the teacher education focus on Local and Global Citizenship Education in NI
and Malawi, the cultural awareness built into our projects in Ulster Scots Education, and PhD
research focused on newcomer pupils and their parents. Ulster researchers are rising to the
challenge of improving understanding of the impacts of a gradual increase in the diversity of the
school population in Northern Ireland. Skinner and Hou have also been examining student
teachers’ use of language and its impact on learners. Those involved in REF have had specific
REF equality and diversity training.


Support for staff with family and carer responsibilities ensures that there is sufficient flexibility in
working arrangements for them to sustain their careers and their families (particularly at times of
crisis when sympathetic leave arrangements come into play) – the understanding and support of
research colleagues and PhD supervisors is crucial here. The DAR process offers opportunities to
discuss career development with individual members of staff, including opportunities for career
breaks. Two staff in the Unit have availed of flexible working arrangements. Recent promotion
rounds have seen two research active colleagues (Bates and Irwin), both female, become Senior
Lecturers. The Unit is at an early stage of developing the Athena SWAN initiative: The School
has seconded an Athena SWAN lead and appointed a Self-Assessment Team who are currently
developing an action plan for a Bronze level submission at the end of 2021.


  3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

The Unit’s research income of over £2.4m comes from a wide range of sources. Our income
strategy has been to focus on projects which facilitate local (e.g., the Integrated Education Fund),
national (e.g., SCoTENS Seed funding) and international (e.g., AHRC) partnerships of enquiry and
development around our key themes. Cumulative totals and breakdown by source are shown in
Figures 1 and 2. Our varied funding sources range from SCoTENS Seed Funding grants (c.
£1,000-£5,000, jointly with partner researchers in Ireland) to the AHRC/GCRF Full Award for the
PEER Network (£2.02M across the project lifespan).



                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




Infrastructure and facilities

During this REF period, a full time Research Director (Clarke) has been appointed to drive, direct
and support the Unit’s research in collaboration with colleagues at all levels, and to support and
manage PhD researchers (a Grade 5 Administrator assists this role). A Postgraduate Tutor
supports PhD researchers, and a Grade 3 Administrator assists with this role. At Faculty level, the
Associate Dean for Research and Impact’s (ADRI) Research Directors’ Forum meets monthly
to drive strategy and to facilitate interdisciplinary understanding and collaboration, and a peer
review panel supports the development of significant grant applications. Thus, the Faculty provides
the core infrastructure and support for staff, while Ulster’s Doctoral College provides a focal point


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

for doctoral training and researcher development: offering centralised support for researchers,
advising on individual and collective research activity, and coordinating postgraduate admissions
to the subject. Individual researchers are also provided with guidance on possible sources of
funding, and on postgraduate level employment which utilises both their research skills and subject
expertise. The University Research and Impact Committee and its associate support team oversee
Unit activity in relation to outputs, impact and environment.

The Unit’s budget is devolved from the ADRI to the RD who has disbursed £82,397 since 2017 in
the newly formed faculty. Funding is used for conference attendance, research events, purchase of
research services (e.g., coding, data collection, transcription and analysis), seminars and
academic visitors. The University provides access to competitively awarded internal funding
streams, the Research Challenge Fund in particular. The Fund has enabled Unit staff (Bates,
O’Connor-Bones, Reilly) to undertake research on Local and Global Citizenship in NI, to publish
articles in international peer reviewed journals, and to make successful funding applications
beyond the University (to Leverhulme, December 2020). These outcomes are products of the
expertise of individual staff, but they also reflect the collaborative mentorship and peer review
processes within the Unit and the University's Department for Research and Impact, which
offers support by contributing to training courses during research events, by screening
opportunities, and by providing guidance on meeting and exceeding funders’ criteria.

The University Library provides support for research in the form of access to books, journals and
other information resources. Specialist faculty librarians on each campus support staff and PhD
researchers in conducting systematic literature reviews and accessing more difficult to reach
resources from local repositories and from institutions worldwide. The Faculty provides technical
support for both staff and PhD researchers in the form of a highly experienced technician, and the
Unit provides funding for specialist hardware and software such as the VIAR360 software for new
studies on AR and VR.

More experienced staff are encouraged to engage at the highest levels in interdisciplinary research
infrastructure initiatives across the University. For example, Bates led the development of the
University-wide Citation Strategy while Clarke is a member of the Project Board developing the
WorkTribe online workflow system for research funding applications, due for roll out in Spring
2021. The Unit has also piloted a new online workflow system for ethical approval.


  4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Ulster’s Education researchers are serial collaborators, identifying and building synergies that
enrich the research environment, the discipline and its local, national and global impact. The Unit
makes substantial and sustained contributions to education while collaborating across disciplines,
within and beyond communities and institutions. For instance, Smith chaired the ESRC
Assessment Panel and Interviews for the GCRF Education as a Driver of Sustainable
Development Call (Sept 2019). Smith was also a panel member for AHRC Networking Grants (Nov
2019) and GCRF Follow-on and Impact awards (Nov 2019). He is Co-Investigator (Co-I) on a
successful ESRC-ODA award to the School of Nursing on maternal health in Myanmar (£1.7m for
three years from 2020) and a Co-I on an EPSRC interdisciplinary project on inequalities in public
services for health, education and the justice system, led by the School of Medicine at the
University of Leeds. Smith has undertaken peer review for the Medical Research Council (MRC).
Additional evaluation invitations from across Ireland include the NUI Travelling Studentships
Proposal Evaluation (Clarke, O’Connor-Bones), Review of Subject in University College Cork,
Revalidation of Undergraduate Provision at Marino Institute of Education, Advice on Senior
Appointments in University College Cork (Clarke) and Dublin City University (McCully).

West-East links to other parts of the UK are long-standing and numerous. Skinner has been
appointed to the Council of BERA while Davidson (previously Clarke) is a Co-convenor of the

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Teacher Education and Development BERA Special Interest Group Hunter is a member of the
Executive Board of the Educational Studies Association of Ireland, the national education research
organisation in Ireland.

Ulster took the Northern Ireland lead in the creation of the Standing Conference for Teacher
Education North and South (SCoTENS) following the signature of the Good Friday (Belfast)
Agreement in 1998. This unique network of teacher educators, working across a contested
border, has provided seed funding for over 100 projects, organises an annual cross-border
student teacher exchange and runs a highly successful annual conference, which includes a
Doctoral Workshop for PhD researchers from across the island. As Northern Chair of SCoTENS
(2013-2016) Clarke welcomed Professor Etienne Wenger-Trayner back to Ireland as a keynote
speaker for the 2016 SCoTENS conference. His first visit (including a well-attended seminar at
Ulster in 2013) had also been organised by Clarke as part of her TLRP Meetings of Minds
Fellowship. This time, in the context of Brexit-related discussions of cross-border networks,
Wenger was intrigued by SCoTENS itself and advised a collaborative team of academics
(SCoTENS Committee members, led by Clarke) who designed and implemented an innovative
evaluation of the work of this unique network as a boundary object. This has led to a joint
publication (accepted for a Special Issue of the Oxford Review of Education, Clarke, et al, 2020)
whose authorship comprises academics from across the island, and to collaborative presentations
by the SCoTENS Committee at conferences in Ireland (ESAI), Europe (ECER) and the United
States (AERA).

Ulster researchers won the first two inaugural SCoTENS John Coolahan Prizes with their
collaborating partners from QUB and RoI institutions (Austin and Roulston, 2018 and McGill,
2019). Bates was the recipient of The Maynooth University Library/New Review of Academic
Librarianship Award for Academic Writing sponsored by Taylor and Francis (2016). McFlynn’s
co-authored paper, based on a collaborative cross-border SCoTENS project on the use of photos
in teacher educators’ professional learning, was awarded Paper of the Year 2020 in Curriculum
Studies in Health and Physical Education, while Shanks’ co-authored paper, “Education as site of
memory: developing a research agenda” was awarded the Article of the Year Award in 2020 by
International Studies in Sociology of Education.

The Unit contributes regularly to sustaining the national and international scholarly
community through involvement in editorial boards, peer reviewing, membership of learned
societies and PhD examining. Editorial board membership during the 2014–21 period includes
Clarke (Technology, Pedagogy and Education, Journal of Education Sciences), Pritchard
(Compare, Technology, Pedagogy and Education, Carrefours de l’Éducation and the Malaysian
Journal of Education and Development), Smith (Education Studies Association of Ireland Journal
of Education, Citizenship and Social Justice, International Journal of Development Education) and
Bates (New Review of Academic Librarianship). Since 2013, Unit members have examined
doctoral work in Newcastle (Skinner), Northumberland, Glasgow, QUB, Liverpool, Cork (Clarke),
Oxford, Utrecht, York, Dublin, East Anglia, Amsterdam (Smith).

Members of the Unit contribute regularly to prestigious national and international
conferences. These include: the American Educational Research Association (McCully, Reilly,
Clarke), the British Educational Research Association (Clarke), the European Association for
Institutional Research (Roulston, Roulston and Taggart, Clarke), the British Association for
International and Comparative Education (Smith),UKFIET Conference on Education and
Development (Smith), IS Academie for International Development (Smith), Comparative and
International Education Society (Smith and Roulston Reilly, O’Connor) BELMAS (McCauley), and
contributions to the ESRC Festival of Research in Belfast (O’Connor-Bones and Bates). Keynote
contributions to conferences include Geographical Association, TEAN, UCET, TEFANZ/ATEA
(Clarke), DFID, UKFEIT, IOM, UNICEF (Shanks) UNICEF, USAID, World Bank, Pan-African
Symposium for African Ministers of Education International Committee of the Red Cross,
Prioridades de construcción de paz para la Educación, Bogota and Commonwealth Day, Houses
of Parliament Westminster (Smith). Staff contribute to the organisation of national (ESAI: McCully,

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

O’Connor-Bones, Hunter; (SCoTENS: Clarke) and international (GCRF, UNICEF: Shanks;
BELMAS: McAuley) conferences.

Through the UK Teacher Education Group (TEG), Clarke was commissioned to contribute to the
BERA-RSA Enquiry (2014) into the Role of Research in Teacher Education, a rare opportunity for
collaboration at the highest levels and a chance to contribute to the building of the theory base
in an under-theorised field. Other outputs by Clarke have critiqued NI Initial Teacher Education
structures, practice and policy in a comparative home-international context. This work led to an
invitation to attend the Oxford University Department of Education’s Global Teacher Education
Consortium (GTEC), which aims to establish a global research agenda to investigate the impact of
teacher education policies and practices. Clarke and McFlynn (a capacity building co-authorship)
have contributed a chapter to the forthcoming (2021) GTEC Springer book, ‘Teacher Education
Policy and Research: Global Perspectives’ amongst chapters from Australia, Belgium, Canada,
England, Finland, Hong Kong SAR, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Scotland, the USA
and Wales and will co-present in an invited panel for Division K (Teacher Education) at AERA’s
annual meeting in 2021.

Clarke has collaborated with a former Minister for Further and Higher Education (Farren, who is a
Visiting Professor) and the Principal of a HEI in RoI to write an innovative and well-received book
(launched at the 2019 SCoTENS conference by Professor Marilyn Cochran-Smith), which provides
the first History of Teacher Preparation in Northern Ireland, tracing developments from the
formation of the state in 1921 to the present day. It will be of considerable value for future reviews
of teacher education, particularly those conducted by external advisors who are unaware of the
influence of NI’s distinctive socio-political landscape on teacher education infrastructure. Clarke’s
‘home international’ collaborations with the TEG include the seminal Policy Press book, Teacher
Education in Times of Change (Beauchamp, Clarke et al. 2015) and a recent study which
demonstrated the challenges which face expert review panels, emphasising both the transgressive
competence of the reviewers and the countervailing significance of localised political strategies in
shaping policy choices and prospects for implementation.

The Unit’s contributions to the research base, economy and society are informed and enhanced by
engagement with the diverse communities and publics that ultimately, we seek to serve. A
research-informed, inter-school debate at the 2016 Imagine Belfast Festival focused on
contentious aspects of Citizenship Education (Reilly) and in 2017, Young People and News (Reilly)
was the focus of a series of workshops and resources in local schools for pupils, parents and
teachers. Austin’s contribution to the Stormont Knowledge Exchange Seminar Series on Enabling
Society though Interaction (2018) focused on how new research evidence can be used to make
shared education more sustainable and more accessible for more children, prefiguring the launch
of his latest book (Austin and Hunter, 2020), which adds further local and international case
studies. Increasing access to education and enhancing participation in education decision making,
as exemplified by our Community Conversations ICS, are impacts the Unit is proud to enable
researchers to achieve.




                                                                                              Page 14
