Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 Over this REF period, we have refocussed our Unit’s research strategy to enable translation of
 our fundamental research into therapies and treatments. Building on our strengths in
 Pharmacy, Biomedical Sciences and Biomedical Engineering, we have harnessed synergies to
 further our research and applications in areas ranging from understanding disease
 pathophysiology though to medicine usage and optimisation, augmented with technological
 interventions to support healthcare. We have established a strategic venture with NHS partners
 whilst growing and deepening industry collaborations. Our work is underpinned by a
 transformation of our internal structures, together with significant investment in facilities and
 infrastructure.

 1.1 Context and structure
 As set out in the Institutional Environment Statement (IES), during this period the University
 changed the way in which it organises, manages and leads its research. Research is now
 coordinated around four Research Themes, each comprising Research Divisions which broadly
 map to academic units. Each Theme is led by a Research Dean, who provides leadership in the
 broad remit of the Theme, facilitates internal interactions and interdisciplinary collaborations
 across divisions and Themes, and provides support and mentoring for other research leaders in
 the Theme. Research Divisions have a Research Division Leader (RDL) and an Impact Lead (IL)
 who provide leadership and management of research and impact for the division. RDLs meet
 regularly with the Research Dean to discuss future plans, needs and opportunities for cross-
 Theme and cross-University opportunities.

 Our UoA3 submission returns staff from two Research Divisions, Biomedical Sciences and
 Biomedical Engineering (BSBE), part of the School of Biological Sciences (SBS), and
 Pharmacy, part of the School of Chemistry, Food and Pharmacy (SCFP), together with one staff
 member from the School of Psychology and Clinical Language Sciences. We are organised into
 six, multidisciplinary research clusters corresponding to our priority areas for research.

 Our research is inherently multi- and interdisciplinary, and it is strengthened by interactions and
 collaborations with our Interdisciplinary Research Centres:

    •   Institute for Cardiovascular & Metabolic Research (ICMR), bringing together
        scientists from a wide range of research fields to work to understand the development of
        cardiovascular diseases, and associated obesity-related metabolic diseases.
    •   Centre for Integrative Neuroscience (CINN), which focuses on the physiological and
        psychological mechanisms that underpin complex behaviour, targeting typical and
        atypical development across the life span, including obesity, ageing and cognitive
        decline.
    •   Institute for Food, Nutrition and Health (IFNH), bringing together the University of
        Reading’s world-leading expertise in agriculture, food, nutrition, health and the
        environment to understand how improvements in food production, processing and
        nutrition can help deliver better diets and health.

 Figure 1 below provides a summary of our research environment.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                 Figure 1. A summary of the research environment within our Unit

 1.2 Research & Impact Strategy
 In REF 2014, we returned our Pharmacy research to UoA 3 (Allied Health Professions,
 Dentistry, Nursing and Pharmacy), all our research in SBS (Biomedical Sciences and Ecology
 and Evolutionary Biology) to UoA 5 and our Biomedical Engineering research to UoA 13
 (Electrical and Electronic Engineering). In 2015, building from areas of strength in our previous
 submission and in line with wider University ambitions, we took the strategic decision to refocus
 our activities towards clinical research and its translation into practice.



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In this context, the stated aim for this UoA is to drive synergy between our pharmacy,
 biomedical, computational and engineering sciences, reinforcing collaborations to enhance our
 capacity to address health and clinical challenges both nationally and internationally in critical
 human diseases and allied-health profession fields. To achieve this aim, we set ourselves the
 following strategic objectives:

    •   To develop long term partnerships with the NHS to deliver clinical and pre-clinical
        research,
    •   To achieve and sustain critical mass in identified key areas of research and impact,
    •   To upgrade our research infrastructure to match our ambitions in clinical research and its
        translation,
    •   To increase the impact of our research through strengthened engagement with non-
        academic partners, end users and policy makers.

 The sections below demonstrate how we have achieved these objectives.

 1.2.1 To develop long term partnerships with the NHS to deliver clinical and pre-clinical
 research.
 We have transformed our collaborations with our local community and mental health Berkshire
 Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust (BHFT) and the acute Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust
 (RBFT). In 2014, the University of Reading (UoR) and these two trusts jointly established the
 Thames Valley Clinical Trials Unit (TVCTU) to support trial design and management, QA and
 data analysis. Building on this venture, a Joint Academic Board (JAB) between UoR and RBFT
 was established, to specifically drive joint research, education and commercialisation
 opportunities. Funded by both the RBFT and UoR (£1.15M over 3 years), this scheme has
 provided £292K to pump prime 12 collaborative projects in our Unit (20 academics and 19
 clinicians). Additional new clinical links have been established through the introduction of our
 Physician Associate programmes and the launch of a UoR accreditation scheme for RBFT
 specialisms as ‘University Departments’ (e.g. Cardiology, Emergency Medicine and Radiology),
 recognising research and teaching collaborations alongside clinical excellence. Building on this
 and our strengthened links with RBFT, TVCTU expertise will be reorganised into a Joint
 Research Office to expand translation of our collaborative research.

 1.2.2 To achieve and sustain critical mass in key areas of research and impact.
 We achieved this objective through two key mechanisms. Firstly, we successfully established six
 research clusters mapping to our areas of strength and with potential to grow. These clusters act
 as a focal point for interactions and collaborations between researchers working under each
 area and provide a nurturing environment for Early Career Researchers (ECR), post-doctoral
 research assistants (PDRAs) and doctoral students to thrive. Reflecting our interdisciplinarity,
 researchers often work across several clusters.

 Secondly, we increased capacity and expertise in our research clusters through recruitment of
 20 new staff at different career stages, with a significant proportion being ECR at the time of
 appointment. Over the period, they have established and developed their independent research
 groups, and many have already secured significant funding (see Section 2). New expertise
 introduced through these appointments includes animal models (Zebra fish and C. elegans) of
 neurological and cardiovascular disorders; neurophysiology of dementia; neuroendocrinology;
 epigenetics of obesity; longevity and stress control; pain mechanisms; inflammatory signalling
 pathways; alcohol addiction; macromolecular drug delivery; and enhanced capability in
 molecular modelling of biological and pharmaceutical materials. Establishing Biomedical
 Engineering within our unit introduced new capacity to develop technologies for early diagnosis,
 to restore neurological functions and improve quality of life for patients including older adults,
 and expertise in 3D neural cell culture technology.

 Our research clusters, their composition and key achievements are:



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Neurological disorders research cluster
 [Bithell, Cottrell, Dallas, Delivopoulos, Horwood, Harwin, Hayashi, Maiaru, McCrindle, McNeish,
 Nasuto, Sherratt, Stephens, Tamagnini, Vasudevan, Widera, Zheng, Lewis (to Dec/2019)]

 Research spans fundamental, interdisciplinary research through to therapeutic interventions and
 is underpinned by >£5.2M funding over the REF2021 period. Key areas of focus include
 development of cannabis-derived compounds to treat epilepsy, research in Parkinson’s disease
 (PD) and Alzheimer’s disease (AD), motor neurone disease and issues related to child eye
 focusing problems, through to developing technologies to improve outcomes for patients with
 neurological disorders.

 Examples of our success in these areas include our award-winning (Sir James Black award for
 Contributions to Drug Discovery 2019) pre-clinical development of the cannabis-derived
 compound, cannabidiol (CBD) for epilepsy. Our work led to clinical trials, approval and launch of
 CBD as the medicine Epidiolex/Epidyolex by GW Pharmaceuticals in the US and EU, for
 combating difficult-to-treat childhood epilepsies (an Impact Case). Our research also provided
 understanding of neurovascular coupling in the epileptogenic cortices of rats with chronic focal
 epilepsy, suggesting a new approach to improve the localisation accuracy of irritative zones and
 seizure-onset zones (BBSRC, £411K).

 Important contributions within PD include characterisation of a key therapeutic target - synuclein-
 mediated modification of ion channel function (£328K, MRC). For AD, we revealed the need for
 treatments that address the loss and instability of synapses (Alzheimer’s Research and
 Alzheimer’s Society; ~£400K). Our research also contributed high impact publications on
 neurogenesis and motor neurone disease through epigenetic regulation effects. Our 3D culturing
 of neural progenitor cells and astrocytes differentiation methodology has established in vitro
 neural networks for evaluating stroke and neuroinflammation treatments.

 Our Rosetree Trust and MRC funded (together ~£640K) Pain Mechanisms research has
 enhanced understanding of synthetic botulinum derivatives as alternatives to addictive opioids
 for chronic pain relief. Our research into child eye focusing problems (Vision Lab) has led to new
 understanding impacting clinical practice in paediatric ophthalmology, orthoptics and optometry
 (an Impact Case).

 Our collaborative EPSRC-funded (£509K) Brain Computer Interface research identifies therapies
 for depression. In partnership with Evolv, we developed technologies for rehabilitation of stroke
 and dementia patients (NIHR funded), which are included in Evolv’s next commercial release of
 VirtualRehab into hospitals and for home-based rehabilitation (Impact Case). We support stroke
 and dementia patients through our Innovate UK funded development of driver devices (£190K)
 and ‘smart’ garments (£225K), and through our Leverhulme Trust funded (£253K) development
 of 3D learning in a haptic environment. Our research on wearable technologies to assist patients
 with neurodegenerative disorders has been supported through a large Interdisciplinary Research
 Centre EPSRC grant (SPHERE, 2013-2019, £11.5M; £1M for UoR).

 Cardiovascular and metabolic disease research cluster
 [Boateng, Clerk, Gibbins, Hughes, Hwang, Jones-C, Kevei, Leake, McGuffin, McNeish, Pollitt,
 Sellayah, Vaiyapuri, Li (to 2020)]

 With £9.9M awarded since 2014, this cluster focusses on multi-disciplinary approaches to
 improve understanding of cardiovascular and metabolic disease development, prevention and
 treatment. The work of this group is further enhanced by the close collaboration with the ICMR
 and enabled by the cutting edge Centre for Cardiovascular Imaging (Section 3)

 Major progress includes our discovery of new mechanisms of regulation of platelet function
 leading to a new drug-discovery programme for novel anti-thrombosis treatments, protected in a
 patent which has been licensed to Quercis Pharma AG (Switzerland). We have driven advances
 in template-based protein modelling (BBSRC, £732K) including successes in the global Critical

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assessment of Structure Prediction competition and the Continuous Automated Model
 Evaluation project. This expertise has enabled design of new anti-thrombotic peptides targeting
 novel gap junctions on platelets. Research of this group also illustrated how low-density
 lipoprotein is oxidised in lysosomes resulting in atherosclerotic plaque formation. Subsequent
 BHF-funded research (£183K) developed a new therapeutic approach that substantially reduced
 atherosclerotic plaque burden in mice. We also discovered how endogenous anti-microbial
 peptides cause thrombosis, thrombocytopenia and haemorrhage during infection and
 inflammation.

 Translational studies to explore intergenerational effects of maternal obesity using rodent
 models (MRC, £417K) revealed new epigenetic effects associated with long-term consequences
 for cardiovascular and metabolic disease risk in offspring. Our research provided insight on how
 dietary components influence disease development and on responses to drugs used to prevent
 cardiovascular disease. Using knowledge of the impact of diet on cardiovascular and metabolic
 health, we developed a new app-based platform for personalised nutrition. This was showcased
 in the University’s 2019 Fairbrother Lecture.

 Important progress has been made using machine learning and mathematical modelling to
 understand the relationship between platelet function and regulation, supported by a BHF
 Programme Grant (£1.4M, renewed in 2020 with a further £1.4M). These population and clinical
 studies led to new technologies that allow precision medicine approaches for more effective
 treatment or prevention of cardiovascular disease. Multidisciplinary approaches are also central
 to the European Joint Doctorate Programme (£738K; TAPAS) that we devised to establish and
 integrate a range of systems-biology approaches to target receptor function to prevent
 thrombotic disease.

 Our research has clarified how drugs such as ibrutinib (used in non-Hodgkin lymphoma) cause
 severe bleeding side effects, and how this may be alleviated, and that PIM kinase inhibitors
 modulate thromboxane receptor trafficking, providing the anti-thrombotic benefits of aspirin but
 without increased bleeding.

 Molecules and Tools for Health research cluster
 [Allman, Al-Obaidi, Bowen, Brazier, Edwards, Greco, Green, Hall, Hart, Kabova, Khutoryanskiy,
 Osborn, Shankland, Williams]

 Our research ranges from fundamental science that underpins our understanding of biological
 targets, design of translational tools and analytical technology for diagnostics, to drug design,
 novel delivery systems and treatments. Grant income of £2.8M from diverse sources supports
 the work of this group, which has also secured over £1.7M of UK and International major
 facilities time.

 Clinical translation of diagnostics has progressed through developments in microcapillary
 technology, leading to commercial clinical infection diagnostic products (e.g., for dengue fever)
 supported by industrial and innovation funding of >£2M to the spinout Capillary Film Technology
 Ltd. We enhanced the capabilities of terahertz spectroscopy for new applications in imaging and
 detection, both within the medical field and more widely. Our nucleic acid structural studies have
 led to significant success in binding of ruthenium complexes to DNA and probing the biological
 role of unusual DNA structures. This was facilitated by BBSRC funding (£580K) and strategic
 investments in a new X-ray diffractometer (£440K, UoR) and crystallisation robot (£50K,
 EPSRC).

 Our novel research for drug delivery to the eye, lungs and to/through the skin is a major
 strength. Our delivery technologies for both small and macromolecule drugs use physical (e.g.,
 microneedles and nanoparticulates), thermodynamic (e.g., supersaturation and salt selection)
 and polymeric (e.g., co-polymers, polymer-drug conjugates) approaches in work funded by the
 BBSRC, EPSRC, Royal Academy of Engineering, British Council, industry, EU and overseas
 governments (£850K). We work closely with the ISIS Neutron and Muon Source to develop

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 biological lipid-membrane models to investigate molecular interactions with membranes to
 understand antimicrobial peptide action.

 We strategically recruited to strengthen our carbohydrate chemistry and glycobiology expertise,
 complementing our multi-disciplinary programmes funded by UKRI and industry that are
 developing more rapid methods for detecting clinically important bacteria. We invested in
 research on crystal structure determination from powders, with a new academic appointment
 and, supported by C4X Discovery Ltd (£250K), further developed powder diffraction software,
 DASH, leading to significant impact in the pharmaceutical industry (Impact Case).

 Medicine usage and prescribing behaviours research cluster
 [Dhital, Donyai, Hollywood, Lim, Patel-N, Vaiyapuri]

 This group’s research responds to the government’s plans for tackling the rising cost of
 medicines, estimated at £19.9bn in 2018/19 in England alone, and for preventing antimicrobial
 resistance (AMR). Our research has delineated the contribution of pharmacists to the General
 Practice sector, by creating key performance indicators and measuring stakeholder feedback,
 working with Clinical Commissioning Groups and stakeholders nationwide. In 2017 this work
 was showcased at the Centre for Pharmacy Postgraduate Education as well as the Houses of
 Parliament. Our research informed the revalidation of the ~80,000 pharmacy professionals in
 Great Britain (from 2018) by the General Pharmaceutical Council through use of continuing
 professional development.

 Our definitions of health professional competences to prevent AMR, have been acknowledged in
 government policy as evidenced in the ‘Tackling antimicrobial resistance’ government’s five-year
 plan 2019-2024, and have been adopted for health professional training. Our links with BHFT
 (including joint-appointment teacher practitioners in pharmacy) and nationally, have led us to
 explore medication usage in dementia and psychosis, winning funding from the Wellcome Trust,
 Alzheimer’s Society and Janssen Cilag Ltd, and recognition from the College of Mental Health
 Pharmacy, thus contributing to patient safety.

 Our research on reducing medicines wastage has created in-depth understanding of the
 psychology of drug holidays and medication re-use, the latter facilitating interdisciplinary
 collaboration with our Biomedical Engineering colleagues. Our quality improvement research
 (funded by the British Society of Interventional Radiology) explored quality of life in interventional
 radiology. Other health service projects examined misuse of substances within the community
 settings (NIHR £2.1M, 5 years), insulin services within the hospital settings, and medication
 reviews (Pharmacy Research UK, Leverhulme Fellowship).

 Our research in rural India revealed that snakebite incidence is >10 times higher than reported,
 and that lack of public awareness is the key factor driving snakebite-induced deaths and
 disabilities. Our resulting snakebite public awareness campaign was highly successful in
 reducing snakebite-induced deaths and disability (an Impact Case). Communication design was
 also central in a collaboration with our Typography department, School of Architecture and the
 Day Lewis Pharmacy chain which attracted funding from the AHRC (~£200K) to develop
 persuasive spaces to reduce AMR, and a resulting international collaboration creating impact in
 Rwanda (GCRF funded).

 Ageing and Associated Degenerative Disease research cluster.
 [Dash, Foster, Hadijloucas, Holderbaum, Kevei, Knight, Patel-K, Darbre (to 2017)]

 Our collaborative research seeks to further understand the cell-signalling mechanisms governing
 physiological process of important degenerative pathological conditions (ageing, cancer,
 infertility, muscular decline). Over the REF period, we have received £3.5M in external funding to
 support the research of this group.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our research capacity has been enhanced by new capability in C. elegans as an experimental
 model through recruitment of a colleague with expertise in ubiquitylation-dependent signalling
 pathways of ageing. A second ex-vivo model (the bovine ovary) has driven understanding of the
 causes of infertility by excess androgen production, funded by BBSRC (£371K). This resulted in
 the discovery that the molecule inhibin alpha increases androgen production, relevant to patients
 with polycystic ovary syndrome, one of the leading causes of infertility. We established new
 industry partnerships that increased delivery of therapeutic antisense oligomers to muscle, brain
 and heart for various genetic diseases, in particular for Duchenne muscular dystrophy, attracting
 significant funding (Harrisons Fund; £544K; GW Pharma £357K; Duchenne UK £243K; Sutura
 Therapeutics £168K). Our Sutura Therapeutics funded research resulted in a patent for stitched
 peptides for increased drug delivery efficiency and our GW Pharma funded research resulted in
 a patent for the use of cannabinoids to treat Duchenne muscular dystrophy. A collaboration
 between our tissue engineers and developmental biologists demonstrated that myogenesis
 using acellular matrices is an effective therapeutic approach for muscle injury. Regeneration
 research enabled characterisation of ovine neural crest derived stem cells as progenitors for
 osteogenic and adipogenic cells, suggesting that these can be used as models to assess
 efficacy of transplantation.

 Our research into the evolution of cancer cells using mathematical modelling and imaging
 (£291K) showed that resource competition promotes expansion. Our Breast Cancer UK funded
 research also revealed that parabens and bisphenols in health care products increase breast
 cancer proliferation by upregulating the enzyme aromatase.

 Infectious Disease and Health research cluster
 [Andrews, Clarke, Cottrell, Edwards, Jones-I, MacIntyre, Osborn, Watson, Widera]

 Our well-funded (£4.3M) research focuses on bacterial and viral mediators of disease with the
 goal of furthering understanding, treatment and control of ill health arising from infectious agents.
 We have progressed towards commercialisation of novel vaccines by developing an improved
 synthetic vaccine against several serotypes of the Foot & Mouth Disease virus (vaccine licenced
 to MSD Animal Health). This Wellcome-funded interdisciplinary research exploits our expertise
 in insect cell expression technology, is collaborative with the Pirbright Institute and Oxford
 University, and aims to develop vaccines for low-and-middle-income countries. Progress has
 also been made towards developing an effective bovine TB vaccine with direct implications for
 the WHO’s End TB Strategy. Our BBSRC/Clasado-funded interdisciplinary work with Food &
 Nutritional Sciences on protein engineering of industrial enzymes is improving the
 biotechnological production of prebiotics to support gut health. We are driving BBSRC-funded
 interdisciplinary research on the impact of dietary iron on the gut microbiota and health and have
 advanced understanding how Staphylococcus aureus and Campylobacter jejuni colonise the
 gut. We developed a low-cost, miniaturized antibiotic resistance testing device using
 fluoropolymer microcapillary film and used gut models to rationally design live bacterial vaccine
 formulations. In addition, we have synthesised a set of novel α- and β-linked triclosan glycosides
 that display enhanced antibacterial properties compared with triclosan. Our research also
 revealed how lipopolysaccharides from different bacterial species elicit reciprocal inflammatory
 cell-signalling responses.

 1.2.3 To upgrade our research infrastructure to match our ambitions in clinical research
 and its translation.
 We have received major investment to expand and upgrade research facilities to enable
 increased volume and quality of our clinical and translation research. A full account of our
 investments is in Section 3, but key developments include:

    •   A new £55M state-of-the-art Health & Life Sciences Building with extensive new
        laboratories and research space.
    •   Relocation of the cutting-edge Centre for Cardiovascular Imaging to purpose-built
        laboratories within the new Health & Life Sciences building.
    •   A new BioResource Unit providing animal experimental facilities.

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Upgrade and enhancement of the Chemical Analysis Facility instruments, including new
        electron and atomic force microscopy, NMR and mass spectrometry equipment.
    •   Investment of over £2.5M in new equipment across different laboratories.
    •   Upgrades to our clinical research and teaching facilities including simulation equipment.

 1.2.4 To increase the impact of our research through strengthened engagement with non-
 academic partners, end users and policy makers.
 Most of our research develops health-related impacts by identifying new disease targets, drug
 treatments and rehabilitation therapies, and by engaging end users from patients to clinicians,
 and influencing policy makers in the UK and overseas. Impact Leads work with a dedicated
 impact team to support staff to identify and develop impact from inception of their projects,
 including support to:

    •   Grow and deepen interactions with non-academic partnerships, for example, our
        interactions with national and international pharmaceutical companies, as well as our
        work with NHS Trusts.
    •   Identify opportunities for co-design and co-creation of research with end users (industry,
        clinicians and/or patients).
    •   Increase engagement with national and international policy makers.
    •   Grow capacity through workshops and tailored training.

 Enhanced support is provided by a 5-member dedicated central Impact Team with designated
 managers aligned to each Theme/and Research Division, and support of the University’s
 Knowledge Transfer Centre co-located in our Unit, providing an avenue for external business
 collaborations. The University’s Building Outstanding Impact Support Programme (BOISP)
 provided funding of over £100K to underpin the development of 18 impact projects at all stages,
 of which five are included in this submission. The University recently welcomed Bill Kilgallon as a
 Royal Society Entrepreneur in Residence who is working with multiple Unit staff to assist with
 commercialisation of research.

 1.3 Open Research and Research Integrity
 We proactively implement the University’s Open Research strategy (see IES) which nourishes
 the culture and practice of transparency and reproducibility. Our research data is openly hosted,
 for example in the Protein Data Bank and GeneBank, and in preprint servers. Staff are
 encouraged to use preprint servers (e.g., bioRxiv), open journal submission systems and open
 peer review, and we generate open software for bioinformatics (e.g., in Structure Prediction). As
 University exemplars, our researchers were members of an internal judging panel for the
 University Open Research Awards competition, where two projects from the Unit were submitted
 (“Maximising the utility of existing protein-protein interaction data” and “Protein structure and
 function prediction servers at the University of Reading”). Using Open-Source hardware and
 software, we are building low cost-solutions for healthcare through our Biomedical Technology
 Lab. This work is featured as one of the University’s Open Research Case studies. We are
 currently appointing Open Research Champions across all our Research Divisions to further
 embed and deliver the objectives outlined in our institutional Open Research Action Plan.

 We have high levels of Open Access publications throughout this REF cycle, with Gold Open
 Access encouraged and funded (40% of all outputs Gold Open Access). Robust data
 management polices (planning, managing and sharing) are integral to our research practices
 which include use of REDCap (Research Electronic Data Capture) for secure and GDPR
 compliant management of participant data.

 We are committed to undertaking our research ethically and with the highest standards of
 integrity, ensuring that the University’s Code of Good Practice in Research is followed by all. The
 School-level Ethics Committee, chaired by the Head of School, reviews all relevant research
 projects. The Head of School is responsible for identifying projects using human subjects,
 human samples (however obtained) or human personal data and ensuring they are assessed by
 the University’s Ethics Committee and NHS Ethics Committees as appropriate. Investigators and

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff undertake their research under the provisions of the Human Tissue Act 2004 and the
 Mental Capacity Act 2005. We apply the University’s Animal Research Policy, and have been
 exemplary in openness regarding our animal work; as signatories to the Concordat on Openness
 on Animal Research in the UK and we were recognised by Understanding Animal Research,
 which shortlisted our pages in the category ‘Website or Use of New Media Award’.

 1.4 Future strategic aims and goals for research and impact
 Our overarching future aim is to further enhance our clinical links to expand advances in
 patient care; increase translation of our research into clinical practice; and improve our access to
 medical facilities and expertise to strengthen our research/impact capacity. We retain the
 ambition to establish a Medical School at Reading and have a Medical School Development
 Board in partnership with the Royal Berkshire NHS Foundation Trust, the Berkshire Healthcare
 NHS Foundation Trust, Frimley NHS Foundation Trust and local GP hubs and networks.

 Exploiting synergies in the University, and those with academic and non-academic partners, we
 will:
      • continue to increase the interdisciplinarity of our research by expanding collaborations
         and partnerships within and beyond our Unit to bring our research from bench to patient,
      • exploit biological targets identified through our fundamental pathophysiology research to
         design, test and introduce novel therapeutic strategies. This will be supported by our
         continued engagement with external commercial partners, and growing partnership with
         local NHS Trusts, and includes testing and refinement of our proof-of-concept
         discoveries in diagnostics and drug delivery systems,
      • extend our neurological disorders research on haptic and robotic teleoperation
         technologies to support patients, and on newly emerging approaches e.g., novel
         autoantibodies,
      • develop behavioural as well as technological interventions to reduce drug wastage,
         optimise prescribing and mitigate AMR,
      • continue progress towards vaccine commercialisation, microbial diagnosis and
         translation of our novel antibacterial approaches.

 2. People
 Our research staff and students are at the heart of our thriving research community. Our diverse
 and inclusive environment attracts, supports, develops and rewards excellent researchers in
 their careers and in progressing our research goals, with equality and diversity at the forefront.
 We have built a strong, diverse team of research staff across our strategic priorities, developed
 existing staff towards senior positions, and expanded our research capacity, including through
 recruitment of dedicated teaching staff. As such, we have firm and sustainable foundations to
 realise our research aims.

 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Our staffing strategy has two complementary aims: to build on our existing strengths and
 national and international priority areas (including neurological disorders, ageing, cardiovascular
 disease and clinical translation research); and to further build, develop and exploit critical mass
 in biomedical engineering.

 Since REF 2014 we have made 20 academic Teaching & Research and Research Intensive
 appointments including new lecturers and Research Fellows (including two Marie Curie
 Research Fellows) across Pharmacy and BSBE. Thirteen Category A staff included in this
 submission have been appointed as part of this drive, with 2 FTE appointed to each of the
 Infectious Disease and Ageing and Associated Degenerative Disease research clusters, and 3
 FTE appointed to each of the remaining four research clusters. These appointments have added
 expertise and new capabilities as described in section 1. We have additionally recruited a net
 total of two permanent Teaching Fellows, four Graduate Teaching Assistants and one Teaching-
 focussed lecturer, who have supported an increase in our research capacity.



                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2 Staff support & development
 We are committed to develop all members of our research community, from PhD students to
 professors, and fully recognise the importance of a nurturing research environment in achieving
 our research and impact goals. Our approach is strongly guided by values from the Technician
 Commitment through to the Researcher Development Concordat and from Institutional and
 managerial levels to each individual. This approach has contributed to increased research
 income and doctoral awards/FTE in the assessment period.

 Development and retention of staff employed within the Unit is a priority, with a focus on
 developing research leadership. Staff are provided with a range of support and development
 opportunities, available through a central UoRLearn platform that enables them to record their
 Continuous Professional Development (CPD). Undertaking CPD is required within our Personal
 Titles promotions process.

 New academic appointees are assigned a mentor to provide individual support separate to their
 line manager. Appropriate mentoring guidance documents and training are provided, with
 specific and enhanced Department and School processes developed by us in this assessment
 period. ECRs have a 3-year probation period and, through discussion with line managers, are
 provided with clear expectations and agree probation targets aligned with our promotion criteria.
 ECRs are afforded a reduced teaching and administrative load during probation to help build
 research momentum, and start-up funds and/or a fully funded PhD student are provided to help
 establish their research independence. ECRs are supported through specific internal funding
 opportunities and given academic and research professional support for external ECR-specific
 funding schemes, for example the mentoring provided to Pollitt in winning an AMS Springboard
 grant (£99K). All our ECRs successfully passed probation within 3 years, and several have
 subsequently also been promoted to Associate Professor, evidencing effective and continued
 support, and successful career development.

 University funding supports the development of ECRs and PDRAs. Cases can be made through
 the Research Dean for pump priming funds, whilst equipment is funded through the Research
 Endowment Trust Fund (RETF) and via the University Research Infrastructure Fund through
 open competitions. Internal awards of >£1.2M have been made to our ECRs and PDRAs since
 2014, for example funds for a virtual reality system to enable parallel rodent behavioural and
 brain activity assessment (~£50K), new imaging capability (~£250K), a crystallisation robot
 (£50K) and several pilot projects to build local clinical research links. The positive impact of this
 supportive environment is reflected by external research funding successes for our 17 ECR new
 arrivals in the REF period, with £2.85M awarded in total as PI. ECRs and PDRAs can also apply
 for funding to cover travel to conferences via the University Travel Fund.

 Our ECR and PDRA community is a vibrant one. Colleagues in Pharmacy have established an
 Early Career Forum – as part of the wider school (SCFP). This is largely run by PGRs/PDRAs
 who organise regular events and meetings.

 All academic staff produce annual Personal Research Plans (PRP) which are discussed with
 their RDL and are focused on staff goals and ambitions for their research over the medium term
 (5-year rolling). Through these plans, each individual can inform and influence Research
 Division (and consequently Research Theme and University) planning, helping identify common
 themes and individual needs that can be addressed through research structures and support
 mechanisms. PRPs also inform the annual Performance and Development Review (PDR), which
 is carried out by line managers. PDRs provide an opportunity to reflect on staff’s performance,
 career progression plans and development needs in a holistic manner. The PDR process is
 informed by workload models and/or work profiles; these have been developed and regularly
 revised throughout the assessment period at senior-management level (including relevant D&I
 committees), to ensure they best reflect the diversity of our staff.

 Academic staff have various opportunities to apply for sabbatical periods (typically 6 months)
 and criteria for sabbatical award include fit with our research strategy and development

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities; four sabbaticals have been awarded in the assessment period. Since REF 2014,
 three staff have also been awarded University Fellowships providing a period of relief from
 teaching duties to focus on publishing high-impact research articles. Additionally, our academic
 staff hold individual staff development accounts which can be used flexibly e.g., for training,
 conference attendance or pump-priming research.

 All staff have access to a wide range of training and development opportunities led by the
 University’s Centre for Quality, Support and Development (for Teaching and Learning, including
 teaching qualifications that lead to HEA membership) and People Development (for non-
 Teaching and Learning training and development). Within the Unit, we offer further, tailored
 support for our research-active staff, primarily led by our RDLs who themselves receive support
 and training through regular Community-of-Practice meetings. We provide grant-writing
 workshops, which have been attended by >40 researchers from PGRs to professors and also
 run a monthly grant review scheme (‘Research NOSH’), to disseminate our latest research ideas
 and findings, and receive support and feedback on grant applications. Multiple interdisciplinary
 projects - including collaborations with ECRs - have resulted from these initiatives, for example,
 on neuroprotection in neuronal systems (Nandini /Nasuto /Delivopoulos /Tamagnini), supported
 by an EPSRC DTP PhD studentship and CINN internal funding. We also host a commercial
 grant-writing training session (Scriptoria) specifically tailored for PDRAs. A further highly
 successful inclusion and networking venture is our ‘Coffee Connect’ project in which >70 BSBE
 staff and research students engage in monthly one-to-one coffee meetings. Other specific
 activities are organised to develop our strategic and national research priority areas, such as the
 University-wide workshop on Healthy Ageing (February 2019) organised by one of our Unit’s
 RDLs, which involved staff from more than 10 Schools plus two RCUK staff and led to three new
 collaborative projects subsequently funded by internal pilot-funding schemes.

 All staff, including PDRAs, are invited to contribute to relevant Departmental, School and
 Research Division staff meetings, and committees have staff membership across all levels
 ensuring input and feedback to all staff and students. The University Rewards Committee
 considers cases for additional increments for staff on grade 6 and cases for research intensive
 staff (including PDRAs) to move from grade 6 to grade 7 (lecturer equivalent) by meeting the
 criteria of sustained excellence; many are underpinned by permanent contracts. We also have a
 scheme for awarding lump sums and vouchers to reward one-off activities of note. Our ECRs,
 PDRAs and PGRs also benefit from contribution to our extensive outreach and public
 engagement activities (see below). In the current REF period, a ‘Director of Postdoctoral
 Researchers’ and associated committee (that includes all relevant PDRAs) was introduced
 within the UoA providing our PDRAs with increased opportunity to develop and contribute as
 young researchers.

 Our Unit has a track record of developing staff into leadership roles. During this period, a former
 PVC (Teaching & Learning)/DVC and the Research Dean for Agriculture, Food and Health were
 drawn from our UoA (as was a Teaching and Learning Dean). Staff in our Unit also sit on key
 University Research committees and boards including the University Board for Research and
 Innovation (Williams), the Committee for Research Infrastructure (Williams, Gibbins), and the
 University Committee for Research Impact, Partnerships and Engagement (Williams,
 McCrindle). Edwards leads a new cross-disciplinary AMR@Reading group (focusing on
 antimicrobial resistance) and Gibbins is Director of our Institute for Cardiovascular and
 Metabolic Research. Research leadership roles within the UoA are appointed through open
 competition, and all staff, irrespective of career stage, are invited to apply. We welcome job-
 share applications and this approach led to the first University appointment of joint Research
 Division Leaders in Pharmacy. Several ECRs have been appointed into leadership roles over
 the period, such as our D&I lead and Director of PGR; support and mentoring is provided in
 these cases. Leadership roles are generally cycled every 3-5 years, enhancing career
 development opportunities and providing fresh perspectives. Thus, processes that support
 succession planning are well embedded within our Research Divisions driving a strong culture of
 leadership ambition and achievement.


                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Our multidisciplinary research is further strengthened through extensive links with academia,
 industry and the public sector (detailed in Section 4), supported by the University’s Knowledge
 Transfer Centre (KTC). We have two biotechnology companies based within our UoA and one
 further embedded researcher sharing use of research facilities, engaging in knowledge
 exchange and joint research projects (Saretius, Microgen, Folium). We facilitate interaction with
 industry through partial appointments and/or secondments. Five of our Category A staff have
 been recruited fully or partly into industry or the NHS over the REF period.

 Our working practices adapted rapidly to the Covid-19 pandemic, ensuring impact on our
 researchers was mitigated. Examples of measures introduced include: working from home
 where possible with comprehensive IT support provided; meetings, seminars and events
 converted to on-line formats (often recorded); provision of comprehensive Covid-19 safety
 guidance and training for those returning to campus; extension of financial support for university-
 funded PhD students whose research programmes were disrupted; and allocation of UKRI
 costed extensions.

 2.3 Support for Research Students
 Our vibrant, diverse PGR community currently includes 171 PhD students representing at least
 38 nationalities, summarised in Figure 2.1.




 Figure 2.1. A:2019/20 PhD student cohort characteristics and B. Sources of tuition fees 2014/15-
 2019/20

 We offer flexible modes of PhD study to cater for a range of circumstances, with opportunities
 widely advertised. PhDs have been supported by multiple funding sources with major
 contributions from overseas funders (31%), the University (23%), RCUK (11%) and our industrial
 partners (6%). A total of 48 competitively funded studentships have been awarded to a value
 of £2.7M from EPSRC, BBSRC, MRC, the Marie-Curie ITN funded DTP (€4M, €820K to UoR; 5
 students to UoA3) and Horizon 2020. In addition, we benefit from a new Reading-led Food
 BioSystems BBSRC-Doctoral Training Partnership (DTP) (£12M) initiated in 2020 (6 partner
 universities), funding >130 studentships over 5 years with 3 awarded to UoA3 this year. Many
 PGRs have also been co-funded by the University and industrial partners including Pfizer, GW
 Pharma, MedPharm and UCB.

 The Graduate School provides a central hub for all PhD students, delivering the Reading
 Researcher Development Programme (RRDP). Our PhD students complete at least 11 research
 and professional skills (generic and subject-specific) training modules over a 3-year programme,
 selected from >100 options. Of note, D&I training was recently added to the RRDP because of
 work by one of our UoA’s D&I committees. PGRs can also engage in a Leadership Programme

                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and the SPRINT Women’s Development Programme. Our PhD students can engage in
 undergraduate practical classes as paid demonstrators via the innovative University Campus
 Jobs scheme. Excellent opportunities for research supervisory experience are also offered
 through our Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme, where PhD’s and PDRA’s can
 supervise undergraduate students working on pilot or existing projects in the UoA.

 PhD students receive focused, tailored research support in our UoA, beginning with
 departmental inductions on joining. Our students are provided with at least two supervisors with
 whom regular meetings take place as well as an independent monitoring committee consisting of
 at least two other academics. A Training and Learning Needs Analysis identifies developmental
 requirements at the outset and each PhD student and project is monitored at regular intervals to
 ensure appropriate training, supervision and progress, with opportunities to address any issues.
 Students are organised locally into specialist research groups that meet regularly to present
 research progress and review relevant journal articles. PGRs are strongly encouraged to attend
 research seminar programmes and join relevant scientific societies, for which many of our
 Category A staff act as official local representatives. Local and University funds are available to
 support PGR conference attendance and to provide financial support to those with caring
 responsibilities or caring needs, and conference presentations are part of our monitoring
 process. We hold annual PhD symposia, which provide forums for students to present and
 celebrate their research to their Department/School and invited industrial partners; they also
 participate in the University-wide Doctoral Research Conference organised by the Graduate
 School, providing a wider perspective of research across different fields of study.

                                                                 We also operate a range of MSc
                                                                 by Research programmes within
                                                                 our UoA with 104 enrolments
                                                                 over the REF period (Fig. 2.2).

                                                                 Integral to our diverse research
                                                                 community, we highly value our
                                                                 PhD researchers who frequently
                                                                 present at national/international
                                                                 conferences, publish their
                                                                 findings, and received both
                                                                 internal and external prizes and
                                                                 recognition such as the
                                                                 Fairbrother Lecture (2014) on
                                                                 cannabis treatments for epilepsy.

 Figure 2.2. MRes/MSc by Research students during the REF period .

 2.4 Equality & Diversity
 Practices and policies across our UoA adhere to our values and culture of promoting equality,
 diversity, inclusion and wellbeing for all, mirroring those of the wider University (see IES). The
 Wellbeing, Inclusion, Diversity and Equality (WIDE, based in SCFP) and Diversity, Inclusion and
 Wellbeing (IDW, based in SBS) Committees work to address EDI issues and embed solutions in
 all our working practices. In addition to seminars and events, they undertake regular surveys to
 understand the changing needs of our staff and ensure these are addressed in policies and
 processes. Both committees are active in University-wide networks, including
 Women@Reading, Staff Disability (co-chaired by a member of this Unit), LGBT+ Ally Network,
 BAME, Parent & Family, and Cultural Diversity Group. Both School-based committees have
 brought about change in local practices and policies. Institution-level Communities of Practice
 enable sharing of good practice across the University. Our committees and school leadership
 regularly engage with the University’s Dean for Diversity & Inclusion, who drives institutional
 policies. Senior colleagues in the Unit provide University wide mentorship for diverse
 development schemes such as the Aurora Women’s Leadership Development Programme and
 Stellar HE.

                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 During this period, we have enhanced our appointments processes to ensure they are diverse
 and inclusive. Appointment panels are gender diverse and, where possible, ethnically diverse.
 We ensure that recruitment adverts emphasise our commitment to equality and diversity, and we
 promote our flexible approach to working arrangements. We are members of WISE, supporting
 gender balance in STEM, and regularly advertise through their networks. All UoA3 staff have
 completed mandatory Diversity & Inclusion training, and appointment panels are required to
 have completed specific tailored training for D&I together with unconscious bias and responsible
 use of metrics.

 Our work on gender balance has resulted in both our Schools of Biological Sciences and
 Chemistry, Food and Pharmacy securing Athena SWAN Silver Awards. During this REF period,
 55% of newly recruited Category A staff were female. We support women’s development via the
 Springboard Women’s Development Programme and Aurora Women’s Leadership Development
 Programme, which have been completed by 8 and 5 staff, respectively, in this assessment
 period. The numbers of female staff in senior grades have increased to 33% at Associate
 Professor and 41% at Professor level, largely the result of staff promotion and our support
 towards staff development.

 BAME staff representation currently exceeds the University-wide target of 14% of Grade 7+
 academic staff. We won funding from the University D&I Fund to support several local initiatives
 including workshops to promote careers of our BAME students and to address the BAME
 attainment gap within the higher education sector. A well-attended pilot D&I ‘away day’ for staff
 to raise awareness, provide training and promote discussion of a range of D&I-related issues
 has subsequently been adopted by other departments.

 We fully support part-time and flexible working patterns, with ~14% of our Cat A staff holding
 part-time contracts at all grades. Workload and promotion criteria are appropriately adjusted to
 support part-time staff or, for example, those with caring responsibilities. These challenges are
 regularly discussed in D&I committees to ensure other specific actions are put in place. As an
 example, core working hours were introduced for all formal School/Division meetings and key
 seminar programmes, and events are scheduled on alternating days where possible to maximise
 attendance. We also strongly support role-sharing to expand opportunities for career
 development; one of our RDL roles is currently job-shared. Fixed-term research staff are fully
 integrated into our research community which has led to 14 PDRAs being awarded competitive
 Lectureships within the assessment period within our UoA or at other Institutions.

 In line with the University’s REF 2021 Code of Practice, all key staff involved in preparation of
 our UoA3 submission completed REF-specific D&I and unconscious and implicit bias training.
 The UoA core team also includes one of our two D&I Leads. Our selection process has been
 based on quality, as determined by our self and peer review assessment system, run in line with
 the University-wide systems. Where metrics have been used to aid selection, these have been
 used following the principles of the University policy on Responsible Use of Metrics and the
 provisions of the Code of Practice. We reflected on the outcomes of the University’s interim
 Equality Impact Assessment (2020) and bias analysis (2021), which identified no statistically
 significant differences for protected characteristics in our selection.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income
 Over the current REF period our research income (spend) was ~£26M (£68K/FTE/year) from a
 variety of sources as shown in Figures 3.1 and 3.2 below.




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




 The research awards funded 213 discrete projects (excluding PhD projects) and this sustained
 level of income ensures that we will meet our future research and impact strategy. Importantly,
 we have expanded our sources of income, now won from 83 different funders, with particular
 focus on NIHR, MRC, charities and industrial partners to support our ambition for greater clinical
 translation of research as demonstrated below.

 Our national and international collaborations with the pharmaceutical industry have resulted in
 income of £3.4M. This has included awards from, amongst others, GW Pharma, Janssen-Cilag,
 Merck Sharp & Dohme, Pfizer, Shire Pharmaceuticals, UCB Pharma, and Zogenix International.
 Other sources of income include those arising from collaborations with industry having interests
 in health and well-being in varied sectors, for example Atomic Weapons Establishment,
 Clasado, Mondelez Global, ImmunoSep.

 We have also secured major funding (~ £10M) from diverse UK Government and Research
 Councils sources, including AHRC, BBSRC, the British Council, DEFRA, EPSRC, Innovate UK,
 MRC, NIHR, the Royal Society and the Technology Strategy Board.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We benefit from strong support from UK Charities (£7.4M), including Academy of Medical
 Sciences, Alzheimer’s Research UK, Breast Cancer UK, British Heart Foundation, Duchenne
 UK, Harrisons Fund, Leverhulme Trust, Parkinsons UK, Physiological Society and Wellcome
 Trust. We have won awards from various EU funding sources (~ £1.2M) such as Deutsche
 Forschungsgemeinschaft, EIT Food KIC and Horizon 2020. Additionally, our research exploits
 UKRI and international research facilities (research income-in-kind of £1.7M) such as Diamond
 Light Source, ISIS Neutron and Muon Source, and MRC Harwell.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities
 During this period, we received major investments in equipment, facilities and infrastructure,
 further demonstrating the University’s ambitions in health-related research.

                                         A new 4 storeys £55M Health & Life Sciences Building
                                         was completed in 2020 (5,020m2 housing ~250 staff and
                                         research students; Figure 3.3). This state-of-the-art facility
                                         incorporates the Cardiovascular and Infectious Disease
                                         research clusters. The ground floor provides substantial,
                                         flexible teaching laboratory (320 students) and
                                         preparation space together with networking space (café
                                         and zoological museum) within a central atrium. The first
                                         and second floors provide extensive shared laboratory
                                         and write up space for 150 researchers and 30 PIs with
                                         new fully equipped microbiology containment laboratories
                                         for work with pathogens, 4 tissue culture suites, 6
                                         controlled environment rooms, inbuilt Nordic -80 freezer
                                         systems, Human Tissue storage facilities and a
                                         crystallisation room. The £2.5M cutting edge Centre for
                                         Cardiovascular Imaging has relocated to purpose-built
                                         laboratories within this new building; its intravital confocal
                                         microscopy, high speed confocal and super-resolution
                                         microscopy have recently been expanded through further
                                         investment.

                                           The third floor houses our new BioResource Unit
                                           providing animal experimental facilities, under the ARMIS
                                           animal management system. The new BRU (905 m2;
                                           capacity for 250 rats, 1800 mice and 100 tanks for newly
                                           introduced zebra fish) was designed through extensive
                                           consultation to allow flexible use and high-level
                                           biosecurity, health and safety. All rodent strains housed in
                                           the new unit have been re-derivatised to ensure that they
          Figure 3.3. Health & Life        are pathogen free (£120K). Four large animal holding
             Sciences Building             rooms are available for rodents, rabbits and zebrafish,
                                           including immunocompromised strains, fitted with the
 latest animal-cage facilities (£100K). Twelve procedure rooms allow use of large equipment
 (such as ultrasound imaging) and extended animal holding, thus increasing flexibility. Surgical
 suites and recovery rooms facilitate modern aseptic techniques; a dedicated necropsy room is
 available for tissue recovery. A quarantine room is also available, and design ensures
 sterilisation of individual rooms. Also available are 2-photon microscopy and sophisticated
 intravital microscopy. These new facilities, and particularly the high levels of biosecurity and
 extensive surgical facilities, will enable us to expand our collaborations with biotechnology and
 clinical research organisations and support rapid translation of our research findings.

 The Hopkins building is jointly occupied by Pharmacy and BSBE and has seen investments in
 multielectrode arrays, incubators, centrifuges and a t-Scan freezer monitoring system. The
 Molecules & Tools research cluster occupies the Chemistry & Pharmacy building, with
 facilities for synthetic organic chemistry, physical chemistry and chemical analysis and a

                                                                                               Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 dedicated glass blowing facility. The group uses the co-located £4.5M Chemical Analysis
 Facility (CAF), a University research platform, operated by dedicated technical staff (7.2 FTE). It
 provides four NMR spectrometers, five mass spectrometers, X-ray facilities for single crystal,
 powders and small angle scattering, vibrational spectroscopy, thermal analysis (e.g., TGA, DSC,
 ITC) and extensive electron microscopy facilities. New investments since 2014 include cryo-TEM
 with Vitrobot preparation unit (£550K), a Light Isotope Ratio Mass Spectrometer (£300K), an
 NMR console upgrade (£75k) and a recent order for an atomic force microscope (£150K). A new
 single-crystal X-ray diffractometer (£439K) is extensively used and managed by our
 pharmaceutical materials experts.

 Biomedical engineering uses specialist facilities in our Polly Vacher building which provides
 access to the Brain Embodiment Lab, with cell culture facilities, two new 3D printers, and
 computing, electronic and engineering facilities. Joint occupation of the buildings with our
 computer scientists and shared facilities provides further opportunities for interdisciplinary
 research. The Medicines Usage and Prescribing cluster is central within the School of Pharmacy
 and benefits from ready access to interview rooms equipped with video and audio recording and
 simulation facilities. The buildings housing all the research groupings are closely co-located in
 the University “Health” building zone, to which some local NHS Trust services will shortly
 relocate, enabling ready interaction and sharing of resources.

 Our research has benefitted from additional specific strategic investments of ~£2.0M in new
 research equipment over the current REF period. Notable examples include: Octet biosensor,
 (£105K); two Accuri C6 cytometers (£165K); 5 AKTA protein purification systems (~£150K);
 Nordic -80°C system (£500K) and Innova microbiological incubators (£150K). We also rely on
 other key research facilities at the University, including the Hugh Sinclair Unit for human nutrition
 intervention studies; Hall and Sonning farms (llama nanobody production, piglet experimental
 facilities); the MRI Scanner and EEG facility in CINN and in-vitro gut models in Food and
 Nutritional Sciences (gut microbiota research). Externally, we are also partners in the EPSRC-
 funded (£4.5M) ‘Young’ consortium of 12 leading Universities, for Materials and Molecular
 Modelling (MMM Hub Tier 2), a world-class high-performance computer (~23,000 cores)
 which supports research across our Unit.

 In addition to the internal financial investment in infrastructure, we benefit from access to a range
 of funding to support research, including:
     • The University Strategic Fund: which invested £575K, matched by RBFT, to establish
         the Joint Academic Board; £292K was awarded to our Unit to pump prime 12
         collaborative projects.
     • UoR’s Research Endowment Trust Fund: which makes available £1.2M per annum to
         support research. This fund is accessible via several competitive schemes to which all
         staff can apply.
     • Research Infrastructure Fund: over £1.5M allocated to the Unit as described above.
     • Research Impact support funds: allocated through the BOISP programme as described
         in Section 1.

 Our research is expertly supported by a team of highly qualified technicians, working with our
 technical services function. Dedicated technical specialists manage CAF (7.2 FTE) and the BRU
 (7.0 FTE) platforms. An additional 40 FTEs provide teaching and research support across all our
 laboratories, including stores, health and safety, and running specialist facilities such as our
 tablet making suite and microbiological facilities.

 The University invested significantly in expanding professional support capacity. As a result, we
 benefit from a range of staff in the professional services who work closely with colleagues in the
 UoA in developing grant applications and impact. Research Development Managers are highly
 qualified and provide specialised input to our proposals, supporting from the early inception
 stages, whereby they can offer advice on the focus for the proposals to fit with specific funding
 calls, through to review and costing support. They regularly provide briefings and presentations
 for staff and liaise with ECRs to provide tailored support and facilitate workshops and events for

                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 idea generation in response to large external initiatives and, in doing so, support internal
 collaborations and interdisciplinarity.

 In addition, we receive support from a dedicated impact team, the KTC, contracts officers and
 Research Communications. The KTC facilitates interactions with industrial partners. The impact
 team provide invaluable support for building capacity for impact through workshops and training
 and developing impact case studies. For example, this has included training on the Business
 Model Canvas in partnership with the Oxford Academic Health Sciences Network to establish a
 viable prototype for personalised nutrition support for use during cardiac rehabilitation.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our UoA has continued to make powerful contributions to shape local, national and international
 research landscapes. We have fostered significant collaborations, benefitting interdependent
 research networks, the economy and society, both within the UK and amongst our collaborators’
 home bases. The vast majority of our research is collaborative, with external healthcare,
 academic and industry organisations, including very significant international activity. These
 contributions extend beyond our Impact Cases and incorporate diverse communities.
 We contribute fully to the wider research base, and influence research policy and public-facing
 strategies; such activities further extend to our successful outreach activities locally and
 nationally.

 4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships
 We work with diverse local, national and international networks, as reflected by the large number
 of collaborative publications; Table 4.1 shows our major output collaborators. In this REF period,
 we have published over 850 papers in international, peer-reviewed journals and conference
 proceedings (including Nature, Science and Cell) of which 46% include international co-authors
 from 69 nations (Figure 4.1). Our submission includes 62 papers co-authored with industrial
 collaborators from 25 different companies.




 Table 4.1. Top collaborating institutions for               Figure 4.1. UoA3 International
 UoA3 from 2014-2020. From 802 outputs in Scopus             collaborations by publication.
 (10,911 citations, average FWCI of 1.47)

 NHS collaborations. We have extensive collaborations with health care services and providers.
 At a local level, collaborators include our Joint Academic Board partnership with RBFT, and work
 with BHFT, and Oxford University Hospitals. For example, our Celgene-funded (£580K) study on
 haemostatic function in multiple myeloma supports work in the Oxford Haemophilia and
 Thrombosis Centre. We also work closely with the University Department of Cardiology at RBFT
 on a £1.4M BHF programme grant developing new precision medicine approaches to prevent
 thrombosis. The Unit provides strategic leadership for the University’s collaborative JAB
 partnership; Williams co-chairs with the Trusts Chief Medical Officer.

 Beyond the region, we work with Stanmore Hospital developing a functional electrical stimulation
 system for bone health maintenance in spinal cord injury supported by EPSRC (£894K). We also

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborate with the University of York on a NIHR Programme Grant (£2M) project entitled
 ‘Highlighting Alcohol use in Medication Appointments’.

 Industrial collaborations. We work extensively with industrial collaborators to co-design
 research aimed at meeting health needs, for example with Evolv in developing a Microsoft
 Kinect based game for home-based speech and language rehabilitation of stroke and dementia
 patients (Impact Case). Our industrial links are strengthened by visiting professors from
 companies including Arena, Bristol-Myers Squibb, MedPharm and GW Pharma, and by
 industrial representation on our strategic advisory boards which guide and inform our research
 strategy. Our interactions with industry enhance the impact of our outputs - during the REF
 period our 62 academic-corporate collaborative publications achieved an average FWC impact
 of 3.88.

 International collaborations. Major international collaborations include our BHF £298K funded
 programme on modelling platelet function with Lomonosov Moscow State University and the
 €3.9M European Joint Doctoral Programme on Atherothrombosis in collaboration with three EU
 (Maastricht, Wurzburg and Santiago de Campostela) and one UK (Birmingham) universities, the
 ISAS research institute (Dortmund) and the German company Alacris Theranostics. We
 collaborate with 12 biotechnology companies and academic institutes across Europe on the EU-
 funded (€10M, €387K to UoR) ImmunoSep project which is trialling a “theranostic” approach to
 personalised immunotherapy for sepsis.

 We also collaborate significantly with overseas partners on PhD studentships and MSc
 programmes, often supported via government and university schemes which seek to obtain the
 best research training for their students. Such overseas collaborations include Bangladesh,
 China, Egypt, France, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Malaysia, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Thailand and
 Turkey.

 Our international collaborative activities include hosting prestigious overseas academic visitors
 as part of grant-funded research. Examples include Dominic Behan founder of Arena
 Pharmaceuticals (USA), Prof Toshiyuki Kondo, Prof Ryo Yoshida, Prof Sadao Kawamura and
 Professor Sumiko Mochida (Japan).

 4.2 Impact of our collaborations, networks and partnerships
 Our collaborations have generated considerable impact, including many examples beyond our 5
 Impact Cases and those described above. Healthcare impact examples include our work with
 the Primary Care Pharmacy Association at a Centre for Pharmacy Postgraduate Education
 (CPPE) conference to create videos which are now used in training sessions for general practice
 pharmacists. Impact examples with regulatory bodies and industry include: with the National
 Institute for Biological Standards and Controls (NIBSC) and the Medicines and Healthcare
 products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) on publication on the standardization of research
 procedures in dementia research (AlzSM project); with Celgene on the increased thrombosis risk
 in myeloma patients treated with immunomodulatory drugs; and with Arena Pharmaceuticals on
 the impact of drugs affecting arterial hypertension leading to new compounds licenced to United
 Therapeutics.

 4.3 Leadership and contribution to the discipline and research base
 UoA3 staff make strong contributions to their professional societies; in particular, all our
 Pharmacist staff are registered with the GPhC and many are members of the Royal
 Pharmaceutical Society. Staff are members of societies such as the Academy of Pharmaceutical
 Sciences, Biochemical Society, British Pharmacological Society, British Psychological Society,
 Royal Society of Chemistry and the UK Physiological Society. Multiple staff hold Fellowships of
 the Academy of Pharmaceutical Science, American Heart Association, British Pharmacological
 Society, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Institute of Engineering and
 Technology, Royal Society of Biology, Royal Society of Chemistry, Royal Society of Medicine,
 Royal Pharmaceutical Society and the UK Physiological Society. Other professional healthcare
 contributions include membership of the Standard Setting Panel for GPhC Registration

                                                                                            Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assessment, roles within the Pharmacy Schools Council and Committee Membership of the
 Royal Society for Public Health: Arts, Health and Wellbeing Special Interest Group.

 We also make major policy-making contributions to scientific societies through our staff taking
 leadership positions such as Chair of the Platelet Society, Chair of IEEE Sensors UK and
 Ireland, Chair of IEEE Masabu Ibuka Medal Committee, Chair of the IEEE Consumer Electronics
 Society Fellow Evaluation Committee and Vice-President for Policy & Public Engagement
 for British Pharmacological Society (BPS). We also serve on the Facility Access Panel for the
 ISIS STFC neutron facility, including acting as Chair. We also have representatives on Editorial
 Boards for over 40 different journals in the field.

 Our researchers are members of over 50 boards, committees and scientific advisory panels for
 RCUK, charities and industries involved in funding Unit-related research. In healthcare, these
 include the NIHR James Lind Alliance, Priority Setting Partnership awards panel and the Royal
 Pharmaceutical Society Health Services Research and Pharmacy Practice Committee. For
 RCUK, such contributions include to BBSRC, MRC and EPSRC grant panels. For major
 charities, committee representation includes Heart Research UK (Chair), the Royal Society
 Newton Panel, Wellcome Trust Peer Review College, Ataxia UK, MS Society, Parkinson’s UK,
 Alzheimer’s Society, Alzheimer’s Research UK, DEBRA International, and British Heart
 Foundation.

 Additionally, our researchers undertake multiple research consultancy roles for industry.
 Examples of companies thus supported include: Animalcare Ltd; DragonFly CBD; Foley &
 Lardner LLP; Hogan Lovells International LLP; MedtechtoMarket; Pfizer; Reading Scientific
 Services Ltd; and RusBio Ventures LLC.

 Our global research base contribution is indicated by members hold visiting titles overseas.
 These include Honorary titles at Kazan State Medical University (Russia); Trichy SRM Medical
 College Hospital; Bharathidasan University Constituency College; Alagappa University (all
 India).

 4.4 Societal Impact of the Unit: outreach and public understanding to benefit society.
 An integral part of our research ethos is our commitment to communicating and engaging with a
 diverse range of audiences. Thus, we have organised and hosted many events both on campus
 and in the local community which have been attended by thousands of participants.

 Our local engagement activities span the UoA3 research base from British Heart Foundation
 to Alzheimer’s Research UK sponsored events. We are regular contributors to the University’s
 Public Lecture Series presenting our research in an accessible format. Our outreach events
 have been supported by competitive awards such as two Physiological Society Outreach Grants
 supporting highly successful outreach events such as Science Slams. Our commitment to
 Outreach and Engagement is illustrated by our establishment of the Reading Pint of Science
 festival from 2018, as organised by UoA3 ECRs and PDRA’s, in which many of our researchers
 have presented their research, and the success of our Heart Health MOOC (~60,000
 enrolments).

 We also participate in national engagement events, including the highly successful
 Science Lates at the Science Museum involving several hundred general public participants and
 an ARUK-supported Christmas lecture on dementia. Our international outreach contributions
 include a TED talk and YouTube videos about dementia research.

 We routinely engage with the media, through our local Press Office and the national Science
 Media Centre. This has led to follow up articles and a global recognition for UoA3 staff. For
 example, we were involved in extensive coverage of the Novichok exposure via UK BBC World
 Service, Reuters and Financial Times. The Unit has also been involved in the coverage (BBC
 Berkshire, ITV, The Times) of cannabis-based medicines. Other examples include our
 contribution to a Guardian article on use of Google's DeepMind to predict 3D shapes of proteins,

                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an interview by the BBC on cardiovascular studies, a Royal Institute Christmas Lecture, a
 History Channel TV interview, the BBC Radio 4 Frontiers programme “Build me a brain” and a
 Guardian article, “Mind-blowing music: Tinie Tempah's brain scan”. To provide up to date
 opinion and expert insight UoA3 staff have authored over 40 pieces in The Conversation, an
 independent source of news and views. The Unit has also made significant outreach responses
 to the COVID-19 crisis; see 4.8. Digital media are routinely used to promote our scientific
 research, for example a dedicated YouTube channel promoting our polymer science and drug
 delivery research. In addition, we operate an Instagram channel promoting the use of technology
 to address biomedical problems. Other social media platforms used include numerous Twitter
 accounts, webpages and blogs.

 UoA3 staff also contributed to UoR’s campaign to promote openness on responsible use of
 animals as part of the new national animal concordat. This included a BBC Radio Berkshire
 interview which resulted in an Understanding Animal Research Openness Award (1.3) on our
 use of llamas to produce antibodies. Our animal-concordat-linked Twitter campaign was picked
 up by wider media, including the Sunday Times.

 4.5 Academic engagement and uptake: communicating our research.
 We have continued to show leadership through the organisation and delivery of numerous
 research conferences/workshops, at national and global levels. Eleven conferences/workshops
 have been organised at Reading by Unit-members including the major Health Services
 Research and Pharmacy Practice 2016 annual conference (over 100 delegates), the European
 Platelet Summer School (in 2014 and 2017; over 100 delegates each) and the Alzheimer’s
 Research UK Network Dementia Research conference in 2019, attended by 79 delegates.

 Over 30 conferences/symposia sessions were organised by us. Notable international meetings
 include: A Newton funded Researcher Links Workshop on ‘Understanding and Advancing
 Therapies for CNS Disorders’ with a follow-up conference in Santa Catarina, Brazil (over 140
 delegates); the Third and Fourth International Congress on Advances in Intelligent Systems and
 Computing (Ukraine); and annual International Conferences on Artificial Intelligence and Soft
 Computing (2014-2019). Organisation roles for notable national meetings include:
 RehabWeek, 2017 (over 1000 delegates) the Eurohaptics 2016 meeting; the 12th Royal Society
 of Chemistry Nucleic Acids Forum (over 100 delegates); the European Workshop on
 Cannabinoid Research 2017; the Pharmacology 2018 and 2019 meetings; the 12th
 International Symposium on Resistance Arteries 2017; and the Royal Pharmaceutical Society
 annual science/research conferences since 2014.
 We have delivered well over 100 invited, keynote lectures at high-profile academic conferences
 within the discipline since 2014.

 4.6 Policy and public engagement and uptake: benefit to society
 Publications by UoA3 staff have influenced healthcare policy in the UK and globally.
 Examples include Dhital, who advised WHO (see 4.8) and was part of the James Lind Alliance,
 Evaluation, Trials and Studies steering group that advises NIHR on research priorities for
 alcohol-related liver disease. Dhital was also part of the expert steering group who advised the
 London Alcohol Misuse Prevention group and Alcohol Concern. Vaiyapuri’s work on snake
 bites is detailed in an Impact Case study.

 UoA3 members have presented evidence in Parliament to guide UK government policy.
 Research by Sherratt was cited in the Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology
 document “Preparing for a changing world” in their Science, Communication and Behaviour
 section. Sherratt was also an Invited Member of the Chinese government’s Foreign Experts
 Programme. McNeish liaises with government representatives in his role as British
 Pharmacological Society Vice-President for Policy & Public Engagement; such activity includes
 representation at Royal Society of Biology parliamentary links days from 2016-19.




                                                                                           Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.7 Awards and Prizes: markers of esteem
 Key examples include: Harwin, Sherratt and Holderbaum as part of the EPSRC Sphere team
 were World Technology Award Winner 2016 in the “Organisation: Health and Medicine
 Category” by the World Technology Network; Lewis was awarded the Physiological
 Society Bayliss-Starling Prize in 2018; Stephens and Whalley, were awarded the 2019 Sir
 James Black Award for Contributions to Drug Discovery by the British Pharmacological Society -
 this work was shortlisted for the Guardian University Awards 2020 for Research Impact;
 Stephens’ research on producing antibodies in different species won an Openness award at the
 annual Understanding Animal Research awards in 2019; and Vaiyapuri was awarded a Royal
 Society Leverhulme Trust Senior Research Fellowship in 2020.

 4.8 Responsiveness to national and international priorities
 Examples include advising NATO on research priorities via 3 lectures at their Advanced Study
 Institute; and contribution to the Expert Advisory Group for the WHO to develop and review an
 online alcohol brief intervention training manual, adopted for use in primary care.

 As a health-related Unit, much recent activity has focussed on responses to the COVID-19
 pandemic. We have increased public understanding of infection risk, disease testing and
 potential treatments via numerous national and international written articles, interviews
 and videos. Moreover, we are making strong contributions to vaccines and anti-viral therapies,
 with ongoing discussions with clinicians on the basis of disease, the value of therapeutic options,
 and the design of clinical studies. Examples include:

    •   Jones-I and Clarke gave extensive expert opinion and advice on COVID-19 via the
        Science Media Centre and other platforms.
    •   McGuffin contributed 3D models of the virus via the CASP Commons 2020 programme.
    •   Edwards provided expert opinion to multiple outlets including The Conversation, ITV and
        a BBC Science Focus on the governments COVID-19 testing strategy, testing technology
        and the use of PPE.
    •   Donyai explained the science behind potential drug therapies for COVID-19 in The
        Conversation and use of ibuprofen with COVID-19 on the BBC, broadly quoted in the
        press.
    •   Vaiyapuri examined evidence that blood type A raises susceptibility to COVID-19 in The
        Conversation and was quoted extensively in, for example, USA Today, Politifact and
        Medical News Today.
    •   McNeish contributed to The Conversation, reproduced on ForeignAffairs.nz, on the
        pharmacology of potential COVID-19 treatments and raised risk of high blood pressure
        medicines for COVID-19.
    •   Stephens co-ordinated llama antibody work in 2 separate projects with Owens (Oxford)
        and Kjaer (Francis Crick Institute) to discover novel, specialised ‘nanobodies’ to fight
        COVID-19. This work was widely featured e.g., in The Conversation, the I-newspaper,
        BBC South and BBC Five Live.
    •   Gibbins (with Imperial College London) explored whether enhanced platelet function in
        severe COVID-19 infection was associated with clots in the lungs in an intervention drugs
        trial; and with colleagues in Amsterdam and London, Gibbins and Jones-I investigated
        whether ‘pathogenic’ early antibody responses underly abnormal clotting in COVID-19.




                                                                                            Page 22
