Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Staffordshire University

 Unit of Assessment: C20 Social Work and Social Policy
 Note: names of people whose outputs are submitted to this UOA are in bold

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Vision, Strategy and Plans

This is the first submission Staffordshire University has made to UOA 20, and brings together
researchers who focus on the promotion, development and implementation of justice throughout
civil society. The Unit supports the University’s vision as a civic university (see REF5a) and aims to
make a substantial economic and social contribution to its region.

The Unit comprises 18 FTE staff, and builds on the ‘social inclusion and social justice’ research
theme in our REF2014 submission to Education (then UOA 25). These researchers’ expertise
spans cognate disciplines linked to social policy, alongside forensics, with justice underpinning
throughout. Disciplines covered by the unit include crime; health, illness and the body; migration;
education; social class and other inequalities.

At the Unit’s heart is the recently (2019) formed Centre for Crime, Justice and Security (CCJS).
CCJS is concerned with social policy and processes of social justice, which it frames in terms of
UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). CCJS research activity emphasises SDG 16, to
'Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, provide access to justice
for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all level’, alongside goals 5, 8,
10 and 11, which all contribute to the institution’s civic vision.

The Centre undertakes high-quality research with our stakeholder communities and academic
partners to address these SDGs. It works to enrich and transform lives by undertaking high quality
research which influences policy and practice in the fields of social, criminal, and educational
justice.

At Staffordshire, interdisciplinary research centres are a key vehicle for research, and the 2019
establishment of CCJS fits this institutional context. The Centre’s director is Gwinnett, who is
returned to UOA 15, and the Centre members come from four of the University’s five academic
schools. Through the Centre, members work across the University and leverage the Centre’s
networks to access practitioners and end-users of our research in pursuit of a transformative civic
agenda.

The Unit draws on CCJS to promote interdisciplinary, applied research. Almost half of the UOA’s
submission is flagged as interdisciplinary, which reflects our emphasis on academic collaboration.
Furthermore, our Impact Case Studies reflect our co-creation of research with end-users.
KEVERN’s collaboration with religious groups supporting people with dementia and
TREADWELL’s work with criminal justice organisations both speak to our emphasis on applied,
civic research.

The CCJS delivers four research themes for the Unit, namely:
   • Investigation, Security and Intelligence (Combines security, intelligence and forensic
      investigative practice).


                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Crime, Justice and Communities (Focuses on community research to support the practice
       of those working in the criminal justice, health and social welfare system and the associated
       concerns of community cohesion and social justice).
   •   Professional Education, Regulation and Standards (Unites staff researching education,
       pedagogy, ethics and regulations that apply to employers, academics and communities of
       learners).
   •   Evidence Based Policing (Concerns research to inform and challenge policing policies,
       practices and decisions).

The Unit’s strategy has three overarching objectives:
   • Support staff development;
   • Develop partnerships;
   • Produce high-quality research and impact.

The Unit’s research strategy has driven a substantial increase in outputs and enhanced income
capture. 96% of our submitted outputs listed in Scopus are in Q1/Q2 journals, with 70% in Q1
journals. Our publication strategy emphasises quality over ‘publish or perish’. It is underpinned by
mentoring and internal peer review support in the four research themes, all enhancing the quality
of outputs. We have a strong collaborative ethos: for example, where ECRs are corresponding
authors for the first time, senior colleagues (e.g. KEVERN, TREADWELL, WILLIAMS) support
them through this, and will, for example, advise them on how to respond to reviewers’ comments.
Over the next REF period, we will increase quality of our outputs, and therefore look to increase to
90% the percentage of outputs in Q1 journals (Scopus data).

Key Achievements:

Investigation, Security and Intelligence is led by WILLIAMS and encompasses interdisciplinary
research in forensic science, security and intelligence. The theme includes FIELDHOUSE’s
forensic criminalistic research into pseudo-operational trials of the dual recovery of DNA and
finger-marks using gel lifters for DNA recovery at crime scenes (output identifier 6026). WILLIAMS’
ground-breaking work aids efficient crime scene investigation by outlining approaches that use
bisulfite treatment followed by high-resolution melting curve analysis to differentiate between
monozygotic twins at crime sites (3757). The theme complements research into investigative
methods with research covering security services’ actions and methodologies. CRAIG’s research
includes historical analysis of MI5’s role in British Guiana, Aden and the Northern Ireland civil rights
crisis (2988) and his original consideration of ‘stovepiping’ communications and the problem of
divergent intelligence gathering networks in Northern Ireland (3616). Work in this stream
contributes critical insights into contemporary security debates. QURESHI examines the impact of
the UKs government’s ‘Prevent’ strategy on Muslim communities against the backdrop of the ‘war
on terror’ (4251), and SMITH provides vital new perspectives on the global security challenges of
EU-NATO cooperation in counter-piracy operations off the Somali coast (2479).

Crime, Justice and Communities is led by TREADWELL. This theme focuses on social science
and socio-legal research on social policy and criminal justice, societal justice and social cohesion.
Within the assessment period, it has produced influential work on austerity, welfare and work,
geographies and inequalities. TELFORD’s qualitative research critiques tropes regarding the
rationale for voting ‘leave’ in the 2016 Brexit referendum. His work exposes how leave voters
rooted their decision in a localised experience of social dislocation linked to deindustrialisation
(6453). MACHIN’s research analysed the transition from Disability Living Allowance to Personal


                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Independence Payments, investigating the impact of the UK Government’s policies on disabled
people (3953) and examining Children’s Participation in Child Protection (4773). TREADWELL’s
novel work on the rise of the right in deindustrialised locales (6700) followed his contributions to
Ultra Realist perspectives on the post-political and political violence (6705) in criminology and the
social sciences. DAVIES’ work on modern slavery and labour exploitation in the European
construction industry (6696) and vulnerabilities in dairy supply chains (6695, 6694) supplies new
understandings of how state regulation can prevent routinised labour exploitation constituting new
empirical insights in Critical Criminology and zemiology. KEVERN’s research (4164) informs
debates on human spirituality, the interface between religion and health, ageing and/or death and
the place of religious communities in delivering public health gains. BESWICK’s (3848) research
considers socio-legal health considerations such as acceptable clinical practice and the importance
of consent as a pre-requisite for medical treatment and the interplay of negligence and battery. The
theme’s criminological focus includes historical research such as THOMAS’ on representations of
guards in the 1930s Gulag press (3893) and TURNER’s archival study of recidivism and
desistance in penal policy,1853-1945 (5381) and female perpetrators of Common Assault in the
late nineteenth century (5836)

Professional Education, Regulation and Standards – is led by Cassella (returned to UOA15).
The theme includes BASIT’s (2660) research using vignettes in educational research to investigate
cultural tolerance, and ORSMOND’s on social learning practices (3570). FORRESTER’s (4757)
interdisciplinary work on schools as community assets applies Asset-Based Community
Development (ABCD) methodologies to research. KINSELLA’s (4992) interdisciplinary methods
considered agency in the Pupil Referral Unit Classroom and the role of arts-based education
potential in re-engaging excluded learners.

Evidence Based Policing is led by METCALFE and has strong networks with Police services and
partner agencies, including those in Lancashire, Cumbria and Greater Manchester. Her work
investigates demands on police services (3863) and complements research on emergent policing
challenges such TREADWELL’s work on commercial cannabis cultivation, violence and illicit
enterprise (6706). TREADWELL’S thematic research also includes qualitative, empirical analysis
of methods for policing crime in prison and prison drug markets (6154). SAVIGAR-SHAW’s (6693)
applied work on legitimacy in road policing provides new insights into how drivers see themselves,
their priorities, and the law, helping to improve both police legitimacy and public safety. RILEY’s
work (publishing as POOLE) has developed our understanding of the detection and policing of gun
crime (5860) across thirteen European countries and the sharing of ballistics data (5859).

The impactful and applied nature of our research is shown in our Impact Case Studies.
TREADWELL’s study is built on his research with colleagues in UK HEIs, and collaborations with
the Police and Prison Services and Crime Commissioners and forces across the region.
KEVERN’s Impact Case Study has involved not only collaboration with research institutions, care
providers and research user communities, but also wider collaboration with colleagues at the
Pontifical Catholic University of Sao Paolo (Brazil), University of Ulster, VU Amsterdam
(Netherlands) and University of Malaga (Spain). The Case Studies reflect the UOA’s
implementation of institutional strategy. They use applied research within the region to develop far-
reaching national and international impacts in health education and criminal justice. Impact and
connections to practice are strengthened by having former practitioners in the UOA, which ensures
strong links to research user communities: RILEY and TREADWELL formerly worked for the
National Offender Management Service, METCALFE was previously seconded to Lancashire’s
Evidence Based Policing Team and WILLIAMS worked for the Forensic Science Service.


                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Future Strategy

Through the CCJS, the UOA’s aim over the next five years is to develop a mixed income portfolio
to ensure sustainability while facilitating cross-institutional and interdisciplinary working in line with
the institutional strategy.

The strategic plan will:
   a. focus on increasing external grant bidding activity and income;
   b. expand postgraduate student numbers;
   c. enhance the impact of the UOA’s research by further developing its relationships with
       stakeholders, policymakers and cultural agencies;
   d. use its understanding of the needs of end-users to develop a research-based CPD
       provision, thereby also enhancing potential research impact;
   e. build on international and national academic partnerships; and
   f. produce high quality outputs.

We will use significant recent income to expand policing research. In 2019, the University won a
£30m contract to deliver Police Constable Degree Apprenticeships (PCDA) and Degree Holder
Entry Programme (DHEP) Diplomas to the West Midlands Regional Police Forces (Staffordshire,
Warwickshire, West Mercia and West Midlands). This funding has supported the recruitment of a
significant body of academic staff to complement our existing expertise in Policing and
Criminology. The investment will enable us to expand our applied research and build on our
assessment-period impact in the criminal justice system (see TREADWELL impact case study).

The University is committed to making its research publicly available and searchable, and does this
via STORE, its online research repository. The Unit follows the University policies (REF5a, section
2) on research governance, including the Concordat to Support Research Integrity. We are working
towards full compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data. We assist our researchers to
ensure all outputs are available open access. Induction and regular refresher training ensures that
our researchers are fully aware of and comply with the University’s ethics policy.




 2. People

Staffing Strategy

The submission reflects institutional investment in social science research. We have used targeted
recruitment and staff development to expand our research capacity and capability. Two-thirds of
the UOA (DAVIES, FORRESTER, KINSELLA, METCALFE, RILEY, SAVIGAR-SHAW, SMITH,
TELFORD, THOMAS, TREADWELL, TURNER, WILLIAMS) have been recruited during the REF
cycle. The development of newly recruited staff, ECR staff and postgraduates is a core strategy,
and has led to significant growth in research on crime. In keeping with the institutional commitment
to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (REF5a), the UOA sustains
and develops existing research excellence and diversity. As a result, the submission comprises
researchers at all career stages, from ECRs (DAVIES, KINSELLA, METCALFE, SAVIGAR-
SHAW, TELFORD) to senior researchers.

The Unit contains a small number of staff who were submitted to other UOAs in REF2014.
ORSMOND was part of the Social Inclusion and Social Justice research theme in our Education
                                                                                                   Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
submission, and KEVERN was returned in Communication, Cultural and Media Studies. By
bringing these staff into the REF2021 UOA, we have provided interdisciplinary support for our new
and emerging researchers. The staff profile reflects the ambitions of the new executive and the
institutional goals that have afforded new research-active staff significant opportunities. Over 70%
of those in this REF submission are returned by Staffordshire for the first time and 28% are ECRs,
demonstrating investment into the sustainability of the Unit.

Staff Development, Support and Equality

Reflecting the ethos in the UOA, justice, transparency, fairness and equality of opportunity is a
core concern, and the Unit and CCJS have created an environment which supports colleagues’
development. The UOA embraces the four Staffordshire values; that all staff be ambitious and
inspirational; brilliant and friendly; curious and daring; and proud to be Staffs.

Unit staff benefit from University-wide initiatives and commitments that have enhanced our
research culture. All staff take research ethics, leadership and development training on joining the
institution and participate in training offered through the University’s Academic Development
Framework. Unit staff participate in the annual Performance and Development
Review (PDR) process, which enables staff to discuss their progress, and development needs and
set appropriate research objectives with their line manager. Work-loading is established and
reviewed using a workload planning model and staff submitted to this unit have a minimum of 20%
time ringfenced for research, in line with our Code of Practice.

Upon their request, UOA members can receive coaching and mentoring facilitated through
the CCJS. This guidance draws heavily on expertise of the Professoriate and senior staff (see
REF5a). Since 2019, to develop the research in the UOA further, we specifically offer coaching and
mentoring to staff who seek to become research active. Furthermore, our experienced
researchers, including Professors and Associate Professors, offer training in areas such as how to
get published, bid writing, and generating impact. This initiative has led to the development of a
group of internal mentors (including SMITH, TREADWELL, TURNER, WILLIAMS) who support
new researchers.

We have a strong collaborative ethos concerning publication. Experienced members of staff
support ECRs with publication preparation, reading and proofing work. They give feedback on work
in development and advice on submission processes. Senior staff also apply their knowledge of
academic practice to help less experience colleagues present their work in blogs, textbooks and
teaching-focused publications.

Probationary periods for academic staff have been revised during the period to 24 months, to
provide time and support for newly appointed academics. They are supported to meet the
expectations of their roles through regular review meetings with their line manager through this
period. New ECRs are supported in their research by a lighter workload, which is mandatory for
such appointments. ECRs are mentored by Professorial members of the UOA whose expertise
aligns to their field of research interest and/or methodological specialism. This support underpins
the development of the Unit and social policy research more broadly, as a substantial part of this
submission comprises ECRs who have the potential to be research leaders.

Promotion to Professor and Associate Professor is overseen by the University’s Professorial
Conferment Committee, chaired by the Vice-Chancellor. The annual process for promotion is
transparent and is made clear to all staff. Peer-led formal guidance workshops on the process are

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
arranged by the University’s Research, Innovation and Impact Services (RIIS). Members of the
UOA who have been promoted during this REF period via this process include WILLIAMS and
KEVERN (to Professor, both in 2019) and FORRESTER, TURNER, SMITH and CRAIG to
Associate Professor.

The Unit has a near equal representation of female and male submitted staff, with 8 out of 18
submitted being female. The Unit’s staffing strategy is to develop research excellence and to
strengthen equality, diversity and inclusivity and in this it is supported by the University’s EDI
framework (REF5a). SU has clear career pathways that recognise and reward research, which are
supported and enhanced by collaborative working and the EDI Framework.

Equality of opportunity is promoted and delivered effectively across all the Unit’s activities. All staff
in the Unit undertake mandatory equality and diversity training. To ensure equitable workloads,
work distributions are transparent and shared equitably across all staff.

The Unit’s remit and focus prioritises wider knowledge exchange and engagement events and
commitments to promoting inclusivity and diversity. This includes its promotion of LGBT History
Month, Black History Month, Domestic Violence Awareness Month, Holocaust Memorial Day and
Srebrenica Memorial Day. Staffordshire University has adopted the International Holocaust
Remembrance Alliance definition of antisemitism as part of its ongoing commitment to equality,
diversity and inclusion. Much of our research corresponds directly with themes of equality and
justice. Each year Centre members engage in activities that sit within its justice commitments. In
2018 TREADWELL produced a podcast interviewing a survivor of war in the Balkans in the 1990s.
In 2018 TREADWELL gave the keynote address at Stoke on Trent’s ‘Remembering Srebrenica’
event and spoke of his work on the English Defence League and social divisions, and the dangers
of Islamophobia. In March 2019, following a showing in the Push Festival at the Home Theatre in
Manchester, QUARISHI arranged for the Outside the Frame Arts drama collective to perform their
play ‘Cuts of Cloth’ at Staffordshire University. Written and played by OTFA co-director Hafsah
Aneela Bashir and directed by OTFA co-director Nikki Mailer, the play explores the place of
‘Muslim women and their relationship with the cloth in a society obsessed with policing the female
body’.

Research Students

We have developed a thriving Postgraduate community through our strategy of growing PhD
student numbers. Our students are recruited across the Unit’s four themes and are a vibrant mix of
PhD and professional doctorate students. They include full-time and part time/distance learning
students. The growth in our PhD student numbers has been facilitated by studentships supported
by the institution. We have 97 current PGRs. The enrolment comprises 49 full/part time registered
PhD students, 46 registered Professional Doctorate students and 2 registrations for PhDs by
Published Works.

Our expertise in research and teaching in Policing has led to growth in PhD numbers for projects
related to policing from international applicants, who enrol through our Institute of Policing. The
impact of our research is also supported by our successful recruitment of senior officers in the
Armed Forces and Police Services in the UK and overseas as PhD students. Research topics
include Antiquities smuggling at sea, Organised Crime, and Comparison of crime scene science
and criminalistics in the UK and USA. Since 2017/18 we have seen our registration numbers rise
considerably through a focussed effort to increase our research student population, which
effectively doubled PhD recruitment over 2017-2018 as a foundation for increased successful

                                                                                                  Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
completions in coming years. We support this development by providing supervision staff access to
centralised supervision training through the Graduate School (KEVERN leads the Graduate
School).

Doctoral students are supported by the Graduate School. In addition the Unit (through the CCJS)
organises induction activities for students, along with professional development workshops
throughout the year, and a programme of staff and student research seminars which all Centre
members attend. Doctoral students attend our internal research seminars and are encouraged to
present their research and obtain feedback. We also support them to present at external
conferences and symposia as part of their skills development. Appropriate training and
development opportunities are determined in a candidate’s Personal Development Plan (PDP) or
course specification for professional doctorates. Candidates and supervisors can select
appropriate training from the suite of opportunities offered by the University, as well as relevant
external training opportunities. The Unit contributes to centrally organised research training
workshops for both staff and PGR students, e.g., TURNER has shared her expertise in bid writing
following her success securing funds from the AHRC.

An annual research conference is hosted annually and centrally at the University, to which the
Unit’s postgraduate researchers are encouraged to attend and present. In addition to core
research training provided by the Graduate School, the Unit provides discipline-specific training in
social research methods, and in laboratory aspects of criminalistics and social research.

Postgraduate forensic science students have access to laboratory, decomposition facilities, and an
automated fingerprint identification system (AFIS) room supported by ca. 5 FTE technical staff.
These facilities allow postgraduate forensic science students and submitted staff to employ a range
of non-destructive analysis techniques. Social science postgraduates are supported by a
researchers who specialise in qualitative inquiry methods such as ethnography (TREADWELL)
and archival research (THOMAS, TURNER) and by specialist training in quantitative analysis. All
staff in the Unit are supported to develop academic profiles that include ORCID IDs, and receive
training in how to upload work to our open access repository, STORE. This support reflects the
Unit’s commitment to Open Research and Open Access and enhances and raises the research
profile of Staffordshire University nationally and internationally. By encouraging our researchers,
especially PGRs and ECRs to engage with STORE and ORCID, we seek to contribute to an open
research culture nationally and internationally.

As reported in REF4a data, in this cycle, 19 students have completed their doctorates, with a blend
of PhDs and professional doctorates:

PhDs and Professional Doctorate completions

                              2013     2014     2015    2016     2017     2018     2019 Total
                                 1                 4       2        4        6        2     19
   PhD                           1                 4       2                 4              11
   Professional Doctorate                                            4       2        2       8


In addition to these 19 completions, there have been five completions in the Unit by students
studying offshore via distance learning. These are included in the HESA Offshore Aggregate return
and not reflected in the REF4a data. They include three offshore PhD completions and two



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
offshore professional doctorate completions including students studying from Pakistan, Kosovo,
Greece, and Lebanon.

All students undertake a training needs analysis annually and discuss their needs for the following
year. Revised progression meetings, a formalised approach to supervision which involves early-
and late-stage reviews at core parts of the process, and Graduate School monitoring support
students and ensure timely completion. In the Unit, all PhD students have opportunities to
undertake placements in partner agencies and are given opportunities to teach. As part of their
professional development, all are offered the chance to take the institution’s PGCHE, which
confers Fellowship of the Higher Education Academy accreditation alongside their study.

On-going PhD work includes Abbott’s innovative research to identify new strains of the synthetic
drug 'Spice' in prisons. This research won the Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences'
Undergraduate Most Meritorious Student Award 2018. We have increasingly offered bursaries and
support schemes that have allowed exceptional students to progress from undergraduate to
advanced postgraduate study.

The Unit facilitates PGRs to study via distance learning, and currently has four PGRs enrolled via
this route. PGRs studying via distance learning include criminalistic practitioners who have access
to their own laboratory facilities with their employers. These individuals are supervised remotely,
facilitated by the digital ethos of Staffordshire University, which further supports the
internationalisation of our research application.

All PGRs in this UOA have access to a central suite of office facilities shared with PGRs from
across the University, which facilitates PGR networking. This offers potential for shared learning
with PGRs from different disciplines throughout the PhD journey, and the opportunity to develop
cross-disciplinary research projects. The Unit’s PGRs also have access to office space near their
own research, and appropriate IT facilities including specialist software such as NVivo.

Standards of research quality and integrity are maintained in all research conducted at the
University by following not only institutional processes, but a range of wider guidance from Learned
Societies and Research Councils. These processes and guidance are implemented at the School
level of organisation, and in supervision meeting and reporting within the Unit.

61.1% of those submitted to UOA20 are the principal supervisor of PhD students; the 38.9% not
acting as principal supervisors are gaining experience of PhD supervision as joint supervisors. The
Unit uses joint PhD supervision to provide early career staff with supported supervisory
experience. Academic staff are eligible to supervise PhD students once supervisor training
is completed (which they do in collaboration with more experienced colleagues who mentor them).
94.4% of UOA 20 staff hold a doctorate. We use supervision to support these staff as they feed
their disciplinary and methodological expertise back into our vibrant, self-sustaining research
environment.




                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

Income

During the current REF period, we have secured GBP579,744 of external research funding. Much
of this funding has come from contract research opportunities won from central and local
government and other state bodies.

The growth in staff numbers and career experience, coupled with our support and mentoring
processes, is giving rise to a vibrant culture of bid development. The CCJS is therefore
implementing a new, long-term bidding strategy. We will submit more bids to RCUK and
established funding bodies and move away from contract research and evaluation except for
forensic science: very typically, applied forensic science research as required by the end-users
(police and the criminal justice system) does not fall within UKRI’s remit. The CCJS’s strategy of
expanding work with major funding partners while still seeking contract research in specific cases
will support our research environment to expand in in line with CCJS values and imperatives.

Notable grant awards within the period include:
   • In 2018 TREADWELL won GBP29,000 from a Police and Crime Commissioner for work on
       crime in prison.
   • TREADWELL won GBP30,000 from the Staffordshire Police and Crime Commissioner in
       2019/2020 for research on business crime.
   • In 2019 WILLIAMS secured EUR80,000 European Central Bank funding for work on
       fraudulent currency.
   • TREADWELL secured GBP29,000 in 2019 by the Miller Center Rutgers University to work
       with the Local Authority in Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire Police to explore international
       learning and good practice concerning community policing and building community
       resilience with regard to extremism, terrorism and organised crime.
   • TREADWELL received part of GBP45,000 funding from the Serco institute in 2018 as part
       of a wider collaboration with colleagues at Bath and in New Zealand.
   • In 2019 FORRESTER was awarded EUR39,930 for the DIGital Innovative Strategies for
       Parental and Civic Engagement (DIGI- S.PA.C.E) through Erasmus+. The project was led
       by CREATE Partnership Trust (UK), in partnership with Agrupamento de Escolas da Mia
       (Portugal), Etiudas Kindergarden (Lithuania) and St Thomas’s International School (Italy).
   • In 2020 TURNER secured GBP7,000 in funds from the Howard League for Penal Reform to
       collaborate with the Magistrates Association in looking at how the Courts interpret problem
       gambling issues.

Small amounts of University pump priming funding, up to GBP1000, are available for staff to seek
out research opportunities that may diversify future funding streams. CCJS support inquiry that
produces significant original findings without funding but that may go on to inform social policy,
political and academic discourse by using the PDR process to set individual research plans.

Staff within the unit have benefited from University funding for impact acceleration activities (e.g.,
in 2019 TREADWELL, KEVERN). KEVERN (2020) received QR GCRF funding to support the
development of Official Development Assistance eligible research collaborations in Brazil.




                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Infrastructure

The Unit actively encourages publication in Open Access journals and provides financial support
to allow Gold Open Access publications. Support for impact is provided through an institutional
Research Impact Manager (appointed 2017), who provides training and guidance on research
impact strategy and activities. All Unit staff receive training and access to Vertigo Ventures
ImpactTracker software and the institutional impact repository, enabling them to capture the
development of their research work. All PGRs also have access to ImpactTracker to embed impact
into their research practice.

Staff and PGRs can access core training in Research Impact, Equality Diversity and Inclusion,
Health & Safety, Fire Safety, Prevent, Data Protection, Information Security and Display Screen
Equipment. CCJS co-ordinates and highlights central research services training. CCJS also
supports the Unit with through regular staff writing retreats, discussion groups, and sandpit events.
These sessions support commitments to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
Researchers for staff within the Unit.

Governance of the CCJS research rests primarily with the Research Leadership Group, which
includes all research theme and function leads. The Group holds responsibility for the Centre’s
research strategy Delivery Plan. The LPF School Ethics Co-ordinator (Cassella, UOA15), advises
staff on research ethics and acts as the link-point with the School and University ethics governance
framework. Infrastructural support in pursuit of external research funding is provided both at Centre
and school levels, supported by RIIS staff.

Facilities

The CCJS is hosted in the £30m Science Centre, which houses much of our specialist Forensic
Science Research and equipment. These specialist facilities underpin the work of WILLIAMS and
FIELDHOUSE on Criminalistics (along with CCJS members returned in UOA 15).

Equipment available includes a Thermo-Nicolet iS10 FTIR spectrometer coupled to a Centaurus
microscope, a Renishaw inVia twin laser Raman microscope system, a Foster and Freeman
Foram 685-2 Raman spectral comparator, a Foster and Freeman ESDA system, a Foster and
Freeman ESDA-Lite, a Foster and Freeman VSC4C video spectral comparator, a Foster and
Freeman VSC4+ video spectral comparator, a Leeds Forensic LCF comparison microscope
system, a Nikon LV400POL microscope with camera and warming stage, a Mason Vactron
MVC3000 superglue fuming cabinet, a Foster and Freeman SUPERfume portable superglue
fuming equipment, a Sanyo-Gallenkamp humidity oven for Ninhydrin/DFO development, a
Memmert oven for DFO development, a Pathfinder portable ESLA and Fluoroscopes.

A full range of equipment is available to visualise, record, and compare latent fingerprints, compare
documents, test illicit substances (the University holds a drugs licence), test toolmarks and
footprint impressions, and examine hairs and conduct fibre analysis.

Nine colleagues qualified to PhD level provide dedicated technical staff support for the CCJS at
equivalent to five FTE staff. They are supported by a centralised Technical Services (the University
is a Technician Commitment signatory (REF5a)). Technical Services works across the University,
enabling researchers to share equipment and facilities to stimulate interdisciplinary collaborations.



                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Research Collaborations, networks and partnerships

We benefit from several visiting, honorary, and emeritus appointments. These visiting titleholders
enable us to develop collaborations with partner organisations and agencies. Visiting fellows and
professors make significant contributions through research and/or undertaking an advisory role,
including PhD supervision. Over the period we have appointed seven visiting fellows and seven
visiting professors. Visiting fellows include Air Vice Marshall Lindsay John Irvine, a British barrister
and former Director of Legal Services (RAF), and Nic Jenzen Jones (Director of Armament
Research Services (ARES).

Ian Acheson, Visiting Professor, held prison governor and senior civil service roles with the Home
Office as Director of Community Safety with responsibility for running the UK government’s
counter-terrorism strategy, CONTEST, in Southwest England. Acheson is also former Chief
Operating Officer for the Equality and Human Rights Commission. Other visiting professors include
Nigel Meadows (Senior Coroner for Manchester and former Coroner for Plymouth and South West
Devon), Peter Davies (an experienced Digital Specialist with Staffordshire Police), and Neil
Robinson (a Consultant Mental Health Judge).

Three emeritus professors maintain a link with the Unit and continue to contribute to PGR
supervision, most notably BASIT (UOA lead for Education in REF2014).

The returned outputs demonstrate collaborative publishing with international partners including
University of Cologne (Germany), Universidad Europea de Madrid (Spain), Tel Aviv University
(Israel), Seoul National University (Republic of Korea), Yonsei University (Republic of Korea), and
Florida International University (United States). National collaborators include Durham University,
Birmingham University, the University of Bath, the University of Edinburgh and the University of
Liverpool.

Recent work from FORRESTER has created partnerships with Agrupamento de Escolas da Mia
(Portugal), Etiudas Kindergarden (Lithuania), St Thomas’s International School (Italy) and the
Home of Psychological Ideas (Lithuania). TREADWELL has built collaborations with academic
partners at the University of Bath, the University of Auckland (New Zealand) and the Serco Institute
studying prison criminality.

THOMAS is a Co-Investigator on public history projects in Kazakhstan, both based at the
Valikhanov Institute in Almaty. DAVIES has given invited talks at Wageningen University
(Netherlands) in 2019 and the University of Turku (Finland) in 2020, and is on the Advisory Board
of The Counter Trafficking Group (with HQ in India).



Relationships with users, beneficiaries and audiences

CCJS has close links with criminal justice agencies and civic society groups including the Ministry
of Justice, the Home Office and the National Ballistic Service. It uses these links to support applied
research and implement the CCJS research impact strategy.

The CCJS hosts The Staffordshire Forensic Partnership between Forensic Services, Staffordshire
Police & Staffordshire University. This link was initially realised as a means of developing a

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
partnership including training and development, student placements and partnership working with
Staffordshire Police. The Partnership is now nationally recognised as a model to follow and has
won two awards for its work. In 2017 the University won the Collaborative Award for Teaching
Excellence (CATE) with the work of the partnership a fundamental factor; in 2019 the Partnership
won the National Undergraduate Employability Award for the best collaboration between a
university and an employer. The Partnership also provides opportunities for research. It works with
postgraduate students and develops research in criminalistics and forensics that meet the needs of
our external stakeholders. CCJS use the Partnership to facilitate ground-breaking doctoral work on
digital and traditional criminal forensics alongside more conventional criminology based on
qualitative and quantitative social science methods.



Contributions to the research base, economy and society

Awards and prizes:
THOMAS’s monograph ‘Nomads and Soviet Rule: Central Asia under Lenin and Stalin’ (2018)
won the BASEES Alexander Nove Prize for scholarly work of high quality in Russian, Soviet and
post-Soviet studies in 2018. This output informs his teaching in the university’s partnership with the
Ministry of Defence.

Conferences, Keynotes and Invited Lectures:
   • KEVERN gave an invited contribution to the Vatican Dicastery for Laity, Family and Life
      Conference, the First International Conference on the Pastoral Care of the Elderly, Rome,
      29-31 January 2020. In the assessment period, he has also given invited talks at the Centre
      for Theology and Religious Studies, Lund University, Sweden and at Royal Shrewsbury
      Hospital, the public lecture, ‘The Other Side of Nothingness – looking for the person in the
      “strange land” of dementia’.
   • SMITH was invited to address the Strategic Studies Institute at the US Army War College
      (Carlisle PA, USA), the European Security and Defence College at The Royal College of
      Defence Studies (London) the Advanced Command Staff Course (ACSC) at The Defence
      Academy of the United Kingdom (Shrivenham UK, 2017 and 2018) and gave an Invited talk
      on European security to Regional Security Architecture Programme (RSAP) at S.
      Rajaratnam School of International Studies (RSIS) in Singapore.
   • QURASHI gave invited addresses at the IMCTC Conference Perceptions of Islam in the UK
      (Riyadh, Saudi Arabia), and at the Public Policy Exchange conference Tackling Extremism
      within Higher Education Institutions: preserving academic freedom and fighting intolerance.
   • TURNER has given (invited and online) talks on her research at Leiden University
      (Belgium) (Nov 2020) and a plenary to the Staffordshire Magistrates Association
      conference (2019). In the assessment period she has presented papers at the 2019
      Historical Criminology Conference at the University of Plymouth, the British Crime
      Historians Conference, Edge Hill University, The 2018 European Social Science History
      Conference, Queen’s University, Belfast, and Crime and Gender 1600-1900: Comparative
      Perspectives International Conference at Leiden University.
   • CRAIG gave talks by invitation at the Royal United Services Institute (Study Group on
      Intelligence), the Defence Intelligence (HUMINT) MOD Chicksands, Cambridge-King’s
      College London and HQ Air Command – RAF High Wycombe and NATO Special Forces
      Study Day on aspects of Counter Terrorism.
   • TREADWELL has presented papers to the Australia and New Zealand Society of
      Criminology in 2019 in Western Australia and The British Society of Criminology


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Conference in 2018 and 2019. In the assessment period he has given invited talks at the
       British Criminology Conference, Canterbury Christ Church University and Salford
       University.
   •   THOMAS has served on the organising committee for two conferences in this assessment
       period, the first on ‘Women and Communism’ at the University of Sheffield in December
       2014, the second on state-building in the Soviet periphery, at the University of Manchester
       in May 2015.

Industry work and professional networks:
Those returned here are actively involved in the British Society of Criminology (including sitting on
its Executive Committee), The European Society of Criminology, The British Society of
Criminology's Teaching and Learning Network, The British Society of Criminology Prison Research
Network, the AHRC Networking Group ‘Our Criminal Past: Caring for the Future’, The British Crime
Historians, the Magistrate’s Association, The American Political Science Association (APSA),
European Consortium for Political Research (ECPR), University Association for Contemporary
European Studies (UACES), British International Studies Association (BISA), International Studies
Association (ISA), Association of Muslim Social Scientists UK, Ethnic Minority Research Network in
Criminology, Islamic Studies Network, Howard League Early Career Academics Network, Greater
Manchester Diversify Research Forum, Muslims in Britain Research Network, The Chartered
Society of Forensic Sciences, Political Studies Association of Ireland, The British Association of
Slavonic and East European Studies (BASEES), The Central Eurasian Studies Society (CESS),
The Society of Legal Scholars, the Association of Law Teachers, Fellowship of the Royal Society
of Arts, The British Educational Leadership Management and Administration Society (BELMAS),
British Educational Research Association (BERA) and the EdD Leaders’ Network.

POOLE holds an ongoing consultancy role with the United Nations Office for Drugs and Crime
Education 4 Justice initiative (Tertiary Firearms strand). She has attended regional meetings in
Milan and Vienna in 2019/20, and hosted a round table event on behalf of UNODC at the American
Society of Criminology Conference held in San Francisco in November 2019.

Public engagement activity:
CCJS staff are encouraged to consider research impact and knowledge exchange due to the
diversity of the communities their research can benefit. Many are involved in media engagement,
where they are supported by the University’s Marketing and Communications team. The Marketing
and Communications team ensure that our research findings a) reach beyond academia to
potential end-users, b) are shared through channels to influence policymakers and c) enhance
engagement with the local community in line with our civic commitments.

Since 2017 TREADWELL, KEVERN, and WILLIAMS have given inaugural professorial lectures.
TURNER, TREADWELL, CRAIG, WILLIAMS, and SMITH have delivered ‘Profs in the Pav’ public
engagement events with attendance of 150+ people at each event.

Since 2017 CCJS staff have written >30 articles for The Conversation, contributing articles on
topics including ‘What US wants from UK on security after Brexit – and why this puts Britain in a
tricky position’ (SMITH); ‘The science that could revolutionise time measurements in forensic
investigations’ (WILLIAMS); ‘Could it be that religion is more like sex than school?’ (KEVERN);
and ‘Five facts you should know about London's moped crime surge’ (TREADWELL). These
pieces alone have had over 196,000 reads. The articles have seen hundreds of reprints and have
been used for content by news sources including The Independent, The Times of Malta, National


                                                                                            Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Geographic and Business Standard, the European Leadership Network, Real Clear Politics, and
Real Clear Defence.

TREADWELL produces a crime-focused Podcast, CRIMETAPES, which is available on Spotify
and Buzz sprout. The podcast serves as a platform for wider dissemination of research and
knowledge exchange. It has had 160,000 listens across 54 countries (with 45% of listeners in the
USA).

TREADWELL provided ethnographic contributions to the widely debated monograph ‘Rise of the
Right’. The screenwriter Alan Harris described ‘Rise of the Right’ as ‘a brilliant book’ and it
influenced his critically acclaimed factual BBC drama ‘The Left Behind’.

Funding body reviews:
Unit staff regularly undertake reviews for funding bodies. In the assessment period, KEVERN
acted as UKRI reviewer for an ESRC applications, and TREADWELL reviewed bids for the AHRC,
ESRC, and the Leverhulme Trust.

Editorial duties:
   • KEVERN is a member of the Editorial Board for Journal for the Study of Spirituality (since
       September 2016), and is Co-editor of the Journal of New Writing in Health and Social Care
       (since 2017) and a member of the editorial committee (since 2014).
   • TREADWELL is a member of the Editorial Board of The British Journal of Criminology.
   • WILLIAMS is a member of the Editorial Board of Research and Reports in Forensic
       Medical Science.
   • SMITH is editor of Defense Studies.
   • FIELDHOUSE is Associate Editor of Science and Justice, the peer reviewed journal of the
       Chartered Society of Forensic Sciences.

During the REF cycle, the submitted staff have reviewed papers for BMC Nursing; BMC Research
Notes; British Journal of Social Work; Epidemiology and Psychiatric Sciences; Geriatrics;
Healthcare; International Journal of Sociology and Social Policy; Journal of Clinical Medicine;
Journal of Nursing Management; Journal of Religion and Health; Journal for the Study of
Spirituality; Life, Mental Health, Religion and Culture; New Research in Health and Social Care;
Nurse Education in Practice; Nursing and Health Sciences; Practical Theology; Primary Health
Care Research and Development; Religions; Studies in Higher Education; Theology; Ageing and
Society Power and Education; British Journal of Criminology; Critical Criminology; and Trends in
Organized Crime.




                                                                                         Page 14
