Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: D-27 English Language and Literature


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1 Unit context and structure

The School of English fosters research excellence in a context that advances the interdisciplinary
nature of English studies. Based in Sheffield’s Faculty of Arts and Humanities and encompassing
literature, language, linguistics, stylistics, film, theatre and performance, creative writing, and
biblical studies, we combine strength in traditionally central areas of the discipline across a wide
chronological range, from antiquity to the twenty-first century, with a commitment to driving forward
trailblazing areas (e.g. animal studies, medical and legal humanities). Equally important to us is
maximising the social and cultural impact of this work, contributing to the sustained vitality of arts
and humanities by demonstrating the relevance of our discipline to tackling pressing contemporary
challenges in the UK and overseas (e.g. Gavins, UKRI-funded project on plastic waste; Barnsley,
GCRF-funded project on mental health) and the discipline’s centrality to local growth and
regeneration (an agenda behind Toulmin’s role as the University’s Director of City & Culture).

The size and disciplinary diversity of the School underpins our research ambitions, enabling cross-
fertilisation of ideas that promotes dynamism and experimentation, keeping us alert and responsive
to changing priorities and new opportunities. For example, in 2020 we launched ‘Gothic and the
Horrors of Race’, a four-year project headed by British Academy Global Professor Wester. Building
on Wester’s Fulbright fellowship at Sheffield (2016-17), the project brings critical-race theory into
dialogue with our established expertise in Gothic, American literature, and film, setting new
research imperatives and contributing to our mission to decolonise the canon: an urgent task
facing the discipline.

We play a central role in the Faculty and University research environment, and beyond in the White
Rose consortium with the Universities of Leeds and York. Colleagues actively participate in at least
17 interdisciplinary University or Faculty research centres and networks, 14 of which our staff
direct/co-direct, and since 2013 have furthered interdisciplinary research and cross-institutional
collaboration through participation in two White Rose-funded research networks (§4.1), and six
studentship networks funded by the White Rose College of Arts and Humanities (WRoCAH) (§1.2).

1.2. Research strategy

Our aim is to enable colleagues to further their own research ambitions and bring to fruition large-
scale projects, whether those are individual or collaborative. Our research strategy consequently
interweaves four strands. We support excellence in canonical literary and linguistic research
across a wide chronological range. We encourage creativity, innovation, and interdisciplinarity
through boundary-pushing collaborative projects and networks which reach across and beyond
Sheffield. We champion the Engaged Humanities, building the discipline’s capacity to address
contemporary challenges, simultaneously revitalising the subject and its methodologies, and
redrawing its boundaries, and we inspire, recruit, and train future generations of scholars who are
vital to sustaining the discipline.




                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Achieving these strategic objectives is enabled by:

   •   our disciplinary diversity and size (52 staff on teaching and research (T&R) and research-
       specialist (R) contracts), giving capacity to foster interdisciplinary, cross-cutting
       endeavours;
   •   our governance structures, embedding considerations of research and impact at all
       decision-making levels, including recruitment (§3.2);
   •   our deployment of infrastructural support provided by Faculty and University (§3.2);
   •   regular, tailored discussion of research and impact plans (e.g. at individual research and
       staff-review meetings, both annual) (§2.2).

The success of our strategy is evidenced by our productivity. Since 2013, current T&R/R
colleagues produced 29 book-length studies, 48 edited collections/special issues, five editions,
over 385 essays and articles, and 15 creative works. We also worked with University and Faculty
Research Services to diversify funding sources and build external research collaborations
(REF2014 objectives). The success of this strategy is evidenced by (1) securing 11 grants from
schemes we had not previously accessed (§3.1), alongside 30+ from more established sources
(e.g. AHRC, British Academy, Leverhulme); (2) over 20 collaborative funded projects, including
Linguistic DNA (Fitzmaurice, AHRC, 2015-18), which pioneered Digital Humanities techniques of
data extraction, working with colleagues at the universities of Glasgow and Sussex.

Fundamental to our strategy is the collaborative environment we cultivate. Colleagues join at least
one of twelve research clusters, which provide loci for a thriving series of reading groups and work-
in-progress sessions, involving staff and students (e.g. New Philologists reading group, founded
Williams, 2013-). School-wide events (e.g. windows-on-research; away-days) and cross-
membership of research clusters catalyse cross-fertilisation between sub-areas. Colleagues are
enabled to reach beyond their immediate subject area to find commonalities of research and
approach, and to share expertise across and beyond the School. For example, our internationally-
acclaimed Sheffield Animal Research Centre includes specialists from social and life sciences as
well as literature and film in its mission to address crucial questions about ecology and human-
animal relations.

Our collaborative, outward-looking culture facilitated the agility needed to adapt to the COVID-19
pandemic. We established virtual international networks (e.g. Rhatigan’s Pulpit, Playhouse, Page
work-in-progress network); moved research events online (e.g. series of scholarly editing
workshops, July 2020); and drew on established, interdisciplinary connections for a UKRI-funded
project modelling Sheffield’s cultural recovery post-COVID-19 (Toulmin, 2020-22).

Our objective of inspiring future generations of scholars is enabled by embedding research at all
levels. Research-led teaching inculcates and models research skills, and all students are given
opportunities to pursue their own research interests and mount research-related events (REF2014
objective). This expansive culture of research excellence is evidenced by national and international
prizes for student work (e.g. two Global Undergraduate Awards, 2019) and by throughput from
undergraduate programmes to postgraduate study here and elsewhere. (Characteristically, c.6-
12% of undergraduates proceed to one of our PGT programmes.)

Over this assessment period, we strengthened and diversified postgraduate research (PGR)
recruitment (REF2014 objective) by cultivating our international profile and providing extensive,
individualised support (from prospective supervisors and ‘third-party’ reviewers) for studentship
funding applications, resulting in high success rates (§2.3). Numbers of applications submitted to
WRoCAH for AHRC Block Grant studentships are calculated on previous numbers of accepted
offers. We currently have the most annual nominations (12) for any unit at all three universities. We

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
average three independent WRoCAH PhD studentships annually, and further increased funded
places by designing and successfully obtaining collaborative doctorates (Babbage, Hodson) and
WRoCAH-funded studentship networks (colleagues leading/participating in six networks since
2013).

Mindful of the challenging employment landscape, we enhanced PGR career-development training
and post-award support (REF2014 objectives) (§2.3). Discussion of career plans post-PhD, within
and outside academia, is fundamental to the formal submission review all final-year PGRs attend.
Post-award, we support those aiming for academic careers, for whom publication is crucial,
through honorary research fellowships (from 2019, affiliate researchers). This status embeds them
in School and Faculty research activities and support structures, aiding academic job and funding
applications, and producing publications (e.g. Jameela’s forthcoming special issue of Journal of
American Studies, 2021).

1.3. Impact and engagement strategy

We excel in research that makes a positive difference to society, and achieve this by:

   •   embedding impact and knowledge exchange (KE) into our research culture and structures;
   •   strategic use of institutional support;
   •   building enduring external partnerships in a wide range of sectors;
   •   utilising different modes of engaging external audiences.

Our strategy makes impact/KE fundamental to colleagues’ activities and professional profiles.
Plans are discussed at all individual annual research and staff-review meetings, with time factored
into the workload model, and activities contributing to successful promotion cases (e.g. Whiteley,
2018). The KE/Impact Director sits on the School’s Research Strategy and Executive Committees
and Faculty Impact and Engagement Committee, serving as a conduit for information and strategic
advice, and holding regular mentoring sessions with individuals engaged in or developing projects
and activities. Impact/KE has a high profile at School Boards (meetings of the whole department)
and annual research away-days, at which examples of good practice are shared. Our commitment
to impact/KE is further evident from its being integral to PGT and PGR training (e.g. MA work
placement option since 2009).

Colleagues undertaking impact/KE are encouraged to utilise the powerful Faculty infrastructure in
this area (§3.2) and to participate in cross-cutting University initiatives, (e.g. Crucible, a programme
facilitating Humanities-Science collaborations, led to Levick’s ‘Living with Stroke’ project (2014-15),
with colleagues in the School of Health and Related Research, Stroke Association, Mind Apart
theatre company, stroke patients and carers, co-producing performances voicing experiences of
illness and recuperation).

Impact/KE activities are supported by Higher Education Innovation Funding. Since 2018, oversight
of spends up to £1k per project was devolved to departments, enabling us to respond rapidly,
within 48 hours, when new opportunities arise to work with external partners (e.g. Shyldkrot’s
Climate Change Theatre Action (2020) collaboration with artists, filmmakers, performers,
dramaturgs, and writers).

Public engagement is used to catalyse external partnerships, for example, through participation in
national festivals (e.g. Being Human) and centrally organised programmes, such as the annual Off
the Shelf literary festival, Festival of the Arts and Humanities, and Festival of the Mind, a biennial
University-city collaboration founded and directed by Toulmin, which has expanded in ambition,


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reach, and investment since its inception in 2012 (§4.2). In this assessment period, 27 staff have
participated in one or more of these events.

Collaboration is central to our impact/KE strategy. We work with partners to build long-term,
sustainable relationships of trust and to ensure projects meet their needs as well as ours. Our
impact case studies illustrate the success of this strategy. Stone’s work on patient voice is founded
on a well-established partnership with Sheffield’s NHS trust. Toulmin’s work on circus history is
rooted in longstanding connections with Museums Sheffield, Sheffield City Archives, and circus
professionals. Hodson’s expertise in non-standard Englishes shaped the methodology of the
literacy charity Grimm & Co, of which she has been trustee since 2014. Forrest’s and Vice’s work
on Barry Hines draws on established relationships with a local independent cinema, and individual
teachers and artists.

The impact case studies demonstrate our strategy of working with a wide range of sectors (health,
heritage, education, arts/culture; cf. §4.2) and the interconnection of our teaching and research.
For example, the ethos of enabling mental-health service-users to articulate their experience, and
narrative methods used to do so, are founded on principles developed in Stone’s ground-breaking
‘Storying Sheffield’ undergraduate module; Forrest’s work on Hines builds on his research-led
teaching on representing the North in social-realist cinema.

The case studies also exemplify our openness to different pathways to impact, including
professional training (Stone: health and social-care professionals), consultancy (Forrest: BBC4
documentary, Looking for Kes; Toulmin: play, Astley’s Amazing Adventures), education (Forrest,
Hodson: work with schoolchildren and teachers), curation (Forrest/Vice: film-season; Forrest,
Toulmin: exhibitions), performance (Toulmin, two 2018 shows), broadcast media (Toulmin), and
facilitating the publishing of out-of-print works (Forrest/Vice).

1.4. Future objectives (2020-25)

Future objectives include:

   ●   Balancing sustained commitment to traditionally central aspects of the discipline with
       demonstrating the ability of English studies to play a vital role in addressing urgent
       contemporary challenges by continuing to promote the ethos of Engaged Humanities, and
       building on our track-record of working in multi-disciplinary teams, crossing the boundaries
       between STEM, arts and humanities, and social sciences.

   ●   Consolidating our reputation for scholarly editing through innovative, landmark editions
       scheduled for publication after 2020 (e.g. Behn, Donne’s Sermons, Nashe, Radcliffe,
       Pound) and extending postgraduate training in this area.

   ●   Continuing to exploit new technologies, using the specialist resources of the HumLab and
       Digital Humanities Institute (§3.3) in postgraduate training and research projects.

   ●   Enhancing grant-capture by (1) continuing to look beyond familiar funding bodies; (2)
       ensuring that we are equipped to respond to themed calls (usually with tight deadlines) by
       working with Research Services to horizon-scan; (3) continuing to develop strategic,
       forward-looking relationships with other disciplines, universities, and external partners; (4)
       building on successful partnerships and projects by identifying follow-on funding or spin-off
       projects.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Working with the Global Engagement Team to continue diversifying international
       postgraduate recruitment, ensuring we are not vulnerable to sudden collapses in overseas
       recruitment by reliance on specific regions.

   ●   Promoting socially responsible, sustainable research by:
          o Ensuring our research continues to be disseminated widely and is accessible to
             different audiences (academic and non-academic). This includes (1) increasing the
             proportion of research available open access (OA) and use of Sheffield’s data
             repository (ORDA); (2) shaping a publications strategy which addresses challenges
             as well as opportunities (e.g. valuing OA formats in promotions; establishing
             effective funding models, including for OA monographs, a crucial medium for the
             long-term communication and preservation of scholarship).
          o Imaginatively harnessing virtual platforms for communication, not just as a short-
             term pragmatic response to COVID-19, but to make long-distance collaborations
             and research dissemination more environmentally sustainable and inclusive.
          o Embedding the culturally democratising values of equality, diversity, and inclusivity
             (EDI) when developing all projects, activities, and programmes as well as
             recruitment (of both staff and students) by scrutinising cultural assumptions
             underpinning the discipline (e.g. re: class, race, gender, sexual orientation, physical
             or mental impairment). We will work actively to diversify the research community
             and topics and material studied (from school-age upwards), and to alleviate
             pressures on staff, students, and external partners in terms of health and well-being,
             structural inequalities, caring responsibilities, and digital connectivity: issues
             highlighted by COVID-19, but with longer-term ramifications.

Current circumstances make the future uncertain: specifically, COVID-19 has impacted
detrimentally on the funding streams of external partners in arts and heritage. However, our
collegial research culture, strategies, and infrastructure (including support provided by Faculty and
the University) can meet this challenging environment whilst sustaining excellent research, impact,
and postgraduate training.

1.5. Open research

We embrace Sheffield’s championing of OA and its democratising and globalising principles, whilst
recognising challenges for humanities research, where data may be less tangible, and practice-
based outputs less suited to OA formats.

To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim to put all short-form outputs in White
Rose Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York (green route). The 350 outputs
deposited over this submission period were downloaded over 41,000 times. This is our preferred
route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of available funding; we also publish
outputs in fully OA journals, or hybrid where required for funder compliance.

Colleagues have exceeded simple funder compliance measures by using editorial positions to
promote OA initiatives and institute research integrity and blind peer-review in OA fora. Warren
launched the peer-reviewed Journal for Interdisciplinary Biblical Studies (2019-); Gil and Mehl have
served on editorial boards of OA journals (Gil, Ampersand, 2014-; Mehl, Cogent Arts and
Humanities, 2015-17); and Ebury edited special issues of Humanities (2017) and Open Library of
Humanities (2019-20). We support colleagues taking advantage of the opportunities of OA
monographs (e.g. Rayner’s commission from the not-for-profit White Rose University Press,



                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
launched 2016, for a forthcoming monograph on televisual representations of the Navy, which will
have broad public appeal and embed links to archival material and footage discussed).

Projects producing major digitized resources make research materials/findings accessible
internationally. Examples include Beyond the Multiplex (Forrest), George Thomason’s English
Notebooks (Nevitt), and Eighteenth-Century English Phonology Database (Sen). Where possible,
data is made accessible for download and re-use.

1.6. Research integrity

The expansion of our research into medical humanities and centrality of co-production to
impact/KE have increased the significance of having robust ethical procedures. The School’s team
of trained ethics reviewers advise on all staff and student projects with ethical implications, and the
Ethics Lead sits on Research Strategy Committee. Our processes are audited by the University
Research Ethics Committee every 4-5 years. PGRs take a compulsory module in research ethics
and integrity, and advice about copyright, data management, and record-keeping forms part of
their induction. Internal examiners check submitted PhD theses for plagiarism.

The processes of informal peer-review and work-in-progress fora we have established provide both
staff and postgraduates with opportunities for critical debate of research design and analysis,
further promoting scholarly rigour. Where there are potential conflicts of interest, staff are required
to recuse themselves from adjudicating processes (e.g. examinations, nomination for awards,
reviews).


 2. People


2.1. Staffing strategy

Our staffing strategy is designed to maintain strength in areas of excellence (through staff retention
and replacement appointments) and to build on areas of new growth, ensuring we meet our
strategic aim of retaining excellence in core areas whilst simultaneously developing emergent
research agendas.

At the REF2014 census, we had the highest percentage of ECRs of any Russell Group English
department. Effective support of these colleagues (§2.2) has resulted in high levels of staff
retention and strong maturation of research areas and leadership. Our appointment strategy has
therefore aimed at recruiting ECRs and nurturing the next generation, except where senior
appointments are needed to provide research leadership in a sub-area (e.g. Harwood, applied
linguistics, 2014-).

In this assessment period, we consolidated strength in linguistics by diversifying into theoretical
linguistics (Orfitelli, 2014-) as well as recruiting to the thriving sub-field of applied linguistics
(besides Harwood, González Fernández, 2019-). We built on expertise in modernist poetics
(Kindellan, 2015-) and Cold War cultures (Pong, 2016-), whilst adding strength in postcolonial
studies (Barnsley, teaching fellow 2014; lecturer 2015-) and medieval literature and drama
(Steenbrugge, 2015-), an appointment enabling research collaborations with theatre colleagues
exploring the twenty-first-century reception of medieval plays (Abraham and Isaac, 2016; Farce of
the Fisherman, 2018). Warren’s recruitment (2015-) strengthened an international reputation for
critical readings of Biblical texts and extended our chronological and geographical range to the
Ancient Mediterranean. We expanded our expertise in practice-based research in creative work


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
across forms and genres by the appointment of experimental novelist Joyce (2019-) and immersive
theatre-maker Shyldkrot (2019-).

Our strategy is to maintain a high percentage of permanent contracts and minimal use of short-
term teaching posts (e.g. to cover funded fellowships/parental leave). All but three T&R staff have
open-ended contracts. We are committed to converting short-term contracts to permanent jobs
where income streams allow. For example, Barnsley’s initial appointment as teaching fellow
demonstrated both high student demand in this area and a strong fit with School research and
impact strategy. An open-ended T&R post was thus established and advertised.

We have developed a rigorous but inclusive process for deciding where to appoint, and at what
grade. Plans are discussed at programme level (involving all staff) and scrutinised by the Executive
Committee, whose membership is kept diverse (e.g. in terms of gender, career-stage, subject
area), ensuring that recruitment strategy is considered from multiple perspectives. This committee
includes the Research and KE/Impact Directors, ensuring that research and impact strategy are
key to decision-making. Bids for new/replacement appointments are then submitted for Faculty
approval. Once a position is approved, recruitment processes are strongly guided by EDI (§2.4).
Research excellence and potential and commitment to public engagement and research-led
teaching are essential criteria.

We have successfully used competitive internal and external ECR schemes to build capacity and
nurture the next generation, contributing to the long-term sustainability and vibrancy of the
discipline, and enriching our research environment. We successfully bid for one of three University-
funded Max Batley Peace Studies Fellowships (Biggs, 2016-18) and three Vice-Chancellor’s
Fellowships (Kindellan, Pong, Steenbrugge), an extremely competitive University-wide scheme,
giving fellows three years’ research before gradually increasing their teaching and administration
as they move into permanent T&R positions. In this period we secured three Leverhulme Early
Career Fellowships – a result of our strength in animal studies (Malay, 2016-18; Murray, 2020-23)
and Early Modern (Hazrat, 2019-22) – and one British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowship
(Eltringham, 2019-22), extending our cultural theory expertise into ecocriticism. Our international
reputation for animal studies is further attested by a Newton International Fellowship (Bezan, 2018-
20). Staff act as mentors to fellowship candidates, advising on applications. Where there is a
selective stage at institutional level, nominations are based on the candidate’s track-record, quality
of proposed research, and fit with the School, and a School-wide committee provides further
detailed feedback on nominated applications.

2.2. Staff support and development

Our longstanding policy gives new colleagues (including senior appointments) lower teaching
and/or administrative loads during their first year to ensure that research does not suffer during a
time of transition. Alongside a mentor, responsible for overseeing probation and providing advice
on publication and grant-capture, a ‘buddy’ offers more informal support. Probation usually lasts
three years (length dependent on previous experience) and involves clearly-set milestones for
research (alongside teaching and administration). Probationary lecturers are given experience of
PhD supervision by acting as second supervisors. New supervisors complete a compulsory
training course run by one of our former PGRs in Research Services.

All colleagues have regular tailored discussions about research and impact plans at (1) annual
individual research meetings (with the Research Director and another senior colleague, setting
objectives for one-to-five years ahead) and (2) staff-review meetings. Both are used to identify
support required (e.g. mentoring; training; infrastructural support, e.g. with funding applications).


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We foster School-wide collegiality, building a culture of reading colleagues’ publications pre-
submission. Annual away-days provide further opportunity for discussing ideas and sharing good
practice and advice.

We ensure that, in-line with Faculty policy, all colleagues on T&R contracts apply for one semester
of study-leave for every six semesters; parental, sick, and externally-funded leave counts towards
those semesters. Following University guidelines, our workload model balances heavy
administrative duties with lighter teaching loads so all T&R colleagues can ring-fence one day a
week for research during teaching terms and devote approximately one-third of their time to
research across the academic year. Impact/KE is also work-loaded. Where particularly intense
leadership roles (e.g. Head of School) make this balancing-out unattainable whilst in post, longer
periods of study-leave (generally one year) are granted post-role. Research grants covering staff-
time are factored into workload pro rata.

We fully integrate fixed-term and teaching staff into our research culture, research centres, and
support mechanisms, including bespoke mentoring. This practice has resulted in fixed-term
teaching-specialist staff proceeding to academic and academic-related careers (e.g. Malone,
replacement during Vice’s BA grant to an ECR fellowship at Edinburgh; Stenner, replacement
during Shrank’s Leverhulme, to a permanent lectureship at Sussex; Ifill, Erasmus tutor, to a
permanent lectureship at Aberdeen; Brown, replacement during Ebury’s AHRC fellowship, to
Research Impact Manager, UCL).

Research development and activity is further supported by School and Faculty funding: colleagues
can apply for up to £900 per annum (e.g. for conferences, archival visits, copyright costs). We also
support research-cluster activity (e.g. visiting speakers at Ling-Lang Lunch, or one-off events, e.g.
450th-anniversary Aemilia Lanyer seminar, 2019). For colleagues working on large-scale funding
applications, Faculty Research Application Fellowships cover staff buy-out from teaching (<20%
over a 15-week semester) and/or research expenses (<£750). Since their launch in 2017, these
have led to successful grant-capture (e.g. British Academy fellowships of Moore and Vice).

Colleagues are actively encouraged to access University mentoring schemes and networks (e.g.
Think Ahead; Parent2Parent; BAME and LGBT+ Staff Networks; Women@TUOS). The Research
Director ensures that colleagues developing funding applications are allocated a mentor to provide
feedback pre-application, at ‘right-of-reply’, and post-decision (§3.1).

We have highly effective measures in place to support promotion, with the result that in this
assessment period, 31 colleagues have been promoted, four by more than one grade. Promotion
is discussed at staff-review meetings, with forward-planning to help colleagues attain necessary
experience and/or achievements. When nominating people for promotion, we operate a two-stage
process to ensure that colleagues are not unnecessarily holding back (a phenomenon particularly
associated with women). Everyone is invited to submit CVs annually to gain feedback from our
promotions panel on whether they are promotion-ready. At the first meeting, colleagues being
nominated for promotion are allocated a mentor to help them refine their application, and – drawing
on the insight of colleagues conducting staff-review meetings – any promotion-ready colleagues
who have not submitted CVs are identified, contacted, and encouraged to apply. Applications are
re-vetted at the second meeting, before being sent to the Faculty panel. A new University
framework for Academic Career Pathways (ACP) was introduced from 2018-19 to improve the
transparency of promotion criteria. For T&R/R staff, ACP articulates an expectation of research
excellence (e.g. outputs, grant-capture, PGR supervision, impact) and contribution to the wider
discipline. In the first round, four colleagues were promoted (one from research associate to senior
researcher; one to senior lecturer; two to professor).


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.3. PGR recruitment, support, and training

Our successful strategy for recruiting, training, and supporting our PGRs makes a substantial
contribution to the sustainability and vitality of the discipline, through their research, as the next
generation of academics, and – for those proceeding to non-academic careers – their ability to act
as disciplinary advocates.

We worked successfully to diversify our PGR intake. Over the current assessment period, 31% of
our PGRs were from outside the UK, notable numbers coming from the Netherlands, Italy, USA,
Saudi Arabia, China, and Japan; 71% were women; 14% identified as disabled; 8% as minority
ethnic (the highest figure in a comparative dataset of English departments at Russell Group
institutions); 44% were aged 30+ (i.e. students who took time out of education pre-PhD).

We marry excellent feedthrough from our PGT programmes with recruiting external students. Over
the assessment period, just under 50% of PGRs came from one of our diverse range of PGT
programmes, although since 2016, the proportion of externally recruited students has increased to
c.60%. Staff and PGRs promote our international profile through maintaining up-to-date research
biographies online, and attending conferences and professional meetings. News of funded
studentships is disseminated widely (including by social media), and there are regular PhD
information sessions for current PGTs. Postgraduate recruitment strategy is formulated at
Executive Committee and School Board.

We ensure the high quality of students by a selective application process. All students must have
completed a relevant PGT programme (or equivalent professional experience) and will have
normally achieved a GPA of 65+. We support applicants by providing detailed feedback on
applications pre-submission. Each application is reviewed by at least three colleagues: the relevant
programme’s Graduate Director and two colleagues in the proposed research area. Applicants are
interviewed online pre-offer. The quality of applicants is demonstrated by our consistently excellent
record in securing studentships from a range of sources, including AHRC-funded Collaborative
Doctoral Awards (CDA) and WRoCAH scholarships (46 in this period), Faculty/University
studentships, and sponsorship from overseas students’ home countries. In this assessment period,
over two-thirds of our PGRs (FTE) were fully- or partially-funded.

We have developed a compulsory induction for all PGRs to complement that at Faculty level
(§1.6). With their supervisors, they complete a Data Management Plan and Training Needs
Analysis, setting goals for academic and professional development updated annually and at
confirmation and submission reviews. First-year PGRs are assigned a second-year PGR peer-
mentor, who is supported by a training programme devised and run within the School.

We ensure that, in accordance with Sheffield’s Code of Practice, PGRs receive regular supervision
(at least monthly). Online records are kept of all supervisions. In 2019, four-monthly checkpoints of
student progress replaced a system of annual reports, allowing more rapid response should
students fall behind. Each student has a primary and secondary supervisor. Co-supervision within
and beyond the School supports interdisciplinary or transhistorical projects (e.g. Ballard, studying
South Korean cinema, is co-supervised with Taylor-Jones from the School of East Asian Studies;
Jackson, studying Renaissance Gothic is co-supervised by Rutter (Early Modern) and Wright
(18th/19th-century)). All PGRs have a personal tutor, providing pastoral support additional to the
supervisory relationship. The student-chaired Graduate-Staff-Student Committee provides space
for student input and raising concerns, and is a forum – along with Graduate Affairs Committee –
for discussing results and responses to the biennial Postgraduate Research Experience Survey
(PRES) (§3.2).


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
In 2013-14, our rates of submission were concerning (with 35% submitting within the registration
period, due to a combination of extensions and leaves of absence). Within 12 months, strategies
implemented to address this raised timely submission to 64%. School guidelines for PGRs and
supervisors now articulate clear expectations linked to six-monthly milestones. After 9-months (full-
time; pro rata part-time) and within two attempts, students must pass a Confirmation Review, at
which they discuss and defend a detailed project plan, writing sample, bibliography, and training
needs with a panel comprising their supervisors and two other staff. We have instituted the policy
that, in their final year, students attend a Submission Review with their supervisors and Graduate
Director: this scrutinises the submission timetable, issues such as copyright and OA requirements,
and is an important forum for discussing career plans and support needs. Post-submission,
supervisors run a practice viva.

All PGRs participate in the University’s Doctoral Development Programme (DDP), combining
compulsory modules (‘Essential Research Training: Plagiarism, Copyright, Archival Research’, and
the Faculty-run ‘Research Ethics and Integrity’) with optional training tailored to each project and
negotiated with supervisors, both annually (after completing Training Needs Analysis) and in
response to emergent needs as projects develop. Training offered through DDP includes
discipline-specific skills (e.g. palaeography for early modernists; language courses to support
comparative literature projects), and through ‘Think Further’ transferrable skills (e.g. public
engagement; boosting digital presence) and professional development (e.g. networking; interviews;
career management), designed to expand student career opportunities. Our policy supports PGRs
to do undergraduate teaching from year two onwards (over a third teach in any one year);
Graduate Teaching Assistants must take our ‘Teaching Practice’ module. We run regular career-
development workshops for PGRs (e.g. on academic publishing and turning the thesis into a
monograph, featuring colleagues and commissioning editors). We actively encourage students to
explore careers beyond academia: all WRoCAH-funded students complete a compulsory one-
month Researcher Employability Project with an external partner, and 29% of respondents in
PRES 2019 undertook a placement or internship.

We ensure that PGRs are fully integrated into our research culture, participating in research
centres, networks, reading groups, seminars, writing retreats, and conferences (recorded in DDP
portfolios). They also have their own fora, including the weekly postgraduate work-in-progress
seminar and annual postgraduate conference. PGRs are encouraged to organise research events
and present work at conferences beyond Sheffield: in PRES 2019, over 81% of respondents
reported attending a conference; 74% presenting at one. Students have organised/co-organised 22
conferences since 2013, including the British Association for Holocaust Studies Postgraduate
Conference (2019).

PGRs work with supervisors to access available travel grants (e.g. WRoCAH). Self-funded
students can apply for up to £750 annually for conference attendance or archive trips. Supervisors
also support students with external applications; since 2013, PGRs have attained fellowships from
the AHRC IPS scheme, Harry Ransom Research Center, Huntington Library, and four Stephen
Copley awards (British Association of Romantic Studies).

We mentor and motivate PGRs to publish in peer-reviewed journals and edited volumes: in PRES
2019, 42% of respondents reported submitting work for publication; HESA data indicates that
c.20% of completing PGRs have at least one publication. Track Changes, run by PGRs within the
Faculty, is a peer-reviewed OA journal for postgraduates and recent postdoctoral scholars, offering
PGRs experience of editing and peer-reviewing. In 2020, the Faculty inaugurated a postdoctoral
bursary scheme supporting the preparation of research publications: that both bursaries available
were won by recent alumni testifies to the success of our training and support.

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We are mindful of pressures faced by PGRs. Students are encouraged to take their 30 days
annual leave per annum (pro rata for part-time students). Where necessary for health or personal
reasons, PGRs are supported to apply for a leave of absence, and if on medical grounds then they
can only resume study once a doctor has confirmed their fitness to do so.

The positive impact of our research culture, PGR support, and training is evidenced by:

   ●   improved submission rates (see above);
   ●   prizes (e.g. Davis won English Association Postgraduate Essay Prize 2019; Evans won
       Society of Renaissance Studies Conference Prize 2018);
   ●   track-record of graduates obtaining academic jobs (e.g. Kirkham as lecturer at Lancaster;
       Mort as lecturer at MMU; Norledge as lecturer at Nottingham), research fellowships (e.g.
       Van Hyning’s BA Postdoctoral Fellowship at Oxford; Newsome’s SRS fellowship), and
       cognate careers beyond academia (e.g. Kent is editor at independent publisher And Other
       Stories).

2.4. Equality, diversity, and inclusion

We fully embed EDI into our structure and culture. The EDI representative sits on the Executive
and Research Strategy Committees. Reflecting our egalitarian ethos, there are two elected posts
(one reserved for ECRs) on each of these key school committees. The membership of all
committees is reviewed regularly to ensure we maintain appropriate gender balance alongside fair
disciplinary representation.

Our staff come from a wide range of social and national contexts. 60% are female and 10% are
minority ethnic. Our goal is to increase diversity through appointment and retention strategies.
Interview panel chairs undertake EDI training (including implicit bias training) and all hiring
procedures follow University EDI guidelines. In-line with University policy, we embed the ‘Two
Ticks’ initiative, guaranteeing interviews for individuals disclosing a disability who meet the
essential criteria. Sheffield’s status as a Stonewall Top 100 Employer (renewed 2020) forms part of
our advertising.

Our commitment to deepening diversity and inclusion in all aspects of our practice is reflected
through ongoing work to decolonise the curriculum and colleagues’ participation in the sector-
leading Seeking Educational Equity and Diversity Programme (2015-19), led by van Duyvenbode,
Senior University Teacher within the School and Faculty Director of EDI. In 2016, we were selected
for a pilot project with the consultancy Diversity by Design, a process involving School-wide
conversations about embedding EDI in all our activities. These conversations led to research
decolonising the canon (e.g. van Oostrum’s best-selling 2020 edition of de Kom’s Wij Slaven) or
challenging the racial framing of the discipline and higher education (e.g. Forrest’s Research
England/OfS-funded ‘Transforming and Activating Places: Enhancing Equality, Diversity and
Inclusion in Interdisciplinary Placemaking’). We also equip students for EDI-related careers (e.g.
Mason, whose PhD examined representations of racial difference in university settings, now draws
on this expertise in his role of Project Manager in the Faculty’s KE team).

We formalised our Code of Conduct in 2019, setting out expectations for staff and students
regarding upholding EDI values, and student induction includes anti-racism training. We recognise
the importance of visible role-models, and EDI principles are a conscious component of research
planning (e.g. when selecting invited speakers, we attend to ethnic and gender diversity). We
subscribe to the Faculty’s Gender Identity Policy, and all research events are held in wheelchair-
accessible venues.


                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We actively support colleagues with caring responsibilities (e.g. by scheduling research events
during the working day). Sheffield’s Women Academic Returners’ Programme (WARP) provides
support (in addition to maternity cover) to keep research on track and enable continued career
development (<£10K funding to support an additional post, or £5K for research-related activity).
Since 2013, five staff received WARP funding (£40K outlay), enabling work on publications.

We support part-time and/or flexible working wherever possible, to accommodate family
circumstances, career development opportunities, or work-life balance. Currently, three colleagues
benefit from this work pattern. Part-time colleagues are entitled to the full range of support
available to full-time colleagues (including funding), and workload is treated pro rata, allowing them
to protect research-time proportionally, ensuring that longer-term career prospects are not
damaged. The success of this strategy is indicated by the fact that, within this assessment period,
Moore (0.8 FTE) was promoted to professor two years after promotion to reader.

This strategy of recognising the competing needs of home-life has been central to our response to
COVID-19. We have taken account of individuals’ health concerns and how caring responsibilities
(including but not limited to childcare) impact on research-time, and have emphasised the
importance of staff well-being (e.g. through staff-review meetings) and connectedness (e.g.
through informal online fora).

The School is a highly supportive environment for mature students and those with caring
responsibilities. Unusually in the Russell Group, we offer an online MA in English Studies (average
16 students annually), taught entirely by distance learning. This programme serves as a recruiting
ground for PGRs who would otherwise find it difficult to pursue postgraduate research. Part-time,
joint-location, and remote-learning PhDs enable flexible doctoral study.

Our commitment to inclusiveness is evidenced by preparation for REF2021. Staff were made
aware of the institutional process for disclosing equality-related circumstances. Initial rounds of
peer-reviewing outputs involved all T&R colleagues, pairing experienced reviewers with ECRs. The
three principal members of our REF Steering Group are all female; all have caring responsibilities.
Two of our four impact case studies are female-led (a third, co-led). All members of the steering-
group undertook REF-specific EDI training. Equality impact assessments checked our output
scoring and independent researcher decision-making for bias. In-line with University policy, REF
submission data is not used during review or promotion.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1. Research income and funding strategy

As a direct result of the funding strategy outlined below, we won over £2.75m in new grants in this
assessment period: a 59% increase in research income (£2.4m) compared with REF2014 (£1.5m).

We met our REF2014 objective of diversifying funding sources, by targeting new schemes (e.g. 7
GCRF awards) and others new to us (e.g. Humboldt, EPSRC, NERC), and by consolidating grant
capture from established funders, including AHRC (15 non-GCRF projects), British Academy (e.g.
Senior Research Fellowship, Vice; Mid-Career Fellowship, Moore; Rising Star Award, Pong),
Leverhulme (e.g. Major Research Fellowship, Shrank; Research Fellowship, Wright), National
Lottery and Worldwide Universities Network (WUN). Colleagues have also acquired additional PhD
studentships – beyond White Rose, CDA, and AHRC funding – by targeting specific sources (e.g.
Canadian Research Council, Grantham Centre).


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our funding strategy is the outcome of our wider research objective of enabling colleagues to
undertake large-scale projects, whether these are individual (e.g. Wright’s Leverhulme Research
Fellowship on representations of fostering and adoption in Romantic literature) or collaborative, as
evidenced by major research projects launched in the assessment period, many of which embody
our ethos of Engaged Humanities, including:

   ●   Plastics: Redefining Single Use (EPSRC/UKRI, Gavins, 2019-20) combined expertise in
       cognitive linguistics with insights from science, geography, and politics to understand
       human behaviour on individual, societal, and cultural levels to tackle the global problem of
       plastic waste.

   ●   Improving Wellbeing through Urban Nature (NERC, Stone, 2015-16) used multidisciplinary
       methods – including story-based interviews and arts workshops – to examine nature and
       wellbeing.

   ●   The Shiloh Project (Edwards) researched gender-based violence throughout history and
       across the globe. Launched in 2017 with Leeds and Auckland, it conducted projects in
       Botswana and Lesotho (AHRC, 2018-20), Ghana (WUN-funded, 2018), and Yorkshire
       (White Rose University Consortium funding, 2018).

Funding plans form part of individual annual research and staff-review meetings, and a key aspect
of our annual research away-days, which share information and good practice. Grant-capture has
been enabled by anonymous pre-application peer-review provided by the Faculty and a School-
wide mentoring scheme providing feedback and advice pre-application, at the ‘right-of-response’
stage (where applicable), and towards revision where applications prove initially unsuccessful.
Helping colleagues reconceptualise unsuccessful applications is a crucial part of our strategy (e.g.
Shrank’s Major Leverhulme Fellowship arose from a European Research Council bid).

We work strategically to identify how projects can generate further initiatives, e.g., Linguistic DNA
led to spin-off projects deploying the methodology, including collaborations with the Oxford English
Dictionary and BBC (Mehl) applying concept-modelling to (1) enhancing OED’s methods for
identifying illustrative sentences; (2) news-scripts to improve the accuracy of search queries.

As well as culminating in publications in each case, most funded projects have impact/KE-related
activities at their heart: e.g., Moore’s BA-funded project includes delivering public talks on the
progress of her research into the social disadvantages of non-standard grammar; Pong’s produced
an exhibition, Aesthetics of Drone Warfare (spring 2020), accessed virtually in the context of
COVID-19; Collignon’s Humboldt-funded research into literary and filmic insect metaphors featured
a public workshop (Köln, Jan 2020). By these means, our research has reached local and
overseas communities, including those, in Moore’s case, whose experience is the subject and
evidence for the study itself.

3.2. Research support and infrastructure

We place research at the heart of strategy and governance. Research, KE/Impact, and Graduate
Directors serve on our Executive Committee, ensuring representation of these areas on the main
body for developing and reviewing strategy. They also serve on relevant Faculty committees
(Research and Innovation; KE/Impact; Postgraduate), helping to shape Faculty strategy, as well as
overseeing its implementation at School level.




                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Research Strategy Committee, chaired by the Research Director, reports to Executive
Committee and School Board. The Graduate and KE/Impact Directors are also members, ensuring
that PGR and KE/impact are embedded into all considerations of research culture and strategy.

Postgraduate strategy is co-ordinated by the Graduate Director, who chairs Graduate Affairs
Committee (GAC) and sits on the Graduate-Student-Staff Committee (GSSC, chaired by a PGR).
Together these committees oversee graduate matters, reporting to Research Strategy Committee
and School Board, and providing mechanisms for raising concerns and making proposals, thereby
initiating changes which enhance the research environment and graduate experience. The student
chair of GSSC sits on GAC, representing PGRs on a crucial School committee. Administrative
support for postgraduates embedded in the School (2 FTE) is further strengthened by Faculty and
Research Services (1.6 FTE).

We have drawn strategically on research support and development provided by the Faculty,
including workshops on national/international funding schemes and priorities, feedback on draft
applications, access to examples of successful bids, costing applications, and help matching
complementary research strengths across the Faculty and beyond. For example, Ebury’s AHRC
project on literary representations of the death penalty (2018-20) was supported through the
mentorship of Bennett (Philosophy). Competitive Faculty Research Application Fellowships
(launched 2017) buy-out staff-time and/or provide research funding for individuals developing
funding applications (§2.2). In 2019, the University invested substantially in a Faculty Research
Hub, overhauling its operations and increasing academic-related staff from five to nearly nine FTE.
There are now three teams – core Research Hub (3 FTE), Research Growth (1.8 FTE), KE/Impact
(4 FTE) – working closely to provide joined-up services.

To build on the success and reach of our KE/impact, we have made strategic use of expanded
Faculty support in this area. Faculty’s KE/impact team shares knowledge of funding opportunities
and schemes (internal and external); brokers academic collaborations, within and cross-faculty;
develops and nurtures a network of external partners whose interests overlap with our research
priorities; and holds interactive, interest-led workshops (e.g. Levick’s project, ‘The Politics of
Display’, with Sheffield’s Site Gallery, arose from a Faculty KE workshop, May 2020). KE and
engagement with schools is further facilitated by the Faculty’s schools outreach team.

3.3. Research facilities

We have enacted our goals of research collaboration, engagement, and interdisciplinarity through
active use of our own dedicated and Faculty facilities.

The Humanities Research Institute (HRI) brings together colleagues from departments across the
Faculty and wider University, facilitating collaborative research initiatives and internationalisation
through schemes such as the HRI Visiting European Fellowships, short-term non-stipendiary
fellowships enabling intellectual exchange with leading European academics (e.g. Markuu
Peltonen (Helsinki), hosted Rutter/Sheffield Centre for Early Modern Studies, 2016; Kris Heylen
(Leuven), hosted Fitzmaurice, 2016).

The Digital Humanities Institute (DHI), located in the HRI, is a UK field-leader, supporting
innovative use of technology and computation in humanities research. Our staff have partnered
with the DHI and its director (Pidd) on 12 projects since 2013, including the British
Academy/Leverhulme-funded Eighteenth-Century English Phonology Database and PhD
studentship network ‘Transforming Research Methods in the Humanities’, which contributes to the
sustainability and vitality of the discipline by training future generations of scholars and exploring
emergent methods of addressing research questions central to the humanities that cannot be

                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
easily answered using traditional research methods. In this assessment period Hodson launched
the Dialect in British Fiction, 1800-1836 database from AHRC-funded research (2009-13)
foundational to the impact case study Challenging Language Discrimination.

We have made full use of HRI’s flexible conference venue accommodating up to 116 participants
in a single space, or two smaller seminar rooms with break-out space, free to hire for staff and
student members of the Faculty. We benefited from this as a location for holding research events
and bringing together academics and stakeholders for planning research and impact-related
activities. Besides outreach events and on-going research seminar series (e.g. Sheffield Centre for
Early Modern Studies masterclasses, Ling-Lang Lunch), these facilities enabled staff and
postgraduates to host an annual average of 14 one-off collaborative events, including the British
Association for Holocaust Studies Conference (2017) and Society for Renaissance Studies
Biennial Conference (2018). A number of these events led to peer-reviewed publications (e.g. the
2015 Sheffield Centre for Research in Film Conference produced a 2016 volume, Mapping
Cinematic Norths, co-edited by Rayner with Dobson (School of Languages and Cultures); PGR-
organised ‘Subaltern Women’s Narratives’ (2017) led to an essay collection edited by Bonnerjee
(2021)).

As well as prompting publication projects and facilitating research networking, we have used the
HRI to establish the groundwork for funding bids. Film Hub North: How Audiences Form (2014), a
pilot for the AHRC-funded Beyond the Multiplex (2017-21), was supported by Faculty resources
and constituent meetings took place in the HRI. It united Forrest with colleagues from DHI and the
Department of Sociological Studies, along with the British Film Institute and Sheffield’s Showroom
Cinema, exploring how to engage more diverse audiences with a wider range of film culture.

HumLab is a major Faculty resource, co-directed by Orfitelli, supporting cutting-edge,
interdisciplinary research, by (1) uniting colleagues across the University with research interests in
language, cognition, and its pedagogic and creative applications; (2) providing three bookable
laboratories, including a sound booth and eye-tracker room, housing specialist equipment (e.g.
electroglottograph, galvanic skin response system, experimental and analytical software). Its
facilities have been instrumental, for instance, to Gil’s publications on second-language acquisition,
and underpin forthcoming projects (e.g. Sen, ‘Cognitive basis of phonological change’).

The work of staff and postgraduates pursuing creative/practice-based theatre research is greatly
enhanced by a range of studio spaces and technical support. Performance activities are facilitated
by a Theatre and Productions Manager, who supervises and trains students (including PGRs)
undertaking practice-as-research projects. The Hawley Building (a rehearsal and research space)
has been used for monthly Theatre Research in Progress meetings, and for intimate
performances, e.g. Song of the Satellites (2017), by PGR Hannay. The Theatre Workshop, seating
up to 100 people, hosted a variety of research events, including:

   ●   poetry readings organised by Lehoczky and Piette for the Faculty’s Centre for Poetry and
       Poetics;
   ●   conferences (e.g. 2019 Theatre and Performance Research Association Postgraduate
       Symposium, led by our PGR Surgey);
   ●   research collaborations (e.g. 2015: first post-nineteenth-century production of Joseph Fox’s
       controversial Union Wheel (1870), arising from Wilson’s PhD on theatre in Victorian
       Sheffield, leading to Theatre Notebook article, 2016);
   ●   KE/impact events, e.g. ‘Arts, Mental Health, and the University’ (2019), round-table (led by
       Zerihan) about performance and mental health, an event arising from our Storying Sheffield
       initiative.


                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We also have access to the University’s Drama Studio. With three on-site rehearsal rooms and
seating accommodating up to 245 audience members or allowing 135m2 floor-space, this venue is
suitable for larger public-facing KE and impact-related events (e.g. Nicholson’s direction, in 2017,
of Howard Barker’s Slowly and world-premiere of Barker’s unpublished All This Joseph, practice-
based research underpinning Nicholson’s prize-winning 2019 monograph).

Research is supported by print and digital collections essential to research and research-led
teaching (e.g. Early English Books, Eighteenth-Century Collections Online, Nineteenth Century
Collections Online, State Papers Online), and by the University Library’s unique archival holdings.
The Barry Hines and National Fairground and Circus Archives underpin two impact case studies.
We draw on opportunities provided by Sheffield’s investment in research that is designed to
maximise the knowledge-value of its holdings through competitively awarded Research Resource
Development Scholarships: projects in this assessment period include ‘Edward Carpenter: Beyond
the Human’ (supervised McKay/Miller); ‘Lost Works of Barry Hines’ (supervised Forrest/Vice). We
also regularly collaborate with the Library on Sheffield Undergraduate Research Experience
placements, projects which contribute to our strategy of embedding hands-on research at all levels
(e.g. ‘Reclaiming of Silenced Voices in Postcolonial Theatre’, 2016, supervised
Babbage/Barnsley).

Research is further enabled by the proximity of the British Library’s Boston Spa depository,
accessible via a free monthly minibus. All staff and PGRs can apply for interlibrary loans, funded
from the School’s library budget, and request the acquisition of on-line resources, books, and other
material relating to research and research-led teaching. We are also supported by a dedicated
Faculty librarian.

All PGRs can apply for sole-use or time-shared computers and desks in recessed spaces
accommodating up to 15 students on the five floors in the Jessop West Building housing the
School. These clusters nurture a collaborative and supportive working environment, among PGRs
and staff, whose offices are nearby. This co-location facilitates the dissemination of good research
and writing practice, the development of initiatives, reading groups (e.g. Sheffield Gothic Reading
Group), and sharing of work-in-progress.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1. Research collaboration

Our strategy of fostering research collaborations is achieved through infrastructural and financial
support (§1.2, §3); visiting fellowships undertaken or hosted (§4.3); and profile-raising activities
such as research presentations and high-quality publications which generate invitations to
collaborate.

Research-led collaborations beyond the School occur at a variety of levels:

   ●   Interdisciplinary work with researchers from other Sheffield departments (e.g. ‘In
       Praise of Air’, 2014-17 collaboration between Armitage, Sheffield’s first Professor of Poetry,
       now Poet Laureate, and Chemistry). Frequently, this work is developed through
       participation in research-centre activity (e.g. Mulderrig’s role in AHRC-funded Defining
       Freedom of the Press arose from membership of the Sheffield Political Economy Research
       Institute and presenting her work on critical discourse analysis at a methods workshop).




                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Collaboration with colleagues, across disciplines, in the N8 partnership of research-
       intensive universities in northern England (e.g. Mehl is Digital Humanities theme lead, N8
       Centre of Excellence in Computational Intensive Research) and other White Rose
       universities, e.g. through White Rose-funded interdisciplinary networks (Gil,
       ‘Interdisciplinary Study of Second Language Acquisition’, 2013-15; Hine, Shrank, ‘Luther as
       Philosopher’, 2018-19) and the cross-institutional training and supervision of 21 students
       across two CDAs and six WRoCAH studentship networks since 2013.

   ●   Collaboration with academics from a variety of disciplines in the UK and overseas.
       Over the assessment period, every member of the School has collaborated with partners
       beyond Sheffield, co-producing publications, delivering funded projects, or contributing to
       cross-institutional research centres (e.g. Hobbs is co-founder of the Lydia Center for
       Women and Families, Greystone Theological Institute, Pennsylvania, 2016) and scholarly
       networks (e.g. Irish Network for the Legal Humanities was co-founded Ebury in 2019),
       including participation in four AHRC-funded networks (Collignon: ‘Art of Identification’,
       2015-16; Gil: ‘Meaning in Language Learning’, 2015-16; Shrank: ‘History in the Humanities
       and Social Sciences’, 2019; Wright: ‘Writing Britain’s Ruins’, 2015-16). 18 colleagues
       collaborated in externally-funded projects with 38 partners at 26 universities in the UK and
       overseas.

   ●   Through discussion of professional development needs during supervisions and the annual
       Training Needs Analysis, we support PGRs to build networks and collaborations and to
       access relevant training (e.g. through the DDP). Opportunities for WRoCAH-funded
       students include running student-led forums, which must involve students from all three
       White Rose universities. National networks are further forged through conferences and
       learned societies (e.g. PGR Baker co-edited a forthcoming special issue of Holocaust
       Studies with a PGR from Southampton, met through the British Association of Holocaust
       Studies).

4.2. Impact, KE, and public engagement

Impact, KE, and public engagement are embedded in our research culture, as evidenced by the
rich variety of outward-facing activity beyond our impact case studies. Colleagues collaborate with
a range of sectors, including:

   ●   Education: e.g. Gavins worked with secondary schools to apply cognitive-linguistic
       approaches to teaching literature, work which has fed into her 2020 monograph and
       workshops for teachers.

   ●   Heritage: e.g. Eltringham produced special issues of our creative writing journal, Route 57,
       in collaboration with National Railway Museum (2018), Hepworth Wakefield and Kelham
       Island Museum (2019).

   ●   Creative arts: e.g. Babbage, McDonnell, McKay, Piette, Stenner collaborated on Beware
       the Cat (2018-19) with practitioner Terry O’Connor (Forced Entertainment) and artist Penny
       McCarthy, resulting in performances in locations including RSC’s Other Place (Stratford)
       and a forthcoming issue of Textual Practice.

   ●   Health and well-being: e.g. Barnsley won a GCRF-funded Sustainable Partnership Award
       (2018-20) with partners including Uganda-UK Health Alliance, regional health departments,
       UNICEF, and NGOs to develop screening and awareness-raising tools for mental health
       interventions in northern Uganda.

                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Policy: e.g. Vice was on the Education Advisory Group, UK Government’s Holocaust
       Commission (2015-17).

   ●   Social: e.g. Mulderrig’s ‘What is Old?’ (2016) intergenerational project with Sheffield
       schools and sheltered housing schemes drew on and fed back into her analysis of linguistic
       processes problematizing ageing.

   ●   Tourism: e.g. Smith collaborated with Matlock Bath Development Agency to mount a
       Frankenstein Festival for the novel’s bicentenary (2018), an event, widely reported in local
       and national media, which increased visitor numbers to an area that has seen tourism
       decline by highlighting the novel’s depiction of the town, appealing to widespread interest in
       Gothic fiction amongst school pupils and general public.

We excel in community engagement, skills training, partnerships with public and third-
sector organisations, and facilitating local growth and regeneration. For instance, non-
academic partnerships are integral to Mehl’s six GCRF-funded projects, exemplified by Mapping
Community Heritage (2019), a collaboration with South African grassroots NGO Pala Forerunners
and University of Pretoria, training and supporting young people local to Kruger National Park to
interview the older generation, forcibly displaced when the Park was established. This project also
epitomises our strategy of building lasting relationships with external partners: the partnership with
Pala Forerunners began with GRCF-funded Gender and Well-being in Rural Sedentary South
Africa (2018) and is sustained in all Mehl’s GCRF-funded projects to date.

These principles of outward-looking, applied research are embedded from undergraduate
onwards, with BA students acquiring core research and KE skills on modules structured around
research projects (e.g. ‘Theatre in Social Contexts’, using participatory creative practice to deliver
an applied theatre programme addressing urgent political/communal issues of access and
opportunity, in collaboration with partners including Crisis Skylight and primary schools in
Sheffield's most deprived areas). Our PGT offerings include a work placement module where
students spend 100 hours on applied research projects with partners across sectors including
heritage and tourism, creative industries, archives, publishing, education, charities, health and well-
being (123 students since 2013).

Our incorporation of KE activities at all stages contributes to the vitality and sustainability of the
discipline: students and partners experience the real-world application of disciplinary skills,
highlighting the value of arts and humanities research and improving students’ employability.
Partnerships forged in this way also become a platform for further collaborations. For example, MA
placements at Chatsworth led to the CDA network ‘From Servants to Staff’ (Hodson). Both
students from that project (completed 2019) have moved into heritage-industry careers (Collections
Assistant, Welbeck Abbey; and Youth Participation Officer, English Heritage). The CDA ‘Longevity
and Sustainability of Small-Scale Theatre Companies’ with theatre company Third Angel
(Babbage, 2019-22) arose from Third Angel mentoring research-driven performance projects by
undergraduates and postgraduates. Outcomes (alongside the PhD) thus far include readying Third
Angel's archives for widened access and co-designing a symposium on small-scale theatre and
company survival: an issue even more pressing post-COVID-19.

Our systematic integration of impact/KE activities with collaborative research is evidenced by the
work of research centres. For example, besides organising six conferences since its launch in
2015 (three organised by PGRs/ECRs), our Centre for the History of the Gothic has worked with
external institutions, regional and national (e.g. Matlock Bath Development Agency; British Library).
Its PGRs contribute to public-facing projects including Gothic Tours (online annotated map of
Gothic locations) and Sheffield Gothic blog. In addition to running six conferences/symposia and

                                                                                              Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
regular seminar series, the Sheffield Animal Research Centre has been the locus for considerable
KE activity, including blogposts, podcasts, and an undergraduate research project compiling an
online OA encyclopaedia of animals in film. Its co-director McKay is development curator for the
Animal History Museum, Los Angeles (2015-) and, via his role on the Vegan Society Advisory
Committee, oversaw the development of a major IPSOS/Mori survey ‘How Many Vegans are there
in the UK?’ (2016, 2019). The Centre for Poetry and Poetics hosts circa fifteen widely-advertised,
public-facing events per annum, including poetry readings, teacher workshops, writing workshops,
and conferences, featuring world-renowned poets including Jeff Hilson, Geraldine Monk, Denise
Riley, Lisa Robertson, George Szirtes, and Zöe Skoulding. The Centre’s public-facing events have
generated anthologies, e.g. Wretched Strangers (2018) and The World Speaking Back (2017), co-
edited by its co-director, the prize-winning poet Lehoczky.

We use public engagement to catalyse external partnerships. Colleagues are encouraged to
disseminate research via Sheffield-based festivals, including Festival of the Mind (FoM), Festivals
of the Arts and Humanities, and Social Sciences, Pint of Science, Off the Shelf, and the nationwide
Being Human. These festivals initiate innovative KE partnerships: e.g. Regis’ ‘Out of the Archive’
collaboration with Out Aloud LGBT Community Choir (FoM, 2018) led to further collaboration, ‘In
the Key of Blue’ (2020), composed by Val Regan, using words of the Victorian writer Addington
Symonds. Barnsley’s ‘Material Stories of Migration’ – a collaboration with artists, researchers, and
migrants – was foundational to the now annual Migration Matters week-long, city-wide arts festival
(2016-), celebrating Sheffield’s status as the first ‘city of sanctuary’.

These festivals are crucial for taking research out of traditional academic spaces, potentially
reaching new audiences, an ethos also underpinning ‘500 Reformations’, a series of public talks
and debates, marking the quincentenary of Luther’s Ninety-Five Theses, held in locations around
the city (Edwards, Hine, Shrank, Rutter, Vice, 2017). We also bring people into University spaces
through public lecture series, including the Nineteenth-Century Studies annual Christmas lecture,
and two commemorative biennial lectures: the Blake and Empson Lectures (on language and
literature pre- and post-1600). The James Milroy Public Lecture on Language and Inequality was
launched with a lecture by Milroy in 2019, and included a workshop for sixth-formers.

In this assessment period, most colleagues have presented their research at public-facing events
including (within the UK) the Jane Austen Society, Byron Society, Royal Anthropological Institute,
National Theatre, Middle Temple, and overseas, e.g. in Czech Republic, France, Poland, Cyprus,
Netherlands. Colleagues further shared research via teacher days (e.g. Collignon, SciFi day,
2014), exhibitions (e.g. Ellis, ‘Letter to Sheffield’, Castle House, 2014), film seasons (e.g. Ebury,
death-penalty season, Showroom, 2019), performances (e.g. Gil, collaboration with choreographer
Lucy Haighton on language and communication barriers, 2016), media platforms, including TV,
radio, podcasts (e.g. Wright, Woman’s Hour (2014); Warren, Bible Society’s #SheToo podcasts
(2019); Shrank, ‘Scuffles, Swagger and Shakespeare’ (2019), BBC4), and public-facing
publications (e.g. Conversation, BBC History, programme notes for theatre productions).

4.3. Contribution to the research base

We contribute to the vitality and sustainability of the discipline through aspects of our research
culture outlined elsewhere in this document, including a strong tradition of public engagement/
Engaged Humanities (§1.3, §4.2), recruiting and training PGRs (§2.3), and building an ECR
community, e.g. through supporting applications for postdoctoral study (§2.1).

We contribute to the research base through publications (§1.2); academic service (e.g. peer-
reviewing); and facilitating intellectual exchange. Colleagues and/or PGRs organised 89


                                                                                              Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
conferences and workshops (annual average 12+ events), including major international
meetings of scholarly societies (e.g. 2020 British Association for Applied Linguistics Vocabulary
Studies, 2020 British Society for Literature and Science, 2018 Linguistics Association of Great
Britain). Leading scholars who presented research at the School through plenaries and public
lectures include Stephanie Burt (Harvard), Christopher Frayling (Cambridge), Jerrold Hogle
(Arizona), Feisal Mohammed (CUNY), Michael O’Neill (Durham), Max Silverman (Leeds), Emma
Smith (Oxford), Marina Warner (Birkbeck).

We have delivered over 250 invited talks, plenaries, or keynote addresses at 59 different
institutions in the UK, and 96 overseas institutions in 30 countries, including Australia, France,
Germany, Nigeria, Poland, Serbia, Sweden, Thailand, and the USA. 49 of these institutions are
THE 2020 Top 150 World Universities. In many cases, these invitations led to further research
collaboration and/or publication (e.g. González-Fernández’s project on language acquisition with
Stuart Webb, Western Michigan, 2019-; Barnsley’s contribution to Journal of African Culture and
Society, forthcoming 2021).

Intellectual exchange has been furthered by incoming and outgoing visits. We hosted over
70 visiting scholars from countries in Europe (e.g. Finland, Greece, Netherlands) and beyond (e.g.
China, Mexico, USA). Incoming exchanges contributed to PGR experience and training and/or to
collaborative projects and publications, e.g. special issue of Language and Linguistics (2020), ed.
Sen and Yáñez-Bouza (Vigo, Santander Mobility Award). Staff also facilitated scholarly exchange
through outgoing visits, funded by schemes including Strochlitz Archival Travel Grants (Kindellan,
2017), WUN (Barnsley, Kindellan, 2018), Newton (Edwards, 2017) and visiting
positions/fellowships held, for example, at Harry Ransom Center (Barton, 2018), Chawton House
Library (Bray, 2016), Tec Monterrey, Mexico (Eltringham, 2019), Lille (Hodson, 2018), Kentucky
(Montgomery, 2015), Toronto (Sen, 2014-15), Tokyo Metropolitan University (Shrank, 2018).

Colleagues support the discipline through advisory, editorial, and peer-reviewing activities.
Eight colleagues served on the AHRC Peer-Review College and one on ESRC. 15 colleagues
reviewed proposals/reports for other funding bodies in the UK (including British Academy,
Leverhulme, Medical Research Council) and overseas, including research councils in Austria,
Canada, Greece, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, Qatar, Switzerland, and USA (e.g. Guggenheim,
National Endowment for the Humanities, National Science Foundation).

29 colleagues serve on editorial or advisory boards for 13 book series for major international
presses (e.g. Cambridge UP, John Benjamins, Mouton de Gruyter, Oxford UP, Routledge) and/or
43 peer-reviewed journals (e.g. Gender and Language, James Joyce Quarterly, Journal of
American Studies, Studies in European Cinema, Studies in Theatre and Performance, TESOL
Quarterly). Almost all colleagues peer-review proposals and submissions, serving 32 academic
presses (including Bloomsbury, Manchester UP, Northwestern UP) and 175 academic journals
(including Eighteenth-Century Studies, International Journal of Cultural Policy, Journal of
Commonwealth Literature, Sexualities, Shakespeare Quarterly, Studies in Second Language
Acquisition).

18 colleagues undertook significant roles in 20 different learned societies, enabling these bodies’
crucial role in furthering the discipline (e.g. Bray, Treasurer, Poetics and Linguistics Association;
Ebury, trustee, Flann O’Brien Society; Fitzmaurice, Publications Secretary, Philological Society;
Miller, President, Association for the Study of Literature and the Environment, UK and Ireland;
Shrank, Council, Renaissance English Texts Society; Warren, committee, Society of Biblical
Literature; Smith, Wright, President, International Gothic Association).



                                                                                             Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Nine colleagues further served on advisory boards for research projects, conferences, and
institutes (e.g. Gil, Leverhulme-funded ‘Linguistic Typology’; Sen, Edinburgh Symposium on
Historical Phonology; Vice, Academic Council for the Holocaust Education Foundation, USA;
Babbage, Jana Sanskriti Centre for the Theatre of the Oppressed).

Colleagues advised on 43 cases of promotion, tenure, or appointment at 11 different institutions in
the UK and 25 overseas, in 14 non-UK countries including Canada, Finland, Ghana, Hong Kong,
Singapore, USA. Thirty colleagues examined 124 PhDs at 51 different institutions in the UK and 21
non-UK HEIs in 12 countries (including Australia, Belgium, Iceland, India, South Africa).
Colleagues further contributed to the development of the discipline through serving as external
programme assessors for institutions in the UK (e.g. Glasgow, Goldsmiths, Liverpool) and
overseas (e.g. University College Cork, Zurich).

Colleagues’ contribution to the field has been recognised by prizes (e.g. Armitage’s PEN Award for
Poetry in Translation 2017; Ellis was shortlisted AHRC Research in Film Award 2018; Harwood
won Outstanding Reviewer, Journal of English for Academic Purposes 2017, Journal of Second
Language Writing 2018, Journal for International Students 2019, 2020; Joyce was a finalist for the
Keating Award for crime fiction criticism 2018; Kindellan won the Ezra Pound Society book award
2019; McKay and Miller were shortlisted for the International Gothic Society’s Allan Lloyd Smith
Prize for best edited collection 2019; Nicholson won the Theatre Book Prize 2016 and Rutter the
Outstanding Article 2019-20, English Literary Renaissance; Wright had an honourable mention
International Gothic Association best book 2015).




                                                                                          Page 21
