Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Ulster University
 Unit of Assessment: Engineering - UoA 12
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Research Structure
 Engineering Research at Ulster, established 30 years ago within the School of Engineering (SoE),
 is based at the Jordanstown Campus with recent adjunct activity at the Magee Campus. Increasing
 our SRR cohort from 19 to 42, with notable strong ECR recruitment (17) since REF2014, the
 unit now brings together a 150 strong multi-disciplinary team of researchers led by 9 renowned
 Professors from a range of engineering and scientific disciplines. Since REF2014 our funding is
 up 83% to over £37m and we have continued our strong performance across all indicators; impact,
 outputs & research environment, to create a highly sustainable Engineering research base at
 Ulster.

 Our two main research buildings, the Nanotechnology and Integrated Bioengineering Centre-
 NIBEC and the Northern Ireland Advanced Composites and Engineering Centre–NIACE,
 underpin our materials discovery to product development. The School’s major research is
 undertaken under two major themes, namely:
    ▪   Health and Wellbeing Technology
    ▪   Advanced Future Materials and Manufacturing (AFM2)
 Day-to-day operation of Engineering Research is managed by a leadership team consisting of
 the Engineering Research Director (RD - Finlay) and the Head of School (HoS - McLaughlin).
 This is supported by an Engineering Research Executive (ERE – Byrne, Finlay (RD), Harkin-
 Jones, McLaughlin (HoS), McIlhagger, Meenan, Maguire) who provide input on the formulation
 and execution of the Engineering Research Strategy. In addition, the Associate HoS of
 Engineering (currently Dr Margaret Morgan) holds ex-officio membership to ensure full alignment
 of research within the broader academic function (staff teaching/admin responsibilities, etc.). The
 Unit is allocated an annual research strategy budget by the University (~£80k).
 The overall unit structure, themes and clusters are depicted in Figure 1.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



                  Health & Wellbeing Themes -
                                                           SRR Academic Staff Members
                       Lead - McLaughlin

                                                      Finlay, Bhalla, Davis, Escalona, Fishlock,
                   Healthcare Sensor Systems
                                                        McLaughlin, Bogaraju, Cheema, Soin

  CLUSTERS                                               Byrne, Dunlop, Fernandez, Nolan,
                            Safewater
                                                           Rahimian, Opiyo, Biglarbeigi
                     Biomaterials and Tissue         Meenan, Acheson, Boyd, Burke, Mancuso,
                          Engineering                          Chang, McConville


                Advanced Future Materials and
                  Manufacturing - Themes -                 SRR Academic Staff Members
                        McIlhagger
                                                     Harkin-Jones, McIlhagger, Archer, Ralph,
                        ECRE Composites
                                                               Quinn, McGarrigle
                                                        Dixon, McFadden, Sun, Golbang, Ng,
  CLUSTERS           Advanced Manufacturing
                                                                 Brown, Lemoine
                 Plasma Science and Nanoscale           Maguire, Mariotti, Papkonstantinou,
                         Engineering                    Chakrabarti, Petrovic, Farokh-Payam


           Figure 1. Unit structure illustrating themes, clusters and academic members.


 1.1.1 Health and Wellbeing Technology Theme
 NIBEC was established in 1991 and is a purpose-built multi-disciplinary research centre that
 combines skills in engineering, physical and biological sciences, IT and medicine. Within the REF
 reporting period, NIBEC has secured external grant income of approximately £19m from
 prestigious funders and supports over 100 researchers. NIBEC research has seen very
 successful commercialisation with spin-out companies progressing to substantial commercial
 success, the most recent examples being the acquisition of Intelesens by Ultralinq-USA in 2017
 and acquisition of Heartsine by global leader Stryker in 2015 thus creating over 200 high
 value jobs in NI. Key industry led research centres that have been developed during the period
 include: €8.4m Eastern Corridor Medical Engineering Centre (ECME); £9.3m Connected
 Health Innovation Centre–(CHIC) and £7.3m Biodevices Proto-Typing facility, all of which
 underpin our strong links with industry, clinicians and international collaborators.

 Research within NIBEC is carried out in 3 core clusters with the academic membership of each
 provided in Figure 1. The activities of these groups are further detailed below:

 Healthcare Sensor Systems
 This cluster has 30 years of internationally recognised experience in Healthcare Sensor and
 Diagnostic Systems. It carries out fundamental nanoscience leading to FDA approved commercial
 Sensor Systems via highly successful spin-outs as well as competing globally in Grand
 Challenges (finishing joint 3rd out of 300 in the Tri-Corder Xprize Global Competition-
 McLaughlin-2017). The cluster’s applied focus is on sensor driven data analytics (Artificial
 Intelligence & Machine Learning); cardiac mapping; clinically relevant wearables for IOT; wireless
 sensing/networks; point-of-care diagnostic systems; cardiac monitoring; cardiac defibrillation
 /pacing; cardiac signal analysis and algorithm development.

 Examples of strategic funding include - Randox Technologies-Centre of Excellence (2017-
 ongoing) £1.04m; (EPSRC VIPIRS – Virus Identification via Portable InfraRed Spectroscopy

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £411k EP/V026488/1 (2020-ongoing); (EPSRC EP/T022175/1 Kelvin-2) £495k; (EPSRC
 EP/T04437/1 Multi-User XRD 2020-ongoing) £100k; (EPSRC EP/TO15470/1 & (EP/PO32427
 Water Diagnostics 2017-21) £837k & £4.71m); (Heart UK RG2678/19/21) £248k.

 Safewater Research
 This cluster is internationally recognised for research focusing on water treatment and analysis,
 with broader reach into energy and environmental research, including solar fuels and energy
 recovery from wastewater. Specifically, the group is internationally-leading in photocatalysis
 research including novel nano-photocatalytic materials and their use in environmental
 remediation, disinfection of water and surfaces and solar energy harvesting. Also in solar reactor
 technologies for water disinfection (no 1 in Scopus for papers and citations) which have been
 successfully demonstrated in communities and schools in sub-Saharan Africa. Byrne is PI on the
 GCRF SAFEWATER GROW project (EPSRC (EP/PO32427) 2017-21 £4.71m) with a
 transdisciplinary team of more than 50 researchers, developing technologies for safe drinking
 water in Brazil, Colombia and Mexico. Fernandez is SAFEWATER WP lead on household water
 treatment technologies. Both are CIs on the GCRF GRTA SAFEWATER Translate project
 (EPSRC (EP/TO15470/1) 2019-21 £837k) accelerating the exploitation of devices for
 microbiological water quality analysis. Dunlop’s expertise in photocatalytic disinfection has led to
 his appointment as chair of the NI-AMR network. The group has a large international network and
 other active projects include H2020 PANIWATER (water solutions for India-£330k); H2020 MSCA
 REWATERGY (energy recovery and emerging contaminants-£247k); Byrne’s nanomaterials
 research has translated to significant impact in Industry with AVX (£3m Invest-NI).

 Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering Group - BTEG
 This cluster undertakes internationally-leading research in the development of functional
 biomaterials for applications in medical-implant technologies, diagnostic substrates and tissue
 engineering applications. Key projects undertaken within the reporting period include: 3D printing
 of novel polymer/ceramic bio-composites, point-of-care biosensors and airway management
 devices (NWCAM, Interreg VA); convergence of tissue engineering and lab-on-a-chip
 technologies for advanced in vitro cardiac tissue models and dynamic blood platelet assays
 (ECME, Interreg VA,); directing and controlling bioprocesses at the material-tissue interface using
 surface engineering strategies that create chemical and/or topographical effects at the sub-micron
 to nanoscale (≤100nm) (BioDevices Lab, Invest NI £2.04m); innovative atmospheric pressure
 plasma processing technologies to enhance specificity of antigen-antibody multi-array diagnostic
 systems (Randox Technologies BME Centre of Excellence (WP2), Invest NI); substituted
 calcium phosphate coatings to control the bioresorption of magnesium alloy orthopaedic fracture
 fixation devices (NSF-DfE-SFI US-Ireland Centre-to-Centre, £300k). The group has extensive
 expertise in surface analysis techniques (XPS, ToF-SIMS, XRD AFM, etc.) applied to advanced
 biomaterials research with significant investment having been made in relevant infrastructure and
 dedicated in-house cell culture facilities over the last 5 years (EPSRC Core-Capital Award,
 £100k; FE-SEM DfE-HERC £300k) & BioDevices Lab-WPs.

 1.1.2 Advanced Future Materials and Manufacturing (AFM2)
 The AFM2 theme encompasses advanced composites and polymers, plasmas and nanoscale
 materials, additive nanomaterials, process development and control, process simulation, material
 modelling, sensors and data-analytics, structural health monitoring, sustainable manufacturing
 and digital manufacturing. AFM2 has secured funding of approximately £20m in the reporting
 period including the North-West Centre of Advanced Manufacturing-NWCAM (McIlhagger
 INTERREG 2017-2022 €8.7m).

 The activities of AFM2 are focused into three distinct clusters, described as follows:

 Engineering Composites Research Centre - ECRE
 ECRE has been at the forefront of engineering excellence for textile weaving and composites
 since 1983. ECRE is widely recognised as a national and international leader in the design and
 manufacture of advanced textile preforms, with particular expertise in 3D woven fabrics for
 structural composites (EPSRC - EP/N034783/1, EP/L02697X/1 MCMITP). This cluster has
 attracted significant funding as a Centre of Excellence in the area, from programmes involving

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 simulation and modelling (Technology Strategy Board, Innovate UK, RAEng Industrial
 Fellowship, RAEng Professorial Appointment with Bombardier), and industrially led
 programmes focusing on the design and manufacture of specialist preforms (EU-Marie-Curie
 £504k MARINCOMP-612531 (2014-2018) and EU-ITN £193k ICONIC-721256 (2016-2020)).
 Associated work in the modelling and integration of sensing technologies, as well as the
 development of hybrid structures (metallic and thermoplastic yarns), have developed from the core
 textile capability in collaboration with other international hubs.

 Advanced Manufacturing (AM)
 Ulster AM is built on long-term engagement (pre-1990) with industries such as Bombardier
 Aerospace (Spirit-AeroSystems), Denroy, Thales, Collins and LPE, and has resulted in new
 patented technologies, significant cost/performance improvements in manufacturing, delivery of
 on-site industrial training, new material/process integration, as well as the continued success of
 spin-out companies (e.g. Axis Composites Ltd.). In the reporting period, key projects delivered
 through NIACE/NI Advanced Engineering Competence Centre (NIAECC) have directly assisted
 in the reshoring of commercial contracts into NI from overseas (Artemis & Eirtech- 150 new
 skilled employees in the composites sector). This in turn has led to a successful £33m UKRI
 Strength in Places (SIP) Industry-led Collaborative Award (Ulster £3m in autonomous
 vessel design/materials). Ulster research has been, and continues to be, instrumental in
 assisting Bombardier in the development of new manufacturing processes, through patented dry-
 fibre use and preforming technologies. This has underpinned their commercial entry into the
 narrow-body-aircraft market with the C-Series/Airbus 220. The wing programme employs 1000
 people in Belfast at full production, with a further 2,000 employed in the supply chain (net orders
 of 630 aircraft Jan 2021).

 Plasma Science and Nanoscale Engineering-PSNE
 PSNE has world-class expertise in the science and applications related to non-equilibrium low
 temperature plasma devices operating at atmospheric pressure. Their scientific themes focus on
 (i) plasma-liquid interactions, radical-driven chemistries and synthesis of high-performance
 nanomaterials and (ii) emergent nanomaterials via gas phase cluster and nanoparticle synthesis.
 In particular, they have developed a unique Droplet in Plasma (DiP) system (EPSRC award
 n.EP/K006088/1) for rapid and on-demand delivery of reactive plasma activated liquids,
 radicals and pristine nanomaterials which is currently being investigated for exposing and treating
 tumour cells in vivo and antibiotic resistant microbial infections of surface wounds. Droplet-in-
 plasma synthesis of polymer nanocomposites integrated into microfluidic nanovalves is being
 investigated for remote ocean chemical analysis (EPSRC EP/T016000/1 and SFI Ireland).
 Integrating plasma and NIR spectroscopies and machine learning for detecting airborne viruses
 (EPSRC Award n. EP/V026488/1), trace gases and VOCs has recently commenced.

 PSNE have developed new classes of inorganic nanomaterials for energy (Leverhulme Trust
 award n.IN-2012-136) and environmental applications (EPSRC EP/M024938/1) including third-
 generation inorganic solar cells (EPSRC EP/K022237/1), new solar thermal technologies and low-
 cost high-efficiency solar desalination. Current projects include Advanced Nanotube Application
 and Manufacturing (ANAM) Initiative (EPSRC EP/M015211/1), Emergent Nanomaterials
 (EPSRC Critical Mass Award EP/R023638/1) and Center-to-Center (C2C) International
 Collaboration on Advanced Photovoltaics: Electrode Manufacturing and Indoor Power
 Applications, (NSF (USA)/SFI (Ireland)/DFE (N. Ireland). Scaling plasma facilities to prototype
 manufacture is under development via ANAM (EPSRC EP/M015211/1), EU-FP7 (award
 n.606889), InvestNI (awards PoC-325 and PoC-608).

 1.2 Strategic Vision
 Our vision is to continue to exploit our unique ability to merge the disciplines of health and
 wellbeing technology and advanced future materials & manufacturing. In turn, creating
 successful research with impact, in highly important global challenge areas and promoting a
 healthy and sustainable future for all citizens.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.2.1 Future Strategy
 To help realise this Vision we have formulated an on-going mission which aims to:
     ▪ Continue to deliver world-leading research outputs that are aligned with the evolution of
        our core research themes.
     ▪ Further strengthen the commercial exploitation of our engineering and science-based
        research through knowledge transfer (e.g. KTP’s, spin-outs and spin-ins) in relevant areas
        of the clinical-led application domain and manufacturing sectors.
     ▪ Maintain and build on our significant portfolio of interdisciplinary activity and enhance
        regional, national and international collaborations.
     ▪ To deliver on global grand challenges associated with healthy ageing, sustainable
        design, pure water and efficient energy sources via new materials & processing.
     ▪ Enhance our capacity and capability to conduct unique and specialist research via
        new major multimillion pounds City Deal projects across Engineering.
     ▪ Attract diverse sources of funding to allow us to sustain our research activity and
        promote its impact across a range of TRLs.

 Going forward these aspirations are specifically evidenced by key roles in leading Innovation
 Projects as part of the Belfast Region City Deals (BRCD) and the Derry City and Strabane City
 Deal (DCSCD). Specifically, members of the unit are central to the BRCD which will see the
 establishment of the Centre for Digital Healthcare Technologies - CDHT (£42.9m, McLaughlin
 PI)) and the Advanced Manufacturing Innovation Centre - AMIC led by QUB in partnership
 with UU (£87m, McIlhagger Ulster PI). The DCSCD will see the establishment of a Centre for
 Industrial Digitalisation, Robotics and Automation (CIDRA) led by Ulster (total value £25.5m,
 Quinn, Co-PI). These once-in-a-lifetime capital investment projects are underpinned by
 significant ongoing engineering research activities at Ulster. A recent example of this is the £33m
 UKRI-SIP Artemis Technologies project which is a Belfast Maritime Consortium with Ulster
 (McIlhagger Co-PI) as a core partner to develop zero-emissions and autonomous-ferries.

 In order to further our aims beyond the REF2021 timeline, we have set out the following
 measurable objectives/targets that we intend to meet over the next five years:

    ▪   A 20% increase in SRR staff
    ▪   A 33% increase in the number of PhD researchers enrolled in the Unit
    ▪   To increase to 80% the proportion of research outputs appearing in the top 10% of
        academic journals/forums (based on relevant metrics e.g. SciVal)
    ▪   To maintain an international collaborative presence in at least 50% of our research
        outputs
    ▪   To grow our entire funding base by 50% with a particular focus on funding from
        prestigious (QR) sources (RCUK)

 1.2.2 Reflection on Delivery of the Unit’s plan as laid out in REF2014
 The strategic aims stated in REF2014 have shaped and informed our Research Environment
 over the last 7 years. In this period, we have met and exceeded all of these metrics as
 summarised in Table 1:

                                     2014                2021                 % Increase
         UoA Staff Numbers           19.00               39.6                 108
         Overall funding attracted   £20,215,116         £37,048,422          83
         Funding Spend               £11,516,221         £30,546,327          165
         UKRC Funding spend          £2,487,209          £8,289,201           233
         EU funding Spend            £1,305,307          £5,257,697           303
        Table 1. Indication of quantifiable achievements between REF2014 and REF2021




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Aims set out were as follows:
 Aim: To increase research staff and student numbers:
 Research active staff (now SRR) numbers in the unit have increased from 19 to 42 (39.60 fte) in
 this submission representing a 108% increase (fte) in the period. Contract Research Staff
 numbers have increased from 17 to 41 (a 140% increase) within the reporting period 69 PhD
 Researchers enrolled reflecting a 33% increase since the 2014 census date.

 Aim: To improve publication rankings and citations:
 Based on Scopus.com metrics for publication quality and reach, there has been an increase in
 international collaboration within our research outputs from 44.1% in 2014 to 56.1% in the
 current set of outputs. A higher percentage of these outputs are also in the top 10% of published
 works worldwide in relevant subject areas (30.9% for 2014 outputs and 32.3% for current outputs).
 Journal publication, conference and patent outputs have all improved in quality with average
 journal impact factor along with increase in quantity (up 30%). For outputs published in the Top
 10% of Journals by CiteScore Percentile we had 41.2% in 2014 v 61.8% for the current
 outputs.

 Aim: To grow funding and further international links:
 Compared to the 2014 submission, our overall awards are up by 83% in the current period
 with the associated external research funding spend up by 165%. Of this, UKRC funding
 spend is up by 233%.

 In regard to funding related to international collaborations we have seen a 303% increase in
 EU funding spend (see table 1). The outputs submitted for this exercise also show a 12%
 increase in international collaboration. We have launched 9 KTPs (£1.06m) across the unit
 during the period, 12 Cross Border Fusion-Project (NI-ROI type KTPs) and 15 Proof of
 Concept/Principle Projects-£20k-100k.

 Aim: To improve building resource infrastructure
 Detailed in section 3. Highlights include final development of new £365m Greater Belfast
 Campus, £6m investment in equipment since 2014 and the ongoing City Deal developments.

 Aim: To develop additional industry and clinical MoUs
 Over the period we have developed strategic MOUs with companies such as Dell-EMC and Belfast
 HSC Trust. We have consolidated our fundamental research funding via collaborative projects
 involving industry, the clinical sector and other stakeholders. In particular, our vision to be an
 internationally leading engineering-led innovation hub is underpinned by strong and vibrant
 material science and engineering device fabrication capabilities. This strategic approach has
 delivered significant benefits in the reporting period with our CHIC, ECRE and Biodevices Lab
 activities engaging with over 100 SME and multinational companies (section 4.3).

 1.3 Research with Impact
 Engineering research at Ulster has an exemplary track record in research impact and is now
 part of a focused innovation eco-system to commercialise innovative products through knowledge
 transfer, technology-licensing, patents and more recently, through spin-out ventures. There is a
 strong, successful track record of these activities with our research having led to the development
 and market launch of numerous internationally successful and award-winning medical
 devices (e.g. the Stryker mobile portable defibrillator and the Intelesens wireless vital signs
 patch), electronic components (Seagate HDD read-write head coatings and new improved AVX
 ceramic capacitors) and composites technologies (C-Series Bombardier/Airbus 220 aircraft).

 1.3.1 Approach to achieving impact
 We have established two state-of-the-art industry-led innovation centres; CHIC and NIACE which
 allow our research to be translated into impactful innovation. Similarly, the Biodevices
 Laboratory established in 2016 enabled efficient and robust one-stop rapid-prototyping of
 advanced products from initial design to final device for 80 companies to date. These

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 platforms also allow us to create impact in other areas e.g. clinical and regulatory practice. In total,
 this approach has resulted in 53 ongoing patent applications plus numerous invention
 disclosures generated since REF2014. The infrastructure within these research and
 innovation centres is also made available to partners through collaborative projects which
 further enhances our ability to translate research into innovative processes, platform technologies
 and new product prototypes that can be taken forward to commercialisation. An International
 Engineering Advisory Panel assists with our industry engagement which helps to advance
 STEM initiatives, identify and meet skills requirements as well as delivering workshops,
 knowledge-based seminars and enhanced access to Ulster’s breadth of academic expertise.

 Since 2015 our unit has operated a “NIBEC Hatchery” spin-out company concept. This initiative
 provides a strongly supportive environment for the commercialisation of research via spin-
 out/spin-ins. The approach has empowered and supported innovative academics to more rapidly
 develop and test the market for their ideas within an appropriate entrepreneurial pathway. This
 clear, simple approach has supported academics to develop their skills as well as address barriers
 to success. Currently, start-ups such as 2DTech, S2ACK, SiSaF, JFI and Pulse-AI utilise the
 eco-system with new developments in water diagnostics, smart bandages, lateral-flow devices,
 carbon in the ocean monitoring, wrist pulse-monitoring, wireless heart-pump development,
 composite health-monitoring currently being developing to the commercialisation stages.

 1.3.2 Research with impact examples
 In the current reporting period, our ability to produce research with impact is evidenced by a
 portfolio of strong impact case studies (ICS) in health technology (2), aerospace composites
 (1), and nanotechnology (1). The significance and reach of the evidence-based impact include:
 strong economic benefit, significant improvements in patient-health and quality-of-life, impact on
 standards and regulatory processes. Our strategic focus on encouraging spin-out and start-
 up activity has facilitated eight commercial entities during the reporting period as outlined in Table
 2.

  Company              Classification   Comment
  Pulse-AI             Spin In          Kennedy (PhD student SoE 2013-2018)-Founder/CEO
                                        Finlay and McLaughlin – Scientific Advisors
  Axial 3D             Graduate         Crawford (undergraduate student 2008-2011) - Chief
                       start-up         Strategy Officer & Founder. Boyd -Advisor
  Surf-Spec            Spin Out         Meenan – Founder/Director
  Metal Forming        Spin Out         Leacock (Reader SoE -2016) – Founder/CEO
  Innovations Ltd                       Finlay - Director
  Axis-Composites      Spin Out         McIlhagger - Research and Development Director
                                        Archer Technical Director
  SISAF                Spin Out         McLaughlin – Founder/Director -2018
  Heartsine            Spin Out         Anderson (Professor - SoE -2012) – Founder/CTO;
                                        McLaughlin Early-stage consultant.
                                        Stryker buy-out and successful University exit-2015
  Intelesens           Spin Out         McLaughlin – Founder/CTO
                                        Ultralinq buy-out and successful University exit-2016

                           Table 2. Start-up/Spin-out activity during period

 1.4 Approach to Interdisciplinary Research
 Significant emphasis has been placed on increasing the level of multi- and inter-disciplinary
 work conducted by the unit during the reporting period, based on collaborations between
 groups and other units throughout the university and externally. Cross-disciplinary sandpits
 and workshops plus internal PhD-funding and strategic project-funding are now core-
 initiatives. Examples of such collaborations within the unit include: 1. ECRE and CHIC developing
 innovative AI inspired sensor systems for monitoring the structural integrity of engineering
 composite materials in aerospace applications and 2. The Advanced Manufacturing Cluster and
 the Biomaterials and Tissue Engineering Groups developing additive manufacturing materials

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and printing techniques for next generation medical implants. Beyond the unit but within the
 Faculty, significant interdisciplinary collaboration is evident across many large-scale funded
 projects including: ECME and CHIC working across their respective research areas
 (Engineering, Computing and Life & Health Sciences/Medicine) to enhance external involvement
 from the medical device industry and clinical partners. The GCRF-Safewater project involves
 core contributions from Biomedical Sciences-Microbiology, Psychology-Behaviour analysis, Law
 and Management, Leadership and Marketing along with significant external involvement from
 international NGOs in Mexico, Brazil and Columbia.

 1.5 Progress towards promoting an Open Research Environment (see Institutional Statement,
 section 2).
 The unit contributes fully to the institutional drive towards an ‘Open Research Environment’. A key
 enabler has been investment in the Elsevier ‘PURE’ software platform to support open research
 activities ranging from open access publications to research data management. At unit level, a
 dedicated strategy has been established to ensure researchers are fully compliant with open
 access policies. This strategy includes provision of training and drop-in support sessions.
 Researchers are actively encouraged to publish in open access journals and make available
 strategic compliant datasets/open research-data where IP is fully considered. Where
 possible, budget allocations are requested for open-access fees in research grant proposals and
 when not, staff may submit requests to the ERE for funding from research strategy budget. Ulster
 is a signatory of DORA and supports the principles the Leiden Manifesto and Metric Tide.

 1.6 Supporting a culture of research integrity
 Engineering research at Ulster supports a culture of research integrity aimed at ensuring that
 research is conducted according to appropriate ethical, legal, professional frameworks. In order
 to achieve this goal, the unit adheres to the relevant procedures that operate at an institutional
 level. Specifically, the unit follows the procedures set out in the University’s Code of Practice
 for Professional Integrity in the Conduct of Research. Core to this is the mandatory training of
 staff, during probation, and students on research integrity - 100% of FT staff have completed
 this online mandatory training.

 2. People

 A highly notable achievement is the School’s Silver Athena-Swan Award (2019) based on a
 strong increase in female academics, research staff & students, plus the international diversity
 of our staff now from 19 countries. The strategy and policies below apply widely across the
 school covering academics, research staff, technicians and support staff.

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development:
 Engineering research has seen a more than 100% growth in academic staff numbers
 submitted in REF2021 (SRR status) compared to REF2014 (up from 19 to 42). This growth has
 been realised mainly through the University targeting investment for the appointment of new
 staff. We aim to attract the highest-calibre academic staff globally. The staffing strategy
 underpinning the unit seeks to grow Ulster’s engineering base by attracting and nurturing those
 who are passionate about contributing to the Global Grand Challenges for Engineering that
 have been prioritised by Ulster.

 2.1.1 Recruitment
 In addition to our normal appointments, we have undertaken strategic investment in priority
 areas including:

 • Bombardier-Royal Academy of Engineering Chair in Composites Engineering
 In conjunction with the Royal Academy of Engineering (RAE) and Bombardier Aerospace, the
 world’s third-largest civil aircraft manufacturer (now Spirit AeroSystems), we invested in a
 permanent Professorship in Composites Engineering (Harkin-Jones). The associated work
 programme has developed new methods to process advanced thermoplastic polymers and carbon
 composites materials with consistent, reproducible properties. The collaboration with Bombardier

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and other companies has developed materials and processing strategies that enable the
 manufacture of high performance, multifunctional, thermoplastic composite parts.

 • Health Technology Hub
 Recognising the need to accelerate the development of our Healthcare Technologies research,
 four new permanent academic positions were created in 2018 as part of a Strategic Investment
 initiative. These positions were created to support the establishment of a Digital Health
 Technologies Hub at NIBEC and eventually City-Deal CDHT. The four posts (1 professor, 3
 lecturers) are focused on healthcare technology within underpinning engineering areas that
 include: Embedded-Systems, Software Development, Imaging and Mechatronics.

 • Advanced Manufacturing recruitment drive
 In supporting advanced manufacturing nationally and internationally, four new academic posts
 were created in 2019. These four posts (1 professor and 3 lecturers) are focused on areas that
 emerged from an internal strategic review of forthcoming opportunities, including City Deals.
 Appointments to these posts have commenced addressing research challenges in the areas such
 as Multi-Physics Simulation Methods, Digital Manufacturing/Materials Processing, Industry 4.0,
 and Intelligent AI based Manufacturing Systems.

 • Encouraging the local talent pool
 The strategic initiatives outlined above are all designed to attract the highest calibre scientists. A
 number of initiatives have been set-up to ensure that an academic/research career is seen as a
 tangible option across all educational and training levels at Ulster from undergraduate student
 right through to post-doctoral research staff. In the first instance, undergraduate students in their
 second year are encouraged to enrol for a “Pathway to PhD” scheme. This allows them to
 shadow a currently enrolled PhD student over a number of weeks to get an insight into what
 PhD study entails and encourage students who have an aptitude for a research career.

 We have also established a “Graduate Engineer” program where we offer short fixed-term
 research contracts to our final-year students who wish to gain work-experience in a research
 environment upon completion of their studies. In a similar way, we have an “Associate Lecturer”
 scheme, which is designed to appeal to those who are approaching the latter stages of
 postgraduate research studies. These are University funded fixed-term positions (ca. 6
 months) designed to provide researchers with an insight into the full portfolio of academic activity.

 In the current REF period 9 Ulster Engineering Contract Research Staff/PhD Researchers
 (Golbang, Acheson, Fishlock, Chakrabarti, Ralph, McGarrigle, McConville, Soin and Biglarbeigi)
 have gained Academic positions.

 2.1.2 Support for new staff and those who are early in their academic career
 All researchers appointed to the Engineering unit receive formal and informal induction and
 training. An induction checklist is provided by our People & Culture (HR) Department and staff
 are also allocated a ‘buddy’ from within the unit. Having made contact on day 1, the buddy
 provides informal support for up to six-months, but in reality, these relationships often extend far
 beyond this initial interaction. Line-managers within the unit identify individual training needs and
 make arrangements to address these either through informal job-shadowing, mentoring or
 one-one instruction, and/or attendance at formal training courses, as necessary. All new staff
 are encouraged to explore the University’s online induction site which is sign-posted with links to
 relevant policy and practice.

 The unit prides itself in having a long track-record of nurturing academic staff in the early stages
 of their academic career. All those who take-up a permanent appointment as new academic staff
 are assigned Early-Career Academic (ECA) status which corresponds with a standard
 probationary period of 3 years. Since 2014, within the Engineering unit a total of 18 new staff
 have been given ECA status. During this time the ECAs are assigned a mentor whose role is to
 provide support on all academic activities ranging from teaching administration through to
 research proposal development.

                                                                                                 Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Upon appointment, ECAs are also appointed to existing research groups/clusters. Whilst
 this provides an opportunity to avail of the collegiately that a group/cluster structure brings, ECAs
 are encouraged to not let this inhibit their ambitions and to grow as leaders in their own area.
 Indeed, the latter is strongly encouraged and supported. Staff with ECA status are given
 preference in the allocation of annual PhD studentships. Given the growth in Engineering
 ECA staff, all centrally funded PhD studentships in the 2019/20 year were exclusively awarded to
 projects submitted by these staff. This led to 9 members of ECA staff commencing PhD
 Researcher supervision (as lead supervisor) supported by more senior academic staff on the
 supervisory team. This has given new members of academic staff the opportunity to gain
 experience in PhD supervision while providing support for their on-going research. The scheme
 was repeated in 2020/2021, with all studentships allocated to projects led by an ECA and this is
 being repeated in 2021/2022. ECA staff are also provided with prioritised access to the Unit’s
 Research Strategy Budget.

 2.1.3 Staff development, training and appraisal
 Extensive staff development and training opportunities are in place at both unit level and from the
 broader University base. These range from mandatory training on broader workplace conduct
 to a diet of research domain specific training. All staff undertake Equality and Diversity,
 Disability Awareness, Research Integrity and Unconscious Bias & Recruitment Training. At
 a Unit level Continual Professional Development is supported through training activity that
 includes unit specific Health & Safety training, research grant development training and REF
 related training. Specialised research topic training is also offered on topics ranging from AI
 and statistics to new Industry 4.0 developments. A specific necessity in the unit is the provision of
 specialist training on the large state-of-the-art materials characterisation facilities that are
 available (XPS, ToFSIMS, TEM, SEM, AFM, etc).

 At University level, a range of initiatives relating to research training have been put in place. These
 include: RIGOUR (Grants) and SOARING (Outputs) (see Institutional Statement, section 3).
 Additionally, the Impact Development Series and the Aurora programme (a leadership course
 specifically for women in HE), are available for both academic and research staff. Research
 Communication Training is also provided to develop the skills of researchers in communicating
 the purpose, meaning and impact of their research. The majority of the unit staff have
 participated in these programmes.

 2.1.4 Staff appraisal, progression and recognition of achievement
 Annual appraisals are conducted with all staff as a trilateral process with the HOS and RD.
 This process is facilitated differently for staff at different levels. ECA staff annual reviews take
 place as part of the probationary process which is designed to review ECA performance against
 agreed targets that have been set during their initial appointment. For staff who have progressed
 beyond probation (other than Professors) this process runs as a Developmental Appraisal
 Review (DAR), conducted to assess staff performance against institutional criteria which also
 relates to promotion criteria and performance targets. In the case of Professors, the annual review
 is via the University-wide Professorial Progression Review process with agreed criteria for
 advancement within or between the 4 bands of the system, with HoS/RD and/or Executive Dean
 input throughout the advancement process.

 All staff are eligible for promotion once any probationary period has been completed. Whilst the
 department sets ambitious expectations for staff performance there is a firm track-record of
 rewarding staff who meet these institutionally regulated expectations. Since REF2014 seven of
 the nineteen staff have advanced to senior lecturer/reader (Burke, Dunlop, Archer, Dixon) and
 Professor (McIlhagger, Mariotti, Finlay). In addition, most staff have progressed through
 Professorial Bands. The promotions process itself is continually reviewed to ensure fit-for-purpose
 and is promoted though various university-wide workshops and events that aim to assist anyone
 considering or preparing for promotion.

 Staff in the unit can also avail of a number of University level initiatives which serve to recognise,
 reward and promote achievements in research and impact. These include the Distinguished

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research Fellowship Awards offered annually to recognise outstanding research and scholarly
 activity. In the current reporting period, members of the unit have had significant success with a
 total of five awards being attained (Main-Category: Dunlop, Senior-Category: Mariotti, Finlay,
 Maguire, Byrne). The University also recognises the impact via its Research Impact Excellence
 Awards (McLaughlin, 2017). Research collaboration with industry in the units has been recognised
 in the period, as follows:
      ▪ Healthy Communities Impact Excellence Award (2017)– Intelesens Ltd and
          Heartsine Technologies in collaboration with McLaughlin team
      ▪ Sustainability Impact Excellence Award (2017)– AVX Ltd in collaboration with Byrne
          team

 2.1.5 Sabbatical and Impact leave
 In 2018 Ulster introduced a new University Sabbatical Leave scheme. This initiative (further
 detailed in the Institutional Statement, section 3) allows for academic and research staff, to apply
 for 16 weeks paid-leave, free from normal teaching and administrative duties, to focus on research
 or teaching excellence activities. A number of members of the unit (Maguire, Mariotti) have availed
 of this scheme in its first 2 cycles.

 Staff in the unit have also availed of additional opportunities to facilitate leave opportunities and to
 stimulate links between the unit and externally, including: a Royal Academy of Engineering
 Industrial Fellowship (McIlhagger, 2018) and the EPSRC High Value Manufacturing Catapult
 (Leacock, 2015). These initiatives have enabled staff members to develop commercialisation
 opportunities and create impact related activity (McIlhagger spinning-out Axis-Composites Ltd
 and Leacock MFI Ltd., see table 2, section 1). In this regard, the unit has a policy where all start-
 up/spin-out activity is considered during the agreement and allocation of teaching and
 administration of duties. Subsequently, Leacock was further supported in the provision of a
 career-break (2017) to focus on developments with MFI Ltd. Due to the success of that venture
 he subsequently resigned from his university role in 2019 to focus on the company.

 2.2 PhD Researchers
 The unit works in conjunction with Ulster’s newly formed Doctoral College (DC) in all matters that
 relate to PhD researcher administration, from recruitment to graduation. The DC provides the
 central resources to oversee and support postgraduate research degree provision providing a
 focal point for doctoral training and researcher development. This is supported via a dedicated
 software-portal (PhD Manager) that provides coordination and documentation management for all
 activities (reporting, assessment, meetings, etc). The unit has also a Postgraduate Tutor who is
 the first point-of-contact for all aspects of studies advice and pastoral care for PhD researchers.

 2.2.1 PhD researcher recruitment and Unit profile
 Engineering at Ulster currently has a total of 69 registered PhD students. In the NI context, the
 University avails of the allocation of studentships from the Department for the Economy (DfE-NI).
 Since 2014 Engineering has typically been granted between 5-10 of these studentships per year.
 In addition to this core-allocation, staff are encouraged to secure PhD studentships from other
 sources. This has resulted in a growth in the number of PhD studentships through programmes
 such as the H.2020 Marie-Curie training scheme and PhD training via large INTERREG-VA
 funding initiatives. Since REF2014 a total of 6 Marie-Curie studentships have been secured (1
 completed; 5 active). Success in the Interreg-VA competition has established a number of
 engineering doctoral-training initiatives including: the Ulster led €8.4m ECME which provides
 multidisciplinary future leaders PhD training 24 PhD researchers based across 6
 institutions (NI, Scotland & ROI) and healthcare trusts, with 9 based within Engineering and the
 €8.7m NWCAM, which is delivering quality translational engineering research within the L&H
 Science’s Manufacturing sector and supports 8 Engineering PhD Researchers at Ulster.

 Furthermore, the University has provided “matched” funded PhD studentships for strategic
 projects including Safewater (4 matched) and US AirForce (1 matched). Further studentships are
 also made available by the University in order to support attracting high calibre international
 candidates. These are known as “Vice Chancellor’s Research Studentships” and a small

                                                                                                  Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 number (2-3 per annum) are made available to Engineering annually to attract the best possible
 international talent. Finally, Engineering has a strong track record of securing PhD studentships
 through the CAST Award program, which promotes academic/industrial partnership with 8
 studentships offered in conjunction with companies such as Heartsine, Intel, Abbott, Dell,
 Bombardier, Kimal Ltd, EC Labs during the period.

 2.2.2 Skills development and training
 PhD researchers are encouraged to undertake training and skills development via the DC
 where a range of generic research skills and training programmes are offered via the Researcher
 Development Programme (RDP). The RDP suite of workshops, specialist skills sessions, online
 courses (research integrity, diversity awareness, H&S) and personal development planning
 activities (Annual PhD Festival, 3-Minute Talk,) provide students with opportunities to gain the
 experience and skills required to be a competent and professional researcher. Employability
 skills development is also available and includes innovation/entrepreneurship training, how
 to pitch, how to improve report writing, CV development through to specialist training such
 as coding and data analytical skills. As part of their annual reporting and assessment
 milestones, PhD researchers are required to reflect on their interaction with the various training
 on offer. In order to give students the opportunity to gain insight into broader academic duties all
 are encouraged to avail of the opportunity to deliver tutorials, laboratory-sessions, outreach
 initiatives and specialist events (e.g. workshops, conference organising and in-house
 presentations), for which they are fully remunerated. As indicated earlier (section 2.1.1).

 2.3 Supporting Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity
 Engineering is a supportive and inclusive environment and adheres to the University’s policy
 to provide equality of opportunity to all and to ensure consistency, efficiency and
 effectiveness throughout its operations. Diversity and inclusivity are valued, actively promoted
 and embedded in all research processes and policies as outlined in our REF2021 Code of
 Practice. This places people at its centre, is mindful of the needs of all staff and ensures
 barrier free processes to maximise inclusivity and participation in REF. We used it as our
 roadmap for identifying SRR staff and selecting outputs for REF2021. Engineering also
 supports the University’s work-life balance policies in line with our AS policy. These policies
 include flexible working, job-sharing, career-breaks, emergency-leave and shared parental-
 leave.

 2.3.1 Recognition for EDI achievements
 Ulster University holds an HR Excellence in Research Award (Institutional Statement, section 3)
 in recognition of its commitment to improving the working conditions and career development of
 its research staff. The Unit adheres to the principles set out on the achieving this award relating
 to:
 •   Positive actions taken to support the career-development of researchers
 •   Implementation of the Concordat to Support the Development of Researchers
 •   Alignment with the principles of the European Charter for Researchers and Code of
     Conduct for their recruitment

 In 2019 the School of Engineering became only the second unit in the University to be awarded
 the Athena Swan Silver Award. This silver level award puts us in a small group of Engineering
 Schools in the UK who have received the honour (only 13 Universities in the UK currently hold
 an Athena Swan Silver award within an Engineering discipline). The silver award builds on
 our earlier bronze level recognition and clearly shows the progress that has been made and
 the effort expended to ensure that equality and diversity are at the forefront of everything we
 do, and this is reflected in the way we support our staff and students. Notably, the percentage of
 female staff has increased from 5% in the REF2014 submission to 14% in this submission for
 REF2021.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3.2 Workload Management
 The workload of staff in the unit is managed using an online workload-allocation system that is
 overseen by the HoS, Associate HoS and RD. The model considers teaching-load, research-
 activity and contribution to the University in a manner aligned with promotion criteria and the
 REF, TEF, University and SoE strategies. The model addresses research success by allowing
 for teaching load adjustments as well as taking account of sabbaticals, secondments, outreach,
 parental leave consideration, part-time work, study-leave, including a back-to-work scheme, and
 in the case of ECAs, allocated time to prepare teaching materials and develop early-career
 targeted grant proposals. It is also used to highlight staff suitable for promotions, via reviews
 and provides the School Executive with the ability to see how we might further improve work-life
 balance for all staff.

 2.3.3 Flexible working arrangements
 Formal flexible-working arrangements are facilitated on a case-by-case basis and are
 progressed through the HoS and RD, as appropriate, in conjunction with colleagues in People &
 Culture (HR). All requests for short notice leave for caring responsibilities are agreed directly
 with the HoS and RD. The nature of other flexible working requests mainly concern reduction to
 contracted working hours, adjustments to working, teaching or meetings times or other events and
 working location. Reasons for flexible-working requests mainly consist of childcare and caring
 responsibilities for family members. Arrangements in place to accommodate flexible working
 include: the ability for staff working from home to join meetings via corporate teleconferencing
 tools (e.g. Microsoft Teams). Many members of staff work flexibly without making formal requests
 and working-from-home days are granted when requested. Unit meetings and social gatherings
 are scheduled during the hours of 10am to 4pm. Further accommodation of individual staff
 requests is met on an ad hoc basis outside of these hours, as required, plus special cases are
 made to help staff participate in conferences etc. whilst carer duties are maintained. During the
 Covid-19 Pandemic higher levels of flexibility and use of rota-systems/video-conferencing have
 been developed to aid staff with research commitments whilst maintaining safety-levels and caring
 duties.

 2.3.4 Return to Work
 In the event of a staff member returning from a career break or an extended period of absence
 (e.g. due to sickness, maternity/paternity leave or adoption leave) the unit’s policy is to reduce
 the workload in order for them to re-focus on research. Accommodation of individual requests
 and associated return to work requirements are considered on a case-by-case basis. Transitional
 (phased) and/or longer-term arrangements are offered in consultation with People & Culture (HR),
 including flexible working arrangements and P/T hours. The HoS and/or RD meet with individual
 staff returning from leave in advance to provide support for their return to work. Staff are reminded
 at this point that a Returning Carers' Scheme is available, as are schemes for staff with
 protected characteristics – the Scheme offers financial assistance to help staff on their return to
 work and has been availed of regularly in Engineering.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Since 2014, the implementation of the Engineering unit growth strategy has delivered research
 awards in excess of £37m. For a relatively small cohort of staff this is a significant achievement.
 Income streams have been strategically targeted and prioritised to ensure a well-balanced
 portfolio of core scientific research whilst not neglecting higher TR level collaborative work
 that is closer to attaining commercial or clinical impact.

 3.1. Research Income Strategy
 The ERE have put in place a proactive process to support researchers in attaining external
 research funding. This process is at the discretion of the PI and is in no way restrictive. It has a
 particular focus on supporting staff who are in the earlier stages of grant funding experience
 and most frequently availed of by ECAs. The process facilitates several stages of internal
 appraisal and review with the aim of ensuring that resources are aligned with the best proposals
 going forward by prioritising support for their development.

                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The internal review process invites investigators with early-stage project ideas to pitch their
 research concept to both the RD and HoS. These concepts are reviewed based on their scientific
 integrity, potential for impact and strategic fit with the relevant core theme of the unit. Once ratified
 candidates are invited to develop a draft case for support. At this stage the Associate Dean for
 Research and Impact (ADRI) can, following a costings review and in the case of research with
 exceptional potential, offer additional support for the project. Such support has been secured
 in a wide range of projects over the current REF period and examples include fully funded PhD
 studentships (typically to the value of £70,000) to assist in the execution of the project work plan
 and in some cases financial support/match-funding for the project. As part of the proposal
 development process, the PI is assigned support from a specific member of the University’s
 Research Development Team. The final draft of the proposal is assessed internally by three
 reviewers: typically, the RD, a subject expert and a member of the University’s Research
 Development team. These reviewers focus on the scientific aspects of the work, the strategic
 fit and compliance with the funding call/scheme support process, respectively.

 Funded investigators have access to all necessary multi-user resources and equipment available
 at our various multi-million-pound facilities. Once an award is secured investigator workload is
 adjusted in compliance with the work-load allocation model described earlier which ensures a
 healthy balance of academic duties whilst promoting well-being. Specifically, staff benefit from an
 allocation of teaching duties that are compatible with facilitating significant time for research, as
 well as access to funds to support travel, conference attendance and other networking
 opportunities as well as further mentoring.

 3.2 Support for seeking research funding
 The University’s Research Development Team is Faculty-facing and provide a continuous and
 effective pre- and post-award service to Ulster researchers. The Department for Research &
 Impact also provides an open and competitive opportunity to secure seed-funding and pump-
 priming for identification and development of projects and bids through a Research Development
 Strategy fund, Collaborative Research Fund and GCRF pump priming. In addition, the
 Department offers expert review services and PhD match funding to strengthen strategic,
 prestigious and inter-disciplinary grant applications. The University’s Thematic Leads (in both
 Engineering and Health Tech) work closely with the Faculty ADRI and the RDs to promote and
 identify opportunities for greater interdisciplinary research collaborations across the units, as
 well as with external partners and with international collaborators.

 3.3 Research funding growth during the period
 Outline details of the unit’s growth in funding in the period have been highlighted in Table 1.
 Additional details of significant Ulster-led projects relating to research funding and infrastructural
 investment during the period are overviewed below.

 New Large Projects
   ▪ CHIC: (Invest NI 2013-ongoing) (extended phase 2 funding obtained in 2019); Total
       project value £9.3m

     ▪   ECME (INTERREG 2017-ongoing); Total Project value €8.4m

     ▪   NWCAM (INTERREG 2017-2022); Total project value €8.7m

     ▪   CACR - Centre for Cardiovascular Research – (Philanthropic Investment 2006-2022);
         Total project value £900,000

     ▪   Randox Engineering-Centre of Excellence: Total Project Value £1.04m

     ▪   NIAECC-NI Advanced Engineering Competence Centre: Total Project Value £5m




                                                                                                   Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 New Infrastructure

    •   Biodevices Rapid Proto-Typing Lab; Total Project Value £7.3m

    ▪   XPS-UPS system within situ sample processing (EPSRC (EP/R008841/1) 2018-2020);
        Total Project value £1.09m. An enhancement of our existing, purpose-built laboratories
        (3000sq.m) that house state-of-the-art materials and nano-device fabrication facilities,
        characterisation materials equipment (e.g. HR-TEM-EELS, TOF-SIMS, FESEM, XPS etc.)

    ▪   SAFEWATER (EP/P032427/1); - Low-cost technologies for safe drinking water in
        developing regions (EPSRC 2017-on-going); Total Project Value: £4.9m

    ▪   Kelvin-2 (EP/T022175/1) - (EPSRC 2019-on-going); Total Project Value: £2.1m (joint
        with QUB)

 In addition to the large scale/strategic grants (c. £1m+ in value) described above further funding
 awarded for a range of projects is shown in Table 3:

         Project                           Funder                   Value of award to
                                                                    Ulster
         All Inorganic Bulk                EPSRC                    £692,713
         Heterojunction Solar Cell         (EP/K022237/1)2014-
         Devices                           2016
         An investigation into             EPSRC                    £82,793
         engineered thermoplastic          (EP/L02697X/1)
         polymer composite filament for    2014-2016
         through thickness
         reinforcement of laminated
         carbon fibre composites.
         Advanced Nanotube                 EPSRC                    £516,056
         Application and Manufacturing     EP/M015211/1
         (ANAM) Initiative                 2015-2021
         PATHway: Technology               EU H.2020                £369,974
         enabled behavioral change as      Id: 643491
         a pathway towards better self-    2015-2018
         management of CVD
         Plasma-based synthesis of         EPSRC                    £419,837
         low-cost and environmentally      (EP/M024938/1)
         friendly quantum dots with        2015-2019
         tailored energy band structure
         CHESS - Connected Health          EU H.2020                £373,937
         Early Stage Researcher            ID: 676201
         Support System”                   2015-2019

         IC-HEALTH - Improving digital     EU H.2020                £139,502
         health literacy in Europe”,       ID: 727474
         2017-2018, Awarded (to            2016-2018
         Ulster): Role: Ulster-PI.
         US-Ireland (SFI/DfENSF/HIH)
         2 off Centre-to-Centre’s
         Biomaterials (NUI-Galway,         USI111                   £299,000
         NCSU) &
         Photovoltaics (MIT-Tyndall-       US146                    £299,000
         Cork, Arizona University)



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

         Novel high performance               EPSRC                     £325,687
         polymeric composite materials        EP/N034783/1
         for additive manufacturing of        2016-2020
         multifunctional components
         Emergent Nanomaterials               EPSRC               £491,525
         (Critical Mass Proposal)             (EP/R023638/1)2018-
                                              2022
         SHAPES: Smart and Healthy            EU H2020            £352,706
         Ageing through People                id 857159
         Engaging in Supportive               2019-2023
         Systems
         Multi-User X-ray Diffraction         EP/T024437/1              £100,000
         (XRD) Core Equipment                 2020-2021
         EPSRC-SFI: An ocean                  EP/T016000/1              £602,640
         microlab for autonomous              2020-2023
         dissolved inorganic carbon
         depth profile-measurement

                                  Table 3. Range of funded projects

 3.4. Focus on Infrastructure and facilities
 Significant investment in capital/infrastructure projects has been secured from a wide range of
 funders in the reporting period. As indicated earlier the unit is central to key projects in the ongoing
 BRCD and DCSDCD initiatives (£850m and £250m total investment packages respectively). This
 most recent success builds on the nearly £6m key capital and infrastructure over the period
 including EPSRC and HERC funded resources (EPSRC Core-Capital Award, £100k; FE-SEM
 DfE-HERC £270k).

 NIBEC houses fully integrated surface-science/fabrication, rapid-proto-typing, cell-biology,
 microbiology and water research laboratories that directly enhance our interdisciplinary activities.
 In the area of advanced manufacturing, our novel composites fibre loom/resin injection NIACE
 facilities have recently been upgraded. All facilities are managed openly and fairly at unit level
 with maintenance and access by dedicated technical and administrative support staff with
 online systems helping manage access to accommodate all R&I priorities and needs
 regardless of researcher status.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Engineering Research at Ulster prides itself on a long track record of research and
 innovation based on extensive collaboration.
 As indicated throughout this statement, research collaboration is fundamental to the unit’s
 operation and staff in the unit receive extensive support to develop and maintain
 collaborations, networks and partnerships. This support is in place both at a unit level and at
 broader Institutional level.

 4.1 Support for Effective Research collaborations
 At unit level, all staff are encouraged to appreciate the value of a collaborative approach to
 research as reflected in the probation, DAR and Annual Professorial Progression review
 processes. This is supplemented by the dissemination of opportunities for research collaboration
 that are circulated in updates to staff and communicated during staff briefings. In order to reinforce
 and further encourage this outlook, staff are also frequently updated on examples of where
 collaborative research has brought benefit to the unit and University. This includes the
 dissemination of relevant research metrics that monitor the extent of research collaborations
 (e.g. SciVal). An example of such a metric output is provided in Figure 2. These data highlight the
 extent of the unit’s collaborative efforts in developing collaborative research outputs during the


                                                                                                  Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reporting period. As indicated, Engineering has a strong collaborative profile where the majority
 of our published articles (>50%) have international collaborators.


                              2.1%


                                                                       International Collaboration
      27.3%

                                                                       Only National Collaboration


                                                                       Only Institutional
                                                            54.5%
                                                                       Collaboration

                                                                       Single authorship (no
                                                                       collaboration)
         16.1%




              Figure 2. Profile of outputs from the Unit based on levels of collaboration.

 4.2 Collaboration and Engagement with Stakeholders
 Engineering at Ulster is underpinned by a significant compliment of collaborative engagements.
 These range from key collaborations with the local industry and the NI healthcare sector
 through to international collaborations with academic and clinical institutions, global
 industry and regulators via our affiliated centres, advisory-boards, panel representation,
 visiting-roles or outreach programmes as illustrated below with selected examples.

 Clinical Collaboration:
 At a regional level collaboration (MOU) with NI Healthcare and Social Care (HSC) Trusts is
 underpinned with funded initiatives such as the ECME project (Southern HSC Trust) and the
 Living-Lab Space at the Royal Victoria Hospital (Belfast HSC Trust). In regard to the latter
 interaction, the unit’s own Living-Lab Space currently co-produces improved solutions and
 accelerates access to therapies and treatment by bringing together academic, clinical experience
 and business (e.g. the AI assessment of cardiac risk via blood flow parameters in the eye project).
 Academic researchers are based both at the University and in the Hospital, thus adopting an
 enhanced co-ideation approach by almost daily collaboration with leading clinicians. Further
 International Collaborations include Beacon Hospital (Dublin) Craigavon Hospital,
 Massachusetts General Hospital-Partners (via CIMIT-USA) and with numerous other International
 clinicians.

 Academic Collaboration:
 Belgium-KU Lueven; Finland-University of Oulu; Estonia-Tallinn University; France-ESEM &
 Joseph Fourier, Jean Lamour Institute- CNRS, ENSA; Germany-Bochum Ausburg; Greece-
 Aristotle University of Thessaloniki; Ireland-University College Dublin, Dublin City University,
 National University of Ireland Galway & Maynooth, Tyndall Institute, RCS; Italy-University of
 Palermo; Netherlands–Groningen; Norway-NTNU-SINTEF; Romania-Cluj Napoca; Serbia-Inst.
 Physics; Spain-Universidad De La Laguna, Platforma Solar de Almeria, Universidad Rey Juan
 Carlos, University of Almeria Switzerland–EAWAG Slovenia-Joseph Stefan Institute; Turkey-
 Ege University; UK Cambridge, Manchester, St Andrews, QUB, Surrey, UCL.

                                                                                               Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 International universities including Australia-CISRO, Sydney & Wollongong; Brazil-Santa
 Catarina, Univ of Sao Paulo; Canada-Waterloo and Alberta; China Chinese Academy of
 Sciences, Nanjing University, China Academy of Engineering Physics, Columbia-Univ of
 Medellin; Cuba-Havana; Ethopia-Pontificia Univ of Mekelle; India-IIT Mumbai, Shiv Nadar
 University; Israel-Ben Gurion, Technion Institute; Japan- AIST, TIT, Zheijiang University; Kenya-
 NGOs; Morocco-Rabat University Singapore-Nanyang; S Africa-Univ of Pretoria (S Africa), S
 Korea- Yong Hee;Taiwan-Nat. U. of Taiwan; USA- Scripps Oceanography UCSD, Stanford,
 Connecticut; Pennsylvania, MIT, Massachusetts (Lowell & Dartmouth), Case Western Reserve,
 Texas, Illinois, Northeastern, NCSU, Arizona State; Venezuela-University Javer.

 Industrial Collaboration:
 2D-Tech/Varsarian, Abington Healthcare, Applicat (Spain), Armstrong Medical, Artemis
 Technologies, Avellino, AVX, Axial3D, Axis Composites, Boeing, Bombardier (now Spirit),
 BOSCH, Boston Scientific, BT, Caterpillar, Ciga Healthcare, Cirdan, Dell, Denroy, Dupont, Energia
 Group, GE Healthcare, Imp-Delft (Netherlands), Innov8 Ltd, Intel, Intelesens, Kainos, LPE,
 Medtronic, Microsoft, NVIDIA, Philips Healthcare, ProAxsis, Randox Laboratories, RHI Ltd,
 Seagate-Irl/USA, SiSaF, Stryker, Thales, Turpas (Turkey) plus numerous others.

 4.3 Contribution to the external research environment

 4.3.1 Unit’s staff activities in relation to research output activity
 Guest editor roles: Applied Sciences (Bhalla), Sensors (Finlay, Ng, Davis), Catalysis Today
 (Fernandez-Ibanez), Journal of Chemistry Technology and Biotechnology (Fernandez-Ibanez),
 MDPI Micromachines (Mancuso, Soin), JOM- Minerals, Metals & Materials Society (McFadden),
 MDPI Water (Dunlop), MDPI - Materials (Soin), MDPI Chemical Engineering (Davis), Journal of
 Carbon Research (Soin), Chemosensors Special Issue (Maguire).

 Editorial Board Memberships: Journal of Electrocardiology (Finlay), Process Safety and
 Environmental Protection (PSEP) Journal (Fernandez-Ibanez), MDPI-Materials (McFadden),
 MDPI-Clean Technologies (Dunlop), Acta Materialia Turcica (Papakonstantinou), Journal of
 Materials Science and Research (Papakonstantinou), Journal of Nanomaterials & Molecular
 Nanotechnology (JNMN) (Papakonstantinou), Journal of Carbon Research (Papakonstantinou)
 Nano-Materials Science (Papakonstantinou), MDPI Clean Technologies (Dunlop); IOP Plasma
 Sources in Nanoscience (Special Issue) (Mariotti).

 Editorial and Associate Editorial roles: Frontiers in Environmental science (Fernandez-Ibanez),
 Journal of Photochemistry & Photobiology, A: Chemistry (Fernandez-Ibanez), IEEE TechRxiv
 (Ng), IEEE Access (Ng), Frontiers in Physics – Interdisciplinary Physics (Mariotti), Frontiers in
 Energy Research – Nanoenergy Technologies and Materials (Mariotti); Plasma Processes &
 Polymers (Mariotti).

 4.3.2. Representation on external panels relating to funding and scientific leadership
 National funding review and panel activity: EPRSC McFadden, McLaughlin, Maguire, Mariotti,
 McIlhagger, Soin, Papakonstantinou), BBSRC (Boyd, Mancuso), MRC (Dunlop, Mancuso,
 McFadden), ESRC (Dunlop), BARD (Dunlop), GCRF-UKRI (Fernandez-Ibanez), TSB
 (Papakonstantinou), Royal Society (Boyd, Soin, Papakonstantinou, McLaughlin), Orthopaedic
 Research UK (Boyd), Academy of Medical Science (Mancuso), Newton Fund (Ng,
 McLaughlin).

 International funding review and panel activity: Fernandez-Ibanez, EU-e.g. h2020, ERC,
 MSCA etc., Spanish Research Funding (MINECO) Czech Science Foundation; Israeli Ministry of
 Science and Technology; Maguire Inst Physics Belgrade; McFadden Helmholz Institute,
 Germany; McLaughlin DRG (Germany), NSF (USA) and Singapore RC; Papakonstantinou,
 NRF- South Africa, NCSTE- Kazakhstan, Qatar National Research Fund (QNRF), The Dutch
 Technology Foundation, The French National Research Agency, Foundation for Polish Science,
 NSFC China; Czech Science Foundation, EU-e.g. H2020, ERC, MSCA etc.; Rahimian Icelandic
 Research Fund; Soin NRF SA, NCSTE Kazakhstan.

                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Representation on research and scientific forums: Archer-British composites society, EPSRC
 future composite manufacturing hub; Acheson- Northern Ireland Biomedical Engineering
 Society; Boyd-UK Society for Biomaterials Committee, Northern Ireland Biomedical Engineering
 Society; Byrne-NI Science Festival, Professional Bodies Forum in Support of the All Party Group
 on STEM; External Advisory Board GCRF SUNRISE AND recirculate; Dunlop-Royal Society of
 Biology NI Committee, NESTA Longitude Prize judging panel; Fernandez-Ibanez- Royal Irish
 Academy – Climate Change and Environmental Sciences Committee, European Committee on
 Energy Strategic Working Group, Member of MINECO (Spain) Finlay- Computing in Cardiology
 Inc-Board member, Int Society for Computerised Electrocardiology-Board of Directors; Golbang-
 EPSRC future composite manufacturing hub; Harkin-Jones-Royal Academy of Engineering
 Materials & Mining Membership committee (Chair), Royal Academy of Engineering Education &
 Skills Committee, Council of Mechanical Engineering Professors Ireland, Irish Academy of
 Engineering Standing Committee on Enterprise, Innovation & Education, Royal Irish Academy
 Working Group on Brexit and Northern Ireland Higher Education System; Maguire- UK COST
 Action CA19110, UK Technological Plasmas Committee, IOP UK Plasma Physics Committee, RS
 Newton Fellowship Review Panel, Royal Irish Academy Physical Chemical Sciences Committee;
 McIlhagger- National Aerospace Exploitation Programme Regional Panel, Mariotti- RS Dorothy
 Hodgkin Fellowships Selection Committee, Group Leader, COST Action TD1208 “Applications in
 nanoscience and surface treatment”, EPSRC SUPERGEN SuperSolar Hub; McLaughlin-
 European Connected Health Alliance (Director), Connected Health Advisory Panel (CHAP),
 EPSRC Physical Sciences Materials Board Member, KTN Advisory Health Board, NI MATRIX
 Panel, HIRANI, Trustee of Heart-Trust fund NI – Pantridge Fund, Ralph-Technical Textiles Group,
 Natural Fibre Group, EPSRC future composite manufacturing hub.




                                                                                         Page 19
