Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: The University of Leeds

 Unit of Assessment: 33B

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Context and structure
 UoA33B comprises researchers in the School of Performance & Cultural Industries (PCI)
 founded in 2001 when Bretton Hall College, which enjoyed a national reputation for leading
 innovative programmes in design, music, and the visual and performance arts, merged with the
 University of Leeds, bringing a major investment in new facilities and staff. PCI is now one of
 nine Schools in the Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Cultures established in 2016 via the
 integration of the Faculty of Arts and the Faculty of Performance, Visual Arts and
 Communication. The merger has supported research excellence and strengthened disciplines,
 while promoting meaningful cross-disciplinary collaborations. A measure of this success is that
 the Faculty is currently the highest recipient of AHRC funding, while the UoA has won large-
 scale support, for example in its successful bid to host the national Centre for Cultural Value.

 Research vision and strategy
 The REF 2014 report identified the Unit’s demonstrable commitment to research at the interface
 between performance and the cultural industries. Our impact plans and activities were described
 as ‘outstanding’ and of notable use to industry leaders. This commitment to engaged research,
 deeply rooted in and connected to the arts and culture, and the roles that these play in society,
 has remained the driving force for the Unit’s activities in the period and reflects our School’s
 inclusive ethos. This is encapsulated in our vision: to place impactful research at the heart of
 everything we do and provide innovative leadership in the field of performance and
 across the arts and cultural industries, which underpins our strategic planning for the next
 phase of activity. While in 2014 the research infrastructure (3 inclusive research groups, led by
 members of the professoriate) was seen to offer stability, particularly for ECRs, there were
 doubts raised in the report as to its fitness for career development and flexibility for challenge-
 based, time-limited research calls. These were addressed early in the current REF period and a
 much more fluid, needs-based arrangement of research groups (predominantly internal
 mechanisms with rotating convenors) and research centres (largely externally focused and
 funded, operating nationally and internationally) was established. This responsive model has
 served us very well in adapting to rapidly evolving funding, policy and public health landscapes.

 Viewed collectively, the Unit’s research interests, publications, performances and projects
 represent an arc that ranges from the individual artist to the general public via creative
 practitioners, producers, managers, leaders, audiences, markets and policymakers. We see
 performance as a strategic response to the global challenges facing our planet and its people –
 complex and urgent issues that demand creative, interdisciplinary and imaginative approaches.
 This belief leads us to critically explore established and emerging tensions between performance
 traditions such as activism, play, participation and co-creation, and aspects of resilience,
 profitability and economic impact often championed by policymakers in the cultural industries,
 which was the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly growing segment of the UK’s pre-Covid-19
 economy. This interdisciplinary approach enables us to respond quickly to UKRI calls for GCRF
 bids and other hypothecated funds such as the Industrial Strategy, as evidenced by our research
 income (see Section 3). Thanks largely to extensive external funding and contract research, our
 research groups and centres are well-resourced and international in their outlook and ambition;
 they help position PCI as a commanding Unit of research power and expertise.

 The ecology of research groups and centres is narrated here under three interlocking research
 themes: (1) Cultural value, engagement and policy; (2) Cultural places, spaces and
 environments; (3) Performance pedagogies, processes and practices.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1) Cultural value, engagement and policy
 Research under this theme sits largely within two Unit-led national centres, the Centre for
 Cultural Value and the Centre for Cultural Policy. These are complemented by two internal
 research groups led by researchers in the Unit and operating across Faculty: Audience
 Experience and Engagement; and Participation. The £2.5m Centre for Cultural Value (CCV -
 led by Director/PI Walmsley with Jancovich as Co-I/Associate Director) is funded by the AHRC,
 Arts Council England and Paul Hamlyn Foundation. Launched in October 2019, CCV delivers
 research and CPD events all over the UK and distributes over £200k in seed funding to
 encourage arts and cultural organisations to capture impact in more rigorous ways and to
 pioneer new research and evaluation methods. As a national consortium of HEIs and 30 cultural
 partners, including The Audience Agency, the BFI, the BBC, the British Library, the Natural
 History Museum, Coventry 2021, the Museums Association and two of the UK’s national
 theatres, it acts as a bridge between sector partners – a conduit for research into cultural value
 and a recognised centre of expertise. The Centre’s activities draw on the cultural value
 scholarship of Calvin Taylor and the cultural policy history undertaken by Upchurch and are
 underpinned by Walmsley’s research in arts marketing, arts evaluation and audience
 engagement and by Jancovich’s work on cultural engagement and participation.

 The Centre for Cultural Policy (CCP) is dedicated to exploring and expanding the breadth of
 multi- and inter-disciplinary research in the field of cultural policy, regionally, nationally and
 internationally. The Centre was founded by Upchurch, who also founded and co-edited the
 Palgrave Macmillan book series New Directions in Cultural Policy Research. It is now led by
 Jancovich and counts Borchi, Dobson, Ma, Price, Walmsley and Ward as core members.
 Affiliate members come from English, Fine Art, Geography, Media, Politics and Environment,
 demonstrating how the Centre galvanises cultural policy research across the University. CCP
 supports and provides a showcase for rigorous, critical and cutting-edge academic research and
 knowledge exchange across the arts and cultural sector and the wider creative industries – for
 example via a commercial online course on Effective Arts Fundraising and Leadership, part of
 the national Arts Fundraising and Philanthropy programme (see REF3). The Centre influences
 the wider field through editorships and membership of editorial boards and national funding
 bodies (see Section 4).

 Working across performance and cultural industries research, the Audience Experience and
 Engagement group (Fenemore, McKechnie, McKinney, Palmer, Walmsley + 9 PGRs)
 investigates how active modes of engagement, such as co-production and co-creation, herald a
 departure from traditional forms of spectatorship and signal a new dialogic relationship between
 artists, arts organisations and audiences. Hosting the AHRC International Network for Audience
 Research in the Performing Arts, the group held four events in 2017–18 (PI: Walmsley) in
 collaboration with Deakin University (Melbourne), as well as producing a double special issue of
 Cultural Trends (28:2–3) on Audience Data and Research. Via a large-scale three-year piece of
 contracted action research, group members are evaluating the National Theatre's £2m Theatre
 Nation Partnerships project, which is designed to develop audiences for drama in areas of
 England with low cultural engagement. Notable long-form research outputs from this group
 include Walmsley's monograph Audience Engagement in the Performing Arts: A critical analysis.

 The Participation research group (Borchi, Jancovich, O’Grady, Palmer, Walsh + 7PGRs)
 examines the nature of participation as both a process and a goal, in all its forms, from
 participatory practice, to participatory research and participatory governance. The group creates
 space for shared cross-disciplinary approaches to participation in policy and practice, and
 focuses specifically on work that involves non-arts audiences, working in applied settings and/or
 using participatory approaches for social change. Monographs by Walsh (Prison Cultures) and
 the edited collection, Risk, Performance and Performance Practice (O’Grady) complement an
 interdisciplinary seminar series ‘Performing geographies of social change’, and co-investigation
 for a large GCRF/AHRC Changing the Story ‘Untitled Land/Voices/Stories project’ in South
 Africa (Walsh).



                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2) Cultural places, spaces and environments
 Research activity in this theme straddles many of PCI’s core interests and encourages research
 which is similarly agile and interdisciplinary. It mainly takes place within the Place and
 Performance research group (Borchi, McKinney, O’Grady, Palmer, Pitches, Salazar Sutil,
 Ward, Willson + 3 PGRs), which investigates the dynamic interactions between culture, people
 and places. With expertise in scenography, environmental performance, cultural economy,
 gender and politics, the group has active synergies with scholars from other disciplines,
 facilitating cross-institutional collaboration with colleagues in Health, Geography, English,
 Architecture, Fine Art and Music. These are evidenced in some of the group’s larger funded
 research Projects (Pitches’ Performing Mountains; Salazar Sutil‘s Pas-en-Avant and Survivor
 Group); in joint PGR supervisions and internships (with Geography, Music, Politics and
 Medicine); and in collaborations with key cultural and third sector parties – local (e.g. Tetley and
 East Street Arts), national (e.g. Kendal Mountain Festival) and international (e.g. UNESCO.
 UNHCR and African Union). The group’s publication and project record reflects disciplinary
 leadership in methodological innovation and impact - informing public opinion on water value
 and river rights (Riverine/Pas en Avant, Salazar Sutil); modelling the cultural impact of
 performance in Mountain Studies (Pitches Performing Mountains and Black Rock); and
 ‘expanding scenography’ to explore city-scapes and heritage locations (Palmer; McKinney
 edited collection).
 3) Performance pedagogies, processes and practices
 Research under this theme largely takes place within two dedicated groups Performance
 Training, Preparation and Pedagogy and Bodies and Performance.
 The Performance Training, Preparation and Pedagogy group (Bannon, Kapsali, McKechnie,
 Pitches, Rodosthenous + 7 PGRs) explores how training for different practices operates
 across cultural contexts. It brings together a range of research perspectives including directing,
 new writing, dramaturgy, performance training, ethics, and (digital) education. The group has
 been influential nationally and internationally, researching practices of directing, new writing,
 musical theatre, and dramaturgy, and positioning performance training as a critical research field
 (interculturally, historiographically and technologically), partly through editorship of the quarterly
 journal, Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (Founding Co-Editor Pitches, Associate
 Editor Kapsali). Other publication successes also reflect this field leadership, including a
 monograph, Performer Training and Technology, and book series, Perspectives on Performer
 Training (author and co-editor both Kapsali), with six commissions so far. The ethics of training
 in education are central to the group’s remit articulated in monograph form (Bannon,
 Considering Ethics) and short curated blog posts by members (2018-19). The borders of training
 are questioned through digital practices: £50K internal funding for a research-driven Massive
 Open Online Course Meyerhold’s Biomechanics delivered on the commercial FutureLearn
 platform, with over 30,000 students to date (see REF3) and over £30k catalyst funding to
 develop a movement sonification app (Sonolope) in a range of applied contexts. The group
 enjoys close research partnerships with professional theatre and performance organisations
 including Leeds Playhouse, Proper Job Theatre, Red Ladder, Slung Low, Opera North
 (McKechnie monograph of the same name) and Leeds Art Gallery (Kapsali).

 The Bodies and Performance group (Fenemore, Lawson, Taylor (formerly Popat), Willson +
 5 PGRs) explores the way bodies are performed in their cultural, biological, philosophical,
 aesthetic and mediated contexts. The group researches the pleasure, joy, pain and everyday
 experiences of the lived body as well as technologies that enhance and shape the body as lived.
 Group successes include Willson’s £630k AHRC Fabulous Femininities grant; an AHRC-funded
 ‘Error network’ dedicated to understanding human-computer interaction (Taylor); an
 interdisciplinary symposium (‘The Lived Body in Performance’) resulting in a seedcorn project
 Miscarriage and Wellbeing (Willson), which works across Applied Health (Midwifery) and
 performance; and Wellcome Trust-funded research on prosthetics use and legislation - the
 Identity and Governance of Bodily Extensions (Taylor).



                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The activity of both these groups is supported by two outward-facing research centres: the
 Faculty’s Centre for Practice-led Research in the Arts (CePRA), co-directed by Bannon, and
 the international Stanislavsky Research Centre (SRC; Deputy Director Pitches). CePRA
 brings together and supports scholars from across the arts whose research employs practice
 research methodologies, distributing small funds for events and projects. SRC showcases
 research based upon the work and legacy of Konstantin Stanislavsky. The Centre, which moved
 to Leeds in 2018, has hosted keynote lectures from Professors Bella Merlin and Paul Fryer;
 provided developmental training days for ECRs and practitioners in collaboration with Routledge
 Journals (Practice, Reflect, Share 2016-2020); and supported the Unit’s annual Drama Teacher
 Conference. The Centre is linked to the annual international symposium, The S-Word, which has
 attracted 300 participants to events in the UK, USA, Czech Republic and Malta during the
 period. The peer-reviewed journal Stanislavski Studies (Routledge) is affiliated to the SRC and
 Pitches serves on its editorial board.

 Impact strategy
 In REF2014 impact was recognised as ‘outstanding’ in this Unit. In the current period we have
 sought to maintain and indeed develop that level of performance through infrastructural
 investment, targeted recruitment, enhanced bid support and new mechanisms for impact data
 management. Our vision for Impact recognises that we have an ethical duty to share the
 insights of our research as widely and effectively as possible, working to ensure our
 ideas lead to tangible change in areas of demonstrable need informed by the very best in
 our research. The impact we have made as a Unit maps closely onto the three themes
 articulated above (Culture, Place, Pedagogy). Our impact strategy is led by the Director of
 Research and Innovation (DoRI: Walmsley, 0.4FTE), advised by the School Research and
 Innovation Committee. Its implementation is delegated to the Director of Impact (Pitches –
 0.2FTE). The strategy builds on the world-leading impact case studies from REF2014, including
 the priorities articulated for the period 2014–2020. In brief, these were: to build on Collaborative
 Doctoral Award (CDA) successes; to maintain a high level of industry-related funded research
 projects; to develop interdisciplinary impact with international reach; and to develop sector
 leadership in the field of cultural value. Since then, the funding landscape has shifted
 considerably (with CDAs moving to consortia) but we have held true to the core direction
 underlying these principles. We maintain an active interest in supporting students to produce
 work of value to the industry though the interdisciplinary base of this research is distinctively
 broader than in 2014 (see Section 4); and our sector leadership in cultural value and impact has
 been recognised with the award of the national Centre for Cultural Value.

 Our investment has meant that since the last REF, impact has evolved from discrete areas of
 expertise to a defining function of our role as a research-intensive unit in performance and
 cultural industries. This transformation is underpinned by targeted recruitment in impact
 expertise at School and Faculty level. In 2017 a designated Faculty Impact Support Officer role
 was created (1.0FTE) to support the Pro-Dean for Research and Innovation in overseeing the
 implementation of the Faculty impact strategy. A permanent School Impact Support Officer (ISO)
 was appointed in 2018 (1.0 FTE shared with Music and English). The Unit ISO supports
 colleagues from project idea through to post award evidence-gathering, ensuring researchers
 embed impact measurement into their planning. Since being appointed, the ISO has worked with
 colleagues on 15 projects in D33b alone, including those relating to REF3. Operating across
 three UoAs, she develops best practice and brokers interdisciplinary peer-review, leading
 development workshops for staff and PGRs. University-level enhancements in online storage of
 impact data (IRIS) and acknowledgment of impact activity in workload planning, promotion
 schemes, and academic monitoring ensure that the step-change in the assessment of impact is
 appropriately resourced and incentivised.
 Our submitted Impact Case Studies in REF3 reflect the breadth of the Unit’s expertise in
 performance and cultural industries research and testify to the scope of our claimed impact
 identified above – from the individual artist to the general public via educators, cultural
 practitioners, managers, leaders and policymakers. They lay out the evidence for the impact of
 our research on new and experienced professional scenographers (Palmer and McKinney), on


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 arts fundraisers and future leaders (Walmsley) and on secondary teachers, emergent actors
 and a ‘massive’ international pool of online learners (Pitches).
 As we move forward, our view that performance research can uniquely address the global
 challenges facing our planet is reflected in the range of impacts anticipated in the Unit over the
 next 1-4 years. A recent survey conducted with 15 researchers in the School evidenced actual or
 potential impacts across 7 areas, with many anticipating multiple impacts: Public policy/services
 (5 projects); Economic (2); Social (6); Cultural (12); Health (3); Environmental (3); Quality of Life
 (8). These statistics reflect ongoing projects and are not included in the ICSs submitted to REF3
 The breadth of these developments within PCI are laid out in Section 4. They provide a window
 onto our future strategic direction expressed in our vision, strengthening the close relationship
 already enjoyed between our funded research and the communities identified as beneficiaries in
 our impact plans. These projects include: advancement of ecological and decolonial
 methodologies drawing on indigenous and traditional communities in Central Africa (Salazar
 Sutil); participatory arts research aimed at young people with cancer (O’Grady);
 transformational enterprise to support local economic development through cultural and creative
 industries in sub-Saharan Africa and Vietnam (Dobson); historical and practice research in
 collaboration with mountain festivals to heighten the impact of the live arts on environmental
 awareness (Pitches); and the strong policy impact and bid plans following on from the AHRC-
 funded research project Cultural Participation: Stories of Success, Histories of Failure (PI:
 Jancovich). This breadth of impact, underpinned by UKRI peer-reviewed projects and high-
 quality publications, is a function of the singular combination of performance and cultural
 industries research, reflected in the name and ethos of the School and embodied in its staff.

 Future plans
 We have recently refreshed our research vision and are clear about how we want to frame our
 scholarly and impact activities to ensure that they remain vital and sustainable. Our distinctive
 combination of expertise in performance studies and across the cultural industries enables us to
 position our research in an applied and tailored way to respond to wider sector and social
 challenges, such as ongoing decolonialisation, mass migration, climate crisis, creating world-
 leading immersive content, evaluating cultural value, and democratising cultural engagement.
 We will therefore continue to recruit and develop staff who operate at the nexus of performance
 and the cultural industries. This will enhance our growing capacity and aptitude for large GCRF
 and other hypothecated funding driven by the Government’s Industrial Strategy. Meanwhile, our
 5-year leadership of the Centre for Cultural Value is enabling us to broker new national and
 international partnerships and alliances to facilitate further bids to the AHRC’s Cultural Value
 funding strand and to attract ESRC funds. Coupled with the breadth of engaged research plans
 detailed above, the Unit is confident it has a sustainable basis for an ambitious period of high-
 quality research activity going forward, building a compelling evidence base for the Unit to be
 recognised as a leader in challenge-led research, on several fronts.
 Our growing PGR community keeps our research fresh and vital, especially via the diverse and
 pioneering methodologies that our PGRs bring into the Unit, including a constellation of practice-
 led projects. So, despite external funding challenges, we will continue to invest in PGR activity
 by committing to School scholarships (£409K in the period), overseeing a step change in our
 PGR training and professional development, and shifting our approach from focusing on PhD
 completion per se to engendering future leaders, both in academia and in the cultural sector.
 Continuing our success with CDAs in the previous REF exercise, we secured 2 CDAs in the past
 two years and plans are underway to build on this in the next period. We will continue to enact
 leadership in the field by hosting national and international conferences (e.g. TaPRA in 2023 and
 a major Cultural Value conference planned for 2023) and maintaining editorship of key journals
 (see Section 4). We retain our cherished goal to shape the international development of
 practice-led research and will therefore continue to invest time and effort to recruitment in this
 area. We will develop our growing number of national and international collaborations, both with
 other HEIs and with world-leading cultural partners. This will enable us to maximise the reach
 and impact of our research as well as offering unique development opportunities for our staff and
 PGRs. In anticipation of the next REF, research staff have already started achieving this impact
 in relation to Covid-19 via successful UKRI bids (Walmsley). We value inclusive, politically

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engaged research and warmly welcome the move to open access publishing (in the last REF
 cycle downloads of WRRO outputs increased from 3,182 to 80,914). Being at the forefront of this
 democratic shift to OA ensures that our research impacts more immediately beyond the
 academy.
 Section 2. People
 Responsibility for the leadership and implementation of the Unit’s research strategy is
 devolved to the Director of Research and Innovation (Walmsley), who reports to the Head of
 School (O’Grady, 2015-20, Pitches thereafter) in conjunction with the School Leadership Team
 and the Faculty Pro-Dean for Research and Innovation. The DoRI chairs the quarterly School
 Research and Innovation Committee, which reviews relevant policies and strategies and acts as
 a task and finish group on timely initiatives, such as mapping and refreshing research groups.
 Since REF2014 our strategy for staffing and staff development has been realised by:
 recruiting permanent and fixed-term staff and PDRFs to enhance our identified research
 strengths and areas of growth; improved internal mechanisms for allocating research time and
 research leave; engaging actively with new Faculty support structures for bidding and internal
 reviewing; introducing a more formal research mentoring scheme and developing our research
 mentors; and strategic collaborations designed to increase engagement with external partners
 and research beneficiaries to enhance the impact of our research, innovation and engagement.
 We submitted 13 staff to REF2014 and are submitting 20.6 current research staff to REF2021 –
 a 62% growth rate which illustrates our significant but sustainable growth as a body of scholars
 and our evolving research power.

 Staff recruitment and promotion
 Our commitment to staff recruitment and investment is partly captured in our HR data: Since
 REF2014 we have recruited a total of 10 new Category A staff (8 as Lecturers and 2 as
 Academic Research Fellows). This significant investment in people has been highly strategic in
 order to consolidate our strengths across the three themes identified in Section 1. For example,
 Borchi, Dobson, Jancovich, Ma, Price and Ward were all appointed to enhance our capacity
 in the cultural and creative industries, while Lawson and Walsh were recruited to deepen
 practice research and applied performance. Our investment in two research fellow posts
 (Salazar Sutil and Willson) is significant and has paid rich dividends not only in raising the
 profile of our interdisciplinary research but also in significant grant capture. Over the current REF
 period we have promoted 5 female and 2 male colleagues: six from Lecturer to Associate
 Professor (Fenemore, Jancovich, Rodosthenous, Walmsley, Walsh and Ma) and two from
 Associate Professor to Professor (Walmsley and O’Grady). Subject to satisfactory progression,
 our 2 Academic Research Fellows, funded initially by the University’s competitive ‘Great Minds’
 scheme (£100M between 2014-17) will be promoted to Associate Professor within 5 years of
 starting (with Salazar Sutil promoted since the census date).


 Staff development takes place at many different levels: in School and institutionally; formally
 and informally; online and face-to-face. We offer a generous package of research leave and
 support. Colleagues can apply for research leave every five semesters through a competitive
 internal scheme that rewards high quality, ambitious and achievable proposals that are likely to
 culminate in outcomes and/or outputs, including bids and impact, that reflect the UoA’s research
 strategy. Over this REF period 13 colleagues have benefitted from a full semester’s research
 leave and one of these (Lawson) also received a matched semester’s leave through the Faculty
 Study Leave Scheme. Since 2018 staff have also been encouraged to apply to the School and
 Faculty for full or partial teaching relief (whilst maintaining academic roles), and in the past two
 years 3 colleagues have been awarded relief specifically to develop research outputs and/or to
 develop a bid. Applications to these schemes are nurtured and signed off through our robust
 Research Needs Analysis (RNA) process, which operates in tandem with our Staff Review and
 Development Scheme (SRDS) and our Annual Academic Meetings (AAMs) to identify how we
 can best support individual researchers to meet their own ambitions whilst forwarding the
 strategic goals of the Unit and in alignment with them. RNA meetings are led by individuals’
 named research mentors, who are drawn from senior research staff and allocated according to

                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research specialism. Informal research mentoring meetings take place 3–4 times per year,
 complementing the formal RNA. In line with Faculty protocols, all our Category A staff are
 allocated 30% of their workload to research and impact activity, and in some cases 10% of this
 is earmarked specifically for bidding. Individual variances are discussed and agreed in the
 AAMs, which operate as 3-year strategic planning meetings that explore colleagues’ activities
 and performance across the piece. Our £22k annual staff research budget (allocated from QR
 funds) offers development funding of up to £1k per annum for each member of staff (to cover
 conference attendance, publication costs, pump-priming, etc.) and earmarks £1k per year to
 each research group to fund externally facing performances, symposia and other events. The
 Unit’s Research Seminar Series, curated by our two Academic Research Fellows, offers regular
 opportunities for staff and PGRs to present their work and obtain timely feedback. It also offers a
 platform for leading scholars in their sub-disciplines to present their own research at events such
 as ‘To be more animal’ with philosopher Prof Helen Steward in 2016; and Fine Art Scholar
 Azadeh Fatehrad on ‘Women and the Veil in Post-revolutionary Iran’ in 2019. Both series
 resulted in edited book outcomes (Willson and Salazar Sutil). Beyond these formal
 mechanisms, research excellence is developed via rigorous peer-review within our research
 groups and centres.

 Beyond the School, staff development is overseen at a strategic, institutional level by our
 dedicated Organisational Development and Professional Learning team, which offers a range of
 short courses related to research development for staff and PGRs. Faculty-wide development
 opportunities are offered by the Leeds Arts & Humanities Research Institute (e.g. on bid writing
 and supporting interdisciplinary research via the Sadler Seminar Series) and by the Cultural
 Institute, which offers seed funding to develop collaborative impactful research via its ‘Ignite’ and
 Creative Lab schemes. PCI has performed very well in these pump priming schemes, with
 colleagues securing 13 grants totalling £25,500 since REF2014. These funds have enabled new
 partnerships with West Yorkshire Police (O’Grady), Third Eye Asian Centre (Lyons), South
 Asian Arts UK (McKinney), Leeds Mind (Walsh) and Red Ladder Theatre Company (Pitches).

 As a School whose research is concerned with questions of social and environmental justice, we
 pride ourselves on our approach to pressing issues of equality and diversity. We are a richly
 diverse group of scholars, encompassing colleagues from many different ethnic and class
 backgrounds and from all over the world: Chile, China, Cyprus, Germany, Greece, Italy and
 South Africa. Many of these international colleagues (Borchi, Ma, Salazar Sutil and Walsh)
 have been appointed post REF2014, which illustrates our strong commitment to diversification
 and internationalisation. This profile is further enhanced by our Visiting Research Fellows and
 Visiting Professors (see below). Our professoriate had a gender ratio of 2:2 during the census
 period, including a woman of colour. We are committed to leadership development for women.
 Two colleagues have completed the prestigious Aurora programme (Fenemore and McKinney)
 and our third successive female former Head of School (O’Grady) is an Aurora mentor and
 keynote speaker. We implement flexible working arrangements for colleagues with caring
 responsibilities and facilitate home working wherever appropriate, with additional support
 measures put in place to support the wellbeing of colleagues and PGRs working remotely as a
 result of Covid-19.

 We have 9 early career researchers in the Unit (Borchi, Lawson, Ward + 6 PDRFs). ECRs
 are supported in various ways, including a reduced teaching allocation in their first year and a
 dedicated Research Mentor and Probation Mentor to ensure effective integration, progression
 and development. All staff can also access peer mentoring via their research groups. Six
 postdoctoral researchers (up from 1 in 2014) are attached to our research centres and
 projects. They benefit from the careful mentoring and management provided by their PIs and
 also from the dedicated postdoctoral development that takes places via the Leeds Arts and
 Humanities Research Institute. Benefitting from access to our theatres and studio spaces, they
 have helped to organise several symposia and conferences as well as co-editing related outputs
 (e.g. Jancovich’s 2018 Participation as Policy, Practice and Methodology and Pitches’ 2018
 Performing Mountains Symposium and Performance Research Special Issue). Outgoing
 postdocs have progressed onto permanent Lectureships (Shearing at the Royal Central School

                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 of Speech and Drama having won a Sky Academy Arts Scholarship in 2014 and Gold and Silver
 awards at the World Stage Design exhibitions in 2013 and 2017 respectively). And our two
 Academic Research Fellows (Preece and Beswick) also found permanent posts, both at Exeter.

 Our Postgraduate Researchers (PGRs) are a vital part of our School and encapsulate the rich
 diversity of research visible across the Unit. Since the last REF exercise there has been an
 exponential rise in PhDs related to cultural policy and audience research reflecting both
 significant staff recruitment in this area and the large bidding successes referred to in Section 1.
 We continue to take a rigorous approach to the recruitment and selection of new postgraduate
 researchers, based on supported research proposals and interviews, and we currently have 25
 PGRs enrolled. All our PGRs are supervised by two or three academics, including one who must
 have supervised to successful completion (the high ratio of ECRs limits our ability to supervise a
 larger volume of PhDs). Supervisors receive compulsory training following the University's and
 School's Codes of Practice for Supervision of Research Degree Candidatures, requiring all full-
 time students to attend a minimum of 10 formal supervisions per year (6 for part-time). We are
 fully compliant with the QAA's Code of Practice for the Assurance of Academic Quality and
 Standards and the Faculty has developed specific Ordinances and Regulations covering
 practice-led research, advised by PCI staff. PGRs are also supported by a dedicated Director of
 Postgraduate Research Studies (Kapsali) and by a Senior Graduate School Officer, who
 provide specialist academic, administrative and pastoral support. Beyond PCI, PGRs are
 supported by the Faculty’s Graduate School and by the University’s Doctoral College, which
 brings together all the support services and opportunities to coordinate and enhance the
 postgraduate research experience. Under the direction of its Dean (Prof. Claire Honess), the
 Doctoral College runs regular drop-in and training sessions for PGRs and organises seminars
 and other events including the annual Doctoral College Showcase. Training opportunities are
 provided by the Organisational Development and Professional Learning team and teaching
 development is supplemented by the PCI Mentoring Scheme overseen by Kapsali.

 The University-wide strategy of promoting a vibrant PhD community through investment in
 doctoral training is reflected in the quality of PCI’s Postgraduate recruitment. In this REF period
 we have offered 10 PhD scholarships and achieved significant success with University and
 external PGR funding, attracting an additional 10 Faculty/University scholarships and 8 AHRC
 White Rose College of Arts and Humanities scholarships. WRoCAH was awarded the largest
 block grant in the UK for students starting their studies in 2014; funding for 240 awards was
 renewed in 2019 with 15% of it ringfenced for industry-based projects. These consortium-funded
 studentships come with a very generous package of additional support, international networking
 and knowledge exchange opportunities. We allocate an annual budget of £3,000 per year to
 support our PGRs, which includes conference attendance and additional support for practice-led
 projects. Over the current REF period we have allocated £14,857 of this, in addition to the
 support and development offered by the White Rose College. An additional annual budget of
 £500 supports our PGR Seminar Series, co-ordinated by a committee of PGRs under the
 leadership of two PGR Reps who receive training by the Students’ Union. PGRs also organise
 conferences – e.g. the Audience Research Conference: Across the Divide conference
 (University of York, September 2018).

 We have hosted two PGRs from Aarhus University for a two-month research placement
 supervised by Jancovich. Since August 2013 we have celebrated 28 successful PGR
 completions (compared with 15 over the previous REF period), which demonstrates the
 significant uplift we have managed to develop in our PGR cohort as well as the high quality of
 our PhD candidates and our support for their timely completions. Since REF2014, three of our
 successful doctoral scholars were awarded with the ‘exceptional’ recognition of ‘Research
 Excellence’. In a challenging environment for ECRs in the job market, destination data up to
 2018 indicates 10 out of 17 completing PGRs found permanent posts as academics and a
 further four are working in related industry posts.

 Finally, we have continued to invest in Visiting Research Fellows (VRFs) and Visiting
 Professors. Since REF2014 we have welcomed 9 VRFs from academia and industry: Dr Claire

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Antrobus (Arts consultant); Dr Simon Dancey (CEO of Creative and Cultural Skills), Dr Steven
 Hadley (ex-CEO, Audiences Northern Ireland), Dr David Shearing (see PDRFs), Dr Jessica
 Walker (Lecturer in Professional Development at the Royal Academy of Music), Richard Sobey
 (Independent Arts Advisor), Sheena Wrigley (ex-CEO Leeds Playhouse) and Mercy Ette
 (Fullbright scholar and Lecturer at Trinity University Lagos). We have hosted two Visiting
 Professors (Prof. Paul Fryer, Director of our Stanislavsky Centre, and Prof. Birgit Eriksson from
 Aarhus University) along with two Emeritus Professors (Profs. Mick Wallis and Christopher
 Baugh). We are welcoming another Visiting Professor (Prof. Justin O’Connor from University of
 South Australia) in 2021/22 attached to the Centre for Cultural Value. These scholars enrich our
 research culture and provide specialist interventions into our research centres, groups, projects,
 seminars and scholarship, as well as offering senior linkages to the creative sector and
 employability sessions for our PGRs and acting as external ambassadors for our research.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 PCI’s research income is deployed strategically to enable us to realise our ambitious research
 vision by addressing our core aims and objectives. This investment manifests in terms of staff
 and PGR recruitment, and research support, which includes study leave, publication support,
 conference attendance, funding research events, in-kind support for collaborative research, and
 public engagement. Over this REF period our bidding activity has risen exponentially: we have
 received total research funding of £4.8m. Major awards over this period include: Walmsley’s
 £2m (£2.5 fEC) AHRC/ACE/PHF Centre for Cultural Value; Willson’s and O’Grady’s £630k
 AHRC Fabulous Femininities grant; Ma’s £500k AHRC-Newton Fund Development Through the
 Creative Economy in China grant; Pitches’ £250k AHRC Fellowship award (Performing
 Landscapes: Mountains); Salazar Sutil’s 250k GCRF Survivor Group grant and Jancovich’s
 £202k AHRC grant, Cultural Participation: Stories of Success, Histories of Failure. As indicated
 in Section 1, our strong focus on applied and interdisciplinary research has positioned us very
 well to capture hypothecated funding such as GCRF and Industrial Strategy grants. This focus is
 responsive to the University strategic vision for addressing major global challenges and is
 evidenced in PCI by Salazar Sutil’s recent success in securing £90k in AHRC/GCRF funding
 followed by a £250k GCRF Exploratory Award. Walsh has also won a £100k ECR grant for a
 Phase 2 Changing The Story project to investigate youth-led alternatives to crime based in Cape
 Town’s Cape Flats community. This bid developed from the Sadler Seminar Series supported by
 the Leeds Arts and Humanities Research Institute and was partly delivered during Walsh’s
 research leave in 2019/20. This represents one of three awards for the intellectual pump-priming
 seminar series (the others led by O’Grady and Kiszely). Notable success has been achieved in
 the past 6 years in securing AHRC Network development grants, which again highlights our
 evolving international leadership in specific areas of interdisciplinary research. Three network
 grants have been awarded over the period: Taylor’s £27k Error Network; Salazar Sutil’s £30k
 Social Choreography Network; and Walmsley’s £35k International Network for Audience
 Research in the Performing Arts.
 Our research infrastructure and facilities are world-class. The Faculty merger and restructure
 in 2016/17 facilitated PCI staff access to the redeveloped Leeds Arts & Humanities Research
 Institute, which offers dedicated support for bid writing and development alongside training for
 our Postdocs. The Faculty itself provides a peer review scheme for bids over £250k and the
 Cultural Institute offers seed-funded opportunities with cultural and industry partners all over the
 region. Recent successes benefitting from this support include the Centre for Cultural Value, a
 ‘research mobility’ award for collaboration in Canada (O’Grady) and a ‘Catalyst’ award for
 developing links with technologists in Leeds (Kapsali). The Leeds Social Science Institute and
 the Leeds Institute for Data Analytics also offer seedcorn funding and support for large bids with
 a social science focus, such as the big data training element, again for the Centre for Cultural
 Value bid. The majority of our research staff are housed in single offices and regular upgrades to
 computer hardware are factored into the spending plans. The School hosts the theatre complex
 stage@leeds on behalf of the University, receiving diverse professional touring companies as
 well as supporting staff and student practice-led research outputs, research seminars, symposia
 and conference events. The UoA’s ability to attract and host high-quality international research

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 conferences is evidenced by the 2016 People, Power, Place Conference, commissioned and
 funded by Arts Council England (200 delegates, led by Jancovich) and by the many large-scale
 research symposia and colloquia held over the past few years, including Pitches’ 2018
 Performing Mountains Symposium and Walmsley’s 2017 Audience Research Symposium, both
 hosted at stage@leeds.

 The quality of our physical infrastructure is key to our research success, given our rich traditions
 of practice-led research and our focus on directing, performance, scenography and performance
 technology. In 2007, the School moved into a £5 million purpose-built theatre and office complex
 in the centre of the University of Leeds campus, housing two professional standard, publicly
 licensed theatres (180 seats and 50 seats), a dance studio, lecturers’ offices, a meeting room, a
 staffroom and a large foyer/social area. The newly renovated Clothworkers’ South Building
 houses bespoke studio spaces equipped for practice-led research and teaching, a design studio,
 a costume and wardrobe store, a scenic construction workshop and associated facilities, a
 computer aided design suite, digital video-editing and sound facilities and a large postgraduate
 research room with dedicated workstations and social area. This building also houses the Centre
 for Cultural Value (with 4 FTE staff) and the University’s Cultural Institute. The stage@leeds
 Artistic Director oversees the School’s dedicated technical team specialising in sound, lighting,
 costume and set construction (5.8 FTE staff, up from 3.4 in 2013/14). Over the last five years
 PCI/stage@leeds has invested over £18,000 to upgrade all our theatre and studio spaces to the
 same state-of-the-art lighting control systems allowing staff and students to move between
 spaces without the need to re-skill for each room. An additional programme of lighting upgrades
 started in 2016 has seen two of our studios equipped with modern low energy LED lighting and
 in 2020/21 our main theatre space will be upgraded with new state of the art LED lighting
 fixtures. Since 2017 PCI and stage@leeds have invested in a more flexible control system for
 A/V and sound with the introduction of industry standard Qlab in both our main theatre spaces.
 The addition of four pairs of powerful mobile powered PA speakers, a new 9m projection screen
 and the purchase of two matched projectors (over £10k of investment) means that we can
 facilitate complex projection on multiple surfaces and sound mapping across multiple speakers
 in two theatre spaces. In 2019 stage@leeds was shortlisted for a University of Leeds
 sustainability award and its Director (Ansell) is a University of Leeds Sustainability architect.
 Sustainability is central to the stage@leeds mission and in 2017 the green space between
 PCI/stage@leeds and the School of Earth & Environment became designated as a Sustainable
 Theatre Living Lab. In early 2020 the go-ahead was given centrally to establish stage@leeds as
 the first genuinely carbon-neutral building in the University.


 Leeds University Library is one of the major academic research libraries in the UK. Its public
 galleries present exceptional collections of fine art, artefacts, rare books and manuscripts.
 Research access is excellent for all three large libraries that serve the arts and humanities (the
 Edward Boyle, the Laidlaw and the Brotherton) with the latter holding world-class rare books,
 manuscripts, art and archival resources in its Special Collections (SC) as well as enviable digital
 resources. The Edward Boyle Library houses a dedicated Research Hub where research staff
 and PGRs can book individual study spaces, group meeting rooms and large event rooms. The
 Library facilitates open access publishing and research data management to support and inspire
 research at all levels. The School has two SC champions (McKechnie and Pitches), who work
 closely with archivists to develop projects using the collections. A Red Ladder internship was
 funded by Ignite (£2K) to assess the newly catalogued Red Ladder archive and this resulted in a
 successful CDA project funded by WRoCAH (2019–2024), one of only 3 awarded to Leeds in
 2019. Other acquisitions in the period include the archives of Opera North (2014), Blah Blah
 Blah (2016), Phoenix Dance (2014) and augmentations to the Leeds Playhouse and Laban
 archives.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our research staff shape the future direction of their disciplines via myriad activities that are
 highly distinctive to the UoA. This is consistent with the University’s broader 2020-25 strategy for
 positioning Leeds as a ‘University without Walls’ that increases research income and impact
 through innovative external partnerships. PCI enriches the sector both economically and

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 culturally through applied research, exerting a positive influence on both private and public
 funding for arts and culture. Leadership roles as editors, keynote speakers and membership of
 strategic panels enable colleagues to exert significant influence on performance and the cultural
 industries and further understanding of their value as the most dynamic sector in the UK
 economy. This influence maps closely onto the School’s three research themes of Culture, Place
 and Pedagogy.

 1. Cultural value, engagement, and policy
 PCI research staff actively engage with and influence arts funding and policymaking.
 Under Walmsley’s leadership PCI has built up international reputation and influence in research
 relating to audiences, fundraising, philanthropy and the cultural economy. Walmsley is
 Academic Director of the University of Leeds team that manages the academic strand of the Arts
 Council England funded Arts Fundraising and Philanthropy (AFP) programme established in
 2013 to professionalise arts sector fundraising and philanthropy. In April 2018 AFP became one
 of ACE’s prestigious National Portfolio Organisations. Within this theme PCI research staff also
 engage with policymaking. Ma was commissioned to write a report for Arts Council Wales:
 Wales-China Cultural Exchange, Cultural Memorandum of Understanding Implementation
 Report (2018) and Price co-authored a European Commission report on the main challenges in
 the theatre sector to inform future European Union actions in 2019.

 2. Cultural places, spaces and environments
 Major AHRC and GCRF projects won by Walsh, Salazar Sutil, Willson and O’Grady highlight
 the important research on inclusivity and co-creation being led by research staff in PCI. The
 interdisciplinary work being undertaking within marginalized communities - including prisons
 (Walsh), indigenous and migrant communities (Salazar Sutil), or subcultural clubs (Willson and
 O’Grady) - demonstrates the activist and transformative dimension to this thematic approach.
 Colleagues have created significant links with NHS Bradford District & Craven Clinical
 Commissioning groups (O’Grady) and national support groups such as The Miscarriage
 Association (Willson). Salazar Sutil collaborates with social artists working in ex-combatant
 camps run by the Niger army (Goudoumaria) and Defense Intelligence Agency of Nigeria
 (Gombe camp). These global, national and local collaborations anticipate the next wave of
 impact generation within PCI.

 3. Performance pedagogies, processes and practices
 Pitches’ leadership in performance training and pedagogies has generated an influential
 contribution to knowledge and learning platforms. He has developed Massive Open Online
 Courses (MOOCs) with global reach which link to the international work being undertaken by the
 Stanislavsky Research Centre. As a global leader in this subject Pitches has been invited to
 give keynote presentations in Australia, South America and Europe, including ‘The Circulation of
 Stanislavsky Texts and Models of Interpretation Around the World’ at the Universidade Federal
 do Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 2019. Within the processes and practices element of this theme
 colleagues generate impact through their innovative partnerships with businesses. Kapsali has
 an ongoing collaboration with Curvor Ltd. on Sonolope, a movement sonification technology
 project (2014–present).

 This threefold thematic influence is manifest in the following quantitative examples that illustrate
 our collective leadership in the field of Performance and Cultural Industries:

 Editorial roles: Colleagues have edited 22 special issues of international journals since
 REF2014 demonstrating their leadership in their respective specialisms. These editions range
 from ‘Entrepreneurship in Africa’ [Parts 1, 2 & 3: 2018] in the Journal of Small Businesses and
 Enterprise Development (Dobson) to ‘Turning Animal’ (Salazar Sutil 2017); ‘On Mountains’
 (Pitches 2019) and ‘On Hybridity’ (Kapsali 2020) in Performance Research and ‘Broadway
 Then and Now: Musicals in the 21st Century’ in Arts Journal (Rodosthenous 2020). Colleagues
 also lead their field in their roles as journal and book series editors: Pitches is the Founding Co-
 Editor of Theatre, Dance and Performance Training (2010–present), Walmsley is Co-Editor of
 Arts and the Market and Advisory Board member of Cultural Trends (2017–present) whilst Ma

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 edits Shanghai Arts Review (2016–present). Kiszely was the co-founding Editor of Punk & Post-
 Punk until 2015 and currently sits on the editorial board of Anthem Series on Television Studies
 (2020-). O’Grady has been section editor for Dancecult: International Journal for Electronic
 Dance Music Culture since 2012. McKinney and Palmer co-edit the book series, Performance +
 Design with Bloomsbury Methuen.

 Others sit on advisory boards on funding bodies, conferences and leading publications in the
 field: Taylor and Walmsley are Strategic Advisors for AHRC and McKinney is a AHRC Peer
 Review College member 2015 -2022. Pitches serves on the NCN national research panel in
 Poland. Dobson is a Trustee on the Management Board of the Institute for Small Business and
 Entrepreneurship (ISBE) and Research Area Lead for European Association for Evolutionary
 Political Economy (EAEPA) and Scientific Expert Reviewer for EU COST Action funding
 programme. Walmsley is a member of the Scientific Committee for Social Theory, Politics & the
 Arts (USA). Jancovich sits on national advisory panels for Arts Council England’s Creative
 People and Places project and is a National Steering Group Member for the Local Trust’s
 Creative Civic Change initiative; Price acts as the Lead Expert on funding assessments for
 Creative Europe 2014-20 across five programme strands. Walmsley and Jancovich acted as
 Artistic Assessors for Arts Council England 2010–2017.

 Journal/book series advisory board memberships include: Bloomsbury’s Gender and Popular
 Culture Series (Willson: 2016–present); Intellect’s Choreographic Practices (Fenemore 2011–
 present) and the Dance Training and Social Practices Journal (Bannon). Colleagues have
 refereed and reviewed for over 20 international journals and 5 major publishers across a broad
 range of disciplines. Staff have reviewed book proposals and manuscripts for Bloomsbury
 (Lawson, Palmer, Pitches, Rodosthenous, Willson); Routledge (Jancovich, Palmer,
 Pitches, Rodosthenous, Walmsley, Walsh); Palgrave Macmillan (approximately, 25
 manuscripts since 2013: Fenemore, Pitches, Rodosthenous); Emerald, Sage, Elsevier
 (Dobson); Intellect (Bannon, McKechnie); Oxford University Press (Rodosthenous);
 Manchester University Press (McKechnie).

 Colleagues have delivered 35 keynotes (13 international) including: UNESCO conference on
 Participatory Governance, Croatia, 2017 (Jancovich); ‘Global Performance and Cultural
 Industries’, Shandong University, China, 2019 (Ma); and Economia e Gestione Immobiliare
 (MEGIM) at the University of Rome Tor Vergata (Dobson 2019). Colleagues have been invited
 to deliver 45 public lectures and publicly funded performances. Significant mention must be
 given to two AHRC funded talks given by Ma - Engaging the Parliament through Research in
 London in 2019 and Development through the Creative Economy in China in Shanghai in 2017.
 Other presentations include a talk by Jancovich for the Ministry for Culture in Bogota in
 Colombia and a public talk given by Willson as part of the major exhibition, Savage Beauty at
 the V&A, London (2015). Since 2013 staff have convened over 30 conferences and panels,
 including: ‘UK-China Creative Economy’, Cardiff University with UNESCO (over 30 university
 representatives around the world attended) 2017 (Ma); Revisiting the Gaze, a two-day
 international conference at Chelsea College of Art, London, 2017 (Willson). Kapsali co-
 convened the TaPRA Performer Training Group (2015–2018). Palmer was the IFTR co-
 convenor of the Scenography Working Group between 2013–2017.

 Scholarly awards provide recognition of our contributions to the discipline: O’Grady was the
 NCCPE Award Winner 2016 for ‘Engaging with Young People’ on the“Don’t Smile” project in
 collaboration with School of Dentistry. Pitches was Shortlisted for TaPRA Editing Award for
 Stanislavsky in the World in 2018. McKinney was made Chair of the international jury for the
 Prague Quadrennial in 2015 and nominated for the best book at The Prague Quadrennial in
 2019. McKinney and Palmer were shortlisted for the best edited book by TaPRA for Expanded
 Scenography in 2019. Meanwhile 11 colleagues have undertaken consultancy or advisory
 work in the following ways: Walmsley is currently the Lead Evaluator on the National Theatre’s
 Theatre Nation Partnerships programme (2018 to date) and was Principal Investigator on the
 evaluation of Light Night Leeds for Leeds City Council (2014 & 2015); O’Grady was part of
 External Stakeholders Advisory Group for Pearson Education (2012-15); Salazar Sutil advises

                                                                                         Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UNESCO Art-Lab on best global practices for arts and human rights; Ward is evaluating The
 Tetley Gallery’s Artist Associate Programme (TAAP); McKechnie has provided dramaturgical
 expertise for Balbir Singh Dance Co., Billingham International Festival. Fenemore was Artistic
 Advisor for performance projects by Impelo and Rebecca Wilson in 2019. Jancovich and
 Rodosthenous acted as strategic advisors for European Capitals of Culture (Aarhus 2017;
 Pafos 2017). Pitches advised Cumbria Youth dance on climbing and performance.

 PCI staff have actively built collaborative links with over 100 external cultural partners.
 These include OneDanceUK, for whom Bannon was a board member and contributed to the
 launch of the Practice Research Advisory Group as an invited representative for Dance-HE at
 Kingston University in 2018; Urban Angels Circus (O’Grady was Chair of Board of Trustees of
 2014–17, now patron); The Audience Agency, where Walmsley acted as a Trustee from 2017–
 19, and Slung Low, where McKechnie serves on the Steering Group for their Cultural
 Community College. The National Theatre (Walmsley) and Kendal Mountain Festival (Pitches)
 are key partners in large projects. Two major AHRC UK-China projects have been undertaken
 by Ma as PI (2018–2020): ‘Bridging the Gaps, mixed reality performance of Chinese opera in
 rural-urban Shanghai’ and a project for the AHRC Creative Economy Newton Fund, ‘Popular
 performance for new audience’. Collaborators included 5 x UK cultural industry partners; 5
 Chinese Universities, National Digital Lab, 5 x Chinese Cultural Industry Partners and the
 Shanghai M50 creative cluster. Palmer leads the industry-focused Performing Light Network
 (with 2 UoL PGRs).

 Colleagues have demonstrated a commitment to cross-sector collaboration as identified in
 Section 1. Particular foci are on well-being, activism and social change, the environment and
 audience research. Salazar Sutil has developed funded partnerships with Nigerian Army, Neem
 Foundation, UNHCR, Institut Français du Tchad and Ballet de Refugies de Maro. O’Grady is
 leading a British Academy funded research collaboration with Dr Cheryl Heykoop from Royal
 Roads University, Canada on the PARTY project (Practice as Research for Teenagers and
 Young adults living with cancer). Seedcorn funded wellbeing projects undertaken by Walsh have
 created significant links between the UoA and mental health organisations, e.g. +90
 beneficiaries and a collaboration with Leeds Mind and 4 HE providers in Leeds.

 Staff have examined 28 PhDs over the period, including 8 at international institutions: Aalto
 University, Helsinki (McKinney 2015, Pitches 2017); Deakin University, Australia (Walmsley,
 2018; McKinney 2019); Edith Cowan University, Perth (Bannon 2017); QUT Brisbane (Pitches
 2015); Sydney (Pitches 2014); University of Rome Tor Vergata (Dobson 2015; 2016).
 Supervision of post-doctorates includes Dr Lucy Wright 2019-2020 (Jancovich); Dr David
 Shearing 2016-17 (Pitches); Dr Robyn Dowlen 2019-date, Centre for Cultural Value
 (Walmsley); Dr. Yang Zi at Shanghai Theatre Academy (Ma). A new cohort of postdocs was
 appointed in the summer of 2020.

 Media appearances demonstrate the significant way that PCI’s expertise leads and shapes
 societal debates in the public realm. Radio programmes produced for Resonance FM: River
 Dialogues, broadcast in September 2018 and July 2019, disseminate the interdisciplinary
 research on rivers undertaken by Salazar Sutil. Other media contributions include: BBC World
 Service documentary (Pitches 2014) and an Eastern China Political and Science University
 broadcast (Ma 2019). PCI is at the forefront of digital learning with Pitches and Walmsley
 disseminating their research to over 42,000 learners via 2 acclaimed Massive Open Online
 Courses (MOOCs) on the commercial FutureLearn platform (see REF3).

 As the above examples illustrate, performance is our strategic response to complex global
 challenges that demand an interdisciplinary and sustainable approach. Moving forward,
 our digital expertise equips us for methodological and artistic innovation and adaptation to
 Covid-19, while experience and extensive contextual knowledge in LMIC and ODA countries,
 coupled with research practices embedded in the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
 positions us well for global challenge-led hypothecated funding. Our flexible infrastructure will
 maintain our responsive approach to the rapidly changing landscapes that surround us, not least

                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the significant impact of Covid-19 on the fragile arts and cultural ecology. Indeed the UoA has
 already attracted a large UKRI grant to enable us to begin this endeavour.




                                                                                            Page 14
