Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of St Andrews

 Unit of Assessment: UoA 28: School of History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 The School of History at St Andrews is home to an international community of researchers,
 currently including 82 academic staff and about 100 PhD students. Together, we carry out
 research of global significance on topics ranging from the legal systems of late Antiquity and the
 religious history of medieval Europe and the Middle East, to war crimes and rice-growing in
 modern South East Asia. We are committed to sharing that research generously, with other
 scholars and with a wide public audience.
 Our School is characterized by its welcoming and vibrant research culture. We make effective
 use of the University’s resources and of our physical environment – including the proximities
 created by the small size of our town – to foster intellectual communities that bring staff and
 postgraduate students together. We have particular strengths in book and media history, coastal
 heritage, intellectual and legal history, and political and constitutional history. We have long-
 standing expertise in Scottish, British, European and Middle Eastern history, and are currently
 expanding into the Indian Ocean region. We are proud to host one of the biggest groups of
 medieval historians in the country.
 We place a high value on creating an environment that supports all our researchers, and
 facilitates different forms of research practice. We have held an Athena SWAN Bronze award
 since 2018. We support lone-scholar projects and collaborative research teams; and we
 encourage informal collaborations between colleagues within St Andrews, as well as the formal,
 funded collaborative projects that bring new skills and expertise from outside. We support a
 dozen research centres and institutes that bring together researchers with shared interests from
 across the University (see Figure 1). We have hosted 12 major research project teams in this
 cycle (see Figure 2), and brought in more than over £9.7m of grant income (an annual average
 of £1.4m, more than double our average of £580,000pa in the last REF cycle).
 The flourishing of research within the School is made possible by excellent support structures,
 including a high degree of autonomy with regard to the use of our core operations budget.
 Strategic decisions relating to research support, funding, and workload allocation lie in the hands
 of the School executive committee and our four departments (Medieval, Modern, Middle
 Eastern, and Scottish). A close integration of research and teaching is facilitated by a favourable
 staff-student ratio, and by a teaching model dominated by small-group learning. Our six research
 seminar series, our institute events, our international workshops and conferences, and our
 hospitality to visiting scholars from around the world all help to promote a high level of research
 engagement amongst our staff and postgraduates.
 1.2 Our Research Objectives
 Our over-arching objectives continue to be:
        To produce world-leading historical scholarship, and
        To share that scholarship generously, so that it can be used by other academics and
        by organisations and individuals outside academia.



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                      Figure 1 Research Centres, Institutes and Spin-Outs




 Note: The distinction between ‘institutes’ and ‘centres’ is that the former offer taught masters
 programmes while the latter do not.


                 Figure 2. Major Research Projects (each worth over £350,000)




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In pursuit of our objectives, in this REF period, we have aimed:
     1. To recruit and retain excellent researchers;
     2. To nurture the next generations of researchers;
     3. To create an inclusive and supportive research environment for all our staff and
        postgraduates;
     4. To extend the range of our expertise, and the diversity of our approaches to history;
     5. To build relationships and networks that support both our research and its impacts.

 1.3 Research Strategies and Outcomes, 2014-2020
 Aim 1. Recruit and retain excellent researchers
        Our recruitment process is designed to ensure we attract the best talent from a diverse
        range of backgrounds. We recruit from all over the world, and currently have
        colleagues from the USA, Germany, Canada, Australia, India, Spain, Italy, Poland,
        Hungary and Bulgaria.
        Between 2014 and 2020, our total academic staff cohort has grown from 55 to 82
        people, of whom 73 are on research-related contracts. That growth represents a net
        increase of 8 open-ended positions; plus a larger community of early-career researchers.
        All staff leavers had reached the end of fixed-term contracts, or were retiring. We were
        able to retain 2 fixed-term colleagues on open-ended contracts; and we have used
        fractional contracts to enable 4 senior researchers to participate in our community after
        retirement.
 Aim 2: Nurture the next generations of researchers
        Co-supervision has become our dominant model for PhD supervision, giving our
        postgraduates access to a wider range of expertise and support. We are the History lead
        for the Scottish Graduate School in Arts & Humanities. We have extended our in-house
        skills training programme to include a wider variety of non-academic skills and speakers
        (see Institution-Level Environment Statement, ILES, 3.3). We have also developed three
        new master’s programmes as PhD pipelines.
        Our success in winning external funding means that our community of historians now
        includes far more early-career researchers than in the past, both on research-focused
        and teaching-focused contracts. During this period, we have hosted 34 ECRs on project
        grants and individual fellowships, as well as 17 associate lecturers. We work hard to
        integrate them all – regardless of contract type – into the everyday life of the School, and
        to support their career development.
 Aim 3: Provide an inclusive and supportive environment in which all our staff and
 postgraduates can produce historical research of the highest level
        In 2018, we became the first humanities School in the University to achieve an Athena
        SWAN Bronze award in recognition of our commitment to equality and diversity. The
        process has been transformative: gender equality issues have been mainstreamed, and
        we are now expanding our focus to other aspects of inclusivity, including sexuality, race
        and intersectionality.




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       We have worked to create more opportunities for everyone to feel involved in our whole-
       School community, complementing the more-specialised communities focused on our
       teaching departments and our research centres/institutes. We have instituted discussion
       lunches before staff councils and created an annual Research Day that brings together
       everyone, from postdocs to professors, from across the School.
       We support colleagues to apply for external funding by providing advice and incentives
       (see section 3.1). As a result, in this cycle, we have been able to enhance our core
       research and impact activities by over £9.7m (£190,000 per FTE).
       We provide financial support for our researchers by giving every member of academic
       staff, regardless of contract type/length, a personal research allowance of £1,200 pa
       (postdocs and associate lecturers now receive the same as other staff). Each year, we
       commit over 40% of our operations budget to these research allowances, which can be
       spent on research or impact-related activities.
       Our workload allocation model protects time for research and impact by enabling us to
       distribute core teaching and administration tasks equitably among all staff, so that they
       do not fall unduly heavily on a few. It is flexible enough to incorporate externally funded
       research time, and includes allowances for the supervision of postgraduates and the
       management of postdoctoral researchers.
       Since 2013, we have operated with accelerated provision for sabbatical research and
       impact leave: 1 semester in 6, rather than the University standard 1 in 8. We have a
       supportive culture where all eligible colleagues do take their leave. We also encourage
       staff mobility by permitting colleagues to take additional leave when they secure
       externally funded fellowships.
       We have extended our provision of professional development opportunities for both
       staff and postgraduates with a series of peer-to-peer learning discussions, and
       masterclasses by internal and external speakers. Research integrity, including ethics, is
       now part of that programme.
 Aim 4: Extend the range of our expertise, and the diversity of our approaches to history
       Chronology: we continue to maintain a strong coverage in each of medieval, early
       modern and late modern history. Our coverage extends back to the late Antique period.
       Geographical Range: With almost 70 percent of our staff specialising in non-British
       history, and around 30 percent focussing on non-European history, we have a
       remarkable reach beyond these islands. We have made new appointments that extend
       our geographical range further beyond our core strengths in Scotland, Britain and
       continental Europe. Our group of Middle Eastern historians is now six-strong, and we
       now have seven colleagues working on the Indian Ocean region post-1600.
       Approaches: We have continued to support our renowned clusters of excellence in
       political, religious, social and book and media history. Our newer areas of intellectual
       history, transnational history and legal history were further developed during this REF
       cycle thanks to substantial external project funding (as seen in Fig. 2). Global intellectual
       history has emerged as a new area of interest, as has economic history: in these areas,
       we were able to make strategic hires, and establish new taught masters programmes.
       Interdisciplinarity: many colleagues work with researchers from different parts of the
       University. Figure 3 illustrates a selection of the links created through our interdisciplinary

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        centres and institutes; we also co-supervise PhDs with colleagues in all of these schools,
        as well as with Social Anthropology.


                  Figure 3: Interdisciplinary links of three research institutes




 Aim 5: Build relationships and networks to support our research
        Research visitors: We believe in the value of personal interactions for creating a
        stimulating research environment, and we invest in bringing visitors to St Andrews. We
        spend around £15,000 per annum on invited speakers for our research seminars and
        public lectures. We invest £12,000 annually to fund three or four international
        scholars to make semester-long visits to St Andrews. We also welcome self-funded
        visiting researchers on short and long visits; we hosted almost 100 such visits since
        2014.
        Staff mobility: we have formal staff exchanges with the universities of Tel Aviv and Oslo,
        and the College of William and Mary. Our generous sabbatical entitlement, and
        willingness to allow staff to take up externally funded fellowships, enables our staff to
        undertake research visits to other institutions.
        Workshops: we allocate £21,000 annually to support research events run by our staff
        and postgraduates, bringing researchers to St Andrews from the UK and Europe, and
        beyond.
 1.4 Impact Strategies and Outcomes, 2014-2020
 Since 2014, we have developed more explicit strategies for encouraging and enabling
 colleagues to share both their research findings and their broad historical expertise with non-
 academic audiences. We are working to mainstream public engagement within the School. This
 is part of the University’s mission of social responsibility, but is also a means of developing our



                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 skills and expertise in engaging with non-academic audiences, and thus enhancing our capacity
 for meaningful research impact in the future.
 In addition to the strategies and outcomes discussed above, the following strategies are specific
 to our efforts to share our research.
        We have created new support structures for public engagement and impact. We now
        have a Public Engagement Officer (who acts as first point of contact for public enquiries);
        a Director of Impact (who offers advice and guidance to colleagues); and a Public
        Engagement and Impact panel (whose members are experienced professionals from
        heritage, journalism and policy; they share tips and experiences at our once-a-semester
        ‘Historians and Practitioners’ staff development events, as well as offering individual
        advice on request).
        We were consequently delighted that our first ‘public engagement with research’ survey
        (in winter 2019/20) revealed that 80% of respondents felt well-supported by the School.
        97% had done some public engagement in the last 12 months; and 60% had a high level
        of engagement.
        To encourage the development of sustained research impact, we allow sabbatical leave
        to be used; this was crucial to the development of our Impact Case Study on the history
        of mental illness. We also recognise the time commitment involved in developing
        impact case studies with an allowance in our workload model (equivalent to a sixth of an
        annual load).
        Our internal funding scheme has been open to impact projects since 2015; but we
        reconfigured it after realising that colleagues tend to apply to the equivalent University
        fund (which can make larger grants). From 2019, we have allowed smaller applications at
        any time. This enables colleagues to respond rapidly to unforeseen opportunities, such
        as an invitations to attend a networking event at NATO headquarters, or a workshop on
        ‘engaging with parliament’.
        We encourage our centres, institutes and research projects to develop strong
        relationships with organisations and individuals outside the University. We used strategic
        honorary appointments to consolidate links with practitioners in policy-making, heritage
        organisations and public history.
        We host two units that help us build long-term relationships with heritage and natural
        environment organisations, community groups and the tourism and leisure industry. The
        SCAPE Trust is the home of our coastal heritage team, who have been working with
        citizen scientists for the past twenty years, and generated one of our Impact Case
        Studies. SMART History is a start-up company that develops digital tools to engage
        users with the historical built environment, founded in 2015 by colleagues in History and
        Computer Science.
        We have aimed to encourage a wider range of colleagues to develop the impact of their
        research. In 2014, our Impact Case Studies were all led by men; in this REF, one is led
        by a woman. Three of our case studies have arisen from the partnerships involved in
        externally funded projects; the other two have been almost entirely developed from core
        University and School support for time, and small-scale finance.




                                                                                             Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Strategies for developing an open research environment
 We see an open research environment as a central element of our grand objective to share our
 research with others in academia and beyond. St Andrews is world-leading in its adoption and
 implementation of open access (ILES, 2.4). We have strategies in three areas:
        Open access publishing: we aim to increase awareness of the value of making
        research publications openly available, and to increase adoption among our research
        community. Awareness within History is raised through our professional development for
        postgraduates and staff (for instance, a speaker from Open Library of Humanities); by
        the activities of our researchers (including the work documented in our Impact Case
        Study on academic journal publishing); and by the pioneering open access book series
        issued by our Centre for the Study of French History and Culture, whose books have
        been downloaded almost 17,000 times since 2013.
        Open research resources: we encourage our researchers to create and maintain
        openly accessible resources that are used by historians, heritage organisations,
        librarians, booksellers and teachers. The transfer of our online resource on the ‘Records
        of the parliaments of Scotland to 1707’ to the National Records of Scotland during this
        REF cycle was a public recognition of the value of such resources. The ‘Universal Short
        Title Catalogue’ was already an essential tool for historians of early modern print culture,
        and has been significantly extended in this REF cycle. Completely new resources include
        databases of medieval texts in Arabic, Persian and Turkish, and of medieval English
        legal records; the Intellectual History Archive; and the digitisation of resources for the
        study of civic Roma emancipation in the interwar years. These searchable databases are
        freely accessible to all interested users. Through their systematic organization and
        production of knowledge, these are world-leading resources which make a permanent
        contribution to the study of past societies and cultures.
        Open research talks, interviews and podcasts: we aim to make the research
        conversations that take place in St Andrews accessible to those who are not able to
        attend in person. The material we offer openly online includes recordings of seminar talks
        and lectures; video interviews (e.g. Talking Law, and What is Intellectual History?); and
        podcasts on the history of mental health, and ‘everyday life’ history.
 1.6 Beyond 2020
 Going forward, we will retain our two grand objectives and five aims. They cohere with the
 University’s new strategic plan, which urges us to pursue world-leading research and to think
 globally; to put our people at the heart of our plans; and to be both enterprising and socially
 responsible in sharing our research findings and working with external research-users.
 We will develop our aims to fit changes in our local environment, and the wider UK research
 environment. As part of our annual strategic planning process, we have already identified certain
 opportunities and challenges:
    •   To engage with a wider range of forms of diversity, in addition to gender; and to renew
        our Athena SWAN award.
    •   To build outwards from our existing geographic strengths towards areas where we are
        currently less strong.
    •   To take advantage of improved opportunities for engagement with our local community
        arising from the recent expansion of the University’s Wardlaw museum.


                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   To develop our Public Engagement and Impact Strategy (delayed by the pandemic).
    •   To make the most of our promised additional physical space (delayed by the pandemic)
        to relieve the considerable pressure on staff office space, common spaces, and
        postgraduate desks resulting from the growth of our community.


 Section 2. People
 2.1 Staffing Strategy
 Our staffing strategy is informed by our aims of recruiting and retaining excellent researchers
 from a diverse range of backgrounds; and extending the range of our expertise and diversity of
 our approaches. The vast majority of our staff are research-active (Figure 4), on either ‘research-
 only’ or ‘teaching and research’ contracts.

                             Figure 4. Academic staff by job family




 The growth of our research community has had two major drivers:
 First, our success in winning external funding has allowed us to recruit talented early-career
 historians to fixed-term positions as postdoctoral researchers and associate lecturers. We have
 a significantly larger cohort of early-career staff in 2020 compared with 2014, and almost two-
 thirds of these colleagues are on research-only contracts. This is the major reason why the
 proportion of staff on fixed-term contracts has risen from 14% to 26%, since 2014.
 Second, as well as replacing 3 retired colleagues, we have been able to make 8 additional
 appointments to open-ended academic positions (both lecturers and professors). This has
 enabled us to make strategic appointments in intellectual, legal, global and economic history, in
 addition to consolidating existing strengths in medieval history, early and late modern Scottish
 history, and modern Middle Eastern history. Any extension to our expertise always builds on
 some existing strand of research, and by ensuring that new colleagues will have something in
 common with existing colleagues (chronology, geography or approach), we avoid intellectual
 isolation for those developing a new area.



                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Three of these new appointments were linked to the creation of new taught postgraduate
 pathways, to help develop pipelines to PhD research in a wider variety of areas:
    •   An appointment in medieval legal history (2015) gave us the critical mass to launch our
        Institute of Legal and Constitutional Research, including a dedicated postgraduate
        pathway;
    •   An appointment in south-east Asian economic history (2019) supported a new taught
        masters programme in Economic & Social History, one of only three ESRC-accredited
        programmes in the area in Scotland;
    •   An appointment in Indian intellectual history (2019) added to our new cluster in the
        Indian Ocean region, and supported a new taught masters programme in Global Social &
        Political Thought.
 We support all colleagues who wish to be considered for promotion. After reforms to the
 University’s promotions criteria in 2017, we reviewed the ways we support those who might not
 previously have considered applying. We now run an annual promotions workshop, open to
 anyone interested, and delivered by a gender-balanced group of senior colleagues, including the
 Head of School. Those who decide to apply, receive detailed advice and feedback on their draft
 application from the group of senior colleagues.
 We have celebrated 23 promotions since 2014. 15 promotions (two-thirds female) were to the
 various Grade 8 roles; we have also welcomed seven promotions to professorships, two of
 which were female.
 Our current staff profile, after recruitment and promotions, is shown in Figure 5.


              Figure 5. Academic staff by seniority (using pay grade as a proxy)




 2.2 Staff Development
 Our aims of nurturing the next generations of researchers, and creating an inclusive and
 supportive research environment, have driven a particular focus on staff development in this
 REF cycle. We aim to provide all our colleagues with the support and the skills they need to
 carry out their research, teaching and other duties, appropriate to their career stage and
 ambitions (ILES, 3.2).

                                                                                           Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Induction: All new colleagues participate in the University’s induction processes, and we
 complement this with in-School induction meetings whose effectiveness we monitor via a survey
 every two years, augmented by focus group meetings with fixed-term colleagues. As a result, we
 introduced an annual welcome lunch to enable new staff to meet colleagues; and updated our
 arrangements for induction meetings, to ensure that information about flexible working and
 parental leave policies was included.
 Appraisals: After satisfactory completion of the University probation process, all colleagues
 participate in an annual appraisal cycle within the School. We overhauled this system after
 feedback during Athena SWAN discussions so that every colleague now meets annually with the
 Head of School. Each appraisal meeting is a confidential conversation guided by a reflective
 form completed by the appraisee; it covers recent achievements, future plans (including
 promotion aspirations), and any challenges.
 Mentoring: We nurture the intellectual and personal wellbeing of all our researchers by
 providing opportunities for individual mentorship on both career progression, and research
 trajectory. We do not believe that the need for mentoring disappears after a certain career stage
 has been reached. In 2018, we replaced our ‘second book’ mentoring scheme, with a
 mentorship scheme open to all non-professorial staff; and from 2019, we included professors.
 The mentoring relationships are overseen by the Deputy Head of School, and refreshed
 annually. In addition, 7 colleagues have participated in the cross-institutional mentoring scheme
 for early-career staff, run with the University of Dundee.
 Professional Development: The pressing need to support our growing number of early-career
 colleagues has led us to develop a whole-career approach that offers development opportunities
 to colleagues at all career stages, inspired by the Concordat to Support the Career Development
 of Researchers. We offer a mix of formal training (e.g. digital mapping for historians) and peer-
 to-peer learning. The mainstay of our peer-to-peer learning is our twice-a-semester lunchtime
 discussions led by experienced academic colleagues, on such topics as ‘Designing supervisor-
 led PhD projects’, ‘Applying for large grants’, and ‘My first steps in impact’. We run additional
 masterclasses with experienced professionals, including academic publishers, museums
 professionals and members of our Public Engagement and Impact panel.
 Recognition: We run a fortnightly internal e-Gazette; a public-facing blog; and an annual
 (printed) alumni magazine. These enable us to share the activities and achievements of our
 researchers with each other, and with a wider circle of friends of the School. A celebration of
 new books is a feature of our annual research day; and we celebrated our winner of the
 University’s public engagement prize with a lunchtime discussion in 2020.
 2.3 Postgraduate Researchers
 Our postgraduate research community includes about 100 PhD students, as well as about 60
 students on one-year taught masters programmes. The vast majority of our students are full-
 time. Over 90% of our PhD students submit within 4 years.
 Our postgraduate community is overseen by our Director of Postgraduate Research, supported
 by a dedicated administrator. Our staff-student council includes two representatives elected by
 our PhD community.
 We are the History lead for the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities (SGSAH;
 funded by AHRC and SFC); and we joined the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science
 (SGSSS; funded by ESRC and SFC) in this cycle.


                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Recruitment: Just under a third of our research students have taken a masters programme at
 St Andrews; the rest are recruited from outside. Our postgraduate community is internationally
 diverse, with 40% originating from outside the EU. The proportion of women students has
 remained around 40% during this cycle. We seek to increase the proportion of female and
 BAME students in our postgraduate community, and now run an annual workshop to encourage
 our current female and BAME undergraduates to consider postgraduate study.
 Induction: PhD research in History at St Andrews begins with our popular Induction Day, which
 complements the School’s ‘PhD Handbook’. The induction day takes place at an attractive out-
 of-town location and provides an opportunity to get to know other new students in a relaxed
 environment; it has been extraordinarily successful at building a sense of cohort among our PhD
 historians.
 Supervision: Supervisors are drawn from all grades: around 80% of eligible staff in the School
 are currently involved in supervising postgraduate students. We run School-specific training
 sessions on postgraduate supervision to complement the training provided by the University and
 the SGSAH. Since 2014, co-supervision (with two internal supervisors) has overtaken sole
 supervision as the most dominant model in the School. We also co-supervise with other
 universities, both in Scotland and internationally (see Section 4), thereby gaining the best
 supervisory teams for our students, and strengthening relationships with other institutions. In
 addition to their supervisory team, every student has another member of staff as their mentor,
 tasked with offering pastoral support; and they have access to the EDI officer.
 Monitoring Progress: All PhD students undergo an annual review of their progress and skills
 development, at which their thesis plan, schedule for timely completion, training needs and
 career development plans are discussed. The first-year review also involves the submission of a
 12,000-to-15,000-word piece of written work. Continued registration as a PhD student depends
 upon a successful review each year. These reviews, which involve two members of staff outside
 the supervisory team, also function as a check on the suitability and effectiveness of supervisory
 arrangements, and a chance for the provision of feedback to the School and University.
 Supportive environment: we are committed to creating an attractive, vibrant research
 environment, with generous academic, pastoral and practical support. The majority of our
 students are associated with one of our research centres or institutes, and participate alongside
 staff in its programme of academic and social activities. We also support two ‘forums’ organised
 by and for postgraduate students in Medieval History, and in Early Modern & Modern History.
 We encourage our postgraduates to organise research events or activities. We allocate £3,000 a
 year to a competitive fund for students who wish to run a one-day workshop, or undertake public
 engagement.
 The Postgraduate Research Experience Survey for 2017 showed us to be substantially ahead of
 the sector benchmarks in a number of areas relating to the integration of students into our wider
 research culture: students agreed that ‘the research ambience in my department or faculty
 stimulates my work’ (71% St Andrews; 60% sector), and that they had ‘frequent opportunities to
 discuss my research with other research students’ (80% St Andrews; sector 63%).
 Financial Support: We have worked hard to find more (and a more diverse array of) sources of
 funding to support postgraduate study, to ensure that the brightest students are not excluded
 through financial hardship.
        The PhD Pipeline: We recognise that the financial challenges start earlier than the PhD,
        and we therefore focus our School funds on bursaries for masters students: in this cycle,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        we have funded the fees of 22 students; and granted £5,000 bursaries for 6 students on
        specific programmes.
        Studentships: Just over half of our current PhD students are in receipt of some funding,
        whether from the AHRC, overseas funders, or the University. Our AHRC-funded
        studentships are now administered through the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
        Humanities: for our nominations to the SGSAH, we have instituted a robust decision-
        making processes in which all proposals are ranked by a mixed-gender committee of
        colleagues from across the research areas within the School; we then support our
        applicants with detailed feedback on draft proposals. We win broadly the same number
        of studentships as we had under the old block grant system. We also compete for
        supervisor-led external funding; and we build relationships with philanthropic individuals
        or organisations: together, this has resulted in full or partial studentships for 13
        individuals in this cycle. A further 6 PhD studentships were created as part of our ERC-
        funded projects.
        Research expenses: Our PhD researchers all receive an automatic research allowance
        of £400pa, regardless of funding status, and can apply for an additional £325 by
        competition. We also contribute towards the cost of producing a hard copy of the
        research thesis for deposit in the University library.
 Professional Development: the PhD Induction Day includes sessions on equality and diversity;
 research integrity; and work-life balance. This leads into our programme of weekly skills training
 workshops that draw on the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and
 complement the generic University workshops for postgraduate researchers.
        Our training programme covers both the skills needed to complete a PhD in History, and
        wider professional development skills. The workshops cover the entire lifespan of the
        PhD, from ‘Planning and conducting archival research’ to ‘Preparing for the viva’, and
        include sessions on public engagement and academic publishing. We have responded to
        student interest by inviting speakers from non-academic careers, including a museum
        curator and a freelance consultant. We consciously use these workshops as
        opportunities to offer our postgraduates a range of role models: the speakers are a mix of
        male and female, junior and senior, academic and external.
        Language skills: we fund and organise free in-house language classes in Latin, French,
        German (and, in some years, classical Armenian) for academic researchers.
        Postgraduates can also apply for our language-training bursary, which funds intensive
        study abroad for a month.
        Palaeography: in conjunction with the University’s Special Collections, we provide year-
        long training courses in medieval and early modern palaeography as part of our taught
        masters programmes; these are available on a non-credit basis to PhD students.
        Teaching experience: We offer our PhD students the opportunity to gain paid teaching
        experience by running small-group tutorials in support of our lecture-based first- and
        second-year survey courses. In addition to University training for small-group teaching,
        all postgraduate tutors are assigned a ‘teaching mentor’, who offers feedback and
        support by observing a class being taught, and moderating the assessment of
        coursework.




                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Research interns: some of our research projects, centres and institutes offer paid
        internships to our postgraduates, enabling them to gain skills ranging from web and
        social media skills, to video interviewing and event organisation.
 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Since 2014, we have significantly increased our attention to equality, diversity and inclusion in all
 areas of the School. In autumn 2018 we became one of just ten path-breaking UK History
 departments then holding an Athena SWAN bronze award. We have worked hard to create
 conversations (and gather data) about current inequalities, initially around gender, but
 increasingly also about race, sexuality and intersectionality.
 Recruitment: As is the case throughout the University, we have been taking active steps to
 encourage more diverse applicants for our academic positions: our Athena SWAN award is
 noted on all our recruitment materials; we explicitly state that women and BAME candidates are
 particularly welcome to apply; and we mention the University’s adherence to the LGBT Charter
 and Stonewall in all recruitment material. Our recruitment panels are gender-balanced, and all
 those involved have been trained in equality legislation and implicit bias. We have already
 revised our website with more diverse and gender neutral images and text, and clear information
 on our provisions for parental leave and flexible or part-time working.
 Our School now has a more balanced gender distribution than it did in 2014: 46% of our
 academic staff now identify as female, compared to 27%. The breakdown by seniority is shown
 in Figure 6. We now have seven female professors rather than one: with 29% of our professors
 identifying as female, we are slightly ahead of the national figures for History professors (26%
 female, HESA 2019).
 We have also been able to appoint 3 colleagues from BAME backgrounds to open-ended
 positions.


           Figure 6 Gender and seniority of academic staff in the School of History




 Our School executive committee has been gender-balanced throughout this period. Those
 serving as Head of School have all been male, while those serving as Director of Research have

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 all been female; the Deputy Head role has been held by 1 woman and 1 man, and the Director
 of Impact role has been held by 3 women and 1 man.
 Training: Equality and diversity training is part of the induction process for new staff (all
 categories) and postgraduates. By 2018, all existing staff had completed online training on EDI
 and implicit bias, and those who serve on recruitment panels receive additional training. Our EDI
 committee organises regular workshops on cultural sensitivities.
 Awareness: We have embedded EDI awareness in all aspects of the life of our community,
 helped by whole-School discussions of the Royal Historical Society reports on gender (2015,
 2018), and race (2018). We undertake anonymous EDI surveys of our staff and students on a
 two-year cycle; the results are discussed at staff council. These discussions have helped us to
 find ways to improve the inclusivity of our research environment, particularly for our growing
 number of early-career colleagues on fixed-term contracts. We have begun experimenting with
 different timings for our research seminars, and have asked convenors to pay attention to all EDI
 values (not just gender) when selecting speakers and topics.
 Gender: the Athena SWAN process has ensured that gender has been a prominent concern in
 our School in this REF cycle. We have supported colleagues participating in women-only
 programmes: five colleagues have completed Advance HE’s Aurora Leadership Programme;
 and others have participated in the University’s new Elizabeth Garrett Mentoring Programme as
 both mentees and mentors. We have consciously sought to increase the proportion of female
 speakers at our research seminar series: we raised it from 33% in 2014-15 to 49% in 2019-20.
 Several of our colleagues have been active in the national debates: one co-edited the booklets
 Academic Women Now! (2016) and Academic Women Here! (2018); while another became the
 Royal Historical Society’s first vice-president for equality, diversity and inclusion in 2018. Since
 2017, we have funded a high-profile annual research lecture in the history of gender and
 sexuality.
 Race and Ethnicity: we have undertaken consciousness-raising projects during Black History
 Month since 2018. For instance, we hosted two external speakers focusing on African history,
 and organised a workshop by the director of the University Museums on collections connected to
 black/African and African diaspora history. We collaboratively compiled a bibliography in Black-
 British / African diaspora histories, and used it to audit of our library holdings, followed by
 strategic purchasing.
 Sexuality: One of our colleagues is a LGBT+ Staff Role Model in the University, and led the
 RHS working group that recently reported on LGBT+ issues in the profession. We have
 participated in LGBT+ History month since 2018, with activities intended to raise awareness of
 the histories of sexuality. For instance, we created a series of posters in which colleagues
 discussed historical figures and objects connected to LGBT+ histories; these were initially
 displayed in our buildings and disseminated as blog posts; and the following year, they were
 displayed in the University Library as part of an exhibition on LGBT+ identities in the University.
 We have also undertaken an audit and enhancement of our library holdings related to LGBT+
 histories and histories of sexuality.
 Disability: We added Disability History Month to our repertoire in 2019, with another series of
 consciousness-raising posters featuring historical figures. We have supported our own
 colleagues by making reasonable adjustments to office space for several staff, including the
 provision of adjustable-height desks, and speech-recognition software.



                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for individual circumstances: In 2019, we introduced a right to phased return from
 parental leave. As of 2020, none of our staff formally have flexible working arrangements (other
 than for the pandemic!), but colleagues have used such arrangements during this REF cycle,
 and our 2019 survey confirmed that staff are aware that flexible working is available.
 EDI in our REF submission: all decisions about eligibility, ‘independence’ and circumstances
 were made according to the University’s Code of Practice. All those involved in selection
 recommendations within the School underwent additional EDI training, and all those involved in
 internal evaluation undertook a group calibration exercise. In the last REF, our internal
 evaluations were carried out by professors, a group that was then 90% male. In this cycle, our
 broader internal assessment team was 42% female (i.e. slightly lower than the School as a
 whole, but matching the proportion for REF-eligible staff). Our portfolio of outputs for this REF
 shows that 41% are by female authors. Each age cohort is represented broadly in line with the
 proportion of REF-eligible staff in that cohort, except that the proportion of outputs by 65+ year
 olds correlates with headcount rather than current (i.e. fractional) FTE. The numbers are too
 small for a meaningful analysis by ethnicity or disability. In 2014, all our impact case studies
 were led by men; one of our five 2020 case studies is led by a woman.
 Going Forward: we will prepare for our Athena SWAN renewal in 2023. We will support the
 University’s efforts to gain the race equality charter, and engage with the Royal Historical
 Society’s recent report on LGBT+ in the historical profession.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 The University funds most of our research and impact activities, either directly through salaries,
 studentships and facilities; or indirectly through the School operations budget that funds
 research allowances and activities. We aim to extend those activities by acquiring external
 income.

 3.1 External Income
 We have won new funding worth £9.72m from the major funders (HESA), compared to £2.9m in
 the previous cycle. We have also gained in-kind and financial support from other organisations
 and private individuals. Altogether, this has enabled us to fund the salaries of 37 research
 fellows and stipends for 19 PhD students, as well as teaching replacements for academic staff,
 archive and fieldwork trips, collaboration and networking events, and public engagement
 activities.
 Strategies for income generation: During this REF cycle, we sought:
    •   to encourage more colleagues to apply for large project grants;
    •   to encourage a greater diversity of colleagues to apply for such grants; and
    •   to build relationships with individuals and organisations that might support our research
        (either financially or in-kind).
 The Director of Research advises colleagues seeking funding, whether they are postdoc or
 professor, and whether they are seeking support for travel to distant archives or to create a
 research team for a major project. This can include scoping a project, planning milestones or
 data management, or commenting on drafts. We have sought to increase the diversity of staff
 acting as project leaders, and have actively targeted female and non-professorial colleagues.



                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We offer incentives to encourage colleagues to apply for major project grants. We award
 teaching relief (roughly one-sixth of a normal load) to anyone submitting a grant application
 worth over £350,000, regardless of ultimate success. To make the idea of leading a research
 team attractive (and realistic amidst other responsibilities), we factor the management of
 postdoctoral researchers into our workload model; and we allocate a share of the overheads
 returned to the School to Principal Investigators, giving them autonomy to support research
 activities in their field of interest.
 We have held large project grants from AHRC, Leverhulme and HERA, and have been
 particularly successful in ERC competitions in this cycle: in 2014, we hosted one ERC Starter
 grant; since then, we have won a Consolidator grant and two Advanced grants. With five non-
 professorial colleagues winning major grants, we have succeeded in building capacity.
 In terms of diversity, we now host five large projects led by women, compared to just two in the
 previous REF cycle. We have also extended our grant success beyond our established
 strengths in medieval and early modern Europe: we now host a Leverhulme project focused on
 early nineteenth-century Scotland, and two ERC projects investigating twentieth-century Europe;
 while our previous ERC project on medieval Anatolia has generated a number of spin-off grants.
 Smaller grants from a variety of funders and institutions have supported:
    •   Time and travel for research: In addition to University-funded leave, staff are normally
        granted leave to take funded fellowships overseas. 9 of our colleagues have benefited
        from personal fellowships awarded by the British Academy, the Leverhulme Trust, and
        the AHRC (Leadership Fellows). A further 8 colleagues have won funded fellowships to
        the Netherlands Institute for Advanced Studies; the European University Institute
        (Florence); the Huntington Library; Villa i Tatti (Harvard/Florence); the University of
        Pennsylvania; and the Princeton Institute of Advanced Study. Small grants from the
        Carnegie Trust, the British Academy, the Great Britain Sasakawa Foundation, the Japan
        Foundation Endowment committee and others have enabled many research trips and
        workshops.
    •   Collaboration and Networking: as well as the networking built into large project grants,
        two research networks on ‘Global Cities’ (AHRC) and ‘Literature and the Union’
        (Carnegie Trust) enabled us to build new relationships within and beyond academia.
    •   Research Visitors: we have hosted 4 early-career colleagues holding personal
        fellowships from the Leverhulme Trust, the British Academy and the Marie Curie
        schemes; and 4 senior international visitors supported by the Leverhulme, Carnegie
        Trust and the British Academy (more detail in Section 4).
    •   Prize-winning Public Engagement: Our coastal heritage team received grants totalling
        £880,000 from Historic Environment Scotland, the Heritage Lottery Fund, Fife Council
        and the Crown Estate for their citizen science project developing creative approaches to
        heritage loss due to climate change: the funding supported video-making, museum
        exhibits, relocation projects and an interactive website; and the team won the British
        Archaeological Award for Best Community Engagement in both 2014 and 2018. Our
        Institute of Legal and Constitutional Research received a £25,000 AHRC 10th
        Anniversary Public Engagement Grant to fund ‘Talking Law’: this dramatization of the trial
        of Patrick Hamilton (who was executed for heresy in St Andrews in 1528) engaged
        members of the public in a discussion about the role of law in our society, and was
        runner-up for an Association for Heritage Interpretation award in 2017.

                                                                                          Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Other support: our strong relationships with external organisations have brought us income and
 in-kind support from sources other than the usual government and charitable funders. For
 instance:
    •   The Institute of Iranian Studies has received at least £185,000 in private donations, and
        this has enabled us to enhance our library holdings in relevant areas, and to endow an
        annual lecture and a studentship.
    •   The ‘Universal Short Title Catalogue’ project team has received over £920,000 from the
        Andrew W Mellon Foundation, the publishers Proquest and Brill and philanthropic donors
        in the UK and USA. This enabled us to employ extra staff, offer PhD studentships, and
        develop a public-facing programme, ‘Preserving the World’s Rarest Books’, that works
        with 65 libraries in 13 countries.
    •   We secured full or partial funding for 13 PhD students from private donors or small
        charities, including the Strathmartine Trust (for Scottish history) and the Nicholas Murray
        donation (for the history of war broadly defined). Other PhD students have been
        fully/partly funded by the Royal Institution, the Friedrich Naumann Foundation, the
        Friedrich Ebert Foundation, the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, the National Social
        Science Fund of China and the Australian Government Research Training Program.
    •   The Royal Society of London provided in-kind support of £45,000 to support the public
        engagement activities of the ‘Publishing the Philosophical Transactions’ project.
    •   The publisher Brepols sponsors the essay prize competition run by the Institute of
        Medieval Studies and the Medieval Journal.
    •   Private donations have included £2,000 to support the creation of an atlas of European
        language politics; and £10,000 for the new Institute of Legal & Constitutional History.
 3.2 Organisational Infrastructure
 The Head of School, assisted by the School executive committee, is responsible for strategic
 matters, including recruitment, promotion, and the allocation of the operations budget. Day-to-
 day responsibility for research matters is devolved to a Director of Research and a Director of
 Impact, advised by a Research Committee. The Ethics Committee provides advice and scrutiny
 for projects involving living people.
 For teaching purposes, we are organised into four departments of Medieval, Modern, Middle
 Eastern, and Scottish history; but most of our research activity takes place in overlapping, and
 often interdisciplinary, communities. In particular, our centres and institutes (see Figure 1) have
 a core mission of raising St Andrews’ profile in their field, and of enhancing the intellectual and
 professional opportunities of their researchers. They curate a vibrant and varied series of
 research seminars and annual public lectures (see Figure 7), as well as many one-off research
 workshops. They bring together staff and postgraduates with common interests for reading
 groups, lunchtime ‘salons’, social events and reading weekends. They all run blogs or
 newsletters, and several manage journals or book series. The centres and institutes also help
 develop our links with organisations beyond St Andrews, including the Judicial Institute of
 Scotland (Institute of Legal and Constitutional Research) and the UK Foreign Office (Institute for
 Iranian Studies).




                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

                           Figure 7. Seminar series and public lectures




 3.3 Operational Infrastructure
 Space: St Andrews offers an inspirational environment within which to study the past, with
 powerful reminders of its historic significance as a centre for pilgrimage, politics and learning.
 The School of History is currently housed in three buildings of different ages and styles, all
 situated within eight minutes’ walking distance of one another, and of the University Library
 buildings, the University museums, and the cathedral and castle ruins (ILES, 4.2).
 Staff on open-ended contracts have individual offices, all of which are large enough for
 postgraduate supervision and project team meetings. Postdoctoral researchers and academic
 visitors are variously accommodated in small individual offices or in larger project-related group
 offices. We are proud to be ahead of the sector in providing suitable work space for our
 postgraduates: the Postgraduate Experience Survey (2017) reports 84% satisfaction among our
 students, compared with 63% nationally. First-year postgraduate students usually work in the
 Martyrs’ Kirk Research Library, an uplifting recent conversion of a former church close to our
 other sites. Those in second year or beyond are provided with desk space in group offices in our
 own buildings, or nearby (though many of our students spend their second year away from St
 Andrews doing archival research).
 Professional Services Staff: The School of History is supported by 8 administrative staff. One
 of these is a full-time IT officer, who advises on the procurement of equipment and services for
 research staff; develops websites for our institutes, centres and projects; and, when more
 specialised resources are required, liaises with colleagues in the central IT services (e.g. the
 Research Computing team, or the Open Data team).
 Library and Museum Services: The University Library and Museums comprise a key resource
 for the School’s research community. The Special Collections are exceptionally rich in
 manuscript and early printed material relating to medieval and early modern Scotland; but also
 include over 50 medieval Islamic manuscripts, and 150 alchemical manuscripts from the
 sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. St Andrews was a copyright library between 1710 and
 1837; and, due to its connections to pioneering photographers, has been collecting photographs
 since 1844 (ranging from glass negatives to salt paper prints).
 Our researchers collaborate with library staff to enrich and broaden our collections through
 purchase, loan and donation: recent acquisitions include a manuscript copy of a legal text written
 in Lowland Scots dating to 1548; a 1589 hand-coloured Luther bible; and a 1788 letter from

                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Robert Burns. Our relationships with external individuals and organisations have enabled us to
 secure substantial donations of Persian-language material from Iran, and a unique collection of
 materials relating to the Roma peoples.
 Acquisitions of contemporary material are driven by academic staff, each of whom has an
 annual purchasing allowance of £1,000. PhD students can also make recommendations for
 purchases from a central university fund. We acquire foreign language material, and digital as
 well as printed media. We fund unlimited interlibrary loans for staff and postgraduates.
 Public Engagement and Impact Facilities: Our engagement with local communities is greatly
 enhanced by the proximity of heritage sites such as the castle and cathedral; and by University
 facilities, such as the Byre Theatre, Parliament Hall, and the University museums. We have
 fantastic locations for events ranging from walking tours to public lectures and panel debates.
 We enjoy particularly close links with the University museums, working with collections staff to
 curate exhibitions and displays, and with the outreach and education team to develop
 programming ranging from lunchtime talks to workshops in local schools. The School has its
 own filming equipment, which is used extensively by our coastal heritage team to document
 digs and to record experiences and oral history from the community volunteers. Some of their
 footage has been used by the BBC, while other material has been released on a vimeo channel.
 Staff and postgraduates can borrow video and audio equipment for public engagement activities
 (such as the series of video interviews with visiting legal practitioners, produced by the Institute
 of Legal and Constitutional Research), and our IT officer provides bespoke training and support.


 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our extensive networks have enabled us to make significant intellectual contributions to
 academia and the wider world, locally, nationally, and globally.

 4.1 Research collaborations and networks
 Our research collaborations and networks are a mixture of strategic activities made at the
 School or institute/centre level; activities arising from externally funded projects: and ground-up
 initiatives from individual researchers. We invest our own resources to support meaningful face-
 to-face engagement with scholars from other universities, through visits and co-supervision of
 PhD students; and we are generous both in allowing our staff to be outwardly mobile, and in
 hosting visitors, whether as conference delegates, seminar speakers, visiting fellows or research
 visitors.
 School of History Visiting Fellows: we fund openly-advertised visiting fellowships for scholars
 to come to St Andrews for a semester. 15 scholars have held these positions since 2014,
 coming from the Universities of Minnesota, Rochester, Guelph and University College Dublin,
 among many others. While they are with us, as well as carrying out their research project, they
 meet staff and postgraduates, and deliver research seminars or workshops. The Bullough Fellow
 in Medieval History and the Cameron Fellow in Reformation Studies are long-established, and in
 2020, we created a new visiting fellowship in Modern History (implementation delayed by the
 pandemic).
 Staff exchanges: we have long-established annual exchanges with Tel Aviv and the University
 of Oslo; as well as a newer arrangement with the College of William and Mary (Virginia), which
 involves both a six-week staff exchange in each direction each year, and an annual research
 symposium that alternates location. As part of the University’s aim to continue our European


                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 partnerships beyond Brexit, we are developing long-term partnerships with the Charles
 University (Prague), and the Universities of Bonn, Ghent, Malta and Perpignan.
 International, collaborative PhD supervision: during this REF cycle, we have arranged
 bespoke co-tutelle agreements for 18 students (see Figure 8). Such agreements expose
 students to different scholarly cultures, create expert supervisory teams, and enable us to build
 durable links with international colleagues.


        Figure 8. International Institutions with whom we have formal co-tutelle PhD
                                          arrangements




 Collaborative research projects: External funding has helped us to build research
 collaborations (ILES, 4.1). For instance, the HERA-funded project ‘After Empire: Using and Not
 Using the Past in the Crisis of the Carolingian Empire, c.900-1050’ involved the Free University
 Berlin, and the universities of Barcelona, Exeter, and Vienna; while the ‘Global City’ network
 involved geographers, urban planners, anthropologists, art historians, sociologists, and policy
 makers from the UK, USA and Brazil. Other grants have allowed our researchers to collaborate
 with medieval historians at Ghent and economic historians at Lund.
 Hosting visitors to St Andrews: researchers from around the world regularly come to spend
 time with our community in St Andrews. For instance, both the ‘Universal Short Title Catalogue’
 and the ‘Publishing the Philosophical Transactions project’ have welcomed short-term visitors
 who came to learn about their methods. Since 2014, we have hosted 92 such visitors, 85% of
 whom were from outside the UK, including Italy, France, Denmark, the USA, Canada, Brazil,
 Iran, Uzbekistan, Japan, and China. The international range demonstrates both our
 attractiveness as a destination for top-tier academics and our commitment to globalising and
 diversifying our research and researchers.
 We have hosted senior scholars as externally funded Visiting Professors and Fellows: (1) in
 2015-16, Elena Marushiakova, a leading historian of the Roma or Gypsy people, joined us as a
 Leverhulme Visiting Professorship; (2) in 2016, we hosted the early modern global historian
 Geoffrey Parker (Ohio State University) as a Carnegie Centenary Professor; (3) in 2016,
 medievalist Hans Orning (University of Oslo) visited us on a Caledonian Research

                                                                                            Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Foundation/RSE European Visiting Research Fellowship; (4) in 2018-19, we hosted Amanda
 Phillips (University of Virginia), a scholar of medieval Anatolia as a British Academy Visiting
 Fellow; (5) from 2019, medievalist Eduardo Manzano Moreno (Madrid) joined us as a four-year
 British Academy Global Professor.
 The presence of these research visitors creates an intellectually stimulating environment for our
 staff and postgraduates. It also fosters durable relationships: for instance, Harvard professor
 Daniel Lord Smail came to give the annual Institute of Medieval Studies lecture in 2018, and
 returned as a Bullough Fellow in 2019; while Elena Marushiakova spent a year with us as a
 Leverhulme Visiting Professor, and then decided to base her ERC project at St Andrews.


 4.2 Relationships with key research users, and diverse publics
 We are committed to sharing our research and expertise generously, whether with academics or
 with other research users. Many of our centres, institutes, projects and researchers have
 developed mutually rewarding relationships with external organisations that significantly
 enhance the research environment at St Andrews, stimulating new research questions and
 offering pathways to research impact.
 Our Impact Case Studies give fuller details of our relationships with rare books libraries and
 mental health practitioners; with the Royal Society of London; with natural environment agencies
 and local heritage sites; and with politicians and advisors involved in UK constitutional debates.
 These are not, however, our only relationships with research users. For instance:
        Legal practitioners: the Institute for Legal and Constitutional Research regularly
        involves working legal professionals in its activities: its seminars and workshops have
        included the prominent American jurist, Richard Posner; the former Chief Justice of
        Australia; the president of the UK Supreme Court, Baroness Hale; as well as the former
        Solicitor General and the Lord Advocate of Scotland. Incorporating the expertise of these
        practitioners creates an intellectually stimulating research environment for the students
        and staff of the Institute. The prize-winning ‘Talking Law’ public engagement project
        depended on the participation of the legal practitioners and police experts who served on
        the panels discussing a (real) 1528 heresy trial and the (fictional) tribunal of Danaerys
        Targaryen (which investigated how international humanitarian law might have dealt with
        the Game of Thrones character’s crucifixion of 163 great slave masters).
        UK Foreign Office: The Institute for Iranian Studies has well-developed relationships
        with the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office; and Chatham House. For
        instance, the Nick Browne Memorial lecture in Iranian and Middle Eastern History
        alternates annually between St Andrews and the FCDO; and we have appointed Sir
        Geoffrey Adams (UK ambassador in Cairo) as Honorary Senior Lecturer. These links
        enable our researchers to build relationships with civil servants, policy makers and
        diplomats, and colleagues regularly brief government officials. As a result, one of our
        colleagues is currently seconded as an AHRC/ESRC Knowledge Exchange Fellow for
        two years, to increase the historical knowledge base within the Foreign Office.
        Policy makers: our Impact Case Studies demonstrate our substantial engagement with
        policy makers on matters of constitutional reform, the natural environment and open
        access academic publishing. Other colleagues have advised the Scottish Government on
        urban land reform issues; and brought together academics and Whitehall civil servants
        (including former Permanent Secretaries and members of the Cabinet Office) to discuss

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        the nature of 'Political Advice: from Antiquity to the Present'. Our ‘Roma Emancipation’
        project team have advised the governments of several EU countries (and Argentina) on
        treatment of the Roma peoples; and in 2020, the Council of Europe’s recommendation
        on ‘the inclusion of the history of Roma and/or Travellers in school curricula’ included the
        recommendation of a factsheet co-authored by the team.
        Churches: Many of our colleagues work with faith-based organisations. For instance,
        colleagues have helped the bishopric of Girona to publish a catalogue of early medieval
        manuscripts in the Catalan archives; and provided expertise on ecclesiology to
        Westminster Abbey and the Anglican Communion. During 2017, members of the
        Reformation Studies Institute worked with local churches and faith-based organisations
        across Europe to remember and critically reflect on the legacy of the 1517 Reformation.
        Heritage organisations: the links between our Institute for Scottish Historical Research
        and organisations such as Historic Scotland and the National Trust for Scotland provides
        valuable opportunities for our research to feed into visitor displays at locations such as St
        Andrews Cathedral, St Andrews Castle, and the Bannockburn visitor centre. One of our
        colleagues served on the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of
        Scotland. Our links with heritage organisations have been enhanced by the creation of
        SMART History, with its expertise in the digital reconstruction of historical sites. SMART
        History developed 3D digital reconstructions of parts of medieval St Andrews based on
        original historical research: these are available as online videos, and are regularly
        displayed at events at those sites (for instance, a video of the reconstructed cathedral
        now plays at the visitor centre at the ruined cathedral). Other reconstructions include
        Edinburgh’s Royal Mile in 1544, and a hillfort in Perthshire; these are available to users
        via an app and a website. SMART History is currently building on the success of its 2014
        ‘Medieval St Andrews’ app (devised and developed in collaboration with members of the
        School) to develop a ‘Reformation St Andrews’ app; and it is working with the Institute of
        Intellectual History to build ‘Curious St Andrews’, an online resource that will enable
        users to explore the history of intellectual curiosity and discovery in St Andrews from the
        Enlightenment onwards. These digital heritage technologies allow us to share our
        research with new audiences.
        Museums: the University museums offer us valuable opportunities to engage with
        diverse publics, ranging from primary school pupils attending a workshop on Victorian
        technologies, to adults attending lunchtime talks inspired by museum objects, and
        tourists visiting the exhibition spaces. Our major collaboration has been the curation of
        the Medieval St Andrews exhibition, which was due to run at the University’s Wardlaw
        Museum in June-August 2020 (now delayed to spring 2021). Colleagues also work with
        other museums, for instance, advising the British Museum and Dumbarton Oaks
        Museum in Washington DC on late Antique Armenian silver; and the Royal Collections
        Trust on an exhibition on the Romanovs held in the Queen’s Gallery. An AHRC-funded
        PhD project, collaboratively supervised with National Museums Scotland, has resulted in
        an exhibition curated by the student, called ‘Typewriter Revolution’ (was due to open July
        2020, but now delayed to May 2021).


 4.3 Contributions to wider society
 Our School aims to share its expertise generously with the wider public, a mission consonant
 with the University’s ‘Social Responsibility’ commitment. We do this locally, nationally and

                                                                                             Page 22
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally, through a variety of media, and we encourage all staff and postgraduates to be
 involved. Our 2020 ‘public engagement with research’ survey revealed that 97% of respondents
 were already doing some public engagement, and 44% wanted to do more.
 Our local community: We play an important role in the local community as the major cultural
 institution in north-east Fife. Our expertise in medieval and early modern Scottish history is
 particularly appreciated by schools and local associations, but we share our expertise on a wide
 range of other topics. Many colleagues and senior postgraduates have worked with the
 University’s Open Association to bring their research to adults in informal continuing education.
 Others have spoken to associations such as the Franco-Scottish Society of St Andrews and
 Friends of the Botanic Garden, and at nearby museums, including the Museum of St Andrews
 and the Scottish Fisheries Museum. Staff members routinely visit local schools to talk about
 everything from Vikings, through the Battle of Bannockburn, to the American Civil War. The
 Institute of Legal and Constitutional Research has been particularly active in engaging with
 topical political, moral and legal issues. For instance, a 2019 event on the nature of referendums
 brought together politicians, journalists, academics and local people to reflect on the 1979
 Scottish independence referendum in the light of the 2016 Brexit referendum.
 Scottish coastal communities: Our project on ‘Scotland’s Coastal Heritage at Risk’ has
 recruited over 1,000 volunteer shore watchers to participate in a citizen science project to record
 and monitor heritage sites at risk from coastal erosion. Almost 500 volunteers participated in the
 fourteen ShoreDIG projects: as well as producing practical benefits for the sites (such as new
 interpretation displays), these projects help connect coastal communities to their heritage. The
 citizen science model developed by our team has since been applied by heritage agencies in
 Iceland, Puerto Rico and Florida, among others, as evidenced in our Impact Case Study.
 Informing Public Debate: our historians provide expert commentary and advice for print- or
 web-based news articles, ranging from History Today and Times Higher Education, to Le
 Monde, Washington Post, and Newsweek. We have appeared domestically and internationally in
 podcasts, radio broadcasts and television programmes, ranging from BBC to Al-Jazeera. The
 results can be wide-ranging: for instance, Hillary Rodham Clinton and Chelsea Clinton revealed
 in their Book of Gutsy Women (2019) that they had been inspired by CNN coverage of an article
 co-authored by one of our colleagues on the rare blue pigment found in the teeth of a medieval
 (female) skeleton.
 Bringing history to wider audiences: we are proud to write for a variety of audiences, from the
 online followers of the ‘Merovingian World’ blog, to the pupils in German secondary schools who
 studied the special edition of Der Nationalsozialismus published by Germany’s central institution
 for political education (Bundeszentrale für Politische Bildung). These wider audiences are global:
 Introduction to Islam has been translated into Taiwanese, Hungarian, Czech, Korean and Italian;
 and What is Intellectual History? has been translated into Mandarin, Turkish, Korean and Italian.


 4.4 Contributions to the research base, and to the sustainability of the discipline
 We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline through our training of postgraduates, and by
 a wide variety of activities that support scholarship and scholarly communities.




                                                                                             Page 23
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate training: we collaborate with other academic and non-academic partners.
        We are the subject lead for History in the Scottish Graduate School for Arts and
        Humanities, which offers training to all humanities PhD students in Scotland. Our staff
        contributed to workshops in Spatial History and Digital History.
        Through our Institute of Transnational and Spatial History, we are a founder member of
        the Graduate Interdisciplinary Network for European Studies (created in 2011),
        which also involves universities in Basel, Paris (SciencesPo), Vienna, Cologne, Prague
        and Madrid. The network facilitates short-term exchanges for postgraduate students; and
        runs an annual summer school; we hosted the event in 2015 and were due to host it in
        2020.
        Through the St Andrews Institute of Medieval Studies, we provided the Research Lead
        and one of the Training Leads for the EU-funded Marie Curie Initial Training Network
        (2012-16), Power and Institutions in Medieval Islam and Christendom. This was a
        €3.3 million collaboration with the Centre for Human and Social Sciences at the CSIC in
        Madrid, and universities in Rome, Tel Aviv, Paris and London. Postgraduates from all
        parts of the network came together for joint training workshops, including 'Sources and
        Source Criticism' in St Andrews.
        We support and encourage our postgraduate students to work with external
        organisations that would benefit from their skills and expertise. For instance, the
        students in the Marie Curie training network undertook internships with organisations
        ranging from the publishers Brill to the film-makers Lopez-Li. Other students have been
        supported by Scottish Funding Council innovation vouchers to work with client
        organisations: for instance, one helped a Scottish perfume company develop its historical
        branding. Two of our postgraduates developed a board game, Merplantilism, which
        brings together the histories of eighteenth-century botany and mercantilism and was
        used in schools workshops at the Botanic Gardens in Dundee.
 Editorship: We are committed to supporting the development of historical authorship, and the
 dissemination of historical research. Our research centres and institutes provide the editorial
 leadership for the book series St Andrews Studies in Reformation History; St Andrews Studies in
 Scottish History; and St Andrews Studies in French History and Culture; and for The Medieval
 Journal and Global Intellectual History (founded in 2015).
 Through the individual contributions of colleagues, we provided editors for journals including
 German History, the Journal of Scottish Historical Studies, History of European Ideas and Early
 Medieval Europe; and for book series ranging from ‘The Medieval Mediterranean’ and ‘Studies in
 the History of Medieval Iran and Turkey’ to ‘Early Modern History: Society and Culture’ and
 ‘Studies in Modern Monarchy’. We provide editorial board members to a wide variety of journals
 and book series. Some sense of the diversity of our expertise and its multilingual reach can be
 seen in Figure 9, which represents the titles of some of the journals and book series to which we
 make editorial contributions.
 Expert Evaluation: We have peer-reviewed articles for numerous journals, and book
 manuscripts for scholarly presses including OUP, CUP and Yale. We have been sought as
 reviewers and assessors for appointment, tenure and promotion panels in the UK, Germany, the
 USA and Quatar, among other places. Our expertise is widely sought by funding agencies
 throughout Europe and beyond, as can be seen in the selected examples in Figure 10.



                                                                                          Page 24
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


             Figure 9. Our editorial contributions to journals and book series




                        Figure 10. International expert evaluation




                                                                                 Page 25
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have examined PhDs for universities throughout Europe, from Helsinki to Milan, and from
 Dublin to Sofia; and also in South Africa, Pakistan, and Malaysia; selected examples are shown
 in Figure 11.

                      Figure 11. Some of our international PhD examining




 Learned Societies: We contribute to the sustainability of the discipline of history through
 extensive service to learned societies. Two of our colleagues served as vice-presidents of the
 Royal Historical Society, with responsibility for publications and for equality and diversity. Others
 have served as the presidents or vice-presidents of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, the
 British Institute of Persian Studies, the European Early American Studies Association, the
 Ecclesiastical History Society, and the Gypsy Lore Society, among others. Other learned
 organisations to whose committees we contribute range from the Royal Society of Edinburgh to
 the Selden Society, and the History of Science Society to the Verein für Reformations-
 geschichte.
 We have also served the learned societies by hosting their annual meetings in St Andrews,
 including the British Society for the History of Science (2014), the Society for the Study of
 French History (2015), the German History Society (2018), the International Society for
 Intellectual History (2018), the British Legal History Conference (2019) and the Biennial Early
 Career Scholars’ Conference of Symposia Iranica (2019). We also hosted over 70 other
 workshops, symposia and conferences, helping to sustain intellectual conversations and
 international collegiality in the broad field of History.
 We recognise excellent historical scholarship through the award of prizes: the Institute of
 Medieval Studies (with The Medieval Journal) awards an early career essay prize every year;
 and the Institute of Intellectual History awards the annual István Hont Book Prize for the best
 book published in intellectual history.




                                                                                               Page 26
