Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 23 Education

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Context and structure
 Southampton Education School (SEdS) focuses on research across a wide range of contexts
 and sectors, with the central aim of positively influencing policy and practice. It is a responsive
 and dynamic community of education researchers and professionals, strongly connected to the
 local community, as well as demonstrating significant national and international engagement and
 collaboration across 45 countries. SEdS work is permeated by an inclusive culture, which is
 encouraged by ways of working that respect diversity and ensure that all staff take an active part
 in decision-making. Since REF 2014, SEdS has generated over £2.6M in research income and
 has attracted nine strong researchers to new appointments to complement existing strengths.
 One of five schools in the Faculty of Social Sciences (FSS), SEdS was restructured into two
 interconnected institutes in 2014: the Institute for Educational Effectiveness and Equity (IE3),
 which is the umbrella structure for our three research centres (RCs), and the Institute for
 Professional Practice in Education (IPPE), focusing on enterprise, Initial Teacher Education and
 professional development, informed by our research. Colleagues work collaboratively across
 these two institutes to produce high-quality research, to impact significantly on thinking and
 practice in the field, and to make a real difference to wider society.
 SEdS comprises 23 (22.4 FTE) (11 female, 12 male) permanent research-active staff, (5
 Professors, 9 Associate Professors, 7 Lecturers, 1 Principal Research Fellow and 1 UKRI Future
 Leaders Fellow), plus 3 post-doctoral research staff contracted to specific externally funded
 projects. During this REF period, 9 new Category A colleagues were appointed (4 female, 5
 male). The age profile is balanced with 43% of staff <45 and 57% >45. 9% of Category A
 colleagues are BAME.
 Research is grouped thematically into three centres representing our major areas of
 expertise, with leadership provided in each by internationally recognised researchers: The
 Centre for Research in Inclusion (CRI) (led by Nind); the Leadership, Educational Effectiveness,
 and Policy (LEEP) research centre (led by Kelly); and the Maths, Science and Health Education
 (MSHE) research centre (co-led by Grace and Bokhove) (see Section 3). All staff have a primary
 affiliation with one RC but are welcome to (and do) attend meetings of the other RCs.
 Membership of the RCs is enriched by the engagement of post-graduate research (doctoral)
 students (PGRs). This creates a continuum of research experience from PGRs and Early Career
 Researchers (ECRs) to senior Professors. The RCs are dynamic, developmental and inclusive
 spaces where staff and students share research ideas and activities.
 SEdS places considerable emphasis on developing a supportive research culture. RCs
 usually meet monthly to discuss strategic objectives related to publications, research bidding,
 impact, and PGR progress. Additionally, other less formal avenues for facilitating discussions
 have been created, such as ‘Research Chats’. Held every three weeks, ‘Research Chats’ are
 open to all SEdS staff, providing an inclusive context where research-related matters and their
 impact are discussed. Individual research conversations are also held annually with the Director
 of Research (DoR), focusing on how the research agendas of individuals can be further
 developed, complementing discussions between colleagues and their RC Heads. Research
 workshops are organised each semester, focusing on specific themes. SEdS staff also
 contribute to the seminar series to share their research more widely across the University of
                                                                                                       1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Southampton (UoS) and region, alongside national and international invited presenters. These
 well-attended events are advertised across FSS and to all post graduate students in the School.
 SEdS is internationally recognised and respected, connecting with other international
 centres for educational research in (for example) USA, Singapore, Greece, Finland, Ireland,
 Hong Kong, Belgium, Spain, Denmark, Portugal, Mexico, Japan, and New Zealand. Additionally,
 there is an extensive range of enterprise/professional development initiatives offered by IPPE
 (led by the Director of Enterprise) that connects with our research and demonstrates a breadth
 of engagement with the field. One such initiative is our Mathematics and Science Learning
 Centre (MSLC), founded in 2004 as part of the Department for Education’s (DfE) funded Science
 Learning Centre programme, but subsequently widened as a stand-alone laboratory and
 conference facility to build on SEdS research strengths in Maths and Science. MSLC facilitates a
 number of national professional development programmes, including Science Learning
 Networks (STEM Learning), Computing at School Regional Centre (British Computer Society)
 and national programmes run in partnership with the Institute of Physics. MSLC provides over
 1,000 CPD days annually for teachers and technicians.

 1.2 Research strategy
 Review of objectives for the assessment period: A major focus has been on ensuring that
 colleagues are supported in realising their potential, by working in teams that can stimulate their
 thinking and enhance the possibilities of seeing their plans materialise. In 2014, we planned to
 develop four research centres of excellence, while maintaining our focus on a limited number of
 (optimally-staffed) areas where we could be world-leading. Following a Faculty-led strategic
 review of the SEdS in 2016, recommendations were made to reduce the number of research
 centres to three, in order to strengthen areas where we demonstrate research excellence and
 influence - locally, nationally and internationally. These are also areas of national and
 international need and opportunity. This resulted in the current centres: Maths, Science, and
 Health Education (MSHE); Leadership, Educational Effectiveness and Policy (LEEP) (including
 research in Higher Education); and Inclusion (CRI).
 Our three RCs serve as the focus of our strategic recruitment and development of staff and
 PGRs. In particular, we have implemented a clear strategy to align the research interests of PhD
 applicants much more strongly with the expertise of our RCs, thereby leveraging more
 prestigious internal and external funding for studentships. We have had considerable success
 (Section 2.2). As planned, we have targeted prestigious academic and third-sector funding within
 an increasingly challenging funding climate. We have demonstrated resilience and diversity in
 this endeavour, successfully securing funding from a wide range of sources (Section 3.1).
 Over the next five years, our overarching aim is to continue supporting colleagues
 individually and collectively in developing their research agendas, thereby strengthening
 our research culture. Our research strategy is to:
 (i) maintain our focus on three research themes aligned with our RCs, emphasising public
 engagement activities, building pathways to impact, and supporting even more proactive roles
 for PGRs;
 (ii) make appointments to our RCs to address reduced capacity through staff departures
 (reflecting promotions for many), and continue to build our strengths in these areas;
 (iii) play leading roles in interdisciplinary research within the university and beyond, especially in
 the areas of adolescent mental health and well-being; the teaching and application of school
 mathematics; social policy-relevant areas related to disability and inclusion, and school


                                                                                                          2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 effectiveness; and connecting with the strategically important pedagogical research programme
 within the National Centre for Research Methods (NCRM);
 (iv) expand our research collaborations locally, nationally and internationally;
 (v) develop stronger pipelines for career development through targeting opportunities for funded
 research fellowships and studentships, aligned with our RCs, in order to further develop high-
 quality PGR and ECR representation within SEdS; and
 (vi) develop stronger pathways to securing the interest and development of UG and PGT
 students in research (e.g. via summer research internships and exchanges; designing student
 dissertation projects aligned with RCs).

 1.3 Impact Strategy
 SEdS places particular emphasis on research that makes a difference, relevant to the
 field of education locally, nationally and internationally. Many studies start from the needs in
 the field, and often research designs are developed through collaborations between researchers
 and practitioners. An Impact Champion has lead responsibility for encouraging an impactful
 approach to research and identifying and supporting specific Impact Case Studies (ICS). The
 Impact Champion secured funding from the ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) which was
 used to support a range of activities, including a workshop on ‘Enhancing the impact of research
 beyond the REF’, led by Professor Judy Sebba (REF2014 Impact assessor).
 SEdS has further benefitted from the ESRC IAA via support for Nind’s ‘Southampton Platform for
 Inclusive Research and Ideas Together’ (SPIRIT), a co-constructed partnership between
 researchers across the university and local organisations and individuals interested in working
 collaboratively and inclusively around researching disability issues. SPIRIT has subsequently
 secured £330K ESRC funding for a project addressing social policy challenges relating to social
 care. In addition, Grace was awarded £7.5K to support the extension of LifeLab to Oman;
 Bokhove secured £21K to enable the Southampton Mathematics Project archive to be updated,
 digitised and disseminated to schools across the UK; Parsons secured £25K to extend her early
 years’ digital stories methodology for supporting autistic children’s transitions between nursery
 and primary schools; and Nind was awarded £15K to expand her work with learning-disabled
 adults to co-design activities and resources for enhanced accessibility and impact.
 Furthermore, via the university’s Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) (Section 2.9,
 REF5a), SEdS has benefitted from funding to support public engagement activities (£8K) and
 from seminars promoting different approaches to public engagement, which inform and support
 our overall approach to research, namely to enhance policy and practice for wider societal
 impact. For example, Early LifeLab empowers children to lead the change in their own health
 and received funding from PERu to collaborate with ‘ukactive KIDS’, Winchester Science Centre
 and Caroline Jenkins Photography to create a vibrant and inspiring photographic exhibition of
 young children engaged in ‘active play’. The Autism Community Research Network @
 Southampton (ACoRNS) secured seed-funding to co-construct a research agenda with local
 schools and has since won ESRC funded research studentships from the South Coast Doctoral
 Training Partnership (DTP), and external funding from the Froebel Trust and the ESRC’s
 Festival of Social Science. ACoRNS and LifeLab are showcased in two of our ICS.
 Meanwhile, all colleagues are alert to opportunities for developing stronger pathways to
 impact. This often involves collaboration with other organisations, bringing practitioners and
 researchers together. Senior colleagues with established links introduce junior colleagues to
 relevant stakeholders to facilitate and promote sustainability of collaborations. For example,
 Messiou introduced Peleg to schools in a multi-academy trust with a view to developing new
                                                                                                     3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations around his research expertise (science education and Escape Rooms). In this
 way, we develop sustainable pathways to impact through inter- and multi-disciplinary work,
 as well as a longstanding commitment to wider collaboration with key stakeholders from our
 local, national and international communities.
 Our REF ICS show how we develop pathways to impact and the success of our impact
 strategy. For example, MSHE plays a leading role in LifeLab, which is an interdisciplinary
 programme run in collaboration with the Faculty of Medicine, comprising a programme of work
 that encompasses teacher continuing professional development, pre- and post-lessons delivered
 in schools and a hands-on visit to the state-of-the-art educational facility located in University
 Hospital Southampton. LifeLab ICS #23-03 is also an educational intervention for adolescents,
 facilitating learning about health through the science curriculum, which has demonstrated
 evidence of impact on students’ theoretical health literacy. Funding from a range of sources has
 been secured and sustained for over ten years, including £550K+ in external funding since 2014
 alone. Colleagues have collaborated with a range of organisations in order to ensure impact,
 both nationally and internationally.
 The Inclusion ICS #23-02 demonstrates the power of knowledge co-construction in research by
 working from the outset with community stakeholders, including schools, disabled people, third
 sector and People First organisations, to design, develop and implement practice- and policy-
 relevant research.
 The Maths Education ICS#23-01 illustrates the strength of our research legacy over many years
 through the Southampton Mathematics Project archive materials, and how we are connecting
 with new technologies and with business, such as Macmillan (for the World Class Maths
 MOOCs), to build new pathways to impact with vital stakeholders, especially schools and
 teachers.

 1.4 Commitment to interdisciplinarity
 We are strongly committed to interdisciplinarity as evidenced above and in Section 4 below, in
 relation to our many collaborations across the university, nationally and internationally. For
 example, Azaola is involved in an international interdisciplinary project ‘Spaces of School
 Belonging’ with colleagues from Mexico's Centre for Research and Studies in Social
 Anthropology (CIESAS) and the Institute of Social Research at the National Autonomous
 University of Mexico (UNAM). SEdS supports interdisciplinary research through its work on
 research methods capacity-building. Nind, co-director of the ESRC NCRM
 https://www.ncrm.ac.uk/, has led a major research programme on the teaching and learning of
 social science research methods across social science disciplines. This has highlighted the
 importance and distinctiveness of research methods pedagogy and led to the ESRC's call for
 bids for a Research Methods Training Centre to include a pedagogic research and development
 focus in building capacity and capability (now being led by Nind). Colleagues are also engaged
 with the university Institute for Life Sciences (IfLS) through the Mental Health and Adolescent
 Health themes (Hall; Woods-Townsend) and Kelly is an elected Fellow of the Institute of Physics
 and of the Institute of Mathematics & its Applications, where he has served as a member of
 education steering committees.

 1.5 Open Research
 All colleagues follow a policy of open access publishing and archiving in line with university
 policy (Section 2.4 REF5a). SEdS via Nind, is part of the wider NCRM effort to enhance access
 to data, sources, training and resources and in the development of local and national strategies,
 including impacting on the work of the ONS and Ipsos MORI. For example, Nind’s data have

                                                                                                     4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 been archived with the UK Data Archive, and there is strong open access to applications from
 the data and other work via the RC’s web portal; papers based on data collated via Freedom of
 Information requests have been supported by FSS funding to be published as gold open access
 in the British Educational Research Journal (Kelly; Parsons); detailed summaries of the data
 from Parsons et al, as well as other completed projects, are also freely available to download on
 the ACoRNS website; and all outputs produced as part of European Union (EU) funded projects
 are freely available to download from relevant websites (Brockmann, Messiou). Bokhove is the
 university lead for the UK reproducibility network (UKRN), and supports a thriving PGR-led
 discussion community on reproducible research issues.

 1.6 Research Integrity
 All SEdS researchers adhere to research integrity principles as outlined in the Concordat for
 Research Integrity and following the university processes (Section 2.8 REF5a). Five colleagues
 serve as reviewers within FSS and contribute strongly to research integrity through ethical
 review on the university online ethics approval system (ERGOII). SEdS has stipulated that these
 important research administration roles should be undertaken for a minimum of three years in
 order to build and sustain expertise and demonstrate commitment. Expertise in this area is also
 recognised nationally and internationally: Parsons is a member of the national Research Ethics
 Committee for the £1M research programme on Disability Research on Independent Living &
 Learning (DRILL) funded by the Big Lottery Fund, and has published invited sections on
 ‘informed consent’ and ‘assent’ for the SAGE Encyclopedia of Educational Research,
 Measurement, and Evaluation (2018).

 2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
 Category A colleagues include 11 female and 12 male staff: 10 staff are from countries outside
 the UK and have experience working in other countries including Israel, Malaysia, Singapore
 and a range of European countries (Cyprus, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Holland) which fosters a
 rich and diverse international context within SEdS.
 SEdS recognises the importance of having a clear, well-established, and robust set of processes
 for supporting staff development. Our RCs are the main hubs for mentoring and formulating
 research ideas and plans, and for inducting new staff into the vibrant research culture of SEdS.
 All staff are members of one RC. Newly appointed colleagues, including post-doctoral
 researchers, join one of the three RCs upon arrival, where members meet regularly to discuss
 research plans and ideas. The RCs provide reflexive, forward-looking agendas for research
 planning, writing, and engagement, as well as constructive feedback on papers, bids and
 research development.
 Senior colleagues undertake line management and appraisal to ensure that objectives and
 expectations are shared and work is distributed fairly and consistently between colleagues. All
 appraisers undertake mandatory appraisal training, including attention to the importance of
 equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) and unconscious bias (Section 3.8 REF5a). Additionally,
 colleagues are supported to attend career development opportunities offered by the university,
 such as the Leadership Circles programme, which enables senior leaders to share skills and
 experiences.
 Colleagues are encouraged to attend promotion ‘roadshows’ to understand the criteria for
 promotion to each level on each pathway (research-focused or education/enterprise focused or
 balanced) (Section 3.1 REF5a). These criteria form the basis of our appraisal and objective-
 setting guidance, thus embedding promotion discussions within the appraisal process.
                                                                                                     5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Applications for promotion are formatively reviewed by the Probation, Promotion and Sabbatical
 Leave (PPSL) committee before discussion at Faculty-level, and successful candidates for
 promotion to Associate Professor or Professor are invited for interview and external references
 taken up. SEdS has been very successful in supporting colleagues’ careers. There have been
 ten promotions (balanced and research-contracts) during the REF period: four promoted to
 Chairs at Level 7 (three females: Bhopal, Parsons, Messiou; and one male: Grace); four to Level
 6 Associate Professor/Principal Research Fellow (3 males: Bokhove, Tomlinson, Downey; and
 one female: Woods-Townsend); two female colleagues to Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow at
 Level 5 (Kaparou, Lewthwaite).
 All Category A staff are on permanent contracts and in line with the principles of the Concordat
 to Support the Career Development of Researchers (Section 3.5 REF5a), we have provided
 opportunities for staff on fixed-term research-only contracts to extend their contracts or apply for
 permanent posts. We have a policy of including fixed-term research staff on bids as named
 researchers or co-investigators, and to apply for Fellowships to create longer-term funded posts.
 External validation of the quality of SEdS’s environment and ability to attract excellent staff is
 evidenced through Lewthwaite being awarded the university’s first UK Research and Innovation
 (UKRI) Future Leaders Fellowship.
 SEdS has also invested in supporting colleagues who were previously on research contracts to
 gain full-time, permanent balanced pathway posts during the REF period (Azaola, Rietdijk),
 thereby demonstrating a strong commitment to career stability and progression. Many senior
 colleagues have moved to prestigious roles at other institutions (e.g. Fan to a Distinguished
 Professor and Director for the Asian Centre for Mathematics Education at East China Normal
 University; Muijs to be Head of Research at OfSTED; Macfarlane to be Head of the School of
 Education at the University of Bristol; Reynolds to be Head of School of Education, University of
 Swansea; Bhopal to a Professorial Research Fellow at the University of Birmingham; Evans to
 be Pro Vice Chancellor at Griffith University in Australia). Fan, Evans and Muijs are all Visiting
 Professors in SEdS and join retired professors Grenfell, Lumby and Weare in continuing to
 support the School in its research activities. In the context of sector-wide pressures on
 recruitment and staffing, the university has implemented close scrutiny of new posts and
 disinvested in some areas since 2016. Within this challenging context, SEdS has been
 supported to invest in key strategic appointments at Associate Professor level, appointing Hall
 from Exeter and Strogilos from Nanyang Technological University in Singapore, and at lecturer
 level, Kaparou from University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Peleg from University of Haifa
 in Israel and Pensiero from UCL.
 Staff development more widely is supported by an annual individual allowance of £1,300 for
 presenting at conferences and/or attending other development opportunities. Applications to the
 conference and staff development fund are made to the DoR, detailing the nature of the activity
 and how it supports the professional development of the individual’s research and the strategic
 priorities of SEdS. Colleagues share the content or outcomes of their attendance with their peers
 within team or RC meetings or through seminars. Additionally, for equity purposes, every new
 ECR is entitled to £1,000 start-up funding per annum for the first three years of employment, to
 help with setting up networks and facilitating small-scale research activities. Finally, workshops
 with specific themes, such as “Developing our research agendas” and “Enhancing the quality of
 our research applications” are organised to enhance SEdS research activities, in addition to
 workshops offered at Faculty-level and across the University.




                                                                                                        6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.2 Research students
 The recruitment of PGRs is a key area of strength in SEdS. There is a rigorous recruitment
 process, including mandatory training for staff involved to raise awareness of all aspects of
 equality and diversity; review by at least two staff members; and an interview for applicants who
 score highly.
 We have targeted ESRC and university-funded studentships and have been successful in
 recruiting students through project-led studentships and supporting promising students in their
 individual applications. We have also implemented a strategic, managed reduction in our PGR
 cohort from 125 to 73 in order to prioritise higher-quality applications that align more strongly
 with our expertise within the three RCs.
 The success of this strategy is evidenced in the number of scholarships that have been awarded
 in this REF period: 12 ESRC studentships and 13 Vice-Chancellor/Presidential scholarships.
 Many students are also supported by their employers (e.g. University of Guadalajara, University
 of Portsmouth, Bournemouth University, and Southampton Solent University) or governments
 (e.g. Oman, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Malaysia, Kazakhstan and Chile). We have also expanded
 and strengthened our routes through to Doctoral qualification by introducing a four-year
 Integrated PhD programme. This is designed to develop students’ skills through a
 comprehensive taught programme in their first year, followed by progress into the research
 phase upon successful completion of the taught modules.
 All our PGR students have access to a comprehensive research training programme. This
 includes a range of foundational and advanced Research Methods modules provided by FSS.
 SEdS also runs a programme of half-day workshops on research methods specific to the field of
 education, and there is an extensive programme of training courses and workshops on
 academic skills (e.g. on particular software, data handling, and communication skills) available
 through the university’s Doctoral College and the university library (Section 3.7 REF5a). All
 PGRs have access to funding of £750 p.a. (pro-rated for part-time students) to cover bespoke
 training, conference attendance, expenses incurred through fieldwork or other items/material to
 support their research.
 The university’s Careers & Employability Service (Section 3.7 REF5a) and the Doctoral College
 also provide support on career development and opportunities. Skills development is addressed
 primarily through an Academic Needs Analysis (ANA), which forms an integral element in each
 of the progression reviews (see below). The ANA ensures that PGRs’ skills needs are identified
 as they arise, as well as by careful monitoring of progression review reports. PGRs are
 encouraged by their supervisors to make full use of the available training. Training on Equality,
 Diversity & Inclusion, Health & Safety, Ethics and Research Data Management are now
 compulsory for all staff and students.
 SEdS has robust systems in place to support and monitor progress, as evidenced by our
 high level of successful doctoral completions. Since 2014, we have supported over 120
 successful completions across our doctoral programmes (approximately five students per staff
 FTE). Although already demonstrating a strong record, in 2016/17, the university introduced a
 more structured monitoring of progression through formal review of key milestones in order to
 ensure smooth progression, consistency across all Schools/Departments and timely
 completions. PGRs are now required to provide evidence of successful progression at specified
 points in their first, second and third years (of full-time study; correspondingly for part-timers),
 which are assessed through a rigorous process according to a set of criteria, with an oral
 examination at the first and second progression reviews. This new structure has enabled the
 identification of issues surrounding progress early on, which can then be addressed
                                                                                                        7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 appropriately. SEdS provides comprehensive support, including tailored workshops to prepare
 PGRs for progression reviews and for their final viva voce examinations.
 The effectiveness of SEdS support is reflected in the strong record of PGR progression. In
 2017/18, 100% of PGRs passed their first progression review (84% at the first attempt and 16%
 at the second attempt) and 100% of PGRs passed their second progression review at the first
 attempt. Upon completion, many PGRs embark on careers in academia, or in policy and
 research settings.
 Number of full person equivalent completions of PhDs and EdDs in this REF period


                    13-14      14-15     15-16     16-17     17-18     18-19     19-20      Total
  Education PhD     16.00      10.00      7.10     15.80     16.70     19.60     12.65      97.85
  Education EdD      7.00       4.60      4.00      9.00      3.00       0         0        27.60
  Totals            23.00      14.60     11.10     24.80     19.70     19.60     12.65     125.45

 PGR students are vital for the vibrancy, quality, and sustainability of SEdS research
 culture. There is a lively and highly diverse PGR community where students bring a wealth of
 different experiences. They come from a range of countries (31 of our 73 students are from
 overseas) and professional backgrounds (including 25 university lecturers from various
 countries, 5 headteachers, as well as those holding senior positions in organisations, including
 local authorities and national charities).
 All PGRs are members of one RC, usually that of their main supervisor. RCs are an important
 way of engaging PGRs in the wider research community and they regularly present their work at
 meetings alongside staff. PGRs are also encouraged to attend regular SEdS, FSS, and
 university seminars and workshops. PGRs have been very active organising both social and
 academic events, including the Student Conference which is held in the Education School
 annually. PGRs also participate in a range of other activities, such as the Festival of Doctoral
 Research organised by the Doctoral College, where they have produced prize-winning research
 posters at faculty and university levels. Our PGRs have also been highly successful in the Three
 Minute Thesis competition.

 2.3 Equality, diversity and inclusion
 The principles of inclusion and equality permeate the SEdS ethos and every aspect of its work.
 For example:
 Sabbatical leave arrangements: All research-active staff are eligible to apply for a one
 semester sabbatical after every four years of service through submitting a proposal to the PPSL
 committee. Applications are submitted a year in advance of the planned leave to provide
 sufficient time for formative feedback on the initial plan and ensuring that cover for teaching and
 administrative duties is available and arranged. All applications are expected to adhere to
 strategic as well as individual appraisal objectives, and be discussed with, and supported by, line
 managers. Fifteen staff had a combined total of 22 sabbaticals since 2014, i.e. 88% of eligible
 staff were granted and took sabbatical during the REF period. The outcomes of the sabbatical
 are reviewed by PPSL and constructive feedback is offered to colleagues.
 Well-being of staff and students: The well-being of staff and students is of paramount
 importance to SEdS. Ongoing confidential discussions between line managers and colleagues,
 and staff and PGRs, focus on the wellbeing of individuals. A dedicated quiet space has been
 created for staff and PGRs. The room can be used for relaxation, reflection, prayer or for
 mindfulness sessions.

                                                                                                       8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Support for diverse needs: Support is provided for colleagues who have caring
 responsibilities, ill-health, or disabilities (such as dyslexia) by making adjustments to
 accommodate their needs.
 Return from periods of leave: Staff and students who return from periods of parental caring
 and similar leaves are supported on return by receiving substantial ongoing support from their
 line managers/supervisors and other designated colleagues with whom they work in relevant
 teams.
 Construction of REF submission: EDI issues have been carefully considered during the
 preparation of this REF submission. All staff have had opportunities to suggest relevant
 information for the Environment Template. 46% of our selected outputs are attributed to current
 female colleagues.
 Gender equity: As discussed earlier, there is balanced gender representation in SEdS. In all
 appointment panels, there is an equal representation of male and female colleagues. Gender
 equity has been a particular focus of SEdS during the REF period. In addition, female staff are
 supported to attend career development opportunities offered by the university, including the
 Springboard Women’s Development Programme, targeted at female staff at all career levels.
 We acknowledge that a focus on BAME and disability is needed for the future. SEdS has set up
 an EDI Committee in 2020 to focus on these areas of recruitment.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Research clusters for investment and impact
 Our strategic investment in research, as well as our structure for providing a strong and
 responsive research culture, is focused on our three distinctive RCs each of which
 demonstrates international excellence and impact. Through our RCs, we showcase
 sustained and repeated funding success with highly competitive funders. Since 2014, SEdS won
 61 awards totalling £3.02M and generated research income of £2.68M from a wide range of
 funders, including Research Councils, the European Commission, charitable trusts, third sector
 partners, and government departments, agencies and authorities, demonstrating flexibility,
 quality and reach.
 CRI is committed to understanding and supporting the inclusion of children, adults, families and
 practitioners in education. This strongly shared ethos is critical to CRI’s identity and work. CRI
 members (40 including Associate Members, PGRs and Teaching Fellows) primarily adopt and
 develop inclusive, participatory, practitioner-based or emancipatory methodologies across four
 core areas: (i) inclusive education; (ii) inclusive practices, pedagogies and technologies; (iii)
 diversity and student voice; and (iv) marginalisation. They work in collaboration with local
 community partners through Parsons’ ACoRNS and Nind’s, and both locally and internationally
 through Messiou’s ‘Reaching the ‘hard to reach’: inclusive responses to diversity through child-
 teacher dialogue’ study (ICS #23-02), and internationally through Azaola’s work with schools in
 Mexico.
 The vitality of CRI is further ensured by strong connections with teacher educators and
 researchers in psychology, social geography, health and medicine who are associate members
 and participate regularly in CRI seminars and events e.g. the Writing Collaboratively in
 Coproduction workshop. The CRI newsletter is distributed (1,000 copies) across these networks
 and into schools, colleges and community groups. CRI has hosted international visitors from
 Australia, New Zealand, Spain, Norway, Singapore and USA. CRI is supporting its sustainability
 through securing significant grants from ESRC (totalling £337K) and EU (totalling €405K) and

                                                                                                      9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 funds for innovative work from diverse organisations including Froebel Trust, Society for
 Research in Higher Education, Higher Education Academy, Autism Hampshire, Gatsby
 Foundation, Santander, and the British Council, and by growing a community of inclusion-
 focused South Coast DTP and other funded doctoral researchers.
 LEEP has 38 full-time SEdS academic staff and PGRs in addition to affiliates from local schools
 and from Southampton City Council. During the REF period, several senior professors have
 moved to other academic positions (e.g. Muijs to Ofsted, Enders to Bath, Macfarlane to Bristol,
 and Reynolds to Swansea) and the centre is rebuilding deliberately with ambitious early-career
 staff (e.g. Kaparou; Hall; Pensiero). The centre employs a range of quantitative and qualitative
 methodological approaches, with an emphasis on mixed- and multi-method research in several
 policy-relevant areas: (i) effectiveness and equity; (ii) leadership and policy; (iii) higher education
 (including teacher education), the economy and employment; and (iv) affective, social, emotional
 and well-being outcomes. LEEP has particular expertise in analysing large datasets, developing
 innovative modelling techniques and advanced Social Network Analysis techniques. Research
 projects have been funded by bodies such as Ambition School Leadership (Downey, Kaparou,
 Kelly), Oxford University Press (Hall, Kelly, Galbraith), UKRI (Tomlinson) and local/national
 government departments and agencies.
 In terms of academic leadership, Kelly has appeared before the Education Select Committee,
 and is advisor to the Irish and Hong Kong governments; Kelly has also advised the Cabinet
 Office (No.10 Open Innovation Team) and RMA Sandhurst and the Army Command Group on
 recruitment and leadership. Muijs (now Head of Research at Ofsted) has advised the Flanders
 and Chile governments; Reynolds (while on staff at SEdS) advised the Wales and Malaysia
 governments; Hall has submitted evidence to the Science and Technology Select Committee;
 PGR research is also wide ranging, including studies on school effectiveness in Uganda,
 Malaysia, Thailand, England, China and Saudi Arabia, gender and leadership in Oman, teacher
 effects on literacy acquisition, the impact of marketisation in higher education and longitudinal
 effects of change in socioeconomic factors on student academic outcomes.
 MSHE is committed to building on its internationally excellent and world-leading reputation for
 research in the areas of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). The
 centre works with learners, teachers, schools, and regional, national and international
 organisations, to research ways of advancing learning and teaching in STEM. MSHE focuses
 specifically on four themes: (i) STEM engagement including socio-scientific issues and the
 relationship between science and health literacy; (ii) designing and evaluating curriculum
 resources and professional development for classroom teaching and learning; (iii) exploring
 students’ conceptual understanding of early mathematics, reasoning and computational thinking;
 and (iv) the use of digital technologies as pedagogical tools.
 Funded research projects include: LifeLab (over £550K from various funders including BUPA
 and the British Heart Foundation) led by Grace; the ‘World Class Maths’ MOOCs (MacMillan,
 £60K) involving Bokhove, Voutsina and Jones; the British Academy (£30K) for Bokhove’s
 enGasia project and ESRC IAA for ‘Towards a School Mathematics Project 2.0’ (£21K), Peleg’s
 work funded by Science Foundation Ireland (£20K) and Voutsina’s Leverhulme Grant (£107K).
 The work of MSHE is characterised by its multi-disciplinarity, with members collaborating with
 health science, mathematics, psychology, and web science. Grace leads the science research,
 including, with Woods-Townsend, the influential LifeLab project (ICS #23-03). MSHE members
 collaborate with practitioners in schools, work with organisations including the National Centre
 for Excellence in the Teaching of Mathematics (NCETM), and have influenced policy in DfE



                                                                                                      10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working groups, for example Fan served on the DfE’s national working group on teachers’
 planning and resources review, where his research informed policy (ICS #23-01).

 3.2 Infrastructure and facilities
 Staff are supported in research bidding, finance and project management through FSS
 and university-level Professional Services. The Finance Research Hub (FRH) is a centralised
 resource comprising experienced colleagues who provide pre-bidding costing support. FRH is
 closely connected with colleagues in Research and Innovation Services facilitate academic
 collaborations, identify funding opportunities, including research fellowships, manage major
 grant submissions, provide grant management expertise and support to successful projects, and
 explore ways to maximise research impact (Section 1.5 REF5a). Specialist research
 engagement librarians support open access repositories and publishing requirements, as well as
 provide guidance and infrastructure for data management plans and activities. The university’s
 iSolutions team provide centrally managed support for all IT services and equipment, including
 secure data storage and access to research tools, such as the iSurvey software and SafeSend
 file sharing service.
 SEdS has also invested substantially in facilities to support the use of digital video
 technology in research and dissemination. A studio was established in 2010 and was
 supported throughout the REF period via dedicated staffing to provide professional video editing
 facilities and expertise, as well as state-of-the-art digital equipment, lighting and cameras. The
 studio has been vital in translating our research into practice and teaching through, for example,
 the development of MSHE’s ‘World Class Maths’ MOOCs (ICS#23-01).
 SEdS’s YouTube Channel currently hosts over 500 Videos, the majority of which are publicly
 available. SEdS’s Research Methods series is accessed around the world and has been
 adopted by Universities in New Zealand, United States and the UK, and are some of the most
 highly viewed videos on this topic (approximately 882,000 total views). SEdS’s expertise and
 facilities have also contributed to the NCRM developing online research methods training videos,
 which now cover some 16 topics focusing on advanced research methods from Structural
 Equation Modelling to Participatory Methods.
 SEdS’s use of facilities also reflects our commitment to equality and diversity, e.g.
 through maintaining a dedicated quiet room, mentioned above (Section 2.3). The allocation of
 space for our PGRs is sensitive to stage of study and individual needs, providing smaller, shared
 rooms for those at the final stages of writing-up, or individual rooms based on a person’s needs
 and reasonable adjustments. Student study areas have been refurbished to include new desks
 and state-of-the-art IT equipment, and a recently refurbished Social Space provides a mix of
 café style accommodation, digital charge points and screen casting facilities to facilitate
 lunchtime informal seminars and salon deliberations/workshops. Learning design has informed
 our use of space and the introduction of digital noticeboards that are media-rich and regularly
 updated.
 SEdS was also instrumental in the development of a strategic School-University
 Partnership Officer (SUPO) role to support public engagement and the development of
 pathways to impact for research. The role was created as a result of the UKRI-funded School-
 University Partnership Initiative (SUPI) project, Talk to US!
 (https://www.southampton.ac.uk/schools-colleges/talk-2-us/talk2us.page), led by Grace with
 Kelly. The strategic value of continuing the post beyond the original funding was recognised by
 the university’s three key stakeholders in schools’ engagement: SEdS, Outreach and Widening
 Participation, and PERu. The role ensures connectivity between schools and the university. Key
 impacts include: the maintenance of the ‘Building School-University Partnerships’ guidebook, an
                                                                                                  11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 internationally-recognised and utilised resource; a suite of training on public engagement for
 researchers available to the sector; and the development of a powerful online tool Activity
 Mapper https://www.efolio.soton.ac.uk/blog/activitymapper/ for mapping engagement and
 outreach activities across the institution (Section 2.9 REF5a).
 Tomlinson has collaborated with colleagues in the Careers and Employability Service and in the
 Psychology department, which led to the institutional framework of the Graduate Capital model,
 and led to the creation and application of the Career Readiness Test which is being used
 campus-wide to enhance student employability and which made an important contribution to the
 university’s Silver TEF outcome. There has been significant international interest in this
 approach from Australia, Finland, Italy and the USA.
 In addition, colleagues have been successful in winning internal funding for pump-priming and
 collaborative research, as well as for generating impact, across a number of different schemes
 including the Web Science Stimulus Fund, Strategic Interdisciplinary Research Fund, ESRC IAA
 and PERu. Many of these opportunities include targeted support for newly appointed staff and
 /or ECRs.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Colleagues in SEdS demonstrate wide influence in their contributions to, and recognition by, the
 research community, contributing nationally and internationally to their fields across all career
 stages in line with SEdS’s strategy to influence locally, nationally and internationally.

 4.1 Research collaborations, networks and partnerships
 SEdS colleagues play leading roles in major multi-national research partnerships through
 projects, including Brockmann’s involvement in EU/Erasmus+: European cooperative framework
 for Dual Learning in HE (Euroduale), involving 13 organisations in six different EU Member
 States; Grace’s PARRISE (Promoting Attainment of Responsible Research & Innovation in
 Science Education) an FP7-funded project on innovative methods in science education involving
 collaborations with 17 other universities and institutions across 14 countries in Europe;
 Bokhove’s involvement in Research in Teacher Education (RiTE) Erasmus+project involving four
 countries, focusing on promoting and facilitating student teachers to create an evidence-
 informed teaching practice in STEM education; Messiou’s Erasmus+ project involving 30 schools
 and five HEIs across five European countries – the study’s approach is now expanded to
 schools in California (in collaboration with Stanford University); and Parsons’ involvement in the
 €3.4M H2020 ProsocialLearn innovation project which involves 11 institutions and SMEs across
 five different countries.
 In addition, colleagues lead external seminars and conferences to promote the dissemination of,
 and collaboration in research, which are vital in building and sustaining research networks and
 partnerships locally, nationally and internationally. For example, colleagues from MSHE
 (Bokhove, Voutsina, Jones, with Fan) hosted the first International Conference on Mathematics
 Textbook Research and Development at the university in 2014, attended by over 170 delegates.
 Funded by the British Academy, Azaola led a major seminar in Mexico in 2018 on ‘Enhancing
 reflective learning and school collaboration in rural Mexico’. Nind has led dissemination and
 training events for the NCRM, including annual summer/autumn schools targeted at ECRs
 across the UK, and has led advisory/training work for government researchers in disability in
 England and Ireland. Parsons was PI for an ESRC-funded seminar series (2014-16) on
 ‘Innovative technologies for autism: critical reflections on digital bubbles’, attended by over 240
 stakeholders including autistic individuals and families, professionals and researchers. Parsons


                                                                                                   12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Messiou have both secured funding from the ESRC as part of the annual Festival of Social
 Science, to run events connected to their collaborative work with local schools.
 SEdS recognises the importance of establishing research networks as a channel for sharing
 knowledge and learning, exploring research opportunities, creating projects and promoting wider
 collaborations across the academic community. Kaparou convenes the network on
 methodologies in educational effectiveness and improvement (MoREI) for the International
 Congress for School Effectiveness and Improvement (ICSEI). Christodoulou led the first
 European Training School on 'Pedagogical Approaches on Education for Environmental
 Citizenship' for the EU’s Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST) Network for
 Environmental Citizenship in Portugal in 2018. Galbraith was a founding member of the
 European Literacy Network, also funded by COST, from 2014 to 2019, with an annual budget of
 approximately €170,000. The network has 517 members drawn from 35 countries across Europe
 and 16 other countries worldwide. The network has secured independent funding from its
 activities, which have enabled it to continue beyond the period of COST funding, hosting triennial
 Literacy Summits, supporting a journal for disseminating best practice in the teaching of literacy,
 and maintaining funding for research exchanges and training schools.
 Evans secured over £550K funding from HEFCE/Office for Students to pilot and evaluate
 innovative pedagogies for assessment and feedback, impacting over 5000 students and
 involving over 100 academic staff. The core assessment framework developed by the project
 has been used in the UK and internationally across over 160 different HEIs worldwide.

 4.2 Forming relationships with key research users, beneficiaries or audiences, engaging
 with diverse communities and publics
 SEdS recognises that the key to successful research collaborations lies in developing inclusive
 and sustainable relationships with key stakeholders within educational settings. Each of our RCs
 engages with key research users such as schools, parents, policy-makers and various
 marginalised groups, such as disabled people and Travellers. For example, research carried out
 in CRI is distinctive in actively engaging participants in the research process. Similarly, research
 in MSHE has engaged schools and young people in research through LifeLab, whereas LEEP
 research has also engaged with policy-makers and practitioners in schools.

 4.3 Wider contributions to the economy and society
 Colleagues serve as formal members of external committees for government and other
 organisations: Woods-Townsend is a member of the ukactive KIDS council; Downey is a
 member of two national advisory groups for the DfE on School Performance Measures, and
 Reception Baseline Assessment; Kelly is an advisor to the Parliamentary Committee on school
 governance, and a member of the Advisory Board of the Welsh Big Research Centre which
 focuses on enquiry based learning; Jones is a member of the UK Advisory Group of Cambridge
 Mathematics; Christodoulou serves on the International Committee of the National Association
 for Research in Science Teaching, and the Research Group Committee of the Association for
 Science Education; and Hall was appointed a member of Ofsted’s new Early Years Pedagogy
 and Practice Forum.
 Grace (with others) led the Evidence Review Group for the 2018 Education Endowment
 Foundation (EEF) Guidance Report on Improving Secondary Science, which has been reported
 on in the TES and is now being followed-up by the Association of Science Education. Grace was
 a subject advisor for the DfE’s Carter Review of Initial Teacher Training in 2014, has contributed
 to the DfE’s Biology curriculum and assessment in 2014 and 2016 and was a panel member for
 the World Universities Network Public Health Education Group.

                                                                                                    13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Bokhove and Muijs led the EEF review on metacognition and self-regulated learning literature.
 The report was sent to 20,000 schools and the project webpage has been viewed by over
 50,000 (unique) users with more than 4,000 report downloads. Bokhove and Muijs also
 undertook secondary analyses of postgraduate student surveys for Advance HE. Voutsina’s
 research formed part of the consultation process for the development of the new National
 Primary Curriculum for mathematics in England.
 Parsons is an invited independent member of the research ethics committee for the major UK-
 wide DRILL programme, which is the first programme of its kind to fund research led by, and in
 co-production with, disabled people. Parsons is also leading a review of the co-produced
 research ethics practices and materials (disseminated in 2020).

 4.4 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 SEdS colleagues are widely recognised for their expertise through invitations for scholarly
 review and leadership for funders, journals, appointment panels and government committees.
 Colleagues receive regular invitations to share their expertise more widely via the media,
 including nationally for the Guardian, Times Higher Education, TES (where Bokhove has a
 regular column), The Conversation, the Guardian, the BBC; and also regionally e.g. for ITV’s
 Meridian News and Radio Solent. Most recently, the report by Pensiero, Kelly and Bokhove
 ‘Learning inequalities during the Covid-19 pandemic: how families cope with home-schooling’
 gained national interest and was reported in major newspapers. Nind was awarded an honorary
 doctorate by VID Specialized University, Norway, and Kelly and Reynolds were both
 Distinguished Visiting Professors at the University of Malaysia. During this REF period, Kelly
 was also elected a Visitor at Trinity College Dublin.
 Journal editorship
 Staff have served as Editors or Associate Editors of a number of international academic journals
 during this period, including: International Journal of Research & Method in Education (Nind,
 Editor); Journal of Enabling Technologies (Parsons, Editor); International Journal of Technology
 in Mathematics Education (Bokhove, Associate Editor); Journal of Vocational Education &
 Training (Brockmann, Associate Editor and Reviews Editor); Journal of Writing Research
 (Galbraith, Associate Editor); and Journal of Biological Education (Grace, Associate Editor).
 Colleagues have also led developments in their field through guest editorship of special issues
 including in the: International Journal of Social Research Methodology (Nind); International
 Journal of Method and Research in Education (Nind & Parsons; Hall); ZDM Mathematics
 Education (Jones), Journal of Mathematics Teacher Education (Jones), Teaching Mathematics
 and its Applications (Jones); Sinéctica (Azaola); Higher Education Policy (Tomlinson); and
 Research Papers in Education (Christodoulou).
 Editorial Board Memberships encompassed 46 journals during the REF period, including: British
 Educational Research Journal (Kelly); Educational Assessment, Evaluation & Accountability
 (Kelly); British Journal of Learning Disabilities (Nind); Disability & Society (Nind), European
 Journal of Special Needs Education (Nind, Parsons), Autism and Developmental Language
 Impairment (Parsons), Educational Research Review (Galbraith), Compare (Pensiero), The
 Educational and Developmental Psychologist (Hall), Eurasia Journal of Mathematics, Science
 and Technology Education (Voutsina), Research in Mathematics Education (Jones, Voutsina),
 Physical Education and Sport Pedagogy (Kinchin), International Journal of Social Research
 Methodology (Bokhove); Journal of Vocational Education & Training (Brockmann), British
 Journal of Sociology of Education (Tomlinson), Learning and Instruction, (Galbraith), Malaysian



                                                                                                   14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Online Journal of Educational Management (Kaparou), and Mexican Educational Research
 Journal (Azaola).
 Participation on grants and assessment panels
 Kelly was a REF panellist in REF2014, and is again in REF2021. Kelly was also an assessor for
 Hong Kong through his membership of the Hong Kong Research Grants Council and Committee
 on Research and Development, and advised on research quality and governance for the
 University of Management and Technology, Lahore, Pakistan, and at other universities in the
 Middle East. Nind and Parsons have reviewed grant applications for the Rix Thomson
 Rothenburg Foundation focusing on disability and social inclusion. Messiou was a panel
 member of the National Science Centre in Poland in 2019.
 Fellowships and prizes
 Kelly and Nind are elected Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences; Grace is a Fellow of the
 Royal Society for Biology (RSB) and Messiou is a Fellow of the Royal Society for Arts (RSA).
 Evans, while at the university, led the development of the award-winning Researching
 Assessment Practice initiative. She received both a collaborative award for teaching excellence
 and an award for exceptional performance at the ‘Advance HE’ National Teaching Fellowship
 and Collaborative Award for Teaching Excellence in November 2018. Messiou won the British
 Educational Research Association Annual Conference SIG (Inclusive Education) Best Paper
 Award in 2019. Bokhove received the 2020 Wolf Award from the International Association for the
 Evaluation of Educational Achievement (IEA).
 Membership of Research Councils and other national and international committees
 Colleagues demonstrate significant service to research councils and funders, nationally and
 internationally. In the national context, Kelly, Nind, Parsons, and Jones are members of the
 ESRC Peer Review College; and Azaola and Hall have also been invited to review for ESRC
 open calls and the Secondary Data Analysis Initiative, respectively. Hall has also reviewed for
 the Medical Research Council (MRC) and UKRI Future Leaders applications. Nind is a reviewer
 for applications to the ESRC’s NCRM, as well as for the AHRC and EPSRC. Grace has
 reviewed for the Education Endowment Foundation/Wellcome Trust’s 'Improving Science
 Education scheme’. Parsons has reviewed for the Welsh Government's National Institute of
 Social Care and Health Research, Wellcome Trust, Autistica, British Academy, NIHR, the AHRC
 and the Froebel Trust.
 Internationally, colleagues have provided peer reviewing services to over 25 research councils,
 foundations, and committees including the European Commission; UNESCO; UNICEF;
 Research Foundation Flanders (FWO); Netherlands Initiative for Educational Research
 Organization; Austrian Science Fund, Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of
 Canada; National Science Centre - Poland, South Africa’s National Research
 Foundation; University of Leuven Research Council and IOF-Council (Belgium).
 SEdS colleagues are elected members of prestigious learned societies and organisations,
 including the Institute of Physics, the Institute of Mathematics, the International Committee of the
 International Group for the Psychology of Mathematics Education, and the International Society
 for the Advancement of Writing Research. Kelly served as a Panel member for the Irish
 Research Council. Grace is the Chair of the Royal Society of Biology’s national Biology
 Education Research Group (BERG) and Chartered Science Teacher panel (CSciTeach).
 Invited keynotes, lectures and conference chair roles
 MSHE colleagues have shared world-leading developments in STEM education and research in
 Europe and Asia. Examples include: Grace’s innovative research on the teaching and learning of
                                                                                              15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 socio-scientific issues at the Annual FDN Conference of Science Educators (Malmo, 2018), the
 UNESCO Asia-Pacific Regional Meeting on Teacher Education (Japan, 2018), and the Korean
 Society for Environmental Education (2018); Jones’ keynote on strategies for globalizing
 research in education at the prestigious annual conference of the Japan Society for Science
 Education (2018) and in 2020 at prestigious Mathematics Conferences in Germany, Poland and
 Thailand; and Bokhove’s keynote at the Central and Eastern European Conference on
 Computer Algebra and Dynamic Geometry Systems in Mathematics Education in Romania. In
 his role as Chair of the Academic Committee, Grace co-ordinates the biennial International
 Conference of the European Researchers in Didactics of Biology. Grace and Byrne also lead
 contributions to SEdS annual ITE Health and Wellbeing conference, which is a multi-disciplinary
 event involving colleagues in Medicine, Public Health England, local and national charities, and
 schools.
 Colleagues from CRI influence research, policy and practice internationally via invitations such
 as Messiou’s keynotes at the World Congress on Special Needs Education 2018 (University of
 Cambridge) and a Ministry of Education and Culture annual event in Cyprus (2017). Nind has
 given many keynotes during this REF period, including her ESRC-funded research on the
 pedagogy of research methods at the University of Barcelona, on educational inclusion at the
 Pune University, India, and at the Ireland International Conference on Education, Dublin.
 Parsons’ work related to technologies and pedagogy for autistic children has been recognised
 through keynote invitations at the prestigious Karolinska Institute in Sweden (2015), the Italian
 Conference on Autism and Atypical Neuro Development (Naples, 2017), as well as keynotes at
 major conferences for professionals, parents, and researchers in Moscow, Kazakhstan and
 Geneva. Strogilos has been invited for successive keynotes (2016, 2017) in Indonesia focusing
 on the inclusion of disabled students in mainstream classrooms.
 In LEEP, colleagues are at the forefront of policy and practice relevant research on leadership
 and educational effectiveness. Tomlinson’s invited keynote at Monash University (2018) focused
 on the career readiness of graduates; while Kinchin’s keynote at the Asia Pacific Physical
 Education Conference (Hong Kong 2017) highlighted the leadership of sport education. Kelly’s
 expertise in school effectiveness and improvement was the focus of the keynote at the
 Association of Community and Comprehensive Schools annual conference in Ireland, and at the
 International Congress on Global Education, Moscow. Galbraith has given keynotes on his
 innovative methodological approach to researching the writing processes of students at
 Dartmouth College, USA, at the International Conference on Academic Writing in Israel, and the
 EARLI SIG Writing Research School, University of Ghent, Belgium. Hall’s (2020) invited keynote
 in Moscow focused on early childhood education and care.
 Co-operation and collaborative arrangements for PGR
 The expertise of colleagues is valued by national and international institutions in the recruitment
 and promotion of staff and the examination of doctoral students. Colleagues examine
 extensively, serving as external examiners for over 60 doctoral candidates nationally and more
 than 30 internationally, including in Australia, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Austria, Pakistan and
 New Zealand. Staff have served on recruitment and promotion panels nationally for the
 University of London, Birmingham, the Open University, Bristol and Exeter; and internationally,
 for the Chinese University of HK, the government of Catalonia, University College Dublin, Trinity
 College Dublin, NUI Maynooth, University of Iceland, Nazarbayev University (South Africa) and
 the University of Cyprus.




                                                                                                     16
