Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Southampton

 Unit of Assessment: 18 Law

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overall structure of the unit and its context
 The School of Law (SLS) at the University of Southampton (UoS) delivers high quality and
 impactful research that has extensive international and interdisciplinary reach. As an inclusive
 and diverse community of scholars, we embrace a broad range of doctrinal, socio-legal and
 theoretical perspectives and methods, supporting research that is intellectually rigorous and has
 practical applications to benefit the wider society and economy. SLS comprises 35 researchers
 (21F:14M (60:40)), and during this REF period we have produced over 500 publications
 including 47 books, nearly 300 journal articles, 132 chapters in edited collections and 32 reports.
 Highlights
 Since August 2013, we have:
  - Substantially increased the quantity, quality and scope of our impact activities (§1.2,
    4.1-2): Our research has achieved beneficial impacts, including important legislative and
    judicial changes to the law (e.g. insurance law, maritime law and land law), new industry
    regulations and guidance (e.g. shipping law), improvements to professional training (e.g.
    criminal justice and public health) and on policy initiatives (e.g. IT law and GDPR).
  - Internationalised our research staff profile (§2.1): We have increased the proportion of
    researchers from outside the UK by 20% - from a ratio of 27UK:12non-UK staff (69:31) to
    17UK:18non-UK (49:51).
  - Strengthened our research portfolio by proactively investing in permanent staff (§2.2,
    2.4): SLS has attracted scholars from around the world at all levels of seniority, which has
    boosted our standing and reputation in areas including global constitutional and public law,
    international criminal law, commercial law, insurance law and IT law.
  - Significantly improved our performance on diversity and inclusion (EDI) (§2.4):
    Through our recruitment and promotions strategy we have delivered significant increases in
    the proportion of women in senior academic roles, with the proportion of female staff at L7
    (Professor) jumping by nearly 30% since 2013 – from 5F:7M in 2013 to 7F:3M in 2020.
  - Increased average annual research income (§3.1): We have generated £1.51M of
    research income compared to £0.95M in REF2014 (£215k average per year this time, as
    compared to £190k previously), the value of awards being £1.59M.
  - Developed researchers at all seniority levels (§4.5): We have secured appointments to
    prestigious judicial, professional and public bodies (e.g. Jørgensen - roster of International
    Judges, Kosovo Specialist Chambers; Davey -Deputy President of the British Insurance Law
    Association; Kazarian - Infected Blood Inquiry medical ethics expert group; Viens - Faculty of
    Public Health honorary member) and Visiting Professorships (Kohl -Guangzhou, Munich,
    Milan; Stalla-Bourdillon -Trento).
 Research activity is organised around our six Research Centres (RC), each of which represents
 an exciting hub for interdisciplinary research endeavour, with members both in SLS and affiliated
 members in other departments and research institutes across UoS. Each RC is led by a director
 who works with the Deputy Head of School (Research & Enterprise) (DHoSRE) in fostering a
 dynamic, mutually supportive and engaged community of scholars. SLS membership (and
 secondary affiliation) of our six RCs and their connections to researchers in other UoS
 departments and institutes are shown in Figure 1, below:



                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




                                   Institute for Criminal Justice
                                        Research (Annison,
       Engineering and Physical              Gurnham)                Global Health Research
              Sciences
                                       Centre for Global                     Institute
       Southampton Marine and       Constitutionalism (Eisler)      Southampton Ethics Centre
       Maritime Institute (SMMI)
                                       Centre for Political
                                     Ethnography (Annison)




       Institute of Maritime       Centre for Law, Policy
                                    and Society (CLPS)              Health Ethics and Law
             Law (IML)
                                    Annison, Gibbs, Gurnham,          Network (HEAL)
       Ntovas, Reid, Saranovic,
                                     Eisler, Hameed, Jordan,        Biggs, Kazarian, Lougarre,
      Serdy, Song, Veal, Zhang,
                                    Jørgensen, Laurie, Nield,          Nwabueze, Mahoney
                Zhao
                                         Psarras, Rauxloh
           Affiliated: Davey,                                           Affiliated: Gurnham
                                    Affiliated: Lougarre, Reid,
        Hjalmarsson, Hannigan
                                           Kazarian, Law




                                   Private & Commercial
         Interdisciplinary         Law Centre (PCL) and
                                       Insurance Law                Stefan Cross Centre
        Centre for Law, the                                         for Women, Equality
       Internet and Culture           Research group
                                           (ILRG)                       and the Law
              (iCLIC)                                                    (SCCWEL)
        Köhl, Stalla-Bourdillon,     Davey, Hjalmarsson,
                                       Hannigan, Köhl,                  Delgado, Pearson
               Schmidt
                                   MacDougall, Law. Affiliated:
                                      Song, Zhang, Zhao




         Sociology, Computer
        Sciences, Mathematics       Engineering and Physical         Centre for Inclusive and
                                           Sciences                        Sustainable
        Web Sciences Institute                                        Entrepreneurship and
         (Stalla-Bourdillon)        Southampton Marine and
                                                                           Innovation
                                        Maritime Institute
        Centre of Excellence in    (Hjalmarsson, Ntovas, Reid,       Centre for Research on
       Cyber Security Research                Serdy)                 Work and Organisations)
          (Stalla-Bourdillon)


 Figure 1: SLS Six Research Centres and links with other disciplines, Research Centres and
 Institutes across UoS.

 1.2 Research objectives: research and impact strategy
 a) Research and impact objectives during the assessment period
 After a full review of SLS’s performance in REF2014, we decided that greater positive steps
 were needed to deliver higher quality research and impact and to inculcate a more open,
 inclusive and transparent research culture and environment in the longer term. Hence, our
 revised objectives for this REF period drew on those in the REF2014 template, but also departed
 from them as appropriate.


                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •    Clear direction on and support for research and impact activity, and for standards to be set
        and guidance made available by SLS leadership to produce high quality research and
        seek impactful applications. This incorporates, but makes more concrete, 2014 objective
        1: ‘significant strengthening of the research base’ and expands it to make specific
        reference to impact.
   •    Strengthen the RCs as inclusive focal points for diverse research activity, both
        collaborative and individual, including the development of relevant networks, projects,
        writing and events. This incorporates objective 2 from 2014, namely ‘extending the work of
        its RCs while continuing to support individual scholarship’ and expands it to make specific
        reference to collaboration.
   •    Promote a culture of transparency, openness, collegiality and a sense of collective
        ownership and responsibility within SLS with respect to its research strategy and
        productivity. This was a new objective, and replaced 2014 objectives 3-8 that pertained to
        very specific research projects and RC initiatives that were superseded as a result of
        changes to academic staff.

 b) Achievement of aims described in REF2014 (as modified)
   •    Clear Direction and Support for Research and Impact Activity
 Our research ethos is to advance the development of law, policy and practice to ensure a
 stronger and fairer society for all. We aim to create an environment where all colleagues
 understand and share this ethos and the standards expected of our research, and know where
 they can find the support they need to meet those standards. These are set out in the Research
 Strategy and Guidance documents made available to all staff from 2015 and discussed in bi-
 annual whole-School meetings (away-days). In embedding this ethos and these standards, our
 RCs foster an active, supportive and informative environment for members. Direction on
 achieving impact is given by DHoSRE, a dedicated Impact Lead (a senior researcher in SLS),
 and RC directors. A dedicated SLS ‘impact fund’ is used annually to support research projects to
 achieve impact.
   •    Strengthen the RCs as focal points for both collaborative and individual research activity
 RC activity and development embodies the spirit of 2014 RC objectives 3 to 8 (relating to
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research that attracts funding, PGRs and engages with wider
 society, the economy and publics):
       IML's global influence has been significantly boosted by key projects involving
       interdisciplinary collaboration and commercial, civil society and government stakeholders,
       focused on addressing urgent legal problems. IML projects have attracted external funds
       and have made significant contributions to the economy, society and knowledge. For
       example, IML researchers collaborating with the Southampton Marine and Maritime Institute
       (SMMI) established research partnerships leading to funding grants from the European
       Defence Agency (£115k, Tsimplis, Ntovas, Lorenzon) and the European Commission (EC)
       (£125k Tsimplis PI, Ntovas and Lorenzon), and their research has achieved beneficial
       impacts for international maritime law and practice (Song, Veal). Meanwhile, IML
       researchers have given evidence to the Parliaments of the UK (Zhang and Reid) and
       Australia (Serdy). In 2020, SLS hosted the 38th annual Donald O’May lecture: a highly
       prestigious IML event that every year attracts speakers and audience from commercial
       practice, the bar and the judiciary (e.g. Sir Bernard Eder QC, Justice of the High Court,
       QBD). Appointments of new colleagues with excellent research track records or potential in
       Maritime as well as Commercial, Public and International Law more broadly have further
       strengthened the Centre (Song, Zhang, Veal, Köhl, Ntovas, Zhao).
       CLPS developed from two RCs in existence at the time of REF2014 (Institute for Criminal
       Justice Research (ICJR) and the Centre for Law, Ethics and Globalisation (LEAG)) in 2016.
       With its emphasis on socio-legal approaches to legal and policy issues, CLPS provides a
       dynamic forum for a broad range of interdisciplinary research; it has been further

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     strengthened by appointing promising researchers in Public and Private Law at L5
     (Lecturer) and L6 (Associate Professor) (Hameed, Psarras, Eisler) and L7 (Professor)
     (Köhl, Jørgensen). Since its inception, CLPS has attracted a very high calibre of speakers
     at its annual lecture, including President of the Supreme Court, Baroness Hale.
     Researchers both in CLPS and its forebears have engaged in and contributed to successful
     cross-Faculty and international collaborations including interdisciplinary projects funded by
     Lloyd’s Register Foundation (£450k, Reid), European Commission (£42k, Sparkes),
     Alzheimer’s Society (£188k, Palmer) and Social Research Foundation (£47k, Onazi). They
     have established impactful and strategic collaborations with key policymakers (Foreign and
     Commonwealth Office -Reid) and criminal justice bodies (Parole Board, HMIP, HMPPS,
     Probation service -Annison), as well as with human rights and access to justice
     organisations (e.g. Colombia Caravana -Gibbs; Amnesty International -Gurnham). Two
     prominent international and interdisciplinary peer-reviewed journals are co-edited by CLPS
     members: Global Constitutionalism (Cambridge University Press -co-edited by Eisler), and
     Law and Humanities (Routledge/Taylor&Francis - co-edited by Gurnham).
     HEAL has been a major focus of expertise and activity, as well as cross-Faculty and
     interdisciplinary collaboration on topics spanning public health law and ethics (Viens,
     Coggon), healthcare and criminal justice (Biggs, Kazarian, Gurnham), bodily organs, post-
     mortem privacy rights and transplantation (Nwabueze), reproductive and sexual health and
     rights at national and international levels (Lougarre, Hammond-Browning), medical-
     professional ethics (Biggs) and the ‘hidden law makers’ behind test cases (Biggs and
     Jones). HEAL researchers have obtained external funding e.g. from the Alzheimer’s Society
     (£188k, Coggon) and the Leverhulme Trust (£180k, Nwabueze); HEAL expertise has
     benefitted the public health workforce (Coggon, Viens), contributed to parliamentary reform
     proposals (Lougarre, Gurnham), expert panels (Wales Cancer Bank -Biggs) and public
     inquiries (Infected blood Inquiry -Kazarian). The Medical Law Review (Oxford University
     Press) has been co-edited throughout the REF period (Biggs).
     iCLIC (known in 2014 as the Institute for Law and the Web (ILAWS) is at the forefront of
     research on law and digital technology, providing a hub for internationally renowned experts
     in data protection, IP and IT law (Rosati, Stalla-Bourdillon, O’Floinn). iCLIC co-ordinates
     collaborations with academics, practitioners, judges, industry, regulators, policymakers and
     practitioners, organising and contributing to major conferences in Southampton and around
     the world (e.g. Paris, the European Parliament, Shanghai), on topics including EU copyright
     reform and the EU Commission’s Digital Single Market Strategy and intermediary liability.
     iCLIC has also hosted over 50 stakeholder workshops for 30-40 participants per workshop
     on topics including data mining and ePrivacy, health data and data stewardship, automated
     decision making, and responsibility of online platforms. Grants from the EC (£248k (2016)
     and £607k (2019), Stalla-Bourdillon), GCHQ (£260k, Stalla-Bourdillon) and EPSRC (£257k,
     Stalla-Bourdillon) have enabled iCLIC to produce cutting-edge research, scholarly and
     policy-impacting outputs and funding for PGRs. In 2018, Rosati – who as director and
     member of iCLIC, produced technical briefings for EU institutions and agencies (e.g. World
     Intellectual Property Organisation, European Parliament, EC, EU Intellectual Property
     Office) and professional bodies – was included in Managing Intellectual Property’s list of
     The 50 Most Influential People in IP.
     PCL (encompassing the Insurance Law Research Group (ILRG)) researchers engage with
     government and advisory bodies (Ministry of Justice, the Law Commission), commercial
     and professional organizations (e.g. Shell Shipping and Maritime, Lloyd’s Register,
     Association of British Insurers) and legal actors (including counsel at the Supreme Court,
     Court of Appeal and High Court). This work has brought about important changes to law
     and commercial practice, achieving significant impacts in areas such as opportunistic
     insurance fraud (Davey, Hjalmarsson) and involves collaboration with researchers in
     Engineering and Physical Sciences and SMMI (Hjlamarsson –on environmental innovations
     for ships). Davey and Hjalmarsson made a major contribution to multiparty policy debates
     on flood risk (Flood Re), and Stephanie Law has engaged with the Ministry of Consumer
     Protection of Luxembourg to advise on the implementation of EU consumer protection law.

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Promote transparency, collegiality and collective responsibility for research and impact
 SLS’s holistic approach to research is concerned with building a vibrant and diverse environment
 that promotes collective ownership and responsibility for research and impact, in which
 researchers enjoy equal opportunities to benefit from the collective organisation, while also
 developing their own research expertise and public profiles. Full and active engagement with the
 research community of SLS – its RCs and full School meetings that are a forum for the
 discussion of research strategy, direction and best practice – is an expectation that all our
 researchers understand as being essential for its success.

 c) Research objectives in the next five years
 Objectives to 2025 build positively on achievements since 2014 and relate to group and
 individual research activity and performance:
   •   Continue to support diverse research activities, legal methodologies and topics, whilst
       working to further promote and embed a culture in which researchers generate impact for
       their work and/or engagement with policymakers and non-governmental organisations.

   •   Encourage intellectual experimentation, interdisciplinarity, collaboration and greater
       international engagement, both within RCs and individual scholarship.

   •   Prioritise high-calibre PhD applications in areas aligning with RC expertise, promoting
       internal and external scholarship opportunities, and improving processes to ensure the
       highest standards of intellectual rigour and timely completion.

   •   Encourage and support RCs and individual researchers to pursue funding opportunities.

   •   Build on the progress made on EDI with regard to gender and non-UK/EU researchers
       with a focus on increasing diversity with regard to ethnicity and disability.

 d) Support for Interdisciplinary Research
 Conducting rigorous interdisciplinary research to address important legal and socio-legal
 questions is integral to our research ethos, embracing and supporting interdisciplinary research
 in four specific ways:
   •   Skills workshops led by RCs, bringing together staff from across a range of legal
       disciplines, yet sharing an interest in research practices and methodologies e.g. CLPS
       convened workshops on empirical data-gathering and analysis, while PCL hosted
       workshops on academic writing strategies;
   •   Researchers are invited to join more than one RC. Within the RCs, SLS researchers find a
       community of scholars deriving mutual support, sources of information and subject
       collaborators. The RCs are effective routes to wider networking opportunities, since their
       membership extends beyond SLS to other departments in the Faculty of Social Sciences
       (CLPS) as well as those in other Faculties (e.g. Engineering and Physical Sciences (IML,
       ICLIC), and Environment and Life Sciences (IML, HEAL);
   •   ‘Best practice’ workshops organised by SLS, individual SLS RCs and Public
       Policy|Southampton (PP|S) have strengthened interdisciplinary relationships between
       researchers, both within and beyond SLS;
   •   SLS uses internal funds to support researchers to develop collaborative and
       interdisciplinary networks. In 2019-20, SLS funded a launch event to mark the editorship
       of Global Constitutionalism (CUP) coming to SLS (Eisler); also Hjalmarsson (£3,950 for an
       interdisciplinary insurance law research workshop), Song (£1,500 for travel to China for
       maritime law reform impact activity), Zhang (£3,600 for research travel in China) and
       Gurnham (£2,900 to support two workshops on law and humanities and socio-legal
       studies).


                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 e) Fostering and Embedding Open Research
 In addition to ensuring full compliance with the REF2021 Open Access requirements, SLS has
 established a number of measures to promote an open research environment, including:
   •   Responsibilities of DHoSR include the promotion of an Open Access research culture in
       SLS: conveying the public benefit of widening and freeing up access to research and also
       to help colleagues find practical ways to maximise public access to their work;
   •   The Southampton Student Law Review (SSLR) is SLS’s in-house PGR student-run open
       access journal, publishing annually since 2011. Since 1 Aug 2014, thirteen SLS PGRs
       have served a year’s term as co-Editor-in-chief (Petretta, Herbert, Awofeso, MacKenzie,
       Perera, Redrup, Watkins, Song, Chang, Zhao, Mammadzada, Ren, Patrick), with 25 SLS
       PGRs contributing as members on the annually refreshed editorial board);
   •   SLS has established and maintains a Working Papers Repository for staff and students,
       which dovetails with the UoS ePrints repository, providing a first-class facility for SLS
       researchers that gives public access to a wealth of knowledge and expertise. The
       repository provides a key locus for sharing new and developing ideas, particularly for
       position papers by SLS researchers ahead of research workshops (e.g. Köhl - big data
       and Artificial Intelligence project; Gurnham - Law and Humanities workshop).

 f) Research integrity
 SLS works closely with the Faculty Research Integrity Champion (RIC), the UoS Research
 Integrity and Governance team and Faculty Ethics Committee to embed best practice, e.g.
 responsible use of research metrics, and all empirical research projects are subject to ethics
 scrutiny via ERGOII (Ethics and Research Governance Online). Since its publication in October
 2019, this work has been informed by the Concordat to Support Research Integrity (see
 REF5a§2.8). Additionally, Stalla-Bourdillon utilised her expertise in data protection law and
 practice by assisting the wider Faculty to develop essential GDPR training for researchers.

 g) How the selected impact case studies (ICSs) relate to our approach to achieving impact
 SLS has recruited and promoted researchers with special expertise to share with relevant
 stakeholders. We have supported researchers financially and administratively to assist them in
 generating impact, with RC directors identifying the most impactful projects and working with
 relevant academic leads to bring them to maturity. The foremost comprise our three ICSs. These
 ICSs evidence important and lasting changes brought about by SLS research:
 1) to the law and legal and commercial practice with regard to opportunistic insurance fraud
 (Davey, Hjalmarsson);
 2) to public policy and society with respect to support for and empowerment of families of
 prisoners serving indeterminate sentences (Annison), and
 3) to the skills, knowledge and competence of the UK’s public health workforce (Viens, Coggon).

 Other SLS research has impacted positively on the economy (e.g. Veal, Tsimplis, Serdy, Song –
 sea traffic management, regulations for autonomous shipping, and reforms to the Chinese
 maritime code) and on society (Sparkes and Jordan -tenancy law, Jørgensen -potential victims
 of war crimes in Afghanistan). There are also emerging impacts on ongoing EU- and domestic
 reform, regulatory scoping and public policy agendas (Stalla-Bourdillon -data protection and
 security, Stephanie Law -consumer laws, Veal -shipping, Reid and Zhang -Brexit and the
 maritime sector) and public inquiry (Kazarian -infected blood), and on the outcome of litigation
 (Davey, Serdy, Hjalmarsson, Jordan, Rosati). All are the product of combining key academic
 appointments, skills and best practice sharing, expert guidance (which includes collaboration
 with PP|S and Public Engagement with Research unit (PERu) –REF5a§2.9) and financial
 support where necessary.




                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. People
 2.1 Staffing strategy
 Our staffing strategy has focused on supporting SLS’s research objectives: by appointing and
 promoting researchers from all over the world to conduct cutting-edge legal research to enhance
 our RCs, promoting and maintaining a diverse, inclusive research environment, and supporting
 and equipping early career researchers (ECRs) for success. Following this approach, we have
 made 33 appointments of academic staff with significant responsibility for research during this
 REF period, at all levels of seniority (17 at L4, eight L5, five L6 and three L7). We have used
 these appointments to boost research quality and diversity, and also develop our international
 character: 20 have been female and 14 male, and we increased the proportion of staff
 researchers from the EU/EEC and the rest of the world from 31% (31/07/2013) to 51%
 (31/07/2020). We have appointed ECRs from among our highest achieving doctoral and post-
 doctoral research community at L4 (Zhang, Veal, Song, Jordan). At L5 and L6, we have
 appointed researchers bringing outstanding publications and showing potential for significant
 impact (Onazi, Roche, Zhao, Benedi-Lahuerta, Ntovas, Eisler, Hameed and Psarras). In the
 case of L7 staff, we have appointed on the basis of proven research leadership, in addition to
 existing international profile and recognition (Davey, Jørgensen, Köhl).

 2.2 Staff development in SLS
 Additional to established measures such as Annual Appraisal, mentoring and probation, and
 research training opportunities offered at University and Faculty level (REF5a§3.6), we created
 several measures for assisting staff development in line with promoting and embedding the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. These help to ensure that our
 researchers are duly valued, properly equipped and assisted in realising their career ambitions,
 as follows:
 a) Leadership and Support
 RC directors, DHoSRE and Impact Lead work with colleagues individually and in groups to
 assist them in developing their research, dovetailing with SLS’s formal line management
 structure, and part of the University’s own management structure (REF5a§3). RC events are
 opportunities for SLS staff to meet and hear from researchers in other Schools and from different
 backgrounds; RCs also hold regular workshops (generally once a semester, although this varies
 between RC according to need) to facilitate the sharing and mutually supportive critiquing of
 work in progress, of particular importance for ECRs.
 b) Supporting Impact
 SLS recognises and rewards research impact by according it due significance in guidelines on
 applying for research leave, promotion and in the distribution of internal research and impact
 funding. We have also made full use of supra-School level initiatives for supporting impact and
 engagement with business, policymakers and third sector bodies, which SLS researchers have,
 in many cases, married with external sources of support, e.g.:
    •   ESRC Impact Acceleration Account (IAA) funding, facilitating impact (e.g. Hjalmarsson -
        flood insurance; Annison - penal policy; Viens - public health ethics and law; Benedi-
        Lahuerta - European nationals post-Brexit referendum; Gurnham - sexual consent and
        young people);
    •   SMMI, for expanding collaborative networks (Hjalmarsson - insurance; Serdy, Tsimplis,
        Lorenzon, Song, Stalla-Bourdillon - maritime law contracts);
 PP|S and the Faculty’s Business Engagement expert, who assist researchers to establish
 connections with relevant policymakers and businesses respectively (e.g. Psarras - Paris Smith
 solicitors, Local Authorities; Davey - Financial Conduct Authority, Lloyds Market Association,
 British Insurance Law Association; Annison - Prison Reform Trust, Parole Board, Barnardo’s;
 Serdy - United Nations (UN) and the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS);
 Hannigan - the Law Society, Stalla-Bourdillon - Data Protection Offices of the Channel Islands).


                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.3 PGR support, training and supervision
 a) Research degrees awarded
 Table 1: PhDs Awarded 2013-14 to 2019-20:
      HESA Year 13/14 14/15 15/16 16/17 17/18 18/19 19/20                      TOTAL
   Female (FPE*)     0.30   9.40    3.20    2.00    4.05    5.90    5.00 29.85 (53%)
      Male (FPE)     4.00   4.60    3.95    4.00    5.05    2.00    3.00 26.60 (47%)
      Total (FPE)    4.30  14.00    7.15    6.00    9.10    7.90    8.00 56.45
 No research-based professional doctorates were awarded during the REF period.
 * Full person equivalent.

 b) PGR training and completion
 SLS has both a rigorous regime of PGR supervision and a unique and dedicated programme of
 PGR training which addresses topics such as publishing and impact, networking, research
 funding, and preparing for a career. Sessions also build-in opportunities for more informal
 interaction with the wider SLS community. PGRs are strongly encouraged to take advantage of
 the numerous opportunities for further development and training offered by the Faculty Graduate
 School and Doctoral College (see REF5a§3.7), and to join one or more of SLS’s RCs,
 emphasising the value of PGRs to SLS’s research culture and their ongoing development and
 progression towards research independence.
 SLS strives to ensure an appropriate balance between timely PGR completion and responding
 supportively to personal circumstances and health-related difficulties, providing all PGRs with at
 least two supervisors, and in some cases three, to ensure provision of pastoral care, as well as
 academic guidance. The framework and schedule for PGR progression is assisted by the
 software platform ‘PGR-Tracker’.
 PGRs are using the rigorous training of their doctoral research and supervision to succeed in a
 diverse range of leadership positions in the UK and around the world. Many graduates have
 successfully launched into strong academic careers at research-intensive law schools, where
 they are leading a new generation of legal scholarship, e.g. Zhang, Hjlamarsson, Jordan, Veal -
 SLS; Magklasi - King’s College London; L. Song and Cupido - Essex; Sinclair-Graham -
 Reading; Ayihongbe - Newcastle; Weber - Oslo, Scandinavian Institute of Maritime Law). 94% of
 those graduating since 2014 are known to be in graduate-level destinations, including research
 leadership (e.g. Knight - Head of Research Integrity and Governance - UoS), business
 (Forouzanfar - Business Analyst, Starling Bank), the public sector (Rungien - Mental Health Act
 Manager, Southern Health NHS Trust) and the legal profession (Mohammad – barrister, Gilt
 Chambers HK).
 c) PGR involvement in Research Centres
 Our PGR community is a key part of our research culture, making vital contributions to RC
 events, outputs and collaborations. (Names given in this sub-section all refer to SLS PGRs;
 there is an overlap of membership of RCs at both staff and PGR levels):
   •   iCLIC: Eight PGRs were supervised by iCLIC researchers in the current REF period:
       Knight (Horizon 2020 Data Pitch innovation programme) produced two collaborative
       research outputs and co-organised Privacy workshops. Tsakalakis (digital identity, Horizon
       2020 FutureTrust project) produced five collaborative research outputs, and presented
       research results to the EC (electronic identification). L. German undertook data enrichment
       for a project run with the Ordnance Survey, and the Data Pitch Innovation Programme. H.
       Zhang worked on a project on notice and take-down and automated removal, co-writing
       two research outputs; Papadaki (data retention and access to data) produced two
       collaborative research outputs and assisted in conference organisation. Pearce
       (anonymisation and freedom of information) co-wrote one research output (2019) and
       helped organise the first course on data protection in China; Thorburn (intermediary



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       liability and privacy for IoT) has produced one collaborative research output and assisted
       with organising a workshop on data mining.
   •   IML and PCL (including ILRG): 49 PGRs were supervised by staff affiliated to the IML and
       to PCL in the REF period (the two RCs together representing SLS expertise in commercial
       and maritime topics). SLS has supported them in publishing high quality papers in peer
       reviewed journals (e.g. L. Song’s articles in Journal of International Maritime Law and in
       Lloyds Shipping and Trade Law) and in editing projects (Hjalmarsson and Huang co-
       edited Insurance Law in China, Routledge 2014, and Wu and H. Song contributed material
       for that book; L. Song was co-editor-in-chief of SSLR 2018). Mammadzada is Managing
       Editor of the peer reviewed journal Global Constitutionalism (CUP), a role that requires
       liaising with hundreds of academics and professionals. Hjalmarsson contributed to written
       evidence for parliamentary consultation on the Insurance Bill, November 2014. Stones and
       L. Song contributed to the SLS-led, cross-Faculty Atmospheric Pollution at Southampton
       workshop and associated report (an event involving public and private sector
       stakeholders, 2016).
   •   CLPS (including the former ICJR and LEAG): 17 PGRs were supervised by colleagues
       associated with CLPS and its forebears, and at least ten were involved in CLPS research
       activity, e.g. following the one-day CLPS workshop ‘Vulnerability and the Law’ in April
       2018, Hunt and de Campas Velasco will be published in a special issue of the
       International Journal of Law in Context (conditional on peer review, 2021). Thornton,
       MacKenzie and Perera contributed to a SLS research project concerning sexual consent,
       by conducting focus groups and transcribing interviews; another project on penal
       policymaking was assisted by Olivas and Thornton, the latter a named author of the
       subsequent report, Penal Policymaking: A collaborative symposium (2016). MacKenzie
       and Perera were co-editors-in-chief of SSLR 2016. Webber contributed to the Atmospheric
       Pollution at Southampton workshop and report (2016). Hunt, Petretta, Herbert, Olivas and
       Thornton all participated in the SLS criminal law critical reading group.
   •   HEAL and SCCWEL: Eleven PGRs were supervised by members of these RCs; both
       share thematic interests in issues of discrimination, equality and human rights. PGRs have
       co-organised the events of both RCs, e.g. Watkins, end of life planning and LGBT
       community (2017); Nottingham, ‘Hidden Lawmakers’ project (2013-15); Orr, sexual
       consent workshop (2017). Watkins and Redrup were co-editors-in-chief of SSLR 2017,
       and Patrick was co-editor in 2020.

 2.4 Evidence of how SLS supports and promotes Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
 SLS is committed to sustaining an inclusive and diverse research environment in which all
 researchers and PGRs are equally respected and supported to produce high quality and
 impactful research.
   •   EDI research practices: Equality of opportunity and diversity are important aspects of our
       appointments and promotions policies, and RCs operate on strict principles of inclusivity:
       any researcher at SLS (whether staff or PGR) can join any of the RCs and become fully
       involved in their activities. In September 2018, SLS deepened its commitment to EDI
       principles by opening the Stefan Cross Centre for Women, Equality and the Law
       (SCCWEL), a RC dedicated to researching issues involving gender discrimination and
       equality. In Spring 2019, SLS’s DHoSRE was part of the Training and Communications
       sub-group of the UoS REF Committee, and since that time, SLS’s commitment to EDI has
       been framed by the ethos and values of the UoS REF2021 Code of Practice (to which
       SLS staff contributed) as well as by the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
       Researchers (REF5a,§3.5).
   •   Research leave arrangements: We offer research leave on a strategic and competitive
       basis: giving staff the opportunity to apply for one semester’s leave for every four years of
       service, and on terms made transparent in guidance notes for staff (REF5a§3.2). Since
       2013-14, SLS has awarded 38 semesters of research leave to 33 staff (15F:18M).


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Supporting flexible and/or remote working: SLS offers measures including flexible working,
       job sharing, career breaks and voluntary reduced hours. Flexible working is available to
       accommodate personal circumstances including disability, religion and caring
       responsibilities; staff with childcare responsibilities and other working pattern constraints
       can also apply for up to five hours per week (pro-rata for PT staff) to be kept clear of
       teaching and other timetabled commitments. In the academic year 2019-20, fifteen
       academic staff benefitted from this policy.
   •   Career pathways for part-time and fixed-term staff and ECRs: Our policy is to appoint
       ECRs as permanent lecturers, typically appointed on a FT basis and with a two-year
       probation period, rather than on fixed-term contracts (since 2013-14, SLS has increased
       the proportion of staff on permanent contracts from 85% to 93%). SLS supports
       colleagues who request a move to a fractional contract (ten such moves since August
       2013), and promotion is accessible to staff on FT and fractional contracts equally.
   •   Supporting conference attendance and other necessary travel for staff and PGRs with
       caring responsibilities: in 2018-19, SLS Research Committee approved the introduction of
       a special ‘Out of Hours’ fund, which offers staff with caring responsibilities the opportunity
       to apply to cover expenses incurred engaging in research activities including data-
       collection, dissemination and developing impact.
   •   Supporting funding applications and access to research funding: Staff seeking access to
       research funding can draw on the supportive environment of their RC. Staff can seek
       advice and feedback on draft applications from the DHoSRE, and can apply to access the
       School of Law Research Support Fund. Within UoS more broadly, researchers draw on
       the support of the Research and Innovation Services ((RIS) – see REF5a§1.5).
   •   Staff returning from periods of leave: When a colleague returns from research leave, they
       meet with the DHoSRE to provide a summary briefing of activity carried out during their
       leave and the extent to which the plans previously agreed in their original application for
       research leave were realised. Returning researchers are also expected to present their
       research to SLS colleagues at a seminar. Staff returning from other forms of leave (e.g.
       sick/maternity/paternity/parental) are appropriately supported in their return to work by
       their line manager and, more informally, by the director of the RC to which they are
       affiliated.
   •   Promotion: SLS operates a fair, transparent and supportive promotions policy, consistent
       with the wider UoS framework (see REF5a§3.1). Line managers discuss career
       aspirations and promotion plans with the staff whom they are managing, and the Head of
       School also meets at least twice a year with colleagues at all levels of seniority as a group
       for an informal discussion of SLS matters, including how line managers discuss with
       appraisees their aspirations and career plans. During the REF period, UoS has approved
       23 promotions of SLS staff with significant responsibility for research (11F:12M).
   •   Gender: of L7s (Professors) in SLS, 70% were female (7F:3M) on 31/07/2020,
       representing a significant gender rebalancing from 42% in 2013-14 (5F:7M). There has
       also been a more general rebalancing from male to female researchers in SLS, both at
       senior levels and overall. Of all our academic staff, 30% were women at Professor (L7)
       and Associate Professor (L6) levels in 2019-20, having increased from 24% in 2013/14; of
       all academic staff at SLS, 60% were female on 31/07/2020, having increased from 38% on
       31/07/2013).
   •   EDI and the REF: The research leadership of SLS is acutely aware of the need for positive
       and proactive steps to counter problems arising in terms of equality, diversity and inclusion
       and the REF. We also recognise and acknowledge the dangers of unconscious biases
       that may play a role in the quality-review and selection of outputs and ICSs, as well as in
       the support and priority given to different areas of research. We have therefore
       approached both the supporting of research during the assessment period and the
       selection of material for REF conscious of these dangers and the need to counter them
       actively. With these issues in mind therefore, DHoSRE (who, as a member of staff

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       involved in REF decision-making has undertaken UoS unconscious bias training) works
       closely with individual colleagues to draw up a personalised agreed plan of action where
       appropriate and in light of wider best-practice-sharing initiatives (e.g. RC workshops). SLS
       also ensures that procedures for assessing the quality of outputs is as free as possible
       from bias by combining internal and external reviews (using a SLS review form providing
       information about bias), checking by DHoSRE and follow-up meetings between DHoSRE
       and individual staff to discuss feedback and fairness.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Strategies for generating research income
 SLS’s strategy for securing research income has been:
 a) to ensure that appointments and promotions decisions are made with income generation
 track-record and potential in mind (a policy that led to Stalla-Bourdillon’s promotion to L7,
 appointment of Ntovas at L6 and Onazi to L5);
 b) for DHoSRE and directors of RCs to identify promising projects for internal/pump priming
 support, and to identify and target the most relevant funders for our particular RCs leading, e.g.
 to successful bids to the European Defence Agency (IML), EC, EPSRC and GCHQ (iCLIC-
 Stalla-Bourdillon) and Leverhulme (HEAL- Nwabueze);
 c) connecting researchers with sources of support, expertise and guidance within SLS (the
 dedicated sub-committee of the School Research Committee) and wider UoS (e.g. RIS, PP|S ,
 Web Sciences Institute, SMMI and Business Engagement).
 In the current REF period, 71 applications were made (total application value £11.08M) yielding
 15 unique awards, a success rate of 21%. The total value of awards was £1.59M. Total research
 income during the period was £1.51M, as compared to the £0.95M generated in the previous
 REF period. Average annual research income has been £0.22M/year compared to £0.19M/year
 during the previous period representing a 13% increase. These total figures (HESA, REF4b) for
 each year are shown in Table 2 below:

   2013/14     2014/15     2015/16     2016/17     2017/18     2018/19     2019/20       Total
  £212,103 £242,032 £134,636 £223,095 £270,881 £237,145 £186,110 £1,506,002
 Table 2: HESA Income Data
 Some notable examples of research awards include:
   •   Sea Traffic Management (STM) Validation Project: EC, 2015, £125k (Tsimplis, Ntovas,
       Lorenzon);
   •   Liability for Operations in Unmanned Maritime Vehicles: European Defence Agency, 2015,
       £115k (Tsimplis, Ntovas);
   •   Effective Data Anonymisation: GCHQ, 2015, £260k (Stalla-Bourdillon (£44k));
   •   FutureTrust-EU H2020 Digital Security: EC, 2016, £248k (Stalla-Bourdillon);
   •   Horizon 2020 ICT-DataPitch: EC, 2016, £922k (Stalla-Bourdillon (£138k));
   •   Digital Economy, Engineering, Healthcare Technologies: EPRSC, 2019, £257k (Stalla-
       Bourdillon);
   •   Horizon 2020 NoBias, EC, 2019, £607k (Stalla-Bourdillon, £303k);
   •   Solid Bulk Cargo Liquefaction: Lloyds Register Foundation, 2019, £450k (Reid (£135k);
   •   Modern Technologies, Privacy Law and the Dead: Leverhulme Trust, 2020, £180k
       (Nwabueze, Köhl).


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Organisational infrastructure supporting research and impact
 SLS gives its RC directors discretion over funds for their RCs (£2.5k per year) and SLS (via the
 DHoSRE) controls the Research Support Fund. In terms of institutional support, researchers in
 SLS have access to UoS research support from RIS (REF5a§1.5) and the Finance Research
 Hub. The ESRC IAA supports impact activity (e.g. Coggon and Viens on public health education,
 2015; Benedi-Lahuerta on EU equality law, 2016; Gurnham on perceptions of sexual consent,
 2016, Annison on IPP prisoner families, 2018). Also, PP|S has helped researchers in SLS to
 ensure effective engagements and impactful contributions to public policy (e.g. Hjalmarsson,
 Viens, Benedi Lahuerta, Gurnham, Annison, Davey, Hameed, Lougarre).

 3.3 Operational and scholarly infrastructure supporting research and impact
 Our physical infrastructure includes, first, the School itself situated in one building on Highfield
 campus. The building was comprehensively modernised and renovated in 2016 with a £423k
 combined investment from UoS and Faculty, and delivered according to the world-leading
 environmental standards for which UoS won the EcoCampus Platinum Award in 2014. The Law
 School building houses each member of staff in their own office (many of which are large
 enough comfortably to accommodate meetings for up to four people) and provides desk-space
 for PGRs in shared offices. The same building also hosts the IML Library, SLS Moot Court Room
 (used also for RC workshops and PGR events), common learning spaces and a collection of
 journals and law reports in addition to the University Library collection. Electronic resources
 include a wide range of e-journals and databases accessible by all staff and students.

 3.4 EDI issues around accessing support infrastructure
 We are aware that not all staff and PGR researchers are equally placed to take advantage of our
 research and impact support infrastructure, e.g. the individual research allowance for staff and
 PGRs is generally intended to support travel for conference attendance. However, in
 acknowledgement that travel may be more difficult for researchers with significant caring
 responsibilities, SLS adopts a flexible approach, and in some instances, will allow funds to be
 spent on other research and/or impact-related activity.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 SLS is involved in a broad range of collaborative research and engagement activity, generating
 many impacts for diverse beneficiaries:
 4.1 Legal Research impacting the economy and society
 a) Autonomous and Unmanned Ships: Veal wrote two chapters of the Maritime Autonomous
 Surface Ships Code of Practice – a critically important document for the industry and widely
 observed in the absence of codified law, since it provides the necessary commercial confidence
 regarding legal compliance. It has consequently led to significant increases in turnover, the
 creation of numerous jobs in the sector in the UK, as well as adoption in several countries
 including USA, Australia and Japan. In the UK, the Code enabled one company (ASV Ltd - a
 leading company designing, producing and supplying unmanned marine vessels) to increase its
 turnover from c.£5M in 2014 to c.£12M in 2018, according to its former Managing Director. The
 same source estimates that that boost to commercial confidence will further increase the value
 of the research and development aspects of the industry from £50-100M to £400-500M over the
 next 2-3 years.
 b) Sea Traffic Management (STM) Validation Project: Tsimplis, Serdy, Lorenzon and Song
 led work on the legal feasibility of efficiency-saving port operations technologies by undertaking
 a detailed analysis of the practicalities of the STM concept and evaluating their consistency with
 the legal and regulatory framework applicable to ships. The research produced a standard
 clause for inclusion in charter parties for ships equipped with STM technology, developed in
 conjunction with the Baltic and International Maritime Council (BIMCO). According to the
 Swedish Maritime Administration, the consequence of this work has been a successful
 application of STM to cruising carriage, achieving more sustainable, commercially efficient, and

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 safer cruising. It has informed the developers and stakeholders of the potential commercial and
 legal risks. In the longer term, widespread adoption of the standard clause by ports around the
 world is anticipated in the next five years following the completion of testing, allowing for major
 efficiency savings, as well as significant environmental benefits.
 c) Insurance law and industry practice: Davey’s expertise on insurance liability has informed
 the Law Commission and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and has effected changes to
 the advice provided by the Association of British Insurers. For example, in early summer 2020,
 Davey assisted parties involved in a Test Case brought by the FCA to the High Court, which has
 considerable economic and financial implications for insurers and insured businesses. The FCA
 were seeking legal clarity on business interruption insurance during the COVID-19 pandemic,
 and in June 2020, Davey provided support to leading counsel instructed on behalf of an insurer.
 The judgment handed down September 15 2020 ruled that c.370,000 firms should receive a total
 of £1.2Bn, pending appeal to the Supreme Court.
 d) European Tenancy law reform: Jordan and Sparkes significantly contributed to TENLAW,
 a major EU-funded comparative survey of housing law and policy in EU member states. Their
 research on the negative social impacts of insecure residential tenancy and ‘shorthold’ tenancy
 law impacted on the policies of the European Commission (see Kenna et al, Homelessness
 prevention in the context of evictions Final report, European Commission, 2016) and the
 European Parliament's Policy Department for Citizens' Rights and Constitutional Affairs (see
 Sparkes et al, Cross-Border Acquisitions of Residential Property in the EU, European Parliament
 2016). Most significantly, it led also to legislative change at a national level, achieving tangible
 social benefits for vulnerable EU citizens: In Malta, a 2019 government White Paper (Renting as
 a Housing Alternative, Parliamentary Secretariat for Social Accommodation) drew support from,
 and was informed by, Jordan’s 2018 research. This was brought into law as the Private
 Residential Leases Act 2020 (in force from January 2020), extending legal protections for
 tenants against eviction and rent increases for all new residential leases in Malta.
 e) Prosecution of alleged war crimes in Afghanistan: Jørgensen filed an amici curiae brief to
 the Appeals Chamber of the International Criminal Court (ICC) in November 2019 on behalf of
 five former chief prosecutors, arguing that a decision by the ICC’s Pre-Trial Chamber prohibiting
 a formal investigation into crimes allegedly committed in Afghanistan by both Taliban and
 coalition forces be overturned. The appeal was successful, and Jørgensen’s brief importantly
 contributed to paving the way for alleged victims’ testimonies to be collected and recorded as
 part of a formal legal process.
 f) Sexual Misconduct Disciplinary Procedures at UoS: Gurnham joined the Sexual
 Harassment Working Group in June 2019 (led by the Southampton University Students Union
 (SUSU) and involving partners including Enabling Services, Student Discipline and Hampshire
 Police) in forming a comprehensive response to sexual assault and harassment on campus.
 Gurnham advised on the legal aspects of policy documents, and wrote the definition of sexual
 misconduct subsequently adopted by UoS as the basis for all cases of student sexual
 misconduct complaints from the academic year 2019-20.

 4.2 Informing government and parliamentary law and policy reform initiatives: emerging
 and developing impacts
 a) Chinese Maritime Code Reform: Research by Song and Hjalmarsson has led to significant
 emerging impact on maritime law in China. Song and Hjalmarsson are members of the Drafting
 and Advisory group (Chaired from Dalian, China) that, in 2019, produced a revised draft version
 of the Chinese Maritime Code (CMC): this was submitted to the Ministry of Transport of the
 People’s Republic of China (PRC) early in 2020, and is scheduled to be approved by the State
 Council of PRC by a vote in 2023. This change to Chinese law is expected to have highly
 significant global economic and commercial ramifications from 2023, and the research by Song
 and Hjlamarsson has been instrumental in shaping several provisions of the Code.
 b) Brexit and the Maritime Sector: Recommendations made by Tsimplis, Veal, Serdy, Zhang
 in June 2017 on the potential consequences of Brexit for the maritime sector were reported to


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 stakeholders (workshop, 22 June 2017) and to representatives from Department for Business,
 Energy and Industrial Strategy (BEIS) and Cabinet Office. In November 2018, Zhang and Reid
 gave oral evidence to the HL Brexit Committee, based on these recommendations, which is
 cited extensively within Chapter 7 (Maritime Transport) of the HL Select Committee Report
 ‘Brexit: road, rail and maritime transport’, May 2019. The HL report, and specifically the evidence
 given by Reid on international standards regarding pollution from ships, has since been cited
 and relied upon by other organisations involved in post-Brexit policy debates, e.g. the Institute
 for Government report (January 2020).
 c) Informing proposals to reform shipping law: Research co-authored by Veal, Tsimplis,
 Serdy and Ntovas (2015) for the European Defence Agency, in collaboration with Lloyd’s
 Register and the National Oceanography Centre, fed into a major International Maritime
 Organisation (IMO) regulatory scoping exercise. This, together with research by Veal and
 Tsimplis (2017), subsequently informed state delegations participating in that exercise, e.g. the
 Danish Maritime Authority and the Marshall Islands. Veal joined the Maritime Autonomy
 Regulations Laboratory convened by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency and funded by BEIS,
 currently reviewing UK merchant shipping legislation to identify barriers to autonomous ship
 trials in UK waters and proposing measures for reform.
 d) European Consumer law: Stephanie Law was commissioned by the Ministry of Consumer
 Protection in Luxembourg to undertake a comparative study of public and private and cross-
 border enforcement of consumer law in six EU member states, and to advise on how EU
 legislation might be implemented in Luxembourg. Law conducted the work on this project upon
 her arrival at SLS in September 2019, collaborating with her former colleagues at the Max
 Planck Institute. Preliminary findings were presented to the Ministry in December of 2019, and
 will be published in 2021 as a book with a foreword by the Minister, and will be referenced in
 travaux préparatoires for any legislation adopted.
 e) European Data Protection and data security law: Stalla-Bourdillon’s contributions to EU
 initiatives on data security include: i) membership of the Council of Europe Committee of experts
 on Internet Intermediaries (MSI-NET) (2016-2018) and her contribution to its study and report
 ‘Algorithms and Human Rights’; ii) participation as a member of the expert advisory group
 formed for the ICF (formerly ‘Inner City Fund’) and EC project on intermediary liability (2017-
 2018); iii) expert contribution to the Observatory on the Platform Economy formed by the EC
 (2018-2020) which drew on her research to inform its progress report on how data are
 generated, collected and used in the online platform economy (10/07/2020); and iv) work with
 the eGovernment and Trust Unit (EC) 2016-18 to conduct the first comprehensive comparison of
 electronic identification schemes and data protection regulations in Europe, informing the
 Commission on important implications for the private sector and laying the groundwork for future
 policy developments.
 f) Law and policy on data protections and data security in the UK and Channel Islands: A
 White Paper co-authored by Stalla-Bourdillon (December 2019) provides the basis
 for building Data Foundations in the Channel Islands, and after close discussions with
 stakeholders including regulators and governments of Jersey and Guernsey, feasibility studies
 have been commissioned at the government level in the Channel Islands to test the model for
 future adoption. The government of Jersey has funded a pump-priming project to prototype a
 data foundation for a series of use cases. In the UK, the Information Commissioner’s Office and
 the Alan Turing Institute used Stalla-Bourdillon’s research (July 2019) on AI in its combined
 published guidance on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in May 2020.
 g) UK Infected Blood Inquiry: Kazarian was appointed in 2018 to the Medical Ethics expert
 group of The Infected Blood Inquiry, the independent public statutory inquiry chaired by Sir Brian
 Langstaff into the use of infected blood by the NHS. The group’s report (co-authored by
 Kazarian with two others (professors at Oxford and Sydney) was published in April 2020, and is
 informed by Kazarian’s published research. The group’s work (including giving oral evidence at
 committee public hearings) continues during Spring 2021.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.3 Other collaborations, networks and partnerships: pathways to impact post-2020
 a) Bulk Cargo Liquefaction: Following a stakeholder workshop organised by Reid involving P&I
 clubs, the Bar, Solicitors, Shipping and Mining Companies (Jan 2019), Reid and her
 interdisciplinary project team have established a Joint Industry Partnership with 22 contributing
 partners. The Partnership will brief the IMO and is supported by a three-year grant from Lloyds
 Register Foundation until 2023. The formal launch of the project took place in September 2020
 (delayed from Spring, due to COVID-19).

 b) Marine management and fishing rights: Serdy is an expert advisor on rights-based
 management of deep-sea fisheries in areas beyond national jurisdiction. His research has been
 cited by various international bodies (e.g. World Wildlife Fund (WWF) report, 2018; High Level
 Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy (HLP) 2019). His work with the Food and Agriculture
 Organization of the UN in February-April 2019 was published in October 2020.

 c) Older People's Well-Being and the Law of Negligence: Since 2019, Psarras is developing
 an interdisciplinary network on social care and wellbeing (confirmed partners include Paris Smith
 solicitors, Isle of Wight Safeguarding Adults Board, Hampshire County Council and
 Southampton City Council) to facilitate a platform for older people’s voices to be heard and
 views known.

 d) African Migration and Economic and Social Development: In 2019-20, Nwabueze (PI,
 with SLS co-Is including Jørgensen, Lougarre, Psarras, Hameed and Kazarian) formed an
 international and interdisciplinary network with partners in Nigeria, Ghana and Greece to
 research irregular migration and its economic and social impacts on African countries.
 Nwabueze has been awarded a GCRF grant to host a series of stakeholder workshops (from
 September 1 2020) that will involve representation from the UN, International Organization for
 Migration (IOM) and International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC).

 4.4. Written submissions to Parliamentary inquiries, consultations and publications
 SLS researchers have submitted written evidence to parliamentary inquiries, consultations and
 publications including:
   •   Reid and Zhang: HL European Union committee – ‘Brexit: road, rail and maritime
       transport’ (July 2017);

   •   Annison: HC Justice committee - ‘Prison Population 2022’ (2017) and ‘Prison Governance’
       (2017);

   •   Gurnham: Department of Education (consultation on Relationships Education, RSE and
       Health Education, 2018); Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology (POST)
       ‘Relationships and Sex Education’ (November 2018);

   •   Davey, Hjalmarsson and Veal: HL Science and Technology committee (‘Connected and
       Autonomous Vehicles: The future?’, March 2017),

   •   Hameed: HC Public Administration and Constitutional Affairs Committee inquiry ‘The
       Scrutiny of International Treaties and Other Agreements’ (September 2019), ‘The Fixed-
       term Parliaments Act 2011’ (April 2020); ‘Responding to COVID-19 and the Coronavirus
       Act 2020’ (with Gibbs, June 2020); HL Constitution Committee inquiry on the Fixed-term
       Parliaments Act 2011 (October 2019);

   •   Lougarre: HC Women and Equalities Committee (‘Abortion law in Northern Ireland’, (April
       2019).




                                                                                          Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.5 Indicators of wider influence, contributions to and recognition by the research base
 a) SLS regularly hosts public lectures and events to share the benefits of research and SLS’s
 access to senior figures in the legal and criminal justice system with the wider public. Eminent
 public speakers have included:

    •   Lady Hale (President of the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom, 2019), Lord
        Neuberger (President of the SCUK, 2017) and Lord Briggs (Justice of the SCUK, 2017);
        Lord Justice Gross (2017) and Lord Justice Hamblen (2018) both of the Court of Appeal;
        Mr Dipak Misra, the Hon. Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of India (2018);

    •   Sir Bernard Eder QC (Justice of the High Court (QBD), Recorder, 2015), Elizabeth
        Blackburn QC (The 36 Group, Stone Chambers: shipping and maritime specialist), Karon
        Monaghan QC (Matrix Chambers, February 2020) and Stefan Cross (Employment and
        gender discrimination lawyer and campaigner, 2018);

    •   Nick Hardwick (former Chair of the Parole Board and Chief Inspector of Prisons, 2018),
        Rosalie P. Balkin (Assistant Secretary-General (ret.), IMO, Australia, 2014), Christian
        Courtis (Gender and Women’s Rights Adviser for the Office of the UN High
        Commissioner for Human Rights, 2019).

 b) SLS researchers regularly collaborate with researchers from across UoS in hosting events
 that develop and sustain a wide range and variety of interdisciplinary networks. Notable
 examples during the REF period include events on penal policy (Annison, 2014, with the Institute
 for Criminal Justice Research, Criminology), transport, energy and construction regulations
 (Tsimplis, Veal, 2016, with Engineering), atmospheric pollution in Southampton (Reid, Tsimplis,
 Hjalmarsson, 2017, with Economic, Social and Political Sciences), AI and personalisation in
 politics and law (Köhl, Eisler, Davey, 2018, with Web Sciences Institute), Brexit and the
 Southampton Polish community (Benedi-Lahuerta, 2019, with Politics), older people’s wellbeing
 (Psarras, 2019, with Gerontology) and on new fuel and energy technologies for future ‘green’
 shipping (Hjalmarsson, Spring 2020, with Engineering and SMMI).

 c) Six SLS researchers hold key positions as Editors-in-Chief of major international law
 journals in their fields of specialisation. Examples include:
    •   Biggs: Medical Law Review (OUP);
    •   Stalla-Bourdillon: Computer Law and Security Review (Elsevier);
    •   Eisler: Global Constitutionalism (CUP);
    •   Gurnham: Law and Humanities (Routledge/Taylor&Francis);
    •   Hjalmarsson: Lloyds’s Law Reports, and Lloyds Shipping and Trade Law (Informa);
    •   Lougarre: Contemporary Issues in Law (Brill).

 In addition, Jørgensen and Gurnham are members of journal editorial boards (Chinese Journal
 of International Law (OUP) and International Journal of Law in Context (CUP) respectively);
 Gurnham, Annison and Benedi-Lahuerta have guest-edited issues of legal journals (Journal of
 Law and Society, Howard Journal of Crime and Justice, International Journal of Discrimination
 and the Law respectively).

 d) Various SLS academic staff have held Visiting Fellowship and Visiting Professorship
 positions during the REF period, including Köhl (VP, Guangzhou, Dec 2018; VP Milan,
 September 2018, VP Munich, July 2019) Roche (VF, Cambridge Centre for Property Law) and
 Annison (VF, Oxford Criminology, September-December 2016), Stalla-Bourdillon (VP, Trento,
 October 2018), Rauxloh (visiting researcher (virtual), Free University of Berlin, 2020).



                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 e) SLS research recognised by prizes and commendations:
   •   Stalla-Bourdillon was selected as a finalist for Women in IT Excellence awards, November
       2019;
   •   Former Lord Justice of Appeal Sir Bernard Rix provided foreword and commendation for
       Davey (et al.), Miller’s War Risks (Routledge, 2020);
   •   OUP selected Mahoney’s monograph MI5, the Cold War and the Rule of Law (May 2020)
       for production as an audiobook, recognising the special significance of the book for a
       broad public audience;
   •   Iljadica won the Peter Birks Prize for Outstanding Legal Scholarship 2018 for her
       monograph Copyright Beyond Law (Hart, 2016);
   •   Viens received the Highly Commended Award and Shortlisted for First Prize for Book of
       the Year (Basis of Medicine Category) for Public Health Law: Ethics, Governance, and
       Regulation in the 2018 British Medical Association (BMA) Book Competition;
   •   Rosati’s monograph Copyright and the Court of Justice of the European Union (OUP
       2019) was commended by the First Advocate General of the Court of Justice of the
       European Union (CJEU), Maciej Szpunar; the book also won the IPKat Best Copyright
       Book award in 2019.

 f) Of numerous invited keynotes and plenary lectures delivered by SLS researchers, some
 highlights include:
   •   Stalla-Bourdillon, NATO AI and Data Workshop April 2020 held from NATO Brussels
       Headquarters;
   •   Davey, Association of American Law Schools (AALS) 2020 Annual Meeting in
       Washington, DC, January 2020; British Insurance Law Association (BILA) keynote on
       Lloyd’s insurance market in 2015, 2017 and 2019;
   •   Serdy, International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS - formed by UN Convention on
       the Law of the Sea), UN Nippon Fellows lectures, January 2020;
   •   Jørgensen, Leuven Centre for Global Governance Studies at KU Leuven, Belgium,
       November 2019;
   •   Nield, Australian Real Property Teachers Conference in Perth, Western Australia,
       September 2017;
   •   Sparkes, Legal Research Methodology, Montaigne Centre, University of Utrecht, February
       2017.
   •   Rosati, 10th Annual International Graduate Conference, KCL, April 2016;

 g) Some key notable appointments to national and international committees include:
   •   Jørgensen: Recommended by an independent selection panel for appointment as a Judge
       on the roster of International Judges for the Kosovo Specialist Chambers and Specialist
       Prosecutor’s Office, July 2020; Association of Commonwealth Universities’ Peace and
       Reconciliation Network, 2019-present;
   •   Davey: Deputy President of the British Insurance Law Association, September 2019-
       present;
   •   Laurie: Academic Panel of the Administrative Justice Council, (chaired by Sir Ernest
       Ryder) 2019-present;




                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Annison: Howard League for Penal Reform’s Research Advisory Group, January 2019-
       present;
   •   Stephanie Law: Academic Research Panel Member, Blackstone Chambers, London,
       2015-present; Member of the Abusive Lending Working Group, Open Society Foundation,
       2017-present; ESCR-Net Working Group on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
       Monitoring, 2013-present;
   •   Köhl: Human Rights trustee on the of the Internet Watch Foundation Board of Trustees
       2014-present;
   •   Stalla-Bourdillon: Committee of Experts on Internet intermediaries (MSI-NET, Council of
       Europe), January 2016 to December 2017;
   •   Biggs: ethics advisor to the Wales Cancer Bank, 2014-present;
   •   Viens: honorary member of the Faculty of Public Health, from 2018;
   •   Hannigan: Department for Business, Innovation and Skills company law Expert Group,
       2015;
   •   Gurnham: Expert Group, convened by Amnesty International Criminalization of Sexuality
       and Reproduction’ project, 2014-15; ESRC Seminar Series funding committee, 2014-
       2015;
   •   Benedi-Lahuerta: European Commission expert assessor for anti-discrimination law
       funding proposals, 2019.

 h) Citations in court and legislative proceedings:
   •   Serdy: contribution to Joint Standing Committee on Treaties discussed in the Australian
       Senate (Timor Sea Maritime Boundaries Treaty Consequential Amendments Bill, Second
       Reading (Commonwealth Hansard, 29/07/2019); gave evidence to Senate Foreign Affairs,
       Defence and Trade References Committee (Hansard, December 2 2019). Serdy’s chapter
       in Proelß (ed.), United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea; Commentary (2017)
       cited in Ukraine v. Russian Federation (ITLOS Reports 2018-2019).
   •   Hjalmarsson: co-authored book (2016) cited in five judgments by Singapore High Court
       and Court of Appeal since 2014, and by New South Wales District Court, 2019; published
       case analysis successfully relied upon by counsel (Thomas Macey-Dare QC, Quadrant
       Chambers) in the Admiralty Court (The Al Khattiya [2018] 2 Lloyd’s Rep 243).
   •   Stalla-Bourdillon: expert intervener in two decisions of the Venice Commission (advisory
       body of the Council of Europe) and Directorate of Human Rights on the alignment of
       Moldovan cybersecurity legislation with European standards (2016, 2017).
   •   Rosati: monograph (OUP, 2019) cited with approval in the Opinion of The First Advocate
       General at the Court of Justice of the European Union in Case C-18/18 Eva Glawischnig-
       Piesczek v Facebook Ireland Limited (June 4, 2019).
   •   Annison: project with the Prison Reform Trust on the impacts of indeterminate sentences
       on families of prisoners was highlighted in Parliament by the Prisons Minister, Robert
       Buckland (Commons Hansard June 11, 2019).




                                                                                          Page 18
