Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of East Anglia

 Unit of Assessment: 6 - Agriculture, Food and Veterinary Science

 1: UNIT CONTEXT AND STRUCTURE, RESEARCH AND IMPACT STRATEGY

 Figure 1. Unit Context and Structure




 1.1 A research environment enabling excellence-with-impact. Home to the University of
 East Anglia (UEA), a research-without-boundaries ethos permeates the Norwich Research
 Park (NRP). Its 150 companies and 3000 researchers and clinicians include nine Fellows of
 the Royal Society providing a vibrant environment for sustained interdisciplinary research
 delivering excellence-with-impact. This submission showcases academics with a common
 interest in Food and Agriculture from:

    •   Norwich Medical School (MED) accomodates eleven UoA6 academics. Sitting within
        the Faculty of Medicine and Health (FMH), it is integrated with Norfolk and Norwich
        University Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust (NNUH).
    •   The School of Environmental Sciences (ENV) where Stephen Dorling works is
        shedding light on the diverse ways in which weather and climate affect food security.
    •   Created in 2016, the Quadram Institute Biosciences (QIB). With Ian Charles as
        Director, QIB is a state of the art, BBSRC-funded centre for food and gut health. Seven
        UoA6 researchers are based here.
    •   The Sainsbury Laboratory (TSL), where researchers Peter van Esse and Matthew
        Moscou investigate plant-microbe and plant-pathogen interactions vital to global food
        security.

 Our context and structure are shown in Figure 1. We have strong links to our local community
 through the UEA Health and Social Care Partners (UEAHSCP, established 2019, Section 3.2)
 and the Norwich Institute of Healthy Ageing (NIHA), established 2020 (Section 3.2). Our

                                                                                          Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 REF2021 return for UoA6 comprises 21 academics (13M: 8F, 19.4 FTE) who participate in
 collaborative and multidisciplinary science. Their work spans molecules to populations - from
 farm to fork to faeces. Our research provides world-class step-changes in our understanding of
 food and health. Strong national and international impact occurs through excellent links with
 industries, Non-Governmental Organisations such as the WHO, and Health Care providers. By
 using our income-generating success to invest in people and infrastructure we have substantially
 developed this UoA. In a competitive environment we have increased the number of academic
 research staff from 11 FTE to 19.4 FTE, and our grant awards from £14.5m to £55.1m.

 Figure 2. UoA6 Highlights from this REF Reporting Period


                               RESEARCH HIGHLIGHTS              GRANT FUNDS INCREASE         STAFF NUMBERS
    UoA6 HIGHLIGHTS                                               REF2021 New Awards
                                REF 2021: World-leading                                         INCREASE
      FROM THIS                 Research in 4 Key Themes                £ 55.1 m
      REPORTING                 1. Nutrition for Human Health      Ref 2021 All Awards
                                2. Food Security
                                                                        £ 66.9 m             19.4 FTE in REF 2021
        PERIOD                  3. Food & Gut Health
                                4. Microbes in the Food Chain         Ref 2014 All Awards
                                 Ref 2014: 1 Key Theme                  £ 14.5 m              11 FTE in REF 2014


                                NORWICH INSTITUTE                                             PGR STUDENTS
   TWO NEW BUILDINGS                                            UEA HEALTH & SOCIAL
                                of HEALTHY AGEING                                               INCREASE
                                                                  CARE PARTNERS
    QUADRAM INSTITUTE 2019                                           (UEAHSCP)
  BOB CHAMPION BUILDING 2015        Launched 2020                                           REF 2021: 69 (44    )
                                   with 11 UoA6 FTE
                               and Anne-Marie Minihane               Launched 2019
                                                                                               REF 2014: 18
                                      as director                Attracted > £5m funds



 1.2 Sustainable progress on strategic goals for research and impact. We address global
 strategic challenges under four themes mapping to the UN Sustainable Development Goals
 (SDG):
     • Theme 1: Nutrition for human health, countering the epidemic of food-related ill
        health: 1 in 5 deaths are attributable to poor diet (SDG3: Good Health and Wellbeing).
     • Theme 2: Food security: a pressing challenge with half the global population
        malnourished (SDG2: Zero hunger and promote sustainable agriculture).
     • Theme 3: Food and gut health, linking food, the gut microbiome and the gut-liver-brain
        axes (SDG3).
     • Theme 4: Microbes in the food chain, veterinary science and food intersect as
        zoonotic pathogens menace the health/productivity of our livestock (SDG2).

 In REF2014 we presented a research strategy that delivered excellence and advanced
 knowledge in Theme 1: Nutrition for Human Health, investigating stratified nutrition,
 musculoskeletal function, cognitive and cardiometabolic health. The main objectives were to
 deliver studies examining the impact and mechanisms of dietary components, including
 flavonoids, dietary fats and micronutrients, on major age-related chronic diseases. Selected
 research highlights demonstrating that the REF2014 objectives were met are presented in Box 1
 and Figure 2.

 Through investment in people and infrastructure we have co-ordinated research across the
 NRP, enabling our world-leading research to encompass three new themes, addressing SDGs,
 with significant success (Box 2-4). Most UoA6 MED researchers work in the new Bob Champion
 Research and Education building where they are close to other UoA6 colleagues in the Nearby

                                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 QIB and TSL laboratory. Their proximity, facilitates the interaction and collaboration essential for
 team science, as does the wide variety of research resources available across these three sites
 (Section 3.2).

 1.3 Interdisciplinary and translational research.
 Our commitment to interdisciplinary and translational research is epitomised by the
 establishment of two vibrant new interdisciplinary institutes: the £80m Quadram Institute
 (QI, 2019, Section 3.2) containing QIB, and the Norwich Institute of Healthy Ageing (NIHA, 2020,
 Section 3.2).

 The QI Science Strategy Committee, chaired by Pro-Vice-Chancellor Dylan Edwards, has been
 operating since 2016 and has brought together MED and QIB researchers with clinicians from
 NNUH and the Biorepository. It has helped steer the recruitment and cross-appointment of staff
 in this UoA, as well as joint clinical academic posts between UEA and NNUH.
 Staff submitted to UoA6 have significant links to industry. For example, Peter van Esse works
 with the 2Blades Foundation whose mission is to carry out fundamental research with industrial
 partners and bring solutions to market (Section 4.4).

  Box 1 (Theme 1): Nutrition for Human Health Research

  Dietary strategies for weight management and metabolic complications: Aedin Cassidy
  reported that (i) dietary intake of flavonoids is inversely associated with weight gain (BMJ
  10.1136/bmj.i17).

  Impact of dietary flavonoids on cardiovascular health: A randomised control trial by Peter
  Curtis found consuming one cup of blueberries per day in those with metabolic syndrome led
  to improvements in cardiometabolic biomarkers (AJCN 10.1093/ajcn/nqy380).

  Plant-based diet and cognition/mental health: Anne-Marie Minihane’s analysis of the
  EPIC-Norfolk cohort showed associations between a Mediterranean diet and cognitive
  function (AJCN 10.1093/ajcn/nqz114)

  Micronutrient research: (i) in a multicentre trial Inez Schoenmakers reported that vitamin D
  taken during pregnancy did not lead to increased bone mineral content in offspring (Lancet
  Diabetes Endocrinol 10.1016/S2213-8587(16)00044-9), while Susan Fairweather-Tait
  showed that a Mediterranean-like diet with vitamin D3 supplements reduced the rate of
  bone loss (AJCN 10.1093/ajcn/nqy122).

  Maintenance of skeletal muscle in older age is critical to reducing frailty, falls and fractures.
  In the EPIC-Norfolk cohort Ailsa Welch demonstrated strong associations between
  magnesium intake and skeletal muscle mass (Clinical Nutrition 10.1016/j.clnu.2018.01.014).




  Box           2.         Key          Contributions            to         Food           Security

  Globally, 10-30% of crops are lost to plant pathogens. Understanding plant defence
  mechanisms and developing strategies to improve resistance to infection sits at the core of
  our food security activities. For example , in Genome Biology 10.1186/s13059-018-1392-6)
  Matthew Moscou report a novel clade among NRL plant immunity proteins in grasses.

  Although soybean is economically the most important bean in the world, there arePage    no 3
  commercial cultivars with durable resistance to Asian soybean rust. Peter van Esse (Nature
  Biotechnology, 10.1038/nbt.3554) reported cloning a pigeonpea gene that confers resistance
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

  Box 2 (Theme 2): Food security

  Understanding plant defence mechanisms and developing strategies to improve
  resistance to infection affecting 10-30% of global crops: In Genome Biology
  10.1186/s13059-018-1392-6) Matthew Moscou reported a novel clade among NRL plant
  immunity proteins in grasses.

  There are no commercial cultivars with durable resistance to Asian soybean rust: Peter van
  Esse (Nature Biotechnology, 10.1038/nbt.3554) reported cloning a pigeonpea gene that
  confers resistance to Asian soybean rust. The soybean is the most economically important
  bean in the world.

  Stephen Dorling's climate modes (Nature Climate Change, 10.1038/nclimate2735) predicted
  significant decreases in annual precipitation for southern Africa by the 2080s leading to
  reduced water availability and crop yield and informed on political and economic strategies
  to mitigate these effects.



  Box 3 (Theme 3): Food and Gut Health

  Michael Müller's group showed in Hepatology that fine-tuning of Sirtuin 1 expression is
  essential to protect the liver from cholestatic liver disease (10.1002/hep.30275).

  Lindsay Hall reported in Nature Microbiology the pioneering use of long-read metagenomics
  to detect and characterise pathogens and antimicrobial drug resistance in preterm infants
  (10.1038/s41564-019-0626-z).

  Simon Carding demonstrated in Microbiome that Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron-derived outer
  membrane vesicles promote regulatory dendritic cell responses in health but not in
  inflammatory bowel disease (10.1186/s40168-020-00868-z).


  Box 4 (Theme 4): investigating Microbes in the Food Chain

  Animal gut microbiomes are crucial to the health and productivity of food animals. Mark
  Pallen characterised the chicken gut microbiome (Genome Biology, 10.1186/s13059-020-
  1947-1).

  In Genome Research, Ian Charles has pioneered the application of TraDIS (Transposon-
  directed insertion-site sequencing) to identify genes in foodborne pathogens involved in survival
  (10.1101/gr.254391.119).


 1.4 Openness, reproducibility, and integrity in research. Outputs are uploaded within three
 months of acceptance to the UEA Digital Repository. In compliance with REF requirements, 98%
 of UoA6 submitted outputs are open access. The university is extending open access to
 underpinning datasets, facilitating reproducibility. Fourteen UoA6 academics use BioRxiv.org
 and MedRxiv.org extensively to make information available prior to acceptance.

 Researchers are strongly advised to register clinical trials and five UoA6 staff are listed on
 clinicaltrials.gov (Anne-Marie Minihane, David Vauzour, Lindsay Hall, Simon Carding, Alastair

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Forbes). In line with NIHR requirements, results of trials are made available through publication
 in peer reviewed journals and NIHR monographs. Requests for access to individual patient data
 from trials supported by the Norwich Clinical Trial Unit (NCTU, Section 3.2) are considered by
 the relevant trials oversight committees or by the Chief Investigator and NCTU Executive
 Committee if the trial has completed.

 At University level (see REF5a) UEA maintains a Research Integrity Office and is a signatory of
 the revised 2019 Universities UK Concordat to Support Research Integrity and the Concordat on
 Openness in Animal Research. In 2018, the University revised its Research Ethics Policy and all
 staff are held to its requirements. At unit level, research integrity and ethical standards are
 ensured via numerous mechanisms:
     • revisions to the UEA level policies are highlighted in our weekly MED bulletin circulated
         by the Dean. Similar dissemination mechanisms operate at TSL and QIB.
     • research involving human subjects and tissues is reviewed as appropriate by the FMH
         Ethics Committee and/or by the NHS Health Research Authority.
     • We place a strong emphasis on the importance of research integrity and ethics in the
         induction of staff and students.
     • UEA Animal Welfare and Ethical Review Body reviews all animal research applications.

 1.5 Research plans 2021-2027
 Aim: Maintain the NRP as a world-leading centre for research in the four key themes of
 the unit.

 Objectives
 1. Grow Centres of Excellence
    1.1. Continue to invest in technologies and infrastructure.
    1.2. Promote interdisciplinary research from molecules to populations, with integration of
         basic and clinical research.
    1.3. Ensure the continued success of NIHA following launch (Section 3.2).
    1.4. Launch a Norwich Epidemiology Centre providing infrastructure for data analysis through
         links to UEA’s School of Computing (CMP), to co-ordinate existing NRP databases and
         to streamline access to publicly available datasets (e.g. UK Biobank, CPRD, ELSA,
         EPIC, ECLIPSE).
   1.5 Continue to effectively communicate the excitement and impact of our research.
 2. Keep Norwich on the world stage
    2.1. Continue to integrate research with common themes from QIB, TSL and UEA.
    2.2. Further improve links to partner organisations outside the NRP, building on the UEA
         Health and Social Care Partnership and building or extending international partnerships.
 3. Promote translation and research impact
    3.1. Further enhance links between epidemiological studies and laboratory science,
         incorporating state-of-the-art biochemistry, molecular and genetic analyses, cell and
         animal models and imaging techniques to deliver fresh insights into mechanisms and
         efficacy of interventions.
    3.2. Further enhance links with industry, engage with end-users and establish new
         partnerships with the NHS.
 4. Continue to enhance the quality of our research, research impact and increase
     research funding
 5. Continue building capacity, making Norwich the destination of choice for research
    5.1. Inspire the next generation: Grow our capacity to support Early Career Researchers,
         improving recruitment and facilitating career development.
    5.2. Recruit and/or work with more Clinician Scientists.
    5.3. Ensure staff satisfaction and promote an environment that nurtures careers.




                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   5.4. Follow best practice in equality, diversity and inclusion, building on Athena SWAN Silver
        status successes of BIO, ENV and MED at UEA with the ambition to achieve Gold status.
        Achieve Athena SWAN status for QIB and TSL.
   5.5. Secure additional funding to expand postgraduate research.
   5.6. Improve postgraduate training in translational research and in data
        management/informatics.

 1.6 Our Impact strategy.
 Over the assessment period, a culture change has seen impact become integral to our activities.
 To achieve this shift, we:
     • appointed Associate Deans of Innovation (Michael Hornberger (FMH) and Brian Reid
        (SCI)) who develop and oversee enterprise links. Opportunities for impact include NRP
        workshops focussed on the Industrial Strategy Challenge Funds: e.g. Transforming Food
        with key personnel from the Knowledge Transfer Network.
     • appointed a Royal Society-funded Entrepreneur-in-Residence (David Dent), former
        Chair of the BBSRC Follow-on Fund panel.
     • identified key stakeholders to enable research translation to impact, including clinical
        colleagues, industrial partners, and policy makers. Evidence includes the launch of QI
        (Section 3.2), a direct interface with clinical colleagues, and the TSL 2Blades group led
        by Peter van Esse, which generates industrial partnerships performing proof of concept
        studies to tackle crop disease (Section 4.4).
     • use impact champions to identify impact cases. Cases are reviewed annually at the
        Faculty and PVC level. This structure enabled five excellent Impact Cases to be
        developed, with two selected for this submission (Sophien Kamoun (UoA5) and Lee
        Hooper 1M:1F) using an inclusive, transparent process (Section 4.4)

 Approaching REF2021, four workshops were held to allow presentation of potential ICS and
 assist with writing. Writing meetings have been held bimonthly for each ICS, bringing together
 academics, the UEA Impact Team, the Associate Dean of Research and the Academic Director
 for Innovation. Throughout this process, academics like Lee Hooper applied successfully for
 funds from the UEA ICS budget.

 In addition, we have highlighted the importance of research impact through
     • Inclusion of impact within staff annual assessments.
     • Introduction of annual university and faculty prizes for Innovation and Impact.
     • Encouragement of UoA6 staff to pursue local UEA Innovation Proof of Concept
         Funding (£9,600 awarded), UEA Innovation Development Funding (£65,500), UEA
         PVC impact fund (£42,863), UEA ADR fund (no longer run, £1,976), UEA Associate
         Dean for Innovation Funds (£10,565), and UEA GCRF Faculty Discretionary Funds
         (£25,886). Grand total awarded to UoA6 £156,390.
     • Pursuing commercialisation opportunities by filing patents protecting intellectual property
         in multiple countries. We have seven patent filings during this period: including from
         Simon Carding, Ian Charles, Martin Warren and Matthew Moscou.
     • TSL received £7.4m from research contracts with commercial companies and £3.4m
         from patent royalties (Matthew Moscou, Peter van Esse, Section 4.4).
     • Five iCASE PhD studentships funded. These include: Matthew Moscou with KWS Saat,
         focused on disease resistance in wild barley, Simon Carding together with EI on
         Systems Biology of Gut-Microbe Interactions and Stephen Dorling with a NERC iCASE
         Studentship (with the Met Office).
     • Impact is rewarded through FMH Faculty Prizes (Section 2.2) and the UEA Impact and
         Innovation Awards.




                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2. PEOPLE

 2.1 Staffing strategy. A major task was the recruitment of first-class research staff to the
 new Quadram Institute, including
            o Ian Charles as Director
            o Mark Pallen, Alison Mather, Matthew Gilmour as leads for the Microbes in the
                 Food Chain programme (Theme 4, Section 1.2).
            o Martin Warren as lead for the Food Innovation and Health programme.
     • Ian Charles and Martin Warren have experience of working in industry, including start-
        ups, strengthening our capacity for impact. Both were appointed within this REF period.
     • Mark Pallen is the director of the multi-institutional £7.7m (total) MRC CLIMB and £1.9m
        (total) CLIMB-BIG-DATA projects, strengthening our capacity in microbial
        bioinformatics and genomics.
     • Recruitment of Alison Mather in 2017 into a position jointly funded by the Food
        Standards Agency strengthens links with this key government agency.

 Efficiency and fairness in recruitment are ensured by regular mandatory in house training in
 Recruitment and Selection, Diversity in the Workplace and Unconscious Bias. All Category A
 staff returned to this unit are on long-term contracts. As 12 unit staff (8M, 4F) have now reached
 professorial level, we are succession planning by investing in early-to-mid career scientists
 such as Gwenaelle Le Gall (ECR), David Vauzour (ECR), and Alison Mather. This will help us
 to sustain the vitality and impact of our research. ECR are encouraged to join supervisory teams
 for PhD students in other groups. They are required to achieve a Postgraduate Certificate of
 Higher Education Practice, and have reduced teaching for up to 24 months. ECR are mentored
 on writing and submitting grant applications by staff experienced in grant capture, and are
 encouraged to attend training on grant writing and research supervision.

 2.2 Staff Development. Since 2016, we have implemented Best Practice Guidelines for
 research associates based on the Concordat to Support the Career Development of
 Research Staff. Progress, support and career development are now monitored and
 implemented through:
     • Annual appraisals: supportive and reflective, these set future objectives, assess what
        has hindered past progress,suggest solutions and beneficial training, and help
        researchers to plan their career progression.
     • Research activity planning is carried out three times a year by the Director of
        Research, Associate Dean for Research and the PVC for Research and Innovation. It
        provides a strategic overview of PhD supervision, grant activity, research impact, and
        outputs. For QIB, reporting is to the Institute’s Science Strategy Board. Research activity
        reporting informs the development of strategic research objectives, and more recently on
        the response to COVID-19. For TSL, responsibility lies with the TSL Director in
        consultation with Research Group Leaders and the external Scientific Advisory Board.

 To facilitate career progression, staff have access to over forty on-site career development
 courses provided by the UEA Centre for Staff and Educational Development. Since Sept 2016,
 MED staff have benefited from development funds (~£650 available per person p.a.) to support
 external training and conferences. Within TSL, investments for training are made on a case by
 case basis. For example, members of Peter van Esse’s group attended externally facilitated
 master classes in scientific leadership and entrepreneurial skills development (£1,500 per
 person). Within QIB 1.5% of the core BBSRC budget is ring-fenced for training and development
 for staff at all NRP institutes. Both in house training and external courses are funded.

 Since 2014, all staff have been able to attend annual promotion workshops and speak to a
 promotion mentor to facilitate the promotion process. Matthew Moscou and Peter van Esse

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 became Group Leaders at TSL, and Lindsay Hall became a Group Leader at QIB. Ailsa Welch
 was promoted to Professor of Nutritional Epidemiology, Stephen Dorling to Professor of
 Meteorology and Lindsay Hall to Professor of Intestinal Microbiome.

 Our 39 (23F:16M) research associates (RAs) are integral to our research activities. They have
 protected time (five days per year) to develop their career aspirations, e.g. attending
 conferences, careers events and grant-writing workshops, and innovation focussed projects. We
 are implementing a project to raise the online profile of our RAs by highlighting and celebrating
 their research knowledge and expertise. From a dedicated fund for staff development, RA
 beneficiaries within MED received an average of £920 funding since 2016 to support career
 development including training opportunities, conference fees and travel costs. Bridging funding
 is available to bridge gaps between grants and, since 2018, we have offered relocation
 expenses to RAs. In a 2018 satisfaction survey, 74% of our RAs said MED is a satisfying
 place to work.

 Within QIB the Quadram Institute Post-doctoral Society (QIPS) is open to and run by post-
 docs (also open to PhD students). QIPS runs fortnightly Coffee Break informal sessions for its
 members. The 2Blades Foundation at TSL offers Master classes for postdoctoral scientists
 which provide a foundation in the skills needed for entrepreneurial or corporate environments. In
 FMH our Annual Research Prizes recognise the vital work of our RAs and other researchers.
 Three UoA6 returnees have been successful including one ECR:
    • Papers by Peter Curtis won £1,000 in 2016 and 2017.
    • A paper by David Vauzour (ECR) won £1,000 in 2018.
    • A paper by Yongping Bao won £1,000 in 2018.

 UEA and TSL are signatories to the Technicians Commitment.

 Regular social events are run for staff:
    • MED Soirée held monthly
    • MED-i-Cake: a monthly social coffee morning
    • Coffee Break Science held fortnightly in the QI.
    • TSL has regular retreats and social events: these include days out for research groups
       and meals and parties for the whole lab.

 2.3 Postgraduate Students. UEA is an acknowledged leader for doctoral training research and
 has secured prestigious DTPs relevant to UoA6 staff. Successes include PGR appointments
 from:
     • the well-established BBSRC NRPDTP now in its third incarnation—the previous
        programme hosted >165 PhD students, Matthew Moscou, Lindsay Hall and Simon
        Carding all supervised PGR students on this funding. Related to this are BBSRC iCase
        PhD studentships (Matthew Moscou, Simon Carding).
     • the recent £5m Wellcome Trust Edesia: Plants, Food and Health PhD programme: a
        unique cross-disciplinary programme from crop to clinic initiated by UoA6's Aedin
        Cassidy. Students are currently rotating in the groups and laboratories of involved
        academics including Gwenaelle Le Gall.

 During this REF period 69 PhDs (44F) were supervised by UoA6 academics (34 as primary
 supervisor). Through our DTPs we have recruited 20 BBSRC NRDTP PhD students. Funding
 sources for PhD studentships also include BBSRC funding (18), 2Blades funding, John Innes
 Centre, charities (e.g. Big C), and industry funding (e.g. Unilever).

                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 UEA launched a Doctoral College chaired by the PVC for Research and Innovation, to oversee
 the management, training and co-ordination of activities for all postgraduate students at UEA.
 Postgraduate students with supervisors in
     • MED are overseen by the FMH Graduate School.
     • Faculty of Science are overseen by the SCI Graduate School.
     • QIB and TSL are managed by the Norwich Bioscience Institutes (NBI) Graduate School.

 The training pathway for postgraduate researchers is informed by the VITAE-Researcher
 Development Framework. A collaborative training needs analysis is made with the supervisor 8
 weeks after appointment and revisited every year. Each student has access to over 40 modules
 as well as a training budget of £1000. Training modules are all available to QIB and TSL PhD
 students via UEA. In addition, QIB and TSL PIPS students (BBSRC DTP funded) undertake a 3-
 month placement. The Doctoral Training and Employability Group reporting to the Doctoral
 College Executive, meet every month to discuss employability development. They monitor
 student feedback as measured through the Postgraduate Research Experience Survey. In 2019
 85% of students were satisfied with their experience of a research degree programme. UEA and
 QIB PGR students can participate in i-Teams, gaining experience outside of academia with
 training in commercial awareness. UEA has two career advisers dedicated to working with PGR
 students, including providing training sessions on “Self-awareness and Exploration”, “Applying
 and Doing” and “Launching”.

 Our Research Students Forum captures students’ views, needs and feedback and has led to a
 number of new initiatives, including lunchtime Bitesize seminars (two students per month) with
 pizza and drinks provided. We provide a weekly Breakfast Club for networking, as well as an
 annual high profile external speaker event and an annual FMH PGR conference. Within QIB
 Quadram Student Forum provide a student voice and helps integrate new and visiting students
 into the student body.

 Originating from an anonymous PGR student survey called the Honesty project in 2015, UEA
 developed a comprehensive mental health strategy, the COURAGE project, which received
 £300K in external funding matched by UEA. In 2018 the COURAGE project piloted new
 approaches to prevention, intervention and cultural change around mental health and wellbeing
 among PGRs. It is led by UEA and linked with UEA’s Student Union and other partners.

 2.4 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. QIB, TSL and UEA embrace Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion in line with UKRI Policies and Standards. Our initiatives span personal support (e.g.
 flexible working and return-to-work strategies), and practical support (e.g. mechanisms for
 changing work practice resulting from changes in circumstance, physical infrastructure changes
 and technology investment to support disability). The highlights of improvements in Equality and
 Diversity during this REF period are shown in Figure 3.

 MED and ENV are Silver Athena SWAN Award holders, and QI and the TSL are signatories to
 the Athena SWAN Charter. Developing practices/processes to remove obstacles that prevent
 female and Black Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) staff from achieving their full potential is
 a priority for all institutions with staff submitted to this UoA.

 Gender issues are considered in our promotion and rewards systems. We provide annual
 Promotions Master Classes for all staff, successfully encouraging and supporting females


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to apply for promotion, (three of our female staff were promoted to professor in this REF
 period). Regular signposting of policies on maternity/paternity, adoption leave and family friendly
 and flexible working occurs. A Flexible working policy is available at UEA, QIB and TSL; all staff
 can request flexible working arrangements.

 Researchers from across the NRP have access to ResNet a contact, support and information
 network for women, promoting career development and awareness of employment opportunities
 for female researchers. Lindsay Hall is a committee member for ResNet. In MED, we
 encourage study leave and staff can apply for one semester of study leave for every six
 semesters of service. For example, Anne-Marie Minihane took a highly productive research
 sabbatical in 2019, visiting the University of Illinois and Swinburne University Australia, leading
 to a successful NHMRC Australia, MedWalk grant application (2020-23, total AUD1.8m, Anne-
 Marie Minihane Overseas Chief Investigator).

 Figure 3. UoA6 Equality and Diversity Highlights from this REF Reporting Period


     UoA6 EQUALITY &         FEMALE ACADEMICS                 ATHENA SWAN              FEMALE PROFESSORS
         DIVERSITY          LEADERSHIP POSITIONS            Norwich Medical School &         INCREASE
                                                             School of Environmental
     HIGHLIGHTS FROM          SUSAN FAIRWEATHER-TAIT                                    REF 2021 4 Professors
                              Fellow American Society for    Sciences;- Silver Award
                                                                                        REF 2014 3 Professors
      THIS REPORTING          Nutrition
          PERIOD              ANNE-MARIE MINIHANE
                              Director of NIHA


       FEMALE STAFF              ATHENA SWAN                NORWICH MEDICAL            IMPACT CASE STUDIES
     NUMBERS INCREASE         Sainsbury Laboratory & The
                                                                 SCHOOL
                            Quadram Institute: members of     Bystander Training
      8   FTE in REF 2021    Athena Swan Gender Charter                                  REF 2021 50% ♀
                                                                  Implemented            REF 2014 100% ♀
          FTE in REF 2014                                     Signatory to BMA
      6
                                                               Charter on Racial               =
                                                                  Harassment

 Equality and Diversity training is mandatory for all members of staff. Care is taken to ensure
 all committees - including Health and Safety, Promotion, Ethics – are gender balanced. Key
 roles including theme leads and project leaders are monitored to ensure gender diversity.
 Unconscious Bias training is compulsory for all school committees and staff with key school
 roles. All appointment panels contain gender-balanced membership and since 2014 we ensure
 all recruitment material demonstrates equality and diversity. MED has appointed a Lead for
 Diversity and Inclusion addressing issues across all protected characteristics, and has set up a
 BAME Working Group Group. This group’s activities include include (i) Bystander Intervention
 Training addressing racism, microaggressions, sexism and trans/homophobia (ii) interventions
 improving mental health for Ethnically Diverse students, (iii) developing mentorship programmes.
 MED has signed up to the BMA Charter on Racial Harassment.




                                                                                                         Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 3. INCOME, INFRASTRUCTURE AND FACILITIES

 3.1 Research Funding. Over the past six years, we have significantly increased research
 funding:
     • £97m to construct new buildings (Section 3.2).
     • £66.9m in active grant funding during the assessment period (as PIs, Co-PIs and
        researchers) including £55.1m in new awards (see Fig. 4). As QI Director, Ian Charles
        holds the QIB Core Capability Grant worth £19.9m (BBSRC).
     • £8.4m spent on equipment infrastructure.

 Figure 4. UoA6 Grant Income in REF2021 Period

                   Grant Income All Awards in REF2021 Period
                                               UK           UK          UK                Other
 BBSRC     ESRC    MRC     EPSRC    NIHR                                          EU
                                             Charities   Government   Industry           Sources
 £39.3m    £1.2m   £1.2m   £439k    £1.9m                                        £1.3m
                                              £2.7m        £1.9m       £842k             £16.0m

                           Total Value Awards UoA6: £66.9m


                   Grant Income New Awards in REF2021 Period
                                               UK           UK          UK                Other
 BBSRC     ESRC    MRC     EPSRC     NIHR                                         EU
                                             Charities   Government   Industry           Sources
 £34.2m    £1.2m   £1.2m   £439k     £1.4m                                       £609k
                                              £2.6m        £666k       £178k             £12.7m

                           Total Value Awards UoA6: £55.1m

 UEA’s strategy for generating research income is to maintain a supportive culture of grant
 applications.Two committees of senior FMH academics provide internal peer review and
 application improvement support prior to submission. Overall success rate in MED (including
 grants and consultancies) increased from 38% applications successful in 2010-2013 to 55% in
 2016-2019. TSL uses an informal network to support grant writing and submissions. QI employs
 a Grants Facilitation Process (GFP) which includes a monthly ideas clinic, Academic Speed
 Dating events, a grants knowledgebase folder, and grantsmanship bootcamps. To achieve
 larger, multi-partner grants (consortia), we apply the same mechanisms, supported by
 administration from the International Research Project Manager and European Funding
 Manager within the University's Research and Innovation Services. Our success is
 demonstrated by the competitively funded large projects and consortia as shown in Box 5.




                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Box 5 Research funding recruited/held by UoA6 academics

 Theme 1 Nutrition in Human Health
 Anne-Marie Minihane has won BBSRC responsive-mode funding as PI:
 • £436k Enhanced cognition through dietary modulation of neuroinflammation in high risk
    APOE4 carriers (BB/M004449/1)
 Anne-Marie Minihane has won funding as Co-PI on an NIHR EME project:
 • £889k The efficacy and mechanisms of action of n-3 poly-unsaturated fatty acid
    supplementation in people with non-steroidal exacerbated airways disease and uncontrolled
    asthma. (NIHR129910)
 Anne-Marie Minihane has won funding as PI from Alzheimer's Research UK
 • £758k MedEx research programme involving UEA, Newcastle University, University of
    Birmingham and the University of Aberdeen

 Theme 2 Food Security
 Peter van Esse has been PI of grants to the 2Blades Foundation worth
 • £7.4m from Corteva/DuPont, Bayer/Monsanto during the REF2021 period.

 Theme 3 Food and the Gut
 Simon Carding has held a QIB institutional award (BBSRC):
 • £2.3m Changes in gut microbe-host interactions and their impact beyond the gut
       (BBS/E/F/000PR10355)
 Lindsay Hall has held a QIB institutional award (BBSRC):
 • £1.9m Determinants of microbe-host responses in the gut across life
    (BBS/E/F/000PR10353)

 Theme 4 Microbes in the Food Chain
 Ian Charles won as PI responsive-mode funding from the BBSRC:
 • £623k Understanding the ecology of Listeria and its interactions with microbiomes in food
     processing facilities to inform biocontrol strategies (BB/P017282/1)
 Mark Pallen has held a QIB institutional award (BBSRC):
 • £1.388m Microbial Communities in the Food Chain (BBS/E/F/000PR10351)
 • £472k Microbial pathogens: from Ecology to Synthetic Biology (BBS/E/F/00044414)
 Mark Pallen won funding early 2020 from the MRC:
 • £1.9m CLIMB-BIG-DATA: A Cloud Infrastructure for Big-Data Microbial Bioinformatics
     (MR/T030062/1) (Section 4.2)
 Alison Mather has won responsive-mode funding from the BBSRC as PI:
 • £314k Drivers and dynamics of antimicrobial resistance and Salmonella in Brazilian pig and
     poultry production (BB/S018913/1)
 Lindsay Hall has a QIB institutional award (BBSRC):
 • £793k Defining foetus-microbiota interactions (BBS/E/F/00044409)




                                                                                       Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities. Our infrastructure includes two new state-of-the-art
 buildings:

 The £17m Bob Champion Research and
 Education building (right) opened in Feb
 2015. It provides facilities for translational
 research, including a Biorepository, Cancer
 Biomarker Diagnostics Laboratory and Mass-
 spectroscopy Bioanalytical Facility.
 It accommodates laboratory-based research
 on antibiotic resistance and gastrointestinal
 diseases, including most of the UoA6 MED
 researchers.

 The £80m Quadram Institute (QI) — built
 with funding from BBSRC, UEA, NNUH,
 and the Institute of Food Research—
 opened in 2019 to address global
 challenges in food and gut health. It has
 three components.
     • Quadram Institute Bioscience
         (QIB): researching the composition
         and structure of food, human
         digestion and physiology, gut health,
         immunology, the impact of the
         microbiome on health and
         microorganisms throughout the food
         chain.
     • Quadram Institute Clinical
         Research: Norwich's Clinical
         Research Facility for human
         intervention studies conducting
         clinical trials in metabolic medicine,
         cardiology, neurodegenerative            The Quadram Institute's unique
         diseases, cancer and                        interdisciplinary portfolio
         gastroenterology.
     • Quadram Institute Endoscopy, one of the largest gastrointestinal endoscopy units in
         Europe with 40,000 procedures per annum.

 Co-location of these two buildings with components in the Norfolk and Norwich University
 Hospital helps synergise interactions between basic science themes and clinical research
 to deliver a step-change in understanding the role of food in health, and it enhances our ability to
 carry out interdisciplinary research on food and gut health. Recruitment of new world-class
 researchers to the QIB (Section 2.1) underpins the vitality and sustainability of our research
 environment.

 Our UoA6 laboratory research infrastructure includes the following facilities
    • The Norwich Biorepository established with the aid of a £2.1m grant from BBSRC
       ensures equal focus is given to preserving human tissue and the microbiota within it.
       The investment included equipment to allow high throughput sample handing, nucleic
       acid extractions and storage. It also funded bioinformatics equipment, including the
       Achiever LIMS and the Cogstack data-management system. The Biorepository collects
       samples and data for research projects targeting COVID-19 including the development
       of an immunisation strategy. It also accommodates large sample sets linked to molecular

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        data from QIB's BAMBI, (Lindsay Hall), MOTION and PEARL studies (Simon Carding),
        documenting the life history of the human gut microbiome.
    •   UEA's IT/Computing Service Systems support research computing including a High-
        Performance Computing cluster for analysing genome and transcriptome data.
    •   The Biomedical Research Centre, used in collaboration with the School of Biological
        Sciences (BIO), includes a mouse facility with intravital imaging and a germ-free unit.

 We access other research facilities across the NRP:
   • Single Cell Analysis at the Earlham Institute, Sequencing and Bioinformatics at the
       Earlham and Quadram Institutes.
   • 3T-MRI facility at the NNUH, to which UEA contributed £500k.
   • UEA's new £3.4m Wellcome-Wolfson Brain Imaging Centre (MRI facility).
   • UEA's Science Analytical Facility, with Bio-imaging, Structural Imaging, X-Ray
       Imaging, NMR, Mass Spectrometry, Elemental Analysis and Stable Isotope Analysis.
   • TSL has Mass Spectrometry, Bio-Imaging, Functional Genomics. TSL invested £767k as
       matched funding to secure a BBSRC grant with JIC for £2.1m for state-of-the-art Mass
       Spectrometry Equipment.
   • TSL invested £450k in Laser Confocal Microscopy.

 We have installed and expanded interdisciplinary structures to ensure our research connects
 with and impacts the wider society:

                 The Norwich Institute of Healthy
                 Ageing, NIHA), led by Anne-Marie
                 Minihane consolidates research links
                 across the NRP. NIHA is home to
                 more than 200 researchers
                 (Minihane, Vauzour, Hooper,
 Curtis, Carding, Müller, Welch, Schoenmakers,
 Fairweather-Tait, Warren and Le Gall from this UoA).

 NIHA enhances our interdisciplinary translational
 approach. Its core members are MED, QIB, NNUH,
 Public Health Norfolk and other local government
 agencies, Primary Care, East of England population
 and local SME partners. Nutrition and health sit at the
 heart of this vital new institute with a focus on
    • translation of behavioural change into health (e.g. improving habits around healthy
         eating, physical activity, smoking, alcohol, sleep, medicine adherence and social
         isolation).
    • bridging the translational ‘valley of death’ to deliver impact from our discoveries through
         improved physical and mental health across the population.

 The Norwich Clinical Trials Unit (NCTU) was fully registered as a UK Clinical Research
 Collaboration trials unit in 2013. It has grown from a small unit of 5 staff (2013/14) to over 30
 staff (2019/20). The CTU’s NIHR grant income has also increased from £38k per year
 (2013/14) to >£2.5m per year (2019/20). In early 2020, the NCTU had >10,000 patients enrolled
 in clinical trials and under active follow up from >500 clinical sites throughout the UK and
 Northern Ireland. The RESTORE ME (Simon Carding) and PUFA (Anne-Marie Minihane)
 studies are currently being supported by the NCTU. The NCTU provides training and
 methodological advancement in trial design, conduct and analysis, and has ongoing


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 collaborations with researchers at UEA, NNUH, the Norfolk and Suffolk Foundation Trust
 (mental health), the Norfolk and Waveney CCG (primary care), and the universities of
 Cambridge, Sussex, Nottingham, Hertfordshire and University College London.

 Since 2018 UEA’s IT & Computing Service has injected additional capital investment in
 support of a number of key strategic technology initiatives. This totalled £4m in 2018-19, £5m in
 £2019-20, and will total over £7m for 2020-21.




                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 4. COLLABORATION AND CONTRIBUTION TO THE RESEARCH BASE, ECONOMY AND
 SOCIETY

  4.1 Research collaborations are essential for tackling strategic challenges and are tightly
 integrated with external organisations including
     • other academic institutions (e.g. Eastern Arc)
     • the NHS, especially NNUH
     • social care structures
     • industry
     • government bodies (e.g Food Standard Agency)

 To enhance collaboration, we established the UEA Health and Social Care Partnership
 (UEAHSCP) in 2019. This formal partnership comprises 12 health and social care organisations
 with 45k staff working across East Anglia. Within two years, UEAHSPC has invested £200k and
 attracted over £5m in research funding for activity aligned to the needs of our local population,
 including UEA-led NIHR grants of £2.4m and £1.93m. It provided seedcorn funding for projects
 led by UoA6 researchers: £7.5k for Alastair Forbes’, MALNUT project, £5.5k for Inez
 Schoenmakers’ Vitamin D project and £15.5k for Ailsa Welch’s Child Nutrition Project.

 The Eastern Arc (easternarc.ac.uk) is a collaborative initiative linking Universities at East
 Anglia, Kent and Essex. Since 2019, it has injected £70k into joint projects. An exciting
 collaborative project between QIB and University of Kent is looking at new approaches for
 COVID-19 vaccine delivery (section 4.4).

 4.2 National/international collaborations/networks led by UoA6 staff

 Anne-Marie Minihane is involved in the APPLE Tree programme (Active Prevention in People
 at risk of dementia through lifestyle, behaviour change and technology to build resilience), the
 MRC-funded NuBrain (UK consortium for optimal nutrition for healthy brain ageing) and the
 Alzheimer’s Research UK funded MedEx-UK (The Mediterranean Diet, Exercise and Dementia
 Risk Reduction Programme).

 Aedin Cassidy and Susan Fairweather-Tait participated in the €12m EU FP7 NU-AGE project
 New Dietary Strategies Addressing the Specific Needs of the Elderly Population for Healthy
 Ageing in Europe, encompassing a large multidisciplinary consortium (30 partners from 16
 EU countries) involving nutritionists, biogerontologists, immunologists and molecular biologists
 from the most prestigious institutions in Europe, five large food industries, eight traditional food
 companies and one biotech SME.

 David Vauzour and collaborators from QIB, Earlham Institute, Nottingham Trent University, and
 the Universities of Milan, Florence, and Siena, performed research highlighting the paramount
 importance of the gut-brain axis in ageing. This research provides a strong rationale to devise
 therapies aiming to restore a young-like microbiota to improve cognitive functions and combat
 the declining quality of life in the elderly.

 Inez Schoenmakers collaborated on vitamin D and maternal and neonatal health with the
 Universities and MRC units of Cambridge, Southampton, Oxford, Sheffield and Gothenburg.




                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Yongping Bao collaborates on enhanced anti-cancer activity of nano-sulforaphane with the
 National Center for Nanoscience and Technology, Beijing.

 Lee Hooper led an international team from the UK, USA, Palestine, Japan, Netherlands,
 Switzerland, Australia, Sweden and France to undertake the Cochrane Review Clinical
 symptoms, signs and tests for identification of impending and current water-loss dehydration in
 older people.

 Mark Pallen led the MRC CLIMB project and leads the successor CLIMB-BIG-DATA project.
 Both involve a consortium of academics and computer scientists across multiple UK
 universities (UEA, Warwick, Birmingham, Cardiff, Swansea, Bath, Leicester), together with the
 QIB and the MRC Unit in the Gambia. CLIMB has
     • won international recognition via 2017 Wire Readers’ Choice Awards in Best Use of
        High Performance Computing (HPC) in Life Sciences and Best HPC Collaboration in
        Academia, Government or Industry
     • provided training in bioinformatics to thousands of academics, students and clinical
        microbiologists across the UK, Palestine, Gambia and Vietnam.
     • become an essential national capability for microbiologists in the UK, serving >900
        users and >300 research groups scattered across >85 research institutions — from
        Edinburgh to Exeter, from Belfast to Norwich—spanning universities and government
        agencies (e.g. PHE, PHW, APHA).
 The CLIMB infrastructure was pivotal to UK efforts to sequence coronavirus genomes.

 Peter van Esse co-coordinated the International Asian Soybean rust genome sequencing
 consortium with eleven research and industry partners in the UK, USA, Germany, France and
 Brazil. He also supervises international Bayer contracts, which included collaborators in USA
 and Brazil working on Asian Soybean Rust.

 Stephen Dorling is co-investigator on the Horizon 2020 SECLI-FIRM project, The Added Value
 of Seasonal Climate Forecasting for Integrated Risk Assessment, with eight partners from the
 UK, Italy, Netherlands and France.

 4.3 Contribution to the Research Base. Unit members contribute to the sustainability of their
 disciplines through membership/leadership roles in professional societies, editorial boards,
 membership of funding panels including MRC, BBSRC and UKRI, peer review of outputs,
 conference keynote talks, conference organisation, and training research students and
 postdoctoral researchers:
     • Anne-Marie Minihane is a member of the REF2021 UoA6 sub-panel. She is a Rank
         Prize Funds Nutrition Committee Member; Scientific Advisor and Academic Advisor to
         the Nutrient Optimisation Task Force of ILSI Europe; UK representative on the External
         Communication and Public Trust working group Federation of European Nutrition
         Societies (FENS).
     • Michael Müller is the scientific director of NUGO, an international Association of
         Universities and Research Institutes focusing on the joint development of the research
         areas of molecular nutrition, personalised nutrition, nutrigenomics and nutritional systems
         biology; member of the MRC Population health and System Medicine panel; member of
         the MRC UK Nutrition Research Partnership panel; member of the scientific evaluation
         committee for the JPI call “(STAMIFY)”. He was a member of BBSRC SAB Bioscience
         for Health (2014-2019).
     • Michael Müller and Susan Fairweather-Tait were panel members for the MRC GCRF
         call on Food Nutrition and Health (2019).
     • Susan Fairweather-Tait served as an expert for the European Food Safety Authority
         NDA Panel from 2009-2018; was a member of the US National Academies of Sciences

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Committee on Harmonization of Methods for Estimating Nutrient Intake References
        (2017-2018); was appointed chair for a FAO/WHO expert group on nutrient requirements
        for children (2020-present); is a member of the FSA Advisory Committee on Novel Foods
        and Processes (2020-2023); member of the new Nordic Nutrition Recommendations
        Scientific Advisory Group and the Technical Advisory Group for Global Anemia
        Exemplars; was appointed as Chair of the UK Nutrition and Health Claims Committee
        (UKNHCC) advising on scientific evidence behind nutrition and health claim applications.
    •   Martin Warren was a member of the BBSRC Appointments Board 2016-2019.
    •   Alison Mather is a member of the Microbiology Society AMR Advisory Group;
        member of the Scientific Advisory Board (2019-2021) of the Canadian Genomics
        Research and Development Initiative project on AMR; member of the Wellcome Drug
        Resistant Infections Epidemiology and Surveillance Panel.
    •   David Vauzour is the ILSI Europe Co-chair of Nutrition and Mental Performance Task
        Force, and Chair on many expert groups at ILSI.
    •   Inez Schoenmakers is an advisor on vitamin D and nutritional rickets to the WHO and
        contributed to the NICE and Royal Osteoporosis Society guidelines on Vitamin D.
    •   Lee Hooper is a member of the National Hydration Network; member of the World
        Health Organization Nutrition Guidance Expert Advisory Group (NUGAG), which
        develops world nutrition guidance; member of the advisory board of the Cochrane
        Nutrition group; editor of the Cochrane Heart Group.
    •   Lindsay Hall is a member of Microbiology Society Policy Committee 2018-2019;
        member of the WHO-Wellcome Trust Expert Advisory Group for nutrition; member of the
        Wellcome Trust-Royal Society Sir Henry Dale Fellowship Committee (2018); member of
        the Wellcome Trust Henry Wellcome Basic Science Fellowship Committee (2014-2019).
    •   Matthew Moscou is Co-Vice Chair for the French ANR CES20 panel (scientific grant
        panel).

 Our UoA6 staff and their projects were recognised through Honours, Awards and Prizes:
    • Inez Schoenmakers won the Academy of Medical Sciences Springboard award in 2016
       for her work on Vitamin D.
    • Susan Fairweather-Tait was elected Fellow of the American Society for Nutrition.
    • Michael Müller is a member of the editorial board of AJCN and has a visiting
       professorship for Nutrigenomics at Nanjing Agricultural University, China.
    • Yongping Bao has a visiting professorship at Harbin Medical University, China.
    • David Vauzour received the United Arab Emirates Prize for best research department
       (2018).
    • Alison Mather was named by BioBeat one of 50 female leaders in healthcare business
       in the UK (2018) and was recognised with a runner-up prize from the Medical Research
       Foundation for her work on antimicrobial resistance (2019).
    • Lindsay Hall received the Society for Applied Microbiology’s WH Pierce Prize in 2019,
       won the Wain Medal (2019), and won the Microbiology Society’s Public Engagement
       Achievement Award (2019).

 4.4 Contribution to the Economy and Society. The unit has five active Impact Case Studies,
 exemplifying the unit's wider contribution to the economy and society. Two of these were
 selected for submission. Highlights of Impact Case Studies not submitted include:
     • educational impact of the importance of the microbiota on early development of the gut
        (Lindsay Hall).
     • the spin-out company Vinescapes (vinescapes.com), supplying services since 2016 in
        support of a climate-resilient wine sector in England and Wales (Stephen Dorling).
     • the introduction of a new model for calculating dietary iron bioavailability and estimates of
        country-specific values for dietary iron bioavailability (Susan Fairweather Tait).
     • During the COVID-19 pandemic, we have been engaged in relevant research. FMH has
        a portfolio of 119 COVID-19 projects, many of which benefitted involvement UoA6
        academics:

                                                                                            Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
            o   The CLIMB infrastructure, which was pivotal to UK efforts to sequence
                coronavirus genomes, was developed from a project led by Mark Pallen
                (Section 4.2).
            o   Ailsa Welch participated in a review of Vitamin D and SARS-CoV-2 virus/
                COVID-19 http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjnph-2020-000089.
            o   Lee Hooper participated in a review on “community use of face masks and
                similar barriers to prevent respiratory illness such as COVID-19”
                https://doi.org/10.2807/1560-7917.ES.2020.25.49.2000725.
            o   Links between Simon Carding and Martin Warren and the University of Kent
                underpin a project using new approaches for COVID-19 vaccine delivery,
                engineering the ability of gut bacteria to generate nanoparticle sized outer
                membrane vesicles.
            o   Simon Carding is also member of WHO’s COVID-19 Expert Advisory Group
                on vaccine prioritisation (2020-present).

 Unit members have numerous academic commercial partnerships:
    • Anne-Marie Minihane has commercial collaborations with Abbott Health Care (CANN)
        and Unilever on n-3 fatty acids/flavonoid and cognitive health.
    • David Vauzour is Co-PI on a grant to Florida Citrus and has collaborations with the
        Activ'Inside, France and BioActor, Netherlands.
    • Lindsay Hall is PI on Unilever/ BBSRC Development and evolution of the infant human
        skin microbiome.
    • Matthew Moscou has a grant from 2Blades Foundation to facilitate interaction with JT
        (Japan Tobacco) and an iCASE studentship in partnership with KWS SAAT SE & Co
        (GE) focusing on barley improvement.
    • Peter van Esse is PI on two grants with Bayer and a collaboration with the crop science
        division of JT on wheat. Corteva and Bayer plan to produce products based on Van
        Esse’s research. Moscou and Van Esse receive income through 2Blades from a range
        of companies including Corteva/Bayer, Monsanto/Bayer and JT.
    • Ian Charles is a board member of Anglia Innovation Partnership LLP (2015-present);
        Board member of QIB Extra Ltd (2015-present); Non-Executive Director, Genus plc
        (2018-present). He was a Board member of the Ramaciotti Centre, UNSW, Sydney
        (2011–2015); member of the Investment Review Committee of the MRCF Venture Fund
        (2011–2015); SAB member, Oxford Gene Technology PATHSEEK project (2012–2015).
    • Stephen Dorling is currently Chief Executive of Weatherquest Ltd. The company, which
        he co-founded in 2000, is headquartered at UEA and supplies weather and climate
        services to the Food, Energy, Water, Transport and Media sectors. Weatherquest works
        strategically with Vinescapes, supplying services to the viticulture sector (ICS). He is the
        UEA lead on the UKRI-funded Climate Resilience in the English Wine Sector (CREWS-
        UK) project, in collaboration with Wines of Great Britain. Weatherquest was partner on
        two completed and two ongoing Innovate UK/DfiD funded Agri-Tech R&D projects on UK
        soft fruit and Kenya vegetable production. Weatherquest provides strategic advice on
        climatic suitability of crop production.




                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


                                               Through our numerous engagement events over
                                               this assessment period, we offered sustained
                                               support to science engagement events in our local
                                               community. These include annual participation
                                               (posters, exhibits) in the Norwich Science Festival
                                               and “Pint of Science” Festival, the Dragon Hall
                                               Debates and the Norwich Science Café.

                                                 Lindsay Hall has been recognised by a UEA
                                                 Engagement Award 2019 for her “Guardians of the
                                                 Gut” that represents a microscopic microbial
 ecosystem hidden inside our bodies as an immersive, interactive walk-through model. The
 exhibit attracted funding from a Wellcome Trust ‘Engagement Fellowship’; a Microbiology
 Society ‘Microbiology in Society’ Award 2018; the BBSRC, who provide strategic support to QIB;
 a QIB ‘Impact Accelerator Award’; and the Arts Council England. It was one of only 22
 competitively selected stands at the Royal Society Summer Exhibition in 2018, a prestigious
 event attracting over 11,000 visitors, predominantly UK school groups. It was voted the second
 most popular exhibit in a survey of children at the event. The exhibit has toured to The Norwich
 Science Festival and the Latitude Music Festival. Lindsay Hall engages the public via many
 media outlets: she has been interviewed by BBC Breakfast, BBC2 Horizon, ITV, BBC4 and
 Radio 4 and 5 live, as well as the Times, Irish Times and the Eastern Daily Press (EDP). Lee
 Hooper also won the UEA Engagement Award 2019 for her work on the Hydration topic
 ‘DrinKit’, a four-part guide developed collaboratively by her team with care home staff from
 homes in Norfolk and Suffolk. Lee Hooper also has a strong media presence, highlighting the
 limited role of Fish Oil and Omega-3 supplements in supporting human health (BBC news and
 website, EDP, Irish News, Irish Telegraph and the Sun).

 Some other highlights of our engagement activities over the assessment period include

    •   Alison Mather was a specialist lecturer and facilitator at the London International Youth
        Science Forum in 2015 and 2018.
    •   Ailsa Welch acted as editor for the second edition of the bestselling title from the
        acclaimed Nutrition Society Textbook series, Public Health Nutrition (2017) and has
        recently written for The Conversation Vitamin C could help older adults retain muscle
        mass (2020).
    •   Mark Pallen, author of The Rough Guide to Evolution, has written and published The
        Last Days of Smallpox: Tragedy in Birmingham (2018) and was celebrated in the
        Microbiology Society’s 75th anniversary, 'Why Microbiologists Matter: a digital celebration
        of the journeys of our members’ in 2020.
    •   Simon Carding’s talk “Gut bacteria and mind control: to fix your brain, fix your gut!”,
        (Norwich, 2015) received 1 million views and 13,000+ likes on YouTube.




                                                                                           Page 20
