Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU)
 Unit of Assessment: 11 - Computer Science and Informatics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1. Unit context and structure
 This UOA submission includes the Department of Computer Science, the Department of Applied
 Mathematics and the Department of Built Environment. The UOA research is structured into two
 research Centres:
    PROTECT - Centre for Critical Infrastructure Computer Technology & Protection (led by Shi)
     The research in PROTECT focuses on trustworthy computer technology for the functional
     enrichment and security protection of computing systems. The Centre comprises five
     research groups: Networking & Distributed Systems, Network & Information Security, e-
     Health Systems, Applied Computing, and Computer Games.
    DSRC - Data Science Research Centre (led by Lisboa)
     The work in DSRC advances mathematical methodology and applications. The methodology
     focuses on the interpretation of machine learning models including interpretation by design.
     Applications cover specialist expertise in medical imaging, cancer research and
     mathematical biology, e.g., detection of glaucoma and NMR spectroscopy of brain tumours.
 This UOA returns 42 FTE Category A staff, of which 31 FTEs are from the Department of
 Computer Science, 10 FTEs from the Department of Applied Mathematics, and 1 FTE from the
 Department of Built Environment. Each member of the staff can join more than one research
 Centre or Group to facilitate cross-discipline research collaborations. Among the staff returned,
 26 are in PROTECT, 11 in DSRC, and 5 in both Centres. The Centres give the staff flexibility
 and support to pursue their own research interests while promoting and fostering a collaborative
 culture to jointly tackle multi/inter-disciplinary research challenges.
 In the rest of this document, the common information between the Centres or Departments will
 be presented at the UOA level without naming them, whereas details about a specific Centre or
 Department will refer to that Centre or Department.
 1.2. Research strategy
 1.2.1. UOA aims and strategy for period 2014-2020
 This UOA was guided by the University and Faculty strategies to deliver impactful research and
 scholarship during this REF period. Specifically, the UOA aimed to develop collaborative and
 targeted research of high quality, build critical mass in key existing research areas, and explore
 emerging topics in the areas for income and impact generation. To achieve this aim, our strategy
 was to consolidate and significantly expand our research base by nurturing existing academic
 staff and recruiting research-excellent new staff to increase the quality, volume and impact of our
 research. This strategy was implemented through the following mechanisms:
    Encouragement and support for excellent research work enhanced through staff recruitment
     and aligned with high priority areas, e.g., those identified by the EPSRC and EU, and
     publishable in good journals and conferences,
    Inclusion of more academic staff in collaborative high-quality research led by well-established
     research-active staff,
    Provision of incentives and support for collaborative funding applications, enterprise activities
     and impact creation,
    Promotion of external collaborations and public engagement to widen the scope and
     identification of research opportunities and dissemination pathways, and
    Scholarly enrichment of our degree programmes and teaching to keep up with the
     development of technology.
 Our research strategy, measures for its implementation and the progress made were reviewed
 regularly to improve their suitability for the delivery of the UOA research aims. For instance,

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PROTECT successfully retained the Research Centre status following a biennial review by the
 University Committee for Research and Knowledge Exchange in 02/2018.
 1.2.2. Review of the UOA’s REF2014 plan and progress for period 2014-2020
 The research plan for 2014-2020 presented in our REF2014 submission consisted of two parts,
 one for PROTECT and the other for Neural Computing Research Group (NCRG, expanded to
 become DSRC in 09/2016). PROTECT aimed to research underlying scientific theories,
 methods and mechanisms to support the development of trustworthy computing systems, which
 resulted in a significant number of high quality publications (e.g., in IEEE Transactions). It also
 planned to engage with users for impact generation, which led to wider realised impact from our
 research as demonstrated in the UOA’s impact case studies (e.g., Smart Energy, Smart Care).
 Regarding the plan to attract funding from sources like the EU and EPSRC, a large growth in the
 amounts of funding awarded from these two bodies was achieved as detailed in Section 3.1.
 NCRG maintained its focus on application-driven methodological research, particularly in the
 interpretation of machine learning systems and its impact on application areas, detailed in
 Section 1.2.4. This benefited from an increase in critical mass with the appointment of 5 new
 staff (Ortega - formerly an EU Marie Curie Research Fellow here, Olier, Correa, Siekmann,
 Czanner-G - formerly a scientist at Liverpool’s St Paul’s Eye Unit).
 Further evidence of progress is highlighted by the following achievements:
    Greatly increased REF-able staff: 42 staff including 24 recruited during this REF period are
     returned in this UOA, representing an increase of 320% over 10 staff for REF2014, which
     provides critical mass for the research areas covered by the UOA. The increase is the result
     of fulfilling the University strategy for the significant growth of both excellence and volume in
     impactful research as well as a consequence of an altered framework for REF2021.
    Significantly increased research outputs in high-quality journals: 105 peer-reviewed outputs
     are included in this UOA submission, while only 34 outputs were submitted to REF2014. 104
     out of the 105 outputs are published in journals with the remaining one presented at a top
     conference (ACM-SIAM SODA), which shows a slight increase of the journal percentage
     from 97% for REF2014 to 99% for the current submission. The average impact factor of the
     journals publishing these 104 outputs is 4.76 that is 28% higher than 3.73 for REF2014.
     Here, the impact factors were checked using the 2019 Journal Citation Reports published by
     Clarivate Analytics, five of our REF2021 journal outputs were excluded from the calculation
     as their related journals (i.e., IEEE TCSS, IEEE T-SUSC and IEEE TETCI) started publishing
     recently with no impact factors available, and also one of our REF2014 journal outputs had
     no impact factor. The new average of impact factors indicates that the significant increase of
     our output quantity is achieved with an increase in quality.
    Strong research income growth: £4.4m was generated from funding sources such as EPSRC
     and the EU during this REF period, rising by 300% over £1.1m for REF2014, which was
     boosted by the considerable expansion of the UOA staff base.
    Increased PhD awards: 71.5 PhD completions are reported in this UOA submission,
     showing an increase of 218% over 22.5 for REF2014, which is partly due to our Faculty and
     University investment in 60 PhD studentships to attract bright students for research.
    Continued investment in research facilities: £1.1m was spent on the improvement and
     expansion of research facilities for the UOA research during this REF period, rising by 59%
     compared to REF2014.
 The above facts point to an accelerated growth of the UOA research achievements since
 REF2014, thanks to a culture change with 68% of our academic staff being returned in this REF
 submission compared with 23% previously. Further details on the UOA research progress are
 presented below for PROTECT and DSRC.
 1.2.3. PROTECT aims and achievements
 After REF2014, PROTECT was expanded due to the internal restructuring of our Faculty in 2015
 to include more staff with a wider range of research interests. This allowed the Centre to
 broaden its research scope from the previous specific area of critical infrastructure systems to

                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the more general area of trustworthy computing systems with the aims stated in the previous
 section. To manage the research, PROTECT was organised into the five research groups as
 mentioned in Section 1.1. These groups allowed PROTECT to pool a wide range of expertise to
 collaboratively address increasingly multi/inter-disciplinary research challenges while
 accommodating flexibilities for individual groups to pursue their own research interests. This
 tactical arrangement enabled PROTECT to contribute significantly to the UOA outputs and
 secure over £3m external funding in this REF period. The following highlights exemplar
 achievements involving joint efforts by different research groups:
    Smart network connectivity: Our research in this area focused on building algorithms and
     frameworks for mobile/wireless networks and systems. For example, the EU H2020 funded
     Wi-5 project (01/2015-06/2018, link) provided support to this research, resulting in a platform
     for optimised and automatic connections to improve the efficiency of Wi-Fi services in
     congested environments (Bouhafs, Mackay, Raschella, Shi). The project results were then
     extended and evaluated in practical 5G settings (Mackay, Bouhafs, Waraich) through the
     DCMS (Department for Digital, Culture, Media & Sport) funded interdisciplinary Liverpool 5G
     Testbed project (03/2018-01/2020, link) for using 5G technologies to improve health and
     social care services, as reported in the UOA’s ICS3 (Impact Case Study 3 listed in Section
     1.3.3). The promising benefits demonstrated from the testbed led to a successful funding
     application to DCMS in 05/2020 for the Liverpool 5G Create project to further develop and
     widen these benefits (08/2020-03/2022, link).
    Intelligent systems: Our work in this area was centred on developing machine learning based
     interdisciplinary techniques to support technology-assisted social care services and wildlife
     conservation. For instance, our work produced an intelligent technique that uses smart
     meters to support dementia patients living alone, partly supported by an EPSRC grant
     (06/2018-07/2019, EP/R020922/1), with a successful clinical trial by Mersey Care NHS
     Foundation Trust in 2016-2017 (Chalmers, Fergus, Hurst, Mackay). This work won the 3rd
     prize of the London Innovation Awards in 2015 and attracted wide interests with 11 national
     press articles and 4 government policy documents as detailed in the UOA’s ICS1. Our
     research also generated a machine learning based platform for animal identification and
     classification using camera traps and drones (Fergus, Chalmers), which is the first one made
     available for wildlife conservation organisations to use via conservationai.co.uk. This work
     was partly supported by an EPSRC GCRF grant (10/2019-03/2021, EP/T015403/1).
    Trustworthy services: Our research in this area developed efficient and effective solutions to
     address trust and security challenges. For example, the EU FP7 funded Aniketos project
     (08/2010-05/2014, link) supported our work on generating solutions for modelling, composing
     and validating trustworthy composite services (Shi, Zhou). The modelling results were then
     used to create a unique 3D security requirements modelling platform (Zhou, Tang, Shi),
     partly funded by DCMS and Innovate UK (2017), which won the 2nd and 3rd prizes at the UK
     round and grand final of the China-UK Innovation & Entrepreneurship Competition in 2017,
     respectively. In addition, the EU H2020 funded Wise-IoT project (06/2016-05/2018, link) and
     Korea IITP funded TII project (06/2015-05/2018) advanced our research in IoT-based trust
     models with the results successfully tested in the Spanish city of Santander in 2018 (Lee).
     The software produced by the TII project was also certified by TTA (Telecommunications
     Technology Association supported by the Korean government) for commercial use. The
     models were then extended based on blockchain to address GDPR compliance (Lee)
     through another Korea IITP funded project GDPR-PIIM (04/2018-12/2020).
 1.2.4. DSRC aims and achievements
 The overarching aim of DSRC remained on interpretation of machine learning, through
 complementary research in novel methodology and practical application to real-world data. The
 Centre secured £1.5m grants for research and enterprise. Its research was at the interface
 between statistics and machine learning, achieving high performance with models understood by
 end-users. Evidence for this approach is the award for winning a datathon to predict unexplained
 behaviour in a complex chemical plant (see Section 4.2). Real-world impact extended also to
 support for SMEs including job creation through the LCR (Liverpool City Region) Activate


                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme (see Section 4.2). Much of the research was closely aligned with external
 collaborations, including:
    Novel methodology: This covered three areas. First, we focused on machine learning models
     that are interpretable by design, relevant for high stakes applications, e.g., in medicine.
     Nomograms were frequently used in conventional medical statistics and we developed them
     for SVMs and with so-called Self-Explaining Neural Networks (Lisboa, Olier, Ortega,
     Jarman). Secondly, through a long-standing collaboration on brain tumour spectroscopy with
     Carlos Arús at the Universitat Autónoma de Barcelona (08/2013-07/2020), we predicted
     response to chemotherapy for the first time with this non-invasive method and saw the
     predictions validated with murine models (Ortega, Olier, Lisboa). Thirdly, a collaboration on
     drug discovery with Ross King (Alan Turing Institute and University of Cambridge, 10/2013-
     07/2020) and AstraZeneca (AZ, 10/2015-02/2019) led to novel approaches for QSARs
     (Olier), which AZ is using to find drug candidates to be repurposed to treat conditions
     different from those originally approved, potentially shortening the discovery time for new
     drugs.
    Clinical decision support: The research aimed to i) optimise the design of ophthalmic studies
     by improving the sample size calculation, ii) model the noise in measurements from retina
     and cornea and propose how instruments should be used for diagnosis, and iii) build
     multivariate biostatistical methods for more accurate and explainable diagnosis (Czanner-G,
     Siekmann). We improved precision, so minimising patients being wrongly sent for a cross-
     linking operation (partly funded by the Clinical Eye Research Centre, Royal Liverpool
     University Hospital NHS Trust, 03/2014-08/2018). In diabetic retinopathy, we developed
     methods that underpin the decision support system for a national screening programme in
     China. We also developed a highly accurate interpretable algorithm to detect glaucoma
     (funded by EPSRC Mathematics in Healthcare Centre, Liverpool University, 11/2015-
     07/2019) in collaboration with Harvard/MIT. This led to the joint work on early glaucoma
     diagnosis with Aravind Eye Care System in India, University of Ulster and Lancaster
     University, featured in “Coming to terms with AI” in Eye News 26(2), Aug/Sep 2019.
    Drug quantitative systems pharmacology: Our research was to develop innovative methods
     for pharmaceutical development (Webb, Kelly). We produced computational 3-D spheroid
     models of liver, backed by a novel experimental rig, which were used by AZ at their drug
     discovery phase to screen 5000 compounds for hepatic safety, impacting the choice of
     molecules to progress (see ICS4 for details).
 1.2.5. Interdisciplinary research and achievements
 The above achievements show that UOA staff actively engaged in multi/inter-disciplinary
 research through internal collaborations among staff in different disciplines and external
 partnerships. In particular, the nature of the research in DSRC as well as the health and
 conservation related work in PROTECT is inherently interdisciplinary. The research committees
 at Centre, Faculty and University levels actively encouraged and facilitated interdisciplinary
 collaborations, e.g., through joint PhD studentships and grant applications. The technology
 centres such as Sensor City (a global hub for the development of sensor and IoT technologies)
 and MTC (Manufacturing Technology Centre) affiliated with the University keenly brought the
 academic staff and business users together to forge interdisciplinary research partnerships.
 The above support enabled the UOA to deliver a sizable amount of interdisciplinary work
 covering various disciplines such as healthcare, conservation, psychology, astrophysics, biology
 and manufacturing. 39% of the outputs submitted and 60% of our grants include interdisciplinary
 work. For instance, 12 papers were co-authored by our math staff (e.g., Lisboa) and those (e.g.,
 Burniston, Robinson, UOA24) in the Research Institute for Sport and Exercise Sciences at
 LJMU, and an EPSRC funded project (08/2015-09/2016, EP/M029484/1) involved computing
 (Dobbins) and psychophysiology (Fairclough, UOA04) staff to jointly develop a mobile lifelogging
 platform.
 1.3. Impact strategy
 1.3.1. UOA strategy, plans and impact for period 2014-2020

                                                                                            Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Guided by the University and Faculty strategies to deliver impactful research, our UOA strategy
 for achieving research impact during this REF period was to exploit existing collaborations with
 known user organisations for impact realisation, encourage the wide dissemination of research
 results to end users to seek other impact generation opportunities, and provide incentive support
 to the staff for impact activities. We planned four measures to implement this strategy:
 a) Identifying and focusing more effort on research areas of impact potential, in which we have
    strong expertise and existing user connections. This resulted in e-health systems, networking
    technology and data analytics flagged up as our focal areas.
 b) Expanding our external engagements by energising research dissemination via multiple
    means such as conferences and events to seek new collaborators and joint grant
    applications to widen our impact generation.
 c) Providing strong staff support, e.g., teaching and administrative workload reduction, funded
    external conference and event attendances, and promotion rewards, to incentivise and
    facilitate wider staff participation in impact activities.
 d) Enhancing our cooperation with enterprise services within the Faculty and University as well
    as technology centres (e.g., Sensor City and MTC) to take advantage of their large user
    networks to explore other channels for wider impact opportunity identification.
 The progress of the above activities was reviewed annually to identify necessary actions to take
 to ensure the expected growth of the UOA impact that is summarised below:
    Economic benefits: Our research produced better techniques for solving real-world problems,
     which were mostly the results of joint projects with users. For example, a user partner of the
     Wi-5 project mentioned in Section 1.2.3, AirTies in Turkey with over 30 million homes
     worldwide powered by their technology, adopted the project results to improve their customers’
     quality of experience (see ICS3 for details).
    Enhanced public services: Our work on data analytics generated methods for better risk
     identification and prediction. The UOA’s ICS1 and ICS2 provide detailed examples for the
     impact generated. For example, ICS2 shows that our joint work with Merseyside Fire and
     Rescue Service led to reduced fire risks to lives and properties.
    Technology-assisted wildlife conservation: Our research in this area used machine learning
     and drone technologies to develop smart animal identification and monitoring services for
     wildlife conservation. Eight organisations (see Section 4.1 for details) engaged in the research
     and field trials.
    Policy and standard engagement: The UOA research generated impactful results. By engaging
     with government and standardisation bodies as well as the media, the results informed relevant
     policy making and technical standardisation. The UOA’s ICS1 and ICS3 provide examples. For
     instance, the work in ICS1 led to 4 government policy documents.
 1.3.2. Approach to impact
 Our research impacts were achieved by exploiting a range of pathways to implement the
 abovementioned measures a) – d). The impact approaches described in our REF2014
 submission were adapted and extended to widen our impact activities in this REF period, as
 detailed below.
 1. Targeted impact exploitation through existing user connections: To take measure a) forward,
 we put particular efforts into advancing our research in two of the identified areas, e-health
 systems and data analytics, while consolidating our connections with user organisations such as
 Mersey Care NHS Trust and Merseyside Fire & Rescue Service. The results of the efforts are
 reported in our ICS1, ICS2 and ICS4.
 2. Wider external engagement and collaboration: To implement measure b), we explored the
 following ways for impact generation:
 i. Targeted research dissemination: The staff were encouraged and funded for research
     dissemination via targeted conferences, journals, and public/trade events to seek
     collaborations. For example, a member of our staff (Merabti) met an attendee at the Wireless
     Days conference in November 2013. Their conversation led to the conception of an initial

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      research idea for collaboration and the subsequent formation of a consortium to successfully
      bid for the Wi-5 project with user partners to exploit the project impact (see ICS3).
 ii. Funding applications to work with users: Relevant calls for proposals were disseminated to
      the staff regularly to encourage them to apply, and the progress and success in funding
      applications were reviewed and shared with the staff on a bimonthly basis to motivate more
      applications. These measures enabled user participation in 77% of our external grants.
 iii. Public engagement: The staff were encouraged to participate in public events and other
      outreach activities for raising the awareness of issues related to their research. This helped
      to widen the research impact. For example, our smart meter based work was presented at
      the IBM think event in 2018 with over 40,000 delegates to promote its importance and
      potential (link).
 iv. Influence on public policy and technical standardisation: The staff were motivated to use their
      research to inform and shape relevant policymaking and technical standardisation to
      increase the research impact. For example, a standard recommendation (Y.3055) by the
      GDPR-PIIM project mentioned in Section 1.2.3 was accepted by ITU-T that coordinates
      international standards for telecommunications and ICT.
 v. Direct engagement with companies: This allowed the staff to directly interact with users for
      research dissemination and exploitation. In particular, we placed over 80 second year
      undergraduates on average per year. This gave the staff opportunities to directly engage with
      the placement organisations for impact exploitation. For example, the work in our ICS2 was
      initiated and developed through such engagement.
 vi. Open source software: The UOA research produced a number of software prototypes.
      Making them freely accessible helps with their further development for wider impact. For
      example, the Korea IITP funded GDPR-PIIM project stated in Section 1.2.3 published its
      software code on GitHub (https://github.com/nguyentb/Personal-data-management).
 3. Staff support and reward: Regarding measure c), the staff support mentioned was
 implemented, which will be detailed in Section 2.1.
 4. Enterprise services: To deliver measure d), we worked closely with the University and Faculty
 for the use of their research and innovation services (see Section 2.1 for details). For instance,
 we used the services to file a worldwide patent application about our smart meter based work
 (see ICS1) and carry out an ongoing negotiation with interested parties for joint
 commercialisation. Moreover, we utilised the technology centres to reach out for wider
 collaborations. Notably, through Sensor City, we secured our participation in the two Liverpool
 5G projects mentioned in Section 1.2.3.
 1.3.3. Relationship to case studies
 This UOA includes the following 4 impact case studies built on the approaches in Section 1.3.2,
 where a reference like ‘(2.i, 3)’ indicates the use of approaches 2.i and 3 for the related impact:
    ICS1 Smart Energy, Smart Care: This demonstrates the impact in one of our focused areas
     in collaboration with Mersey Care NHS Trust (1, 3), wide engagement with the media and
     government (2.i, 2.iii, 2.iv), and commercialisation efforts (4).
    ICS2 Fire Prevention and Community Safety: Its impact shows the collaboration with
     Merseyside Fire and Rescue Service in another focused area (1, 2.v, 3) and the
     dissemination of fire risk profiles in fire safety communities (2.i, 2.iii).
    ICS3 Wi-5: It presents the impact generated from projects Wi-5 and Liverpool 5G Testbed
     (2.i, 2.ii, 3, 4), dissemination and standardisation activities (2.iii, 2.iv), and project open
     source software (2.vi).
    ICS4 Improving Drug Safety Screening: 3D – Liver Spheroid Toxicity Model: This illustrates
     the research impact exploitation with AstraZeneca in another focused areas (1, 2.ii, 2.v, 3)
     and the dissemination of the results produced (2.i).
 1.4. Future research and impact strategy
 The UOA research and impact strategies and their implementation mechanisms stated in
 Sections 1.2 and 1.3 will be consolidated to guide our future research and impact planning,

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 management and delivery. We will advance the UOA research and impact aims by broadening
 our collaborative culture for excellent impactful research, extending the critical mass for higher
 research productivity and capability to tackle complex multi/inter-disciplinary research issues,
 and fostering research agility to embrace emerging research challenges and impact
 opportunities within our expertise areas. More specifically, we will continue our research and
 impact approaches for developing fundamental solutions and integrating them into impactful
 applications. Particularly, we will invest more research efforts in the areas of secure technology
 for 5G and beyond, intelligent and trustworthy e-healthcare systems, and big data analytics in
 conservation and medicine. These areas fit well with this UOA’s research expertise and
 interests, still pose significant research challenges, and possess great potentials for wide
 research impacts. We will also encourage adaptability in our research to embrace new funding
 opportunities, which will be discussed in Section 3.1. In addition, the research results produced
 will be used to enrich our degree curriculums for the delivery of cutting-edge and exciting
 education to our students.
 1.5. Open research environment
 To increase the visibility and impact of our research, the University offers institutional repository
 services, LJMU Research Online and LJMU Data Repository, for green open access to
 published research material and data. A designated officer (Dishman) produces a quarterly open
 access compliance report for each UOA. The reports help the UOA coordinator to monitor the
 open access status of accepted outputs and take necessary actions to ensure their open access
 compliance if needed. This resulted in 97% of our in-scope outputs being available in the
 University’s repository and compliant with the REF open access policy.
 The University and Faculty also provided funds for gold open access to outputs published in
 journals such as IEEE Access and PLOS One to widen their dissemination and impact. 10% of
 our outputs benefited from such open access.
 Moreover, projects typically create their own websites (e.g., http://wise-iot.eu/en/home/) to
 disseminate research findings, e.g., through project reports for open access, and share non-
 private data to encourage further research. Another platform for research sharing is open source
 repositories such as GitHub for program and data sharing as described in Section 1.3.2.
 1.6. Research integrity
 The University’s Code of Practice for Research specifies the principles, responsibilities and
 values for research integrity, which the UOA staff are expected to follow. The Code is important
 for building trust, confidence and accountability in the research conducted in terms of the
 methods developed, data used and findings derived, while meeting all legal, ethical and
 professional requirements related to the research. These were embedded into our research
 output generation and impact exploitation to meet the standards defined in the Code. The
 support for this included the Code being part of the new staff induction and subsequent further
 training (see Section 2.1). The staff research conduct was also monitored and reviewed
 according to the Code as part of the annual PDPR (Personal Development and Performance
 Review) to promote good practice and address related issues. These facilitated the UOA’s
 research outputs and impact case studies in compliance with the Code.
 2. People
 2.1. Staffing strategy and staff development
 Our staffing strategy is to recruit academic staff based on their ability to meet specific
 requirements relating to both teaching and research. All candidates are required to outline their
 potential contribution to research related activity and assessed on their capacity to strengthen
 our impactful research. A total of 24 new academic staff appointed by the two Departments
 (Computer Science and Applied Mathematics) during this REF period have been returned in this
 UOA submission, and 6 of them have participated in funded projects as either PIs or CoIs. 9 of
 the staff appointments were for the gradual replacement of 9 Category B staff who left due to
 personal reasons (2) and promotion opportunities (7).



                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The Departments are committed to employ the best available academic staff on an equal
 opportunity basis regardless of their personal background such as gender and nationality. This
 has created a diverse international community that helps the Departments to forge international
 collaborations (see Section 4.1). Currently, 45% of the staff are from other countries across four
 continents, 12% of them are women, and the average staff age is 45 with 33% of them under 40
 years old, which provides a reasonable age balance. The Departments also have a succession
 plan to maintain the age balance in future staff recruitment and give opportunities to mid-career
 academics to gain knowledge and experience in senior research roles (e.g., research group
 leaders and centre directors) based on a 3-year rotation. These roles help the staff to progress
 their careers, while providing stability for the research management of the Departments.
 The strategy for staff development is to provide a wide range of personal and community-based
 support mechanisms to meet staff needs at different stages of their careers. These include
 training support at University level, e.g., an award-winning ACTivator programme provided by
 the University for staff development, which is an important part of the University’s Strategic Plan.
 On average, the programme delivers 12 workshops annually, covering a wide range of topics
 from research integrity and leadership, through funding and impact generation, to IP
 management. There were around 60 attendances to the workshops by the UOA staff between
 01/2016 and 07/2020. At Faculty level, experience sharing workshops are organised 3 or 4 times
 a year for experienced staff to share their good practice and lessons learnt with other staff in
 terms of successful grant applications to funding bodies like the EU, EPSRC and Innovate UK.
 All the UOA staff have benefited from the workshops, e.g., the training helped three ECRs
 (Dobbins, Tso, Hurst) to successfully obtain and complete their first EPSRC grants. At
 Department level, two staff away days per year provide skill training, share good experience and
 promote communication and collaboration for both research and teaching. Also 3 extra staff
 away days have helped the staff to develop their action plans to raise the quality of their
 research outputs and impacts.
 Funding support is also available. This includes covering costs for the staff to attend
 conferences and networking events to present their research results and seek collaboration and
 funding opportunities. An annual average of £30k is budgeted for this purpose. Moreover, pump-
 priming grants are offered at University, Faculty and Department levels for the staff to bid for
 facilities needed to support their research and teaching. A total of £280k was awarded to the
 UOA staff in this REF period. To accelerate the staff’s research, both the Faculty and University
 offer research scholarships to attract excellent students. 60 of our PGR students obtained
 scholarships during this REF period. To support research impact development, funding is
 available at University and Department levels for targeted external engagement, which helped
 the UOA to develop its impact case studies.
 Additionally, personal support is in place to facilitate the staff in their career development. An
 annual PDPR exercise provides an opportunity for the staff to work with their line managers to
 review and plan their academic activities. The research-active staff are recognised by an
 average reduction of 17% in teaching and administrative workloads. The allowance is even
 higher for the staff with external funding based on their budgeted time, and also a further
 reduction of 10% is given to the staff leading impact case studies. These enable the staff to
 pursue their research and impact agenda often supported by PGR students and/or RAs. There is
 an internal annual quality review of research outputs and impact case studies, and the feedback
 from the review is provided to individual staff for quality improvement. To support funding
 applications, the University’s Research & Innovation Services (RIS) together with the Finance
 and Faculty support offices helps individual staff to prepare applications and provide post-award
 support if funded, which are assisted by a Grants and Projects (GaP) system. RIS also runs a
 biweekly drop-in session onsite before the COVID-19 pandemic and online during the pandemic
 to advise staff on funding issues. Their services have benefited all our staff with external funding.
 The information on the grant applications is circulated bimonthly within the Faculty to
 acknowledge the staff’s effort and encourage more funding applications.
 To recognise the staff’s achievements and motivate them for more success, award support is
 offered by the University under its annual Professorship and Readership Conferment scheme to
 promote those staff with excellent contributions to the University’s research, impact and

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scholarship activities. During this REF period, 7 staff returned in this UOA were conferred as
 professors (Al-Jumeily and Hussain) and readers (Fergus, Hurst, Lee, Shamsa and Zhou). Along
 with this scheme, the University runs a biennial professorial performance review to reward good
 performers and help others for on-going improvements. In addition, there is an annual staff event
 for the LJMU Vice-Chancellor’s Awards for Excellence in Research, Scholarship & Knowledge
 Transfer to showcase that such excellence is high on the University’s agenda. For example, Lee
 received a Vice-Chancellor’s Award for his research achievements, and Hurst an Early Career
 Researcher Award for Impact, in 2017.
 To foster a collaborative culture for increasingly multi/inter-disciplinary research in the UOA’s
 subject areas, community support is essential. This includes a biweekly research seminar
 programme combining talks in different Departments within the Faculty to allow the staff and
 PGR students to learn emerging research topics, share research findings, stimulate further
 studies and promote collaborations. Also, the PROTECT (via its research groups) and DSRC
 centres organise regular meetings to discuss specific research challenges and gather joint
 efforts to address them through co-authored research publications and collaborative projects.
 Moreover, the University affiliated technology centres such as Sensor City and MTC host regular
 industrial events that provide networking opportunities for the staff to directly engage with
 companies to exploit collaboration potential. These efforts led to 41% of our submitted outputs
 with internal co-authors and 80% of our research income involving internal collaborations.
 For research sustainability, ECR support is important, particularly for helping new staff to
 quickly settle down in new working environments, integrate themselves into existing research
 groups/centres, and develop essential academic skills. In addition to all the aforementioned
 support applicable to ECRs, each new ECR receives initial inductions and handbooks given at
 both University and Department levels and is assigned a line manager and a senior colleague (a
 professor or reader) as a research mentor, who offer regular guidance on academic activities
 and standards expected. The research mentor also helps the ECR to join a research centre(s)
 and PGR supervisory teams, and participate in collaborative projects, which enable them to gain
 wider experience in research activities. Normally, ECRs are given higher priorities for pump-
 priming grants and research scholarship awards, and a special upskilling funding scheme
 operated annually by the University in recent years allows senior staff to mentor ECRs for raising
 their competence in REF-able output generation. For example, during this REF period, each
 ECR returned in this submission received at least one pump-priming grant, 13 of them got
 scholarships, and 2 secured upskilling grants.
 Furthermore, new staff enjoy lighter workloads. They are normally assigned only one third of the
 normal workload in the first year, two thirds in the second year and the normal workload from the
 third year onwards, which allows them to gradually take on teaching duties while enabling the
 continuation of their research. A one-year (3 hours per week) postgraduate certificate course on
 teaching and learning as well as a PhD supervision workshop are delivered by the University to
 assist them in gaining relevant academic skills, which forms an important part of their career
 development. Also, the support provided to and the performance delivered by ECRs are
 routinely monitored for additional assistance if needed. These are considered by probation
 reviews toward the end of the 3-year probationary period to determine those staff’s suitability for
 their jobs. All the academic staff apart from one recruited in this REF period successfully passed
 the probationary period after 3-years employment, and 3 of them obtained funding under the
 EPSRC First Grant or New Investigator Award scheme.
 The Research Concordat is also implemented to support the career development of
 researchers. It operates a robust action plan delivered through a Concordat Task Group and
 overseen by the University Research, Scholarship & Knowledge Transfer Committee. The Group
 used a Careers in Research Online Survey (CROS) before 2018, which has been replaced by
 the Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey (CEDARS), to identify
 areas for improvement and take necessary actions to fulfil it. The good performance of this plan
 was recognised by the EU HR Excellence in Research Award in 2012 that was successfully
 retained following biennial reviews in 2014, 2016 and 2018. The UOA staff actively participated
 in and benefited from the scheme, e.g., through the ACTivator programme mentioned earlier.


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2.2. PGR students
 PGR student recruitment is crucial to the UOA for the delivery of its research and impact
 strategies, and is managed by a support team at Faculty level. To recruit qualified students, we
 advertise PhD opportunities widely through external websites such as www.findaphd.com, the
 University’s own website, graduate career events and our own undergraduate and masters
 programmes. Each application received is reviewed by potential supervisors to check the
 applicant’s qualifications. If qualified, an interview with at least two academic staff is carried out
 before a place can be offered. On average, the UOA recruits 14 PGR students per year.
 During this REF period, both the University and Faculty invested significantly in PhD
 studentships in order to attract high calibre candidates for PhD research. The funding was
 provided via a number of means from fully funded University and Faculty scholarships, through
 fee paying only at Faculty level, to match-funded studentships at University and Faculty levels
 with financial contributions from outside organisations. 60 of our PGR students were funded by
 some of these schemes.
 A number of monitoring and support mechanisms are in place to guide PGR students through
 their study process. For initial support to new students, the University’s Doctoral Academy (DA)
 runs an induction about PhD research, and the Faculty provides another induction about local
 research environments and codes of conduct. Each student is then assigned to a supervisory
 team normally consisting of three supervisors including one experienced supervisor and one
 ECR for training purposes or a business/industrial partner for practical expertise. They set up a
 weekly meeting to discuss the research. All the supervisors must complete the supervisor
 training delivered by the DA. The student is also allocated an office space with a high
 specification PC and has access to our networking, cyber security and AR/VR research
 laboratories if needed and the well-stocked University library services including IEEE Xplore.
 The progress monitoring of PGR students involves several stages, supported by an online
 progression system (eDoc). Every student submits a registration application approved by the
 supervisors within the first 3-month enrolment, which is assessed by the Faculty Research
 Degree Committee (FRDC) including one senior member of the staff from each department.
 After the registration is approved by the FRDC and then DA, the supervisors undertake a review
 with the student within the first 6-month enrolment to discuss their research progress and first-
 year goals. The student then submits a report on their progress and further research plan within
 the first 12-month enrolment for the first-year review. A review panel including at least two
 supervisors and an independent assessor appointed by the FRDC holds an interview with the
 student to examine the quality of the reported work. If the work is considered inappropriate, the
 student could change the registration to MPhil or terminate the studies. Otherwise, the student
 remains registered for PhD. During this REF period, 96% of our PGR students successfully
 passed their first-year reviews.
 For those students who continue for PhD, there is a subsequent monitoring exercise organised
 annually by the DA. Each student completes a progress monitoring form with comments from the
 supervisors, which the FRDC reviews and recommends necessary actions if needed, before
 passing the form to the DA for further consideration. The arrangement of a PhD viva by the
 supervisors needs to be reviewed and approved by both the FRDC and DA.
 Communication support is also available for students to voice their needs. Supervisors
 normally have regular dialogues with their students in terms of the support needed, which are
 recorded in the annual progress monitoring forms. There is an elected PGR student
 representative in each Department, who sits in FRDC meetings and liaises regularly with the
 research centres’ directors and a designated support officer to discuss the students’ needs. The
 University runs a biennial Postgraduate Research Experience Survey to collect students’ views
 on research and support at Faculty level, e.g., with an overall satisfaction of 79% for our Faculty
 in the 2019 survey. These mechanisms allow students’ voices on their needed support to be
 heard at different levels for necessary actions to be taken.
 Community support is an important part of PhD studies. Our Faculty manages a series of
 biweekly seminars given by PGR students with each presenting a couple of talks within their
 study period to allow them to share research findings, gather feedback for further investigation

                                                                                                 Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and practise presentation skills. The Faculty also organises an annual research student
 conference including invited keynote speeches, selected student presentations, lively poster
 sessions and prizes for the best papers and PhD theses to recognise and celebrate the
 students’ successes and encourage better quality research. For example, 6 of our PGR students
 won the best PhD thesis prizes between 2018 and 2020. Coupled with this conference, the
 University runs a DA Conference to widen the dissemination of students’ research
 achievements.
 To provide bespoke technical support to students’ research, there is a team of 8 technicians
 who maintain our research labs and assist individual students in using the lab facilities to
 conduct their research. The students are encouraged to publish their research findings. The
 University and Faculty offer travel funds for attending at least one conference by each PGR
 student during their study period, and extra funding may be available for more conference
 attendances if their research is related to funded projects. Moreover, the Faculty provides a free
 English proof reading service to help international students improve the English quality of their
 theses.
 Training support for generic skills development is delivered via several mechanisms. The DA
 runs a Researcher Development Programme covering a wide range of training topics, e.g.,
 systematic literature reviews, research ethics, technical writing, presentation skills, impact
 engagement, job application and interview skills. The DA also delivers a training course on
 teaching and learning, which is compulsory to take by those PGR students who want to support
 teaching labs and student tutorials. Their departments then make arrangements for them to gain
 practical experience, which is particularly valuable if the students want to seek academic
 careers.
 The above monitoring and support measures led to a significant increase of our PhD
 completions in this REF period by an annual average of 172% over those for REF2014.
 2.3. Equality and diversity
 The University sets out its commitment and policy to promote an environment where everyone is
 treated equally and with dignity and respect. It holds an institutional Athena SWAN Bronze
 award. To raise the awareness and compliance of the policy, the University delivers a series of
 training workshops and events every year (e.g., 4 in academic year 2020-2021). Each member
 of the staff is required to complete an online training course on the issues of equality and
 diversity annually, and the issues also form part of the PDPR exercise. In addition, the
 Departments operate an open and fair staff recruitment process with at least one female
 academic in each recruitment panel. These measures have resulted in a diverse staff profile as
 stated in Section 2.1. Among 42 Category A staff returned to this UOA, 5 are women, reflecting
 the on-going challenges in female staff recruitment for STEM subjects. One of the 5 women is a
 professor, representing a higher percentage (i.e. 20%) of professorial promotion than 11% for
 the male staff. The average numbers of outputs submitted by the female staff and ECRs are 2.2
 and 2.3 that are 12% and 18% higher than those for the male and non-ECR staff, respectively.
 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1. Income portfolio
 The UOA strategy for income generation is to align our research with the priority areas of
 funding bodies and increase our efforts in funding applications. As mentioned in Section 2.1, the
 UOA staff are well supported and advised by the research and innovation services at both
 University and Faculty levels to produce funding applications and deliver the ones that are
 successfully funded. These led to a significant increase of the UOA research income in this REF
 period with a total of £4.4m up from £1.1m for REF2014, which was achieved by a 200% rise of
 staff participation in the funded projects.
 Figure 1 below illustrates a breakdown of our income from different sources for this REF
 period in comparison with our REF2014 figures. Clearly, the largest income comes from the EU,
 rising to nearly 8 times higher than our REF2014 figure. The second largest income is from the
 UK government with nearly 4 times over our REF2014 amount. Also the biggest growth of our
 income comes from UKRI, showing nearly 47 times higher than our REF2014 figure. However,

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the increase of our income from other sources is much lower with 19%, and the incomes from
 industry and charities are 4% and 35% less than the REF2014 figures, respectively. This is
 because funding opportunities from our engagement with these sectors were limited, partly due
 to the economic uncertainty caused by Brexit.
 Examples of our main funded collaborative projects with a total budget of over £1m for each
 include: ANIKETOS: Secure and Trustworthy Composite Services (EU FP7, €9.6m, 08/2010-
 05/2014); Wi-5: What to do With the Wi-Fi Wild West (EU H2020, €2.1m, 01/2015-06/2018);
 Wise-IoT: Worldwide Interoperability for SEmantics IoT (EU H2020, €1.5m, 06/2016-05/2018);
 Liverpool 5G Testbed (DCMS, £3.5m, 03/2018-01/2020); Liverpool 5G Create (DCMS, £4.3m,
 08/2020-03/2022); LCR Activate - Digital Accelerator (ERDF - European Regional Development
 Fund, £2.1m, 2017-2020, link); TII (Trusted Information Infrastructure): S/W Framework for
 Realizing Trustworthy IoT Eco-system ( Korea IITP: £5m, 06/2015-05/2018, converted based on
 1 GBP = 1,489 KRW on 23/09/2020); and GDPR-PIIM: GDPR Compliant Personally Identifiable
 Information Management Technology for IoT Environment (Korea IITP, £1.6m, 04/2018-
 12/2020). In addition, examples of our EPSRC-funded projects include ‘Using Drones to Protect
 Biodiversity and Spur Economic Growth in Madagascar’ (£574k, 10/2019-03/2021) and three
 awards to our ECRs (Dobbins, Tso, Hurst) under the First Grant or New Investigator Award
 scheme (£100k per project).




                              Figure 1: Research income and sources
 The above grants helped to advance the UOA research with significant outcomes in terms of
 high-quality outputs and impact. These include publications in high-quality academic journals,
 e.g., IEEE TMC, IEEE TIFS and IEEE TNSM, as evidenced by the UOA’s submitted outputs.
 The project results were also exploited to create impacts as shown in our impact case studies.
 It is evident from Figure 1 that we will need to extend our funding sources for future income
 and impact generation. While endeavouring to sustain and even increase our income from the
 EU, UK government and UKRI, it is imperative for the UOA to extend its engagement with other
 available funding bodies. In particular, we will seek further collaborations with charity and
 industry organisations as only 1% and 6% of the UOA research income come from these two
 sectors, respectively. As our research is grounded on practical solutions to tackle real-world
 problems, we will invest more efforts in exploring collaboration opportunities in these two sectors
 to expand the income and impact of our research.
 3.2. Infrastructure and facilities
 The research infrastructure and facilities supporting this UOA are invested and operated at
 University, Faculty and Department levels. At University level, LJMU’s document REF5a
 presents the details of the support provided by the University. The support most relevant to the
 UOA includes the provision of office space and standard IT services, digital resources like IEEE
 Xplore and the institutional repositories for open access, and research support (e.g., by RIS and
 DA) to assist the staff in funding applications and offer administrative support to PGR students.
 As stated in Section 2, the UOA staff have benefited significantly from the University’s support.
 In addition, the University invested in Sensor City in partnership with the University of Liverpool,
 supported by a £10m grant from the Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy
 and the England ERDF, to create a global innovation hub for sensor technology in 2017. It



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 provides the UOA staff with a venue for user engagement and a platform for the joint exploitation
 of sensor-related applications.
 At Faculty level, the University allows its QR funding together with other research income and
 office/lab improvement budgets to be dispersed to faculties. This enabled our Faculty to invest in
 infrastructure and facilities over this REF period. The main investment relevant to this UOA is
 three-fold. First, office and lab space in the Departments involved in this UOA was improved and
 expanded with a spending total of £2.7m. The total space increased by 20% in comparison with
 that in the previous REF period. Notably, the space for two new labs, LIVE Lab and Machine
 Learning, was allocated to meet increasing needs for research, impact generation and teaching
 in usability studies and intelligent systems. Also, the yearly average number of our PGR
 students in this REF period increased by 32% over the previous REF period. To meet the
 growing office space demand, the Faculty acquired extra offices and moved all the PGR
 students there, which in effect added further space to improve the condition of the UOA staff’s
 offices.
 Secondly, in addition to the standard IT facilities operated by the University, the Department of
 Computer Science runs more specialist computing labs with the facilities upgraded normally
 every 5 years. Similarly, the UOA staff and PGR students have computer facilities in their offices
 with an upgrade cycle of 5 years. The cost of such facility upgrades amounted to a total of over
 £1.1m in this REF period. Also, the two new labs have cutting-edge facilities for the development
 and delivery of immersive, virtual, mixed and augmented reality technologies as well as high
 performance computers and large data storages for machine learning based data analytics,
 which costed a total of over £250k. To support individual staff or groups’ research, the Faculty
 offers pump-priming and capital equipment grants for the staff to apply in order to acquire
 specialist facilities needed for their research and impact generation. A total of £280k was
 awarded to the UOA staff over this REF period, e.g., for purchasing cloud servers and mobile
 devices.
 Moreover, all the faculty-funded facilities are shared among different departments and
 research centres to promote cross-subject research collaborations. Notably, the Faculty invested
 £700k in a much more powerful high-performance computing facility between 2018 and 2019. It
 comprises 1,280 AMD Rome processing cores in 20 high-density HPE Apollo compute nodes,
 networked with the high-bandwidth, low-latency HDR Infiniband fabric and supported by a
 parallel BeeGFS file system with a total memory footprint of 10TB and a long-term storage
 capacity of 1.5PB. The facility offers excellent capabilities for our UOA staff to conduct
 computationally intensive data processing experiments.
 Thirdly, in this REF period, the Faculty invested in setting up a dedicated team of 5 admin staff
 to support research-active staff in external funding applications, funded project management,
 staff training and PGR administration. The team liaises between the Faculty academic staff and
 the University’s RIS and DA to reduce the staff’s administrative workload on funding and PGR
 related activities and thus give them more time to focus on research matters. The team also
 works closely with senior research-active staff to review and advise on funding applications. This
 UOA benefited significantly from the team’s support during this REF period, evidenced by the
 increased research income and PhD completions as discussed earlier.
 At Department level, the infrastructure and facilities provided by the University and Faculty
 were complemented by further pump-priming funding with around £20k per year from our
 Departments in the last three years of this REF period. This allowed the UOA staff to upgrade
 facilities in the existing research labs such as those for information security, networking and
 gaming in order to engage in up-to-date research and impact activities. For example, the
 facilities provide an integrated environment involving IoT devices, cloud servers and GPU-based
 computers for research experiments on smart and secure IoT systems, and a 5G testbed for the
 simulation and evaluation of wireless resource optimisation techniques. There is a team of 8
 technicians in the Department of Computer Science to provide the operational support and
 maintenance of all the computing facilities accessible by the UOA staff and PGR students. In
 addition, there is an annual budget of £30k provided by our Departments for other financial
 support, e.g., research consumables and travel.


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The aforementioned infrastructure and facilities underpinned the UOA’s impact activities during
 this REF period. This is because they allowed the UOA staff to develop new expertise through
 the implementation and evaluation of research findings and then disseminate the successfully
 validated results to interested research users for impact exploitation. The UOA’s impact case
 studies demonstrate such links from infrastructure and facility utilisation to impact generation.
 For fair funding distribution, applications to each funding scheme mentioned earlier are normally
 assessed by a group of senior staff who have completed the equality and diversity training
 delivered by the University and form a balanced representation of the applicants. The
 assessment takes into account factors such as application merits, staff personal circumstances
 and ECR support for decision making to ensure fair funding allocation and equal opportunities
 for all. This is then followed by a feedback process to resolve any concerns raised by the staff.
 To access funded facilities shared by a few users (e.g., the 5G testbed), the sharing is often
 agreed and arranged among the users themselves. For facilities in high demand (e.g., high
 performance computers), a set of criteria and a booking system are normally used to ensure
 fairness in the facility sharing.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1. Collaborations
 The UOA staff have long recognised the growing trend of technological convergence and the
 important value of collaboration to address multi/inter-disciplinary research challenges brought
 about as a result of this. Such recognition has been reflected in the UOA research strategy in
 Section 1.2.1 with a focus on collaboration. During this REF period, a number of measures were
 taken to facilitate and support collaboration as described in the previous sections. These
 measures led to successful collaborations at local, national and international levels, which were
 built on concerted effort and complementary expertise to make more significant research
 findings and impact as shown in the UOA’s submitted outputs and impact case studies and
 generate more research income as discussed in Section 3.1. Specifically, these collaborations
 include:
    Funded research collaborations: The UOA staff were active in seeking external funding for
     collaborative research and successful in delivering funded projects, which enabled the staff
     to collaborate internally and with academic and research institutions worldwide for joint
     research. 80% and 83% of the UOA income involve internal and external collaborations,
     respectively. For example, our funded international collaborations include:
     - 4 European (e.g., University of Cantabria in Spain, and Institut Mines-Télécom in France)
         and 5 Korean (e.g., Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, and
         Kyungpook National University) institutions as project partners on the EU and Korea joint
         Wise-IoT project to build federated and interoperable platforms for secure IoT
         applications (Lee).
     - 7 institutions (e.g., SINTEF in Norway, University of Salzburg in Austria, Waterford
         Institute of Technology in Ireland, and University of Trento in Italy) as project partners on
         the EU FP7 Aniketos project to develop trustworthy service composition techniques (Shi,
         Zhou).
     - 1 institution Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona (UAB) in Spain, supported by projects
         including EU FP7-PEOPLE TRANSACT (03/2013-02/2017), to investigate novel ways of
         data representation, e.g., for medical images (Lisboa, Ortega, Olier).
     - 1 institution Le Quy Don Technical University (LQDTU) in Vietnam through Royal
         Academy of Engineering and Vietnamese Government funded projects (03/2017-
         06/2019) to design new intrusion detection methods (Shi, Shone, Askwith, Zhou, Mac
         Dermott).
     These funded projects successfully delivered novel techniques and tools and generated
     research publications to disseminate them. For example, the collaboration with UAB resulted
     in 12 journal articles (e.g., in PLOS ONE), 8 conference papers (e.g., in IEEE IJCNN) and
     one book chapter. The collaboration with LQDTU led to a journal publication (“A Deep
     Learning Approach to Network Intrusion Detection Computational Intelligence for Cloud

                                                                                              Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Computing”, IEEE TETCI, Vol. 2, No. 1, 2018) with 8,900+ views and 130+ citations (link).
    Research user engagement: The majority of the UOA’s projects involved research users as
     project partners or advisers to ensure that the project outcomes address their needs and
     have lasting impact on the improvements of their products or services. This led to
     collaborations with a wide range of user organisations including large international
     companies such as NEC, SAP and Samsung. Examples of the user involvement in the
     UOA’s projects include:
     - 15 telecommunication operators (e.g., Orange in France, EE in the UK, and Ziggo in
         Netherlands) as project advisory board members and 3 industrial partners (e.g.,
         Telefónica in Spain and AirTies in Turkey) on the EU Wi-5 project to develop optimised
         connectivity for Wi-Fi services, adopted by AirTies to improve their services as detailed in
         ICS3 (Mackay, Bouhafs, Raschella, Shi).
     - 7 companies (e.g., Blu Wireless, and eHealth Cluster) and 2 public organisations
         (Liverpool City Council, and Royal Liverpool & Broadgreen University Hospital Trust) as
         project partners on the Liverpool 5G Testbed project for improving people’s health and
         wellbeing, with extra funding to further exploit the project impact through Liverpool 5G
         Create (Mackay, Bouhafs, Waraich, Raschella, Fergus, Chalmers, Zhou).
     - 8 wildlife conservation related organisations (e.g., Durrell Wildlife Conservation Trust,
         BBC Natural History Unit, and Endangered Wildlife Trust in South Africa) engaging with
         our work on animal detection for wildlife conservation, but unfortunately several
         scheduled field trials with some of these organisations had to be halted due to the
         COVID‑ 19 pandemic (Fergus, Chalmers).
    Interdisciplinary research collaborations: As stated in Section 1.2.5, interdisciplinary
     research relies on collaborations and forms a significant part of the UOA submission. The
     last two projects above clearly show interdisciplinary nature, e.g., the work on wildlife
     conservation involves collaborations among staff in the Department of Computer Science,
     Astrophysics Research Institute, and the School of Biological & Environmental Sciences at
     LJMU.
    Other research collaborations: In addition to internal collaborations, the UOA staff actively
     reached out to establish collaborations with individual researchers in other institutions
     worldwide (e.g., in France, China, Korea and Australia) for joint research. This helped to
     increase the significance of their research findings and thus lead to high quality research
     outputs and grant awards. For example, 89% and 41% of the UOA’s submitted outputs have
     external and internal co-authors respectively, and grants such as Wise-IoT involve prior
     external research collaborations.
    International research visits: An important measure for promoting fruitful research
     collaborations is to host research visitors and send staff to visit other institutions to
     accelerate the generation of joint research publications or funding applications. During this
     REF period, the UOA staff received 28 research visitors from other countries, e.g., Prof
     J.D.M. Guerrero from the University of Valencia in Spain (05-10/2013, 05-09/2016), Dr T.
     Shinagawa from the University of Tokyo in Japan (09/2017), and Dr F. den Hartog from
     UNSW Canberra in Australia (11/2019). The UOA staff also made 30 visits to foreign
     institutions, e.g., Kelly to the University of Michigan in the USA (09/2015), Zhou to Zhejiang
     University in China (07/2018), and Czanner-G to Aravind Eye Care System in India
     (07/2019).
 4.2. Contributions
 Sections 1 and 4.1 have highlighted the UOA’s research and impact contributions to various
 disciplines, including national and international priority areas identified by the EU and EPSRC, in
 terms of advancing state-of-the-art technologies and setting further agendas for sustainable
 research. Wider contributions were also made during this REF period to benefit different
 communities and publics from the UOA research. These are illustrated through the following
 examples:
    Supported 150 SMEs in the LCR for the technology-assisted improvement of their products
     and services through the LCR Activate - Digital Accelerator project (Lisboa) mentioned in

                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     Section 3.1, which created 70 gross jobs and generated £2.7m in GVA for the local economy
     based on a beneficiary survey (link).
    Organised a British Council funded Newton Researcher Links Workshop on Health and Well-
     being through VR and AR in China on 27-30/06/2018 (El Rhalibi, Kolivand, Shen) to help
     ECRs to explore research collaboration opportunities, with 20 participants from each of the
     UK and China (link).
    Produced a VR proton beam therapy unit in collaboration with Interserve and Christie
     Hospital Manchester (Hurst, Shone, Tully), which was partly supported by the Innovate UK
     ProAccel project (12/2017-05/2018, link) and played by the mayor of Manchester and 500+
     visitors on the opening weekend (07/2018) of the hospital’s new Proton Beam Therapy
     Centre (link).
    Applied the UOA’s pedagogical research in network security to ease students’ difficulty in
     studying the topic by producing and releasing a series of story-based animations about
     network security protocols (Kifayat, Shi, Shone) on YouTube (link), which was funded by the
     UK Higher Education Academy (11/2015-02/2017) and received a total of 44,000+ views
     (available on request due to changes to some view numbers) since 02/2017.
    Developed an AR application for life-science education in collaboration with Aberdeen
     University and Imagin3D (Hurst, Tully), which appeared on BBC News Scotland and a front
     cover of Physiology News Magazine (link), is now used for teaching first-year biology
     students at Aberdeen University and shown to school children (link).
 In addition, the UOA staff actively contributed to a wide range of other academic activities in
 terms of community engagement and leadership. These include:
    Advisory/standardisation boards: 35 roles were contributed by the UOA staff. Examples
     include Vice-Chair for Marie Skłodowska-Curie Actions-Individual Fellowships (Lisboa, 2018-
     2020), Chair/Co-Chair of H2020 Expert Advisory Group for SC1: Health, Demographic
     Change and Wellbeing (Lisboa, 2014-2018), Vice Chair for H2020 FET-OPEN (Fergus,
     2016-2020), and Chair of ITU-T Focus Group on Data Processing and Management (Lee,
     2015-2020).
    Prizes/awards: 20 awards were given to the UOA staff, e.g., the best papers at IEEE ICME
     2018 (Sheng) and IEEE iThings 2017 (Yang), one of the two winners of a datathon with a
     shared prize of €50k organised by national oil company Galp in Portugal in 11/2019 (Olier),
     and the 3rd prize of the London Innovation Awards in 2015 (Chalmers, Fergus).
    Research fellowships: 2 grants were awarded to the UOA staff. Ortega with the support of
     Lisboa secured an EU Marie Curie Research Fellowship (10/2013-03/2016, €231k). Kelly
     was awarded an early career mini fellowship by the In Vitro Toxicology Society (IVTS) (2015,
     £1,500).
    Journal editorships: 22 roles were held by the UOA staff. Examples include Academic
     Editors in PLOS ONE (Ortega and Olier, 2018-now), Associate Editor in BMJ Open
     Ophthalmology (Czanner-G, 2016-now), and Associate Editor (Yang) in IEEE JTEHM (2018-
     now) and IEEE Access (2018-now).
    Conference/workshop chairs: 58 chair positions were served by the UOA staff, including
     T6 Programme Chair of IEEE CCNC (El Rhalibi, 2017-2018), Programme Chair of IEEE-
     CIBD (Lisboa, 2015), Series Co-chairs of IEEE DeSE (Al-Jumeily and Hussain, 2007-now),
     and General Chair of TENAS (Pereira, 2014-now).
    Keynotes/invited talks: 142 speeches were given by our staff. For example, keynotes
     include IEEE ICCT 2015 (El Rhalibi), IEEE ICDM 2016 and IDEAL 2019 (Lisboa). Talks were
     given at Microsoft Research (Savoye, 02/2016) and MIT (Czanner-G, 09/2017, 06/2018) in
     the USA as well as Westminster Sustainable Business Forum (Chalmers, 07/2016).
    Journal editorial boards: 21 memberships were taken up by our staff, e.g., Applied Soft
     Computing (Lisboa, 2013-2015), Graefe’s Archive for Clinical and Experimental
     Ophthalmology (Czanner-G, 2012-now), and Biosensors & Bioelectronics (Lee, 2018).



                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Conference committees: 60+ memberships were served by the UOA staff. Examples
     include SIGGRAPH 2016 (Savoye), CGI 2018-2020 (Sheng), IEEE FiCloud 2016 (Pereira),
     IEEE ICC 2019 (Raschella), and ISCC 2020 (Shi).
    Paper/proposal referees: 700+ research papers and funding applications were reviewed by
     the UOA staff, e.g., for IEEE TPDS, IEEE TMC, Neurocomputing, PLOS ONE, ACM TECS,
     GLOBECOM, IEEE VTC, and funding bodies such as the EU and EPSRC.




                                                                                     Page 17
