Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



Institution: Lancaster University

Unit of assessment: 28 (History)

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1a) Overview

The History Department at Lancaster forms part of the Faculty of Arts and Social Sciences
(FASS). It includes 25.2 FTE Category A staff with an international reputation for
excellence in regional, national, and transnational historical research.

The Department’s research and impact strategy supports individual scholars working
across a wide chronological and thematic range, whilst building a critical mass of
researchers in four particular areas, facilitating the internal and external collaborations
needed to deliver ambitious research projects with impact (Digital Humanities, Regional
History and Heritage, International and Military History, and History of the Transatlantic
Slave Trade). Half the Department’s academic staff have joined Lancaster since 2014,
transforming our demographic profile, and enabling us to recruit excellent colleagues with
the expertise needed to achieve our key research objectives and enhance our inclusive
and vibrant research environment. The Department has well-developed research-
management processes that enable staff to produce excellent research with impact (see
sections 2 and 3 for details).

Since 2014, the Department has: i) Renewed its staff base with an emphasis on
developing a new generation of junior scholars; ii) Expanded its research collaborations
with scholars both in the UK and around the world (resulting in numerous grant awards, in
areas ranging from the application of geospatial analysis to research on the early
colonisation of America, through to explorations of the history of Sardinia in its medieval
Mediterranean context); iii) Supported staff to produce excellent research outputs (some
200 monographs, articles and book chapters); iv) Built close and sustained relationships
with non-academic institutions – including national and international museums, UK
government agencies and software companies – enabling staff to maximise the public
benefit of their research; v) Increased PhDs awarded by 40% while doubling the number of
students receiving ESRC/AHRC studentships; vi) Improved implementation of EDI best
practice in areas including appointments and promotions.

1b) Review of REF 2014 Plans and Development of Research Strategy

The Department identified five key priorities in its REF 2014 submission, which have
shaped the successful implementation of its research and impact strategy over the past
seven years:

   1. Strategic staffing appointments to maintain wide-ranging research coverage. The
      Department has taken advantage of staff retirements and departures to make new
      appointments that enhance geographical, chronological and thematic breadth, e.g.
      in Ancient and Medieval History (Ambler, Cousins, Edmonds), Early Modern
      History (Pettigrew, Radburn, Wragge-Morley), Modern and Contemporary History
      (Hurst, Kemp, Mills, Wyss), Regional History and Heritage (Donaldson,
      Edmonds, Kemp), and Digital Humanities (Isaksen replaced by Murrieta-Flores).
      These appointments have also supported development of the four research
      clusters described in the following paragraphs.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



   2. Developing research clusters and cross-disciplinary collaboration. The Department
      has built clusters that re-enforce existing areas of research strength and extend
      capacity in areas where we wish to develop our research profile further. The first
      three clusters discussed below are linked to formal Research Centres/Hubs (a new
      Research Centre linked to the fourth is under development). The clusters and
      associated Centres/Hubs bring together colleagues carrying out research in
      cognate areas, contributing to the Department’s vibrant research culture, and
      facilitating sustained engagement with researchers and research users beyond
      Lancaster. The research clusters are not silos and there is extensive research
      collaboration between them.

   a) The Department sponsored the creation of the interdisciplinary and inter-
      departmental Digital Humanities (DH) Hub (established 2016), led by History’s
      Gregory and Murrieta-Flores, cementing and developing its status as a world
      leader for research in DH (e.g. the Hub leads DARIAH, the main EU
      Geohumanities Initiative). Members of the DH Hub have been P.I. or Co-I. in cross-
      disciplinary funded projects totalling £8 million in this REF cycle. Historians
      attached to the DH Hub have developed innovative methods from spatial
      humanities, corpus linguistics and artificial intelligence to inform research on
      historical topics ranging from the medieval to the modern (winning numerous
      prizes, see Section 4). They have also been instrumental in creating one of the
      largest collections of digitised historical and literary texts in the world (stretching
      from 1475 to the present). The DH Hub has attracted 14 PGRs and launched a
      new MA in Digital Humanities. Gregory and Murrieta-Flores regularly lead
      Summer Schools in North America and Europe helping researchers apply DH skills
      to their own projects. Many colleagues in the Department (e.g. Donaldson,
      Edmonds, Metcalfe, Radburn, Sutton) incorporate DH methodologies in their
      research strengthening our reputation in this area. Historians associated with the
      DH Hub work with external partners including heritage organisations (British
      Library, National Trust, National Institute of Anthropology and History of Mexico,
      Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) and software companies
      (Tagtog, Lucentia Lab).

   b) The Department has catalysed Lancaster’s long-standing expertise in regional
      history through the creation, in 2014, of the Regional Heritage Centre (RHC) (now
      led by Edmonds), incorporating the former Centre for North-West Regional Studies
      and the Victoria County History for Cumbria. Donaldson’s appointment built on
      existing strengths in the history of the Lake District. The RHC advances the
      Department’s leadership in researching the history of North-West England, acting
      as a focus for collaboration with scholars, in Lancaster and elsewhere, and uses its
      expertise to promote public understanding of the region’s past. The RHC has in this
      REF cycle: organised 50 Study Days; developed a prize-winning MOOC (on
      Lancaster Castle); digitised the Elizabeth Roberts Oral History archive; and trained
      volunteer historians to carry out research for a major project (VCH Cumbria). More
      recently, Kemp’s appointment expanded the Department’s expertise in developing
      innovative interdisciplinary methods in Heritage research, recognised by her
      success in securing £8 million from the HLF and other funders to purchase the
      Whitehouse Ruskin collection, and present it in new ways to national and
      international audiences. She directs the newly-formed The Ruskin: Library,
      Museum, Research Centre (which sits outside the Department but has close ties
      with many History staff). The Ruskin collaborates with museums around the world,
      and Kemp has been awarded funding (AHRC, BA) to develop tools that facilitate
      new forms of digital engagement with the collections. She has organised numerous
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      exhibitions/workshops exploring the contemporary significance of John Ruskin’s
      ideas, including the critically acclaimed ‘Ruskin: Museum of the Future’.

   c) The Department has strengthened its existing research strengths in
      International/Military History (Camino, Hughes, Peniston-Bird, Hagopian)
      through the appointment of new staff (Ambler, Hurst, Mills, Wyss). These
      appointments were designed to extend expertise chronologically (e.g. Ambler’s
      work on medieval warfare) and geographically (e.g. Mills’ research on UK-Latin
      American relations). Wyss, with Ambler and Mills, led the development of a new
      (2019) Centre for War and Diplomacy (CWD), and an associated MA programme,
      which is building a cohort of UK and international PhD students. The CWD attracts
      members from other departments and institutions and provides a focus for
      collaboration with scholars abroad (Amsterdam, Vilnius). It contributes to the
      Department’s lively research culture, hosting two conferences in its inaugural year,
      and holds regular seminars with speakers from academia and diplomacy. CWD
      members work closely with the DH Hub, applying spatial and linguistic
      methodologies to research in International and Military History (e.g. collaboration
      between Gregory and Peniston-Bird on an HLF funded project mapping First
      World War casualties; Hughes and Mills with Gregory on digitising Foreign Office
      records). CWD members have provided briefings to the military and think-tanks
      (Hughes, Mills). The Centre maintains close links with partners, including the RAF
      Museum, co-sponsoring lectures and developing research projects.

   d) The Department has expanded its research into the history of the Transatlantic
      Slave Trade, building on Barber’s research on slavery in the West Indies, and her
      work with schools exploring its impact on contemporary society. The appointment
      of Radburn and Pettigrew has facilitated the development of innovative
      approaches to studying the slave trade (combining Radburn’s expertise as an
      economic historian with Pettigrew’s application of the history of the constitution,
      corporations, and political economy to analysis of the slave trade). Their
      collaboration led to the award in October 2020 of a £1m AHRC research grant ‘The
      Legacies of the British Slave Trade’. The grant will see Pettigrew (P.I.) and
      Radburn (Co-I.) work with a consortium of experts including scholars at
      Manchester and UCL. FASS will in 2021 establish a Research Centre to support
      and sustain further research collaboration and public engagement in the area.
      Members of this research cluster have deployed their work in non-academic
      settings, with Barber’s research supporting a UNESCO world heritage site bid,
      Radburn collaborating with the Smithsonian and the Musée D’Histoire (Nantes),
      and Pettigrew working with the Museum of London and the Museum of the Home.


   3. Curriculum review and workload management. The department has since 2014
      revised its curriculum to create a richer relationship between teaching and
      research. A new workload model introduced in 2014 ensured greater equity among
      staff in accessing time needed for research. A further iteration of the model
      introduced in 2018-19 ‘rewards’ significant research achievements/activities,
      including securing grant income and sustained impact/engagement work. These
      changes have facilitated the Department’s support for ECRs through reduced
      workloads and promoted EDI by enabling greater transparency in workload
      allocation (Section 2 for further details).

   4. Increasing grant income. History staff have since 2014 attracted £2.1m from major
      UK (e.g. AHRC, ESRC, Leverhulme) and overseas (e.g. Mellon Foundation)
      funders. Department/FASS funds have pump-primed research initiatives that have
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


        developed into large externally funded projects (e.g. Metcalfe’s AHRC project
        ‘Power, Society, and (Dis)connectivity in Medieval Sardinia’). Staff have been
        awarded a further £1.35m research funding since August 2020. Funded projects
        have facilitated the Department’s national/international collaborations and
        development of interdisciplinary research projects. These projects have employed
        ten PDRAs, enhancing the Department’s important role in developing a new
        generation of researchers.


     5. Increasing PGR numbers. PGR recruitment has grown with a strong record of
        success in winning AHRC/ESRC ‘open’ and collaborative studentships. PhDs
        awarded have increased by 40% compared with the previous REF cycle, while the
        expansion of our PGT programmes is further enhancing PGR recruitment. This has
        been combined with excellent PRES scores of 100% satisfaction in 2019 (Section 2
        for further details).

1c) High-Level Research Objectives over the Next Five Years

The Department has identified a set of interlinked research objectives for the next five
years:

    Support staff to produce high-quality research outputs;
    Increase external grant income (target 50% rise per staff FTE);
    Increase PhDs awarded (target 25% rise per staff FTE);
    Increase international research collaborations (as measured by joint grant applications
     and publications);
    Build additional collaborations with non-academic partners to further the public benefit
     of our research (including work with heritage organisations; software companies;
     schools; local/national government agencies).

The Department is confident, given its strong financial position, that it can achieve these
objectives by building on the strategy and mechanisms that have underpinned its success
since 2014:

     Maintaining an agile organisational framework that facilitates research collaboration
      within and beyond Lancaster (e.g. developing existing research clusters and creating
      new ones in response to fresh opportunities);
     Fostering an inclusive culture that values the contribution of all colleagues;
     Providing financial support to staff for (e.g.) archive trips, pump-priming research
      bids, work with non-academic partners;
     Providing financial and organisational support for seminars, workshops and
      conferences;
     Using Performance Development Reviews (PDRs) and research interviews to support
      staff development and ensure alignment between individual and Departmental
      objectives;
     Managing workloads to ensure all staff have time to produce excellent research.

 While the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic may initially shape the pattern and timing of
 our research activities, we are confident of achieving our objectives within five years.

1d) Enhancing Research Impact

The Department recognises that maximising research impact requires clear strategic
direction and support for researchers to develop their own initiatives. The research clusters
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


discussed above have created capacity to sustain close links with partner organisations,
ensuring these do not depend on a single member of academic staff, but are embedded in
a network of relationships. The Department has established a new position of Impact Lead,
who works with colleagues to increase the reach and significance of their research, while
PDRs and research interviews are used to offer advice on such areas as ‘building in’
impact from the start of the research process. The Faculty has also appointed Professional
Service staff to support impact activities (see Section 3), while the Press Office works with
researchers to promote awareness of their work through the media (see Section 4).

The Department and Faculty have provided History staff with financial support – typically
up to £5,000 – for such projects as developing a MOOC on Lancaster Castle (Edmonds)
and supporting schools in fostering understanding of the impact of the First World War on
Lancaster (Peniston-Bird). The changes to the Department’s work-load model recognise
the commitment of colleagues who spend significant time on impact and engagement
activities. Such work is also explicitly rewarded in new University promotion procedures,
creating a virtuous circle that rewards success in this area.

All three case-studies returned to REF 2021 are associated with staff in one of the
Department’s research clusters whilst all draw extensively on the expertise of colleagues in
DH. ‘From the Romans to the Romantics: Exploring and Promoting Northern England’s
Regional History’ builds on work by colleagues in the ‘Regional History and Heritage’
cluster (Edmonds, Donaldson); ‘Enriching Understanding of the Atlantic Slave Trade’s
History’ is based on work carried out by the History of the Transatlantic Slave Trade cluster
(Barber, Radburn); and ‘The Great War: Local, Inclusive, and Historically-Driven
Commemoration’ draws on research by colleagues in the Military/International History and
DH clusters (Gregory, Hughes, Peniston-Bird). The full impact of the Department’s
research extends far more widely. Kemp, for example, has transformed The Ruskin into a
‘Museum of the Future’, facilitating innovative forms of digital and ‘in-person’ engagement
with national and international audiences. Staff associated with the Digital Humanities
cluster (Gregory, Murrieta-Flores, Sutton) have worked with communities both locally
and globally to create resources facilitating new forms of digital interaction with heritage
and history.

The Department’s research and impact strategy, including the creation of clusters/centres,
will ensure that it can sustain and enhance the public benefit of staff research over the
coming years. Colleagues in the Regional History/Heritage cluster, including Edmonds
and Kemp, will develop collaborations with existing partners and engage with new ones
(e.g. Eden North). Murrieta-Flores and other DH colleagues will continue collaborating
with software companies developing platforms that facilitate the use of artificial intelligence
in humanities research (e.g. developing ‘machine-learning’ that allows analysis of texts in
languages other than modern English, a project that will expand the scope of DH research,
and develop AI applications beyond academe). Gregory, Hughes and Mills will extend
collaborations with the Foreign Office developing innovative digital methodologies to
promote access to public records.

1e) Supporting Interdisciplinary Research

The Department’s research clusters, and associated centres, are designed to foster
collaborative projects that are by their nature often interdisciplinary in character. Many
colleagues have backgrounds in disciplines other than History, which has been invaluable
in developing interdisciplinary work. DH projects managed by Gregory and Murrieta-
Flores draw together scholars from computer science, geography, linguistics, literature
and history. Metcalfe’s AHRC Project employs a transdisciplinary team of historians and
archaeologists. Taylor is Co-I on the AHRC funded ‘History of Financial Advice’, which
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


involves collaboration between historians and literary scholars. Kemp’s research on
‘heritage futures’ builds on collaborations with material scientists and computer scientists
at Lancaster and elsewhere. Tadmor has published innovative research with a Professor
of Music. Hickman’s work on the history of drug addiction builds on collaboration with
colleagues working in a range of disciplines including psychiatry. The Department provides
the full range of organisational and financial support for projects pursued jointly with
colleagues in other departments and institutions.

1f) Open Access

The Department is committed to the principle of Open Access while being mindful of the
complex financial and legal problems it poses for historians. Given these challenges,
attention was focused in this REF cycle on increasing access to important collections of
primary source material (reflecting our expertise in ‘the digital’). Kemp led the £8m
purchase of the Whitehouse Ruskin Collection, guaranteeing public access to the world’s
most important collection of the paintings, photographs and manuscripts of John Ruskin.
She has also received funding to scope the use of AI to digitise the Collection in ways that
facilitate new forms of engagement. Murrieta-Flores’s AHRC project ‘Digging Into Early
Modern Mexico’ is creating extensive open-access collections of maps and gazetteers.
The RHC led by Edmonds raised £45,000 to digitise the Elizabeth Roberts’ Working Class
Oral History Archive. Radburn co-manages ‘Voyages: The Trans-Atlantic Slave Trade
Database’, which makes publicly available the fruits of decades of research by scholars.
Gregory, Donaldson and Murrieta-Flores collaborate with Library staff developing a
Lancaster instance of Cambridge University’s Digital Library platform. The DH Hub makes
its resources freely available (subject to licensing restrictions) through a combination of
Pure, Github and CQPWeb. Significant monographs and edited collections by History staff
are available as open access publications (e.g. Hughes’s Beyond Holy Russia has been
downloaded by readers in sixty countries).

1g) Research Integrity

Lancaster historians abide by the University’s Code of Practice on Research Integrity.
PDRs, research interviews and mentoring provide platforms for discussions about
research ethics and integrity (as does the Department Research Committee). The FASS-
LUMS research committee reviews proposals involving live subjects (e.g. interviews).



 Section 2. People


 2a i) Staffing Strategy: Appointments and Staff Development

 The Department has made twelve appointments since 2014. These were made in light
 of the research strategy outlined above, with an emphasis on supporting excellent
 research by ‘lone scholars’, whilst also building research clusters and associated
 Centres/Hubs to support collaborative and interdisciplinary impactful research.

 Kemp and Pettigrew were appointed at professorial level to provide leadership in
 Heritage and Atlantic Slavery respectively (the Department already had professorial
 leadership in the other two clusters). The remaining appointments were at lecturer level
 (Ambler, Cousins, Donaldson, Edmonds, Hurst, Mills, Murrieta-Flores, Radburn,
 Wragge-Morley, Wyss). The quality of these appointments is shown by the promotion
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 of Wyss and Edmonds to Readerships direct from lectureships, and Murrieta-Flores
 to a Senior Lectureship, all within three years of appointment. Ambler was awarded a
 Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2020. Radburn’s work has been awarded the Wayne D.
 Rasmussen Award for outstanding work on Agricultural History.

 The Department’s future recruitment policy will be informed by the same principles that
 have shaped its successful appointment strategy since 2014. It will maintain a broad
 chronological, geographic and thematic research profile while building capacity in
 specific areas to facilitate collaborative research. The Department expects to recruit
 shortly to posts in European History and the History of the Global South. It also plans to
 recruit further staff with expertise in Digital Humanities, and will consider appointments
 in Health Humanities, to complement the recent creation of Lancaster’s Health
 Innovation Campus.

 The Department is committed to avoiding a split between teaching and research staff. It
 has not appointed any full-time Teaching Fellows (though it currently employs two
 members of staff on fractional teaching-only contracts, while one member of staff has
 moved voluntarily to a non-research contract, playing a critical role as Deputy Head in
 overseeing the Department’s education provision). All full-time T&R academic
 appointments in this REF cycle have been indefinite (subject to probation), except 1
 full-time appointment on a fixed-term contract (to replace Tadmor when she held a BA
 Senior Fellowship).

 The Department gives great attention to helping new and existing colleagues develop
 their research careers. Every new staff member in History is assigned both a mentor
 and a buddy. The mentor is a more senior member of staff, usually in the Department
 but beyond if appropriate, who provides advice on issues ranging from grant capture to
 teaching skills. The buddy is typically a staff member on a similar grade and provides
 more informal assistance. New members of junior staff have a three-year probation,
 which involves formal meetings with the Head of Department (HoD) after six months, a
 year, two years, and three years. The process requires the HoD and staff member to
 identify objectives (including research) which are regularly reviewed and amended if
 appropriate. Great care has been taken to ensure all new colleagues understand the
 changing nature of the research landscape, through probation meetings, PDRs, and
 research interviews. The success of this approach is demonstrated by the extensive
 contribution they have made to the Department’s research income and impact profile
 over the past few years. ECRs have a lower than average teaching/administrative load
 (typically a third lower in Year 1 rising to a full load in Year 4).

 PDRs identify staff development needs and aspirations (mentors also provide advice).
 PDRs also facilitate discussion about career progression between the reviewer (HoD or
 Deputy HoDs) and the reviewee. The HoD receives an overview of PDRs allowing them
 to identify general training needs. This process has led to History staff taking more than
 200 courses offered by the University’s Organisational and Educational Development
 Unit, while the Department has organised bespoke workshops on subjects including
 ‘pathways to impact’ and ‘securing grants’. Every staff member has an annual research
 interview with a senior member of the Department’s Research Committee. This is
 informal and developmental, providing an opportunity to discuss research trajectories
 over five years (including publication plans, grant applications and impact work). The
 Department maintains a register of staff expertise – in areas ranging from developing
 impact through to managing research projects – which allows colleagues at all levels to
 benefit from peer mentoring on various research-related issues.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



 2a ii) Staffing Strategy: Sabbaticals

 Permanent staff (full-time and part-time) can apply for one term of research leave for
 each seven terms worked. During this REF period, History staff took 55 terms of
 University-funded sabbatical leave, representing an investment of c.£1.2m (excluding
 unpaid leave or cases where leave was financed externally). Every staff member who
 had accrued enough service to apply was granted sabbatical leave. The Department
 and Faculty are flexible about planned outcomes. Staff typically use research leave to
 carry out archival research, or complete writing up books or articles, though some have
 focused on developing the impact of their research.

 2a iii) Staffing Strategy: Postdoctoral Staff (PDRAs)

 The Department’s success in winning research grants means that it has employed ten
 PDRAs during the current REF cycle (Atkinson, Donaldson, Fernandez-Aceves,
 Liceras-Garrido, Murrieta-Flores, Porter, Muresu, Rose, Shanmugapriya, J.
 Taylor). The University has signed the renewed ‘Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers’, with its commitment to building a vibrant and inclusive
 research culture, and the Department places great emphasis on supporting the career
 development of PDRAs. PDRAs are assigned a mentor separate from their line
 manager. They can bid for Department research funds on equal terms with other
 academic staff and, where their contract allows, contribute to teaching to build their CV.
 A PDRA representative sits on the Department’s Research Committee. PDRAs are
 encouraged to give papers at Department seminars and organise seminar series
 (Liceras-Garrido convenes the Digital Humanities and Geospatial Innovation seminar).
 These arrangements have successfully facilitated the career progression of Lancaster
 PDRAs. Donaldson and Murrieta-Flores moved to permanent positions elsewhere
 before returning to Lancaster. J. Taylor left Lancaster for a Presidential Fellowship at
 Manchester. Atkinson and Porter moved to research posts at Liverpool and Queen’s
 Belfast. The others are still employed at Lancaster.

 2b) PGR students

 The Department has a flourishing PhD community. 39 History students received PhDs
 during this REF period, 40% higher than last time, representing 1.5 awards per staff
 FTE (a rise on the previous REF despite the large number of new junior appointments
 in the Department). 50 new PGRs joined the Department. Half had studied at
 Lancaster, the rest coming from other UK and overseas institutions (e.g. Cambridge,
 Liverpool, Oxford, MGIMO, Trinity Dublin). Our MA cohort has doubled over the past
 three years (from c.25 to c.50), leading to substantial recent growth in PGR numbers,
 though we will only recruit high-quality students researching topics where we can offer
 excellent supervision.

 The Department has been very successful in recruiting PhD students funded by the
 North West AHRC Doctoral Training Partnership and ESRC Doctoral Training Academy
 (FASS spent an additional c.£340k on bursaries for History PGR/T students). 19 PGRs
 were awarded funding from ESRC/AHRC during this REF cycle (including 6
 CASE/CDA awards with partners including the RAF Museum and Royal Society).
 Another PGR received a studentship on a Leverhulme-funded project (table 1). PGRs
 have taken numerous training courses provided by the DTP/DTA, and some have been
 awarded extra funding to develop student-led networks. Lancaster historians contribute
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 to the consortia-wide training programmes.

                    Table 1: PhD Funding Awards in REF period

                        Funder                Studentships
                        AHRC (Open)                10
                        ESRC CASE                   4
                        ESRC (Open)                 3
                        AHRC CDA                    2
                        Leverhulme                  1

 New PGR registrations during this REF cycle have been 58% male/42% female (this
 figure would have been 50:50 but was distorted by an unusually skewed intake in one
 year). PhD graduates have been 52% male/48% female and there are no discernible
 differences in progression rates by gender. We only recruit a small number of PGR
 students from ethnic minority backgrounds (EDI issues are discussed further below).
 The Department welcomes PhD applications from those returning to learning (using
 bespoke assessments in the admissions process).

 PGRs have two supervisors. On arrival they complete a Developmental Needs Analysis
 to identify training requirements. They benefit from an extensive Faculty Research
 Training Programme with additional workshops at Department level. The Department
 has well-developed processes for supporting students, including an annual appraisal
 system, and an electronic recording system that identifies when students are not
 maintaining the required contact with supervisors. During this REF cycle, the Faculty
 has offered annual financial support up to £500 for PGRs giving conference papers.
 The Department provides PGRs with opportunities to gain experience of
 impact/engagement activities (e.g. social media co-ordinator for The Ruskin, online
 mentors for the RHC’s MOOC). History PGR students have shared study rooms and
 access to a Department computer-room and kitchen/social facilities. PGRs in their
 second and third years have an opportunity to lead undergraduate seminars. They are
 required to complete the University’s Introduction to Teaching at Lancaster workshop
 and encouraged to take advantage of further training opportunities (e.g. the Associate
 Teacher Programme).

 PGR students are closely integrated into the Department’s research culture and invited
 to all seminars, workshops, and book launches. They run their own fortnightly research
 seminar and organise an annual conference attracting research students from many
 institutions. They have taken a leading role in establishing/running networks such as
 the North West Medical Humanities PGR network (Bramwell, Mullen). The quality of
 our PGRs has been recognised by the achievements of those who graduated over the
 past ten years. Edwards’ (now MMU) book Allies in Memory was shortlisted for the
 RHS Gladstone Prize. Vickers (now John Moores) was awarded the Vice-Chancellor’s
 prize for social engagement. Of recent PhD graduates, Maddox won a Daiwa
 Scholarship in 2016, Lambert was appointed a PDRA in Lancaster’s Sociology
 Department, Perry is historian at the Church History Library in Salt Lake City and
 Simmons is an RA at Bochum University. Walker and Pawelski obtained professional
 services roles in HE. Other PGR graduates work in areas such as publishing and
 finance.
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 2c) EDI and Well-Being

 The University has well-developed EDI policies on: i) recruitment; ii) promotions; iii)
 parental leave; iv) part-time/flexible working; v) LGBT (the University is a member of the
 Stonewall Global Diversity Champions programme); vi) (Dis)ability (the University is a
 Disability Confident employer). It supports EDI-related networks (e.g. Women’s
 Network, LGBT Network, Race Equality Network) that promote changes in culture and
 practice. The Department seeks to foster EDI, both through formal processes, and by
 building an inclusive culture that values open dialogue. The RHS reports on Race,
 Ethnicity & Equality, Gender Equality, and LGBT+ have been widely discussed in the
 Department, helping to contextualise challenges, and informing potential ways of
 addressing them.

 The University has made numerous changes to policies and procedures to ensure that
 EDI considerations are embedded in all its processes (e.g. ensuring that explicit
 consideration is given in promotions to the effects of career breaks and part-time
 working; creating new roles of Pro-Vice Chancellor for Education and EDI and
 University Dean for EDI to champion change across the institution). FASS in 2019
 created a new post of Associate Dean EDI & People, tasked with ensuring that
 departments embed EDI considerations in all aspects of their work, and the Department
 now mirrors this structure with a new post of Deputy Head EDI & People.

 The Department works closely with HR to ensure that recruitment is informed by EDI
 best practice (e.g. using software to ensure wording of advertisements is inclusive;
 using informal networks to make a diverse range of candidates aware of opportunities).
 It has also sought to develop best practice in promotion (e.g. through proactive
 discussion in PDRs to reduce the problem of ‘self-selection’).

 These initiatives have facilitated a welcome change in the gender balance of the
 Department at all levels. 40% of staff returned in REF 2021 are female compared with
 14% for REF 2014 (reflecting the low number of females then in the Department and
 the disproportionate exclusion of women on T&R contracts). The situation is also
 positive regarding the gender balance of PDRAs/PGRs. 5 female and 5 male PDRAs
 worked in the Department during this REF cycle while the gender split of PhDs
 awarded was almost even. The profile of Category A staff is now reasonably balanced
 in gender at all levels (table 2). The Gender Pay Gap in History is lower than for the
 University).

                Table 2: History Staff Distribution by Grade and Gender
                                            Numbe
                    Grade 31 July 2020 r             Male     Female
                    Lecturer                      8        6       2
                    Senior Lecturer               9        5       4
                    Reader                        2        1       1
                    Professor                   6.2      3.2       3
 This improvement reflects the Department’ success both in attracting high-quality
 female staff and in supporting their career development (the low number of female
 lecturers reflects their success in gaining early promotion rather than any imbalance in
 recruitment). We are confident of success in our forthcoming Athena Swan Bronze
 application. The Department supports flexible working through managing timetables to
 support staff with caring and other responsibilities (e.g. limiting teaching early and late
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 in the day and ensuring that all main meetings take place in core hours of 10.00 am to
 4pm). Its workload model explicitly requires management to facilitate equalisation of
 workloads over time. While such measures benefit all staff, they are of particular value
 to colleagues with protected characteristics, since they promote equity and ensure the
 Department has the flexibility to respond to individual circumstances.

 More males than females have taken parental leave in this REF cycle (though typically
 for shorter periods). The HoD meets staff on T&R contracts returning from significant
 periods of parental leave to discuss ways of helping their reintegration back into the
 Department. They also meet with staff returning from periods of sickness to identify
 possible support needs.

 The situation is less positive in terms of recruiting/promoting staff with some other
 protected characteristics. Many challenges raised in the RHS Race, Ethnicity and
 Equality Report apply to the Department. While colleagues from ethnic minority/mixed
 heritage backgrounds represent 14% of PDRAs and staff on permanent T&R contracts,
 the proportion is lower in the latter category (though staff from such backgrounds have
 a strong record of grant capture and career progression suggesting peer-review and
 mentoring processes are working equitably). The Department is holding staff/student
 workshops to explore how we can facilitate the development of wider perspectives
 (including discussions about Decolonising the Curriculum). FASS has instituted a
 cross-departmental mentoring system to support the career development of staff from
 ethnic minority/mixed heritage backgrounds. The University is carrying out a major
 review of obstacles to establishing greater ethnic diversity, ahead of its application for
 the AdvanceHE Race Equality Charter in 2021, and the Department will use these
 findings to develop further initiatives.

 The Department followed the University’s Code of Practice in planning its REF
 submission, ensuring the process adhered to the principles of transparency,
 consistency, accountability and inclusivity. The process was managed at Department
 level by the Director of Research and Research Committee with detailed oversight at
 both Faculty and University levels. Staff were asked to nominate outputs, which were
 then read by two internal readers, with reference to a third reader in case of
 disagreement. External advisers were sent a high proportion of outputs to ensure the
 Department was making consistent judgements about which outputs to include in its
 submission. The Impact Case Studies were similarly chosen following internal and
 external review.

 The Department views EDI issues as part of History’s broader commitment to
 promoting Well-Being (including mental health) which is vital to attracting and retaining
 high-quality staff. We seek to foster a culture where staff feel able to discuss challenges
 openly including in such settings as the PDR. The Department’s Health, Safety and
 Well-Being Committee reviews these issues as part of its remit. A senior HR partner
 regularly discusses issues relating to staff well-being with the HoD. All staff have
 access to the Employee Assistance Programme.

 The University conducts biennial staff surveys seeking opinions on a range of issues
 (e.g. workload, support from management). All departments including History return a
 detailed report proposing actions to respond to the findings (History has conducted
 focus groups to drill down into any issues arising from staff surveys). The Department
 also organises events to foster informal staff interaction (brown bag seminars, informal
 meals, etc).
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3a) Research Income

 Staff secured £2.1m in new awards in this cycle (See Figure 1 for grant award
 breakdown). Total research grant expenditure was also c.£2.1m, which amounts to
 £83k per staff FTE, which is 12% higher than in the previous REF cycle, despite the
 rise in staff numbers including many new appointments at a junior level. The
 trajectory is also extremely positive. More than £1.1m was awarded in the last two
 years of the REF cycle, while a further £1.35 million has been awarded between
 August and December 2020 (to Ambler, Murrieta-Flores and Pettigrew). The
 proven success of the Department’s research clusters and associated centres/hubs
 will further enhance grant capture throughout the next REF period. More junior staff
 are encouraged through the PDR/Research interview process to seek external grant
 income and act as Co-I on a bid to develop their understanding of the application
 process. This strategy has already proved successful (e.g Donaldson on
 applications with Kemp; Radburn on applications with Pettigrew).



            Figure 1 – Proportion of grant awards by funder (2014-20)




 Notable grants awarded include ‘Power, Society, and (Dis)connectivity in Medieval
 Sardinia’ (AHRC, Metcalfe, £823,298), ‘Geospatial Innovation in the Digital
 Humanities: A Deep Map of the Lake District’ (Leverhulme, Gregory, £213,168),
 and ‘Digging into Early Colonial Mexico’ (ESRC, Murrieta-Flores, £161,640). While
 P.I.s are responsible for managing their project, they are subject to the normal
 process of PDR and research interviews, ensuring their work is located within the
 Department’s framework for delivering excellent research/research impact. There is
 an equal gender split among P.I.s winning significant grants (defined as £25,000
 and above). PDRAs are supported in submitting grants in their own name (e.g. for
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Leverhulme/BA ECFs).

 3b) Operational/Financial Support for Research

 The Department’s Director of Research (DoR) (Pettigrew) sits on FASS Research
 Committee, which provides strategic oversight and support for research across the
 Faculty. Lancaster University’s Research Institutes – Social Futures (ISF), Data
 Science, Material Science, and Security Lancaster – also promote interdisciplinary
 work across departments and faculties. Staff in History have worked closely with all
 four institutes especially ISF (Edmonds and Hurst have served as ISF Fellows) and
 Data Science (Isaksen and Murrieta-Flores).

 The DoR chairs the Department’s Research Committee and sits on its Management
 Group to ensure that research considerations inform decisions on issues including
 staffing and resource allocation. The Impact Lead (Murrieta-Flores), who sits on
 Research Committee, oversees all impact/engagement activity in the Department
 and supports academic staff in maximising the public benefit of their research. The
 DoR and Impact Lead work with staff including directors of research centres to
 identify potential synergies and collaboration (e.g. resulting in joint grant applications
 by staff in the DH and Military/International History clusters).

 The Department’s Research Committee supports high-quality research through such
 mechanisms as: allocating funds (£55k in this REF cycle) to support: archive visits
 leading to research publications (e.g. Tadmor’s Past and Present article on ‘The
 Settlement of the Poor’); initiatives to enhance research impact (e.g. Peniston-
 Bird’s work with communities on memorialisation of World War I); etc. Research
 Committee also peer-reviews grant proposals and, where requested, offers
 feedback on outputs before submission. This research-management structure
 ensures the Department can achieve its strategic objectives while recognising that
 excellent research and impact typically develops through individuals working alone
 or with others.

 FASS has used HEIF funding to support work with non-academic partners through
 Impact and Knowledge Exchange grants (e.g. supporting Donaldson’s work with
 English Heritage on ‘Re-envisioning the Roman Legacies of the Border Region’).
 History staff have also been successful in bidding to the £1m ESRC Impact
 Accelerator Account housed in FASS (e.g. an award to Murrieta-Flores for ‘Co-
 Creating the Future of the Past: Harnessing A.I. for Humanities Research’). FASS
 provides further financial support for research/research impact, including a £1,000
 research allowance to each member of academic staff (reduced temporarily in 2020
 due to COVID), along with extra funding for conference attendance. FASS Research
 Committee has allocated a further £30,000 ‘responsive-mode’ funds to historians for
 such activities as: archive visits leading to publications (e.g. Hughes’ biography of
 Randall Davidson); pump-priming bids (including Radburn’s successful application
 with Pettigrew to the AHRC); and developing new databases and apps (e.g.
 Metcalfe, Sutton). FASS also distributed £100k from the University for potential
 impact case studies (c.£10k was awarded to History).

 HEIF funding has enabled the appointment of a FASS Engagement and Partnership
 manager who works with researchers to develop relations with non-academic
 partners (one of their main tasks is building links with creative industries including
 heritage organisations). FASS employs two further full-time staff – an Impact
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Development Manager and an Impact Support Officer – who advise researchers on
 developing the impact of their work. History researchers are further supported by
 Research Services staff, including some embedded in FASS, who offer detailed and
 tailored research development support. Research Services staff circulate
 information about grant calls and advise on research ethics and data management.
 The post-award team works with P.I.s on all aspects of grant management.

 Both Faculty and Department have provided organisational and financial support for
 History research seminars, including a regular Department Research Seminar that
 attracts speakers from the UK and overseas, as well as a brown-bag series that
 gives staff feedback on work-in-progress (PDRAs and final year PhD students also
 present). The Department organises research symposia on themes such as
 ‘Creativity in Historical Research’. The DH Hub and the CWD each have a seminar
 series, which attract audiences from across the Faculty and beyond (typically
 monthly for the former and twice termly for the latter). The Ruskin organises a long-
 standing monthly seminar series, while Medievalists in the Department host
 meetings of the M6 Research Seminar.

 All full-time academic staff in History have their own offices, which are located
 together in a single building, along with PGR and PDRA offices, fostering the
 communication needed to sustain a vibrant dialogue on research. All staff have a
 networked computer or laptop computer and an iPad for use in teaching and
 research.

 3c) Scholarly Infrastructure Supporting Research

 LU Library is a critical partner in supporting historical research and maintains a
 sustained dialogue with the Department. It has rich holdings in all areas of history
 covered by the Department and has invested heavily in books/e-books and
 databases needed by staff for their research. The Library completed a major
 expansion, in 2017, which created new flexible and technologically enabled study
 spaces that are invaluable for PGRs. A further £11m extension (completing January
 2021) will provide a Digital Scholarship Lab aimed at supporting DH, a remodelled
 Special Collections, collaborative research space and a new exhibition space. The
 Library provides many training courses of value to History PGRs and staff on
 subjects ranging from Open Access to the use of bibliographic software. The Library
 has worked closely with History staff, including Donaldson, Gregory and Murrieta-
 Flores, on projects facilitating the development of Digital Humanities, ranging from
 the creation of new teaching space through to initiatives to improve digital access to
 primary sources held at Lancaster and elsewhere (e.g. via collaboration with the
 Cambridge Digital Library Project).

 LU Library holds archives and rare books in Special Collections that have been used
 by History staff (e.g. Gregory, Hughes, Peniston-Bird made extensive use of the
 Welch Papers and rare newspapers when researching their well-received popular
 book on Lancaster in the First World War). It also holds extensive collections of
 primary sources important for the study of the history of the North West, including
 the Quaker Archive, and actively collects new material and makes it available
 digitally. The Ruskin headed by Kemp holds the most important collection in the
 world of Ruskin’s papers and drawings, which are used as a foundation for a
 number of research collaborations, including some involving staff from History, such
 as a new project on ‘Killing at a Distance’ (Ambler, Hughes, Wyss). The LU Peter
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Scott Gallery holds a rich collection of modern art.

 We use our collaborations with organisations in the region to enrich the material and
 textual ‘archive’ available to Lancaster historians. Lancashire Archives is one of the
 most significant regional collections in the UK and has been used by many staff and
 PGRs in their research. The same is true of the Harris Museum in Preston. Staff
 also make use of material held by the City Museum and the Maritime Museum in
 Lancaster, as well as the Duchy of Lancaster, along with material at local properties
 run by English Heritage and the National Trust.

Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4a) Research Collaboration

The Department supports all collaborative activity that leads to excellent research
and research impact, using the mechanisms discussed in previous sections
(establishment of research clusters, PDR/Research interviews, pump-priming, etc).
This strategy has facilitated extensive work with academic and non-academic
partners, in the UK and abroad, strengthening the Department’s research base and
enabling staff to build relationships that enhance the impact of their work in areas
ranging from education to software development.

During this REF cycle, the Department has been home to four AHRC-funded
research networks: ‘Battlegrounds of Memory and Justice’ (lead Camino); ‘Urban
Heritage and the Digital Humanities in India’ (lead Sutton); ‘Space and Narrative in
the Digital Humanities’ (lead Gregory); ‘Revealing Long-Term Change in Vegetation
Landscapes’ (lead Gregory). Kemp is on the steering group of the AHRC Nuclear
Cultural Heritage network. These networks have fostered collaboration with non-
academic partners (e.g. National Archives, Natural History Museum) in areas ranging
from holocaust education to curation policy and resulted in scholarly publications and
further grant applications.

The Department has supported staff collaboration with researchers in the UK and
more than 20 countries worldwide, leading to numerous joint publications and grant
awards. Many funded projects involve extensive international research collaboration
including: Metcalfe’s ‘Medieval Sicily’ (University of Aarhus, National Research
Council of Italy); Murrieta-Flores’s ‘Digging into Early-Colonial Mexico’ (University of
Lisbon and Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia); and Gregory’s ‘Spatial
Humanities: Texts, GIS, Places’ (which brings together scholars from Britain,
Continental Europe, and the US). Edmonds was Co-I on the Leverhulme-
funded project ‘Brittany and the Atlantic Archipelago’ (based in Cambridge),
which brought together scholars from different countries to investigate Brittany’s
connections with Britain and Ireland, c.450-1200. Kemp was awarded a BA
International Fellowship to support the project ‘Transcultural Utopian Entanglements
and the Future’.

4b) Collaboration with Non-Academic Partners and Contribution to Economy and
Society

The Department’s strategic focus on increasing research impact has provided staff
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


with resource – money and time – to work with non-academic partners to promote
economic and social well-being, including:

    Direct research collaboration, e.g. CDAs/CASE studentships have allowed
     History researchers to co-design/co-supervise projects with organisations both
     local (Westfield Memorial Village, Lancashire Archives) and national (Royal
     Society, British Library);
    Co-design of new software applications, e.g. Murrieta-Flores’ work with Tagtog
     developing new forms of machine-learning; Sutton’s use of AHRC/EPSRC
     funding to work with UK developers and Indian cultural partners (e.g. Centre for
     the Study of Developing Society, Delhi) creating software enabling smartphone
     users to engage with heritage in ways that recognises the contested nature of
     the past;
    Work with museums developing innovative forms of visitor engagement, e.g.
     Radburn’s work building 3-D models of slave ships for use in museums
     including the Smithsonian National Museum of African American History &
     Culture;
    Heritage Consultancy, e.g. Donaldson’s work with the National Trust engaging
     new audiences by showing how local histories illuminate wider issues of
     heritage; Kemp’s work with museums – including the Weltmuseum (Vienna) and
     the Musée de l’Homme (Paris) – developing new ways of conceptualising and
     presenting their holdings;
    Fostering public engagement with History and Heritage, e.g. work with the Duchy
     of Lancaster and Global Link delivering lectures/workshops on subjects ranging
     from the significance of Lancaster Castle through to the impact of the First World
     War on North West England (Donaldson, Edmonds, Gregory, Hughes,
     Peniston-Bird);
    Work with government departments and think-tanks, e.g. Hughes’ work with
     FCO historians on hackathons harnessing the skills of IT professionals to
     present official records in innovative ways; Mills’ work with the British Foreign
     Policy Group on developing relations between the UK and Latin America;
    Work with regional agencies to promote tourism, e.g. Edmonds’ work with
     Marketing Lancashire to identify how heritage sites can identify new themes to
     attract visitors and bolster the regional economy.

The success of the Department’s strategy in maximising the reach and significance of
its research can be further illustrated by focusing on two key areas: schools and the
media.

Staff use their expertise to work with schools enriching curricula and creating new
resources. Radburn is part of an international team that edits/manages the ‘Slave
Voyages’ website used extensively by schools on both sides of the Atlantic (c.75k
users per month). Peniston-Bird has worked with local schools through the
Lancashire Heritage Learning Team, running workshops advising teachers on how to
present the First World War through the prism of Lancaster’s experience, while with
Gregory she established a Summer School for Year 12 students on ‘Memorials of
World War 1 and Digital Skills’. Donaldson has worked with schools exploring the
development of graphite mining in Cumbria. The RHC manages a website ‘Local
History for Schools’ that provides primary sources for teachers to use in class; it also
sponsors an award recognising innovative work by teachers in north-west England in
the field of regional history. Kemp has worked with schools to produce worksheets
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


on The Ruskin’s collections for use during lockdown; Hurst has worked with
publishers reviewing educational material for schools.

The University and Department encourage staff to share their expertise with the
public through the media (the Press Office provides training and liaises with external
organisations). The success of this policy is shown by the contribution of History
researchers to TV and Radio programmes with an estimated audience of 25 million
(the Department values contributions to local media as highly as contributions to
national and international media). This work allows Lancaster historians to use their
research to foster public engagement with History/Heritage – local, national, and
international – and encourage greater understanding of the past.

Hughes used his research expertise on Anglo-Russian relations to contribute to the
two-hour BBC Documentary ‘Royal Cousins at War’ (2014), reviewed extensively in
the national press, and in 2019 spent several days filming in Russia for the BBC
programme ‘Family Footsteps’. He has been interviewed on TV stations both in the
UK and overseas and was the anchor in BBC Radio Scotland’s special broadcast on
the centenary of the Russian Revolution. Hagopian and Tadmor have appeared on
BBC Radio 4 programmes on the Vietnam War and history of friendship respectively.
Rohkramer has contributed to historical programming on German TV. Barber has
contributed to BBC Radio 4’s PM programme about life in 17th century London. Mills
has commented extensively on American politics in local and national media.

Gregory and Peniston-Bird have been interviewed frequently on local radio and
television about their research on the First World War in the North-West (including
the innovative digital ‘Streets of Mourning’ project). Donaldson writes extensively
about heritage issues for the regional press and has been interviewed on Radio 4’s
‘Making History’ (on the changing significance of Hadrian’s Wall). Edmonds also
regularly contributes to regional publications on questions of regional heritage; she
has also discussed her research on BBC Radio Lancashire. Radburn and Sutton
have been interviewed on Radio Lancashire (on the history of slavery and Indian
partition respectively). Ambler has discussed her research in a BBC History podcast,
and appeared on BBC Parliament TV, as well as featuring in ‘Bone Detectives’
(Channel 4). Her work has also featured in BBC History magazine. Many staff have
written for The Conversation including Ambler, Barber, Donaldson, Hughes, Hurst,
Mills and Sutton.

4c) Contribution to the Research Base and Sustainability of the Discipline

The Department has fostered an outward-looking culture in which staff at all stages of
their career see contributions to the development of History both nationally and
internationally as a core academic responsibility (such work is recognised in the
promotions process).

Senior staff including Hughes and Tadmor have undertaken significant roles in
learned societies and other organisations that promote History nationally and
internationally (the former has been Treasurer of the RHS and BASEES and serves
on the REF History sub-panel; the latter is Chair of the Social History Society and has
served on RHS Council). Non-professorial staff have also carried out roles in learned
societies. Hickman is President of the Alcohol and Drugs History Society. Murrieta-
Flores co-chairs the Geohumanities groups for ADHO and DARIAH (the most
important DH organisations worldwide). Mills is Vice-Chair of the Transatlantic
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Studies Association. Wyss is President of the Bibliographical Committee of the
International Commission of Military History and a Governing Board Member of the
European Initiative on Security Studies. Edmonds is a Council member of
organisations including the English Place-Name Society and the Cumberland and
Westmorland Antiquarian and Archaeological Society.

Three scholarly journals are edited by Department staff: International Journal of
Military History and Historiography (Wyss), Ruskin Review (Donaldson), and South
Asian Studies (Sutton). The Department provides the administrative home for the
Social History Society (publisher of Social and Cultural History). Staff have served on
the editorial boards of twenty journals. Wyss co-edits Brill’s New Perspectives on the
Cold War book series. Hughes is on the Editorial Board of the multi-volume Russia’s
Great War and Revolution (Slavica). Edmonds has been appointed co-editor of the
first volume of the new Cambridge History of Britain. History staff have reviewed
manuscripts for more than forty journals including American Historical Review,
English Historical Review, and The Historical Journal. They have reviewed
manuscripts for major university and commercial publishers including: Cambridge
U.P., Oxford U.P., Stanford U.P., Bloomsbury, Palgrave, and Routledge.

Several staff have served on the AHRC Peer Review College (Taylor, Pettigrew,
Isaksen, Tadmor). Lancaster historians regularly review proposals for all the main
British funders of historical research (AHRC, ESRC, British Academy, Leverhulme
Trust, and Wellcome Trust). They have also reviewed proposals for more than a
dozen international funders, including: Canadian Foundation for Innovation, COST
(European Cooperation for Science and Technology), Fonds Nationale de la
Recherche, Macarthur Foundation, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research,
and Social Science Research Foundation (USA).

The Department has fostered international scholarly exchange through organising
historical conferences and workshops at Lancaster e.g.: Summer Academy in Atlantic
History (2015), Social History Society Annual Conference (2016), Spatial Humanities
Conference (2016, 2018), the Invasion Network (2016 and 2017), Transatlantic
Studies Association Annual Conference (2019), British International History Group
Annual Conference (2019), New Researchers Conference of the British Commission
for Military History (2019). The Social History Society Conference to be held at
Lancaster in 2020 was postponed due to COVID-19. Lancaster historians have
organised conferences and workshops elsewhere in Europe (e.g. Groningen, Madrid)
and beyond (e.g. California, Delhi).

4d) Other Esteem Indicators

The worldwide research reputation and contribution of History staff to scholarship has
been recognised by the award of numerous fellowships and scholarships including:
British Academy/Leverhulme Senior Research Fellowship, Fletcher Jones
Distinguished Fellowship in British History (Huntington Library), and Folger
Shakespeare Library Short Term Fellowship (Tadmor); Patricia and Phillip Frost
Senior Fellowship at the Smithsonian American Art Museum (Hagopian); Visiting
Fellow, Hoover Institution Stanford (Hughes); Visiting Professor, University of
Cagliari (Metcalfe); Indian National Trust for Art and Culture Heritage, UK Fellowship
(Sutton). Staff have also won numerous awards for their research, including the
British Library Labs Research prize (Gregory); the Martyn Jope Award for the best
novel interpretation, application of analytical method and presentation of new findings
(Murrieta-Flores); Philip Leverhulme Prize (Ambler), and the Wayne D. Rasmussen
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Award for the best article on Agricultural History (Radburn). Lancaster historians
have given numerous invited lectures throughout the UK and globally.

These invitations and awards reflect the global reputation of Lancaster historians and
the Department’s success in supporting its members to produce excellent and
innovative historical research over the past seven years.
