Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Staffordshire University

 Unit of Assessment: 12 - Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
       a. Overview

Engineering research at Staffordshire is highly interdisciplinary and collaborative. Our vision is to
undertake world-leading research to address complex real-world challenges to improve peoples’
lives, environments, productivity, and sustainability. We focus on building synergies between
research interests within engineering and across disciplines within the University. This focus
fosters collaborative opportunities and enhances our routes to impact.

We undertake research within three themes:

   •   Biomechanics (Branthwaite, Chatzistergos, Chockalingam, Healy, Naemi, Needham,
       Pierscionek): Applications to biomedical, healthcare, and assistive technology, clinical
       solutions, addressing issues related to diseases and conditions that are a public health
       concern.
   •   Renewable and Sustainable Engineering (Ardekani, Gohari Darabkhani, Komilian, Sadat-
       Shafai): Addresses the design of small and medium scale sustainable energy conversion
       mechanisms, storage, and systems driven by optimising energy solutions to ensure
       maximum productivity and minimum total life cost.
   •   Digital Systems (Amjad, Asaduzzaman, Benkhelifa, Dodd, Shiry Ghidary, Griffiths, Sedky,
       Soliman): Addresses algorithm development and interdisciplinary applications of digital
       approaches to a range of systems. Our research investigates how to apply digital
       approaches to ensure systems are safe, secure, productive, and more intelligent.

In line with the University strategy (REF5a, Section 2), this Unit of Assessment (UoA) is a
consolidation of areas submitted to REF2014 in UoAs 11, 15, and 26. Our submission presents
the focus on thematic engineering research in each area.

Research is organised around interdisciplinary research centres bringing together staff from the
School of Digital, Technology and Arts and the School of Life Sciences and Education to address
the three themes:

   •   Biomechanics: Centre for Biomechanics and Rehabilitation Technologies (CBRT, led by
       Chockalingam)
   •   Renewable and Sustainable Engineering: Centre for Renewable and Sustainable
       Engineering (CRSE, led by Sadat-Shafai)
   •   Digital Systems: Centre for Smart Systems, AI, and Cybersecurity (CSSAIC, led by
       Benkhelifa)

We prioritise collaborations with academic, industry, and policy-making partners at home and
abroad. These relationships ensure strong, impactful engagement with our research communities
and end-users (Sections 4a, b). We have used them to power a programme of sustainable growth
supported by significant partner- and university-level investment in our research cohort and
infrastructure (Section 1c). In line with the University’s vision of a civic university (REF5a, Section
1), we generated funding of £4,075,904 (matched funding £2,819,868) for five knowledge
exchange projects within the assessment period. These projects include establishing the
Staffordshire University Innovation Enterprise Zone (IEZ) to support regional industry engagement
(Section 4b). We actively support the wider research community, including as co-producers with
national and international partners (Section 4a), as members of industry and government working
groups (Section 4b), and as editors and organisers of international journals, conferences, and
public engagement opportunities (Section 4c).


                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Governance. The unit follows the University policies (REF5a, Section 2) on research
governance, including upholding the Concordat to Support Research Integrity and we are working
towards full compliance with the Concordat on Open Research Data. We assist our researchers to
ensure all outputs are available open access.

       b. Vision, strategy, and plans

Our vision is to positively impact on how and where people live and work by carrying out world-
leading fundamental and applied research in biomechanics, small to medium scale renewable
energy systems, and digital approaches to a range of application areas. We achieve this vision
through interdisciplinary collaborations with national and international partners from academia,
industry, government agencies, and NGOs.

The research and impact strategy is informed by, and responds to, specific external drivers linked
to the three themes above, including:

   •   United Nations Sustainable Development Goals: Good Health and Well-Being; Clean Water
       and Sanitation; Affordable and Clean Energy; Decent Work and Economic Growth;
       Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure; Sustainable Cities and Communities; Responsible
       Consumption and Production; Climate Action; and Partnerships for the Goals
   •   UKRI Strategic Priorities: Environment; Biology and Biomedicine; Artificial Intelligence;
       Productivity; Health, Wellbeing, and Human Rights; Digital; and Productivity and Technical
   •   Horizon Europe Strategic Clusters: Health; Digital, Industry, and Space; and Climate,
       Energy, and Mobility

Exploiting interdisciplinary collaborations with national and international academic and industrial
partners (Section 4a), and facilitated by our cross-cutting research centres, we address key
challenges in:

Biomechanics: We specialise in the foot, spine, and the eye, bringing together engineering,
biology, and healthcare technology to improve health and wellbeing in a clinical setting. We
research tissue mechanics, biomechanics of the diabetic foot, evidence-based musculoskeletal
clinical practice, footwear biomechanics, orthotic intervention, insoles and prescription footwear,
spinal biomechanics and etiopathology of scoliosis, opto-mechanical modelling of the eye, and the
effects of aging. We apply a multilevel approach that includes modelling biological structures and
orthotic interventions, undertaking clinical evaluations, and assessing healthcare impacts.

Renewable and sustainable energy: We research small to medium scale energy generation and
storage including solar, thermal, biogas, combined heat and power, liquid air, and smart grids. We
apply a multiscale approach to design optimisation from materials research in organic solar cells,
computational fluid dynamics for component design in biogas and micro combined heat and power
(microCHP) plants, to robust optimal operation of smart grids.

Digital systems: The research addresses service and cloud computing, robotics, manufacturing,
infrastructure, the environment, agriculture, biology, and healthcare. We work in all aspects of
systems from sensors, data analysis, and machine learning to communications, cloud computing,
cybersecurity, Internet of things (IoT), intelligent decision making, and autonomous systems.

We focus on three underpinning methodologies throughout the UoA. Most staff work across all
three:

Computational modelling: to develop algorithms and fundamental models to achieve better
engineering design. Examples: finite element modelling of the ulcerated diabetic foot; opto-
mechanical modelling of the aging eye lens; computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modelling of
microturbine combustors; CFD modelling of thermal characteristics of solar collectors; modelling of
sensor networks; and machine learning for electroencephalogram (EEG) signal representation.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Design optimisation: to develop and apply novel techniques to optimise engineering design.
Examples: design of diabetic patient-specific insoles; biologically-inspired implant lenses; organic
solar cells; novel microturbine combustor for biofuels; phase change material thermal energy
storage; sensor networks; and hybrid waveguides for on-chip ultrafast photonic networks.

Experimental validation and evaluation: to ensure our research outcomes meet the challenges
of real-world implementation. Examples: shear wave elastography measurement of the
mechanical behaviour of the heel pad; Brillouin scattering and x-ray interferometric measurement
of the eye; validation of novel biofuel combustor performance in microturbines; and validation of
spectrum assignment in large-scale hardware-constrained IoT sensor networks.

Our future strategy over the next five years is:

Research Capacity and Capability. Increase from 18.4FTE to > 32FTE through development
and mentoring of existing teaching-focused staff and new appointments at both early-career and
senior levels.
   • Use our research centres to continue developing our active and vibrant research culture by
        encouraging innovation and risk taking in a supportive environment (Section 2b).
   • Provide equipment, facilities, and infrastructure to ensure our researchers continue to
        deliver world-leading research that is sustainable and facilitates maximum impact (Sections
        3c, d).
   • Biomechanics – diversify from foot biomechanics to broader musculo-skeletal conditions
        and rehabilitation engineering. Extend into assistive technology, systems biology, and
        engineered biological systems by focusing on materials and additive manufacturing.
   • Sustainable and renewable energy – continue to strengthen in small to medium scale
        renewable energy, e.g., inorganic solar cells, power systems control, electrical and thermal
        energy storage, energy harvesting, and smart grid systems.
   • Digital systems – consolidate the expertise in communications and networks; build capacity
        in robotics and autonomous systems, AI and machine learning, and cybersecurity.
   • Expand career development support by using RIIS (Research, Innovation, and Impact
        Services), our research centres, and the Professoriate to supply mentoring, training, and
        development, including dedicated support for early-career researchers.
   • Increase sustainable Postgraduate Research (PGR) recruitment with a target of 10%
        growth p.a. by focusing on international collaboration and distance learning PhDs, EngDs,
        and researcher engagement with current undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught
        students.

Enhancing Leadership and Collaborations. Build on our existing national and international
collaborations and leadership in key bodies.
    • Senior staff will use their experience of working with national and international bodies (e.g.,
       EPSRC, NIHR, EU, WHO) to support early career researchers to develop leadership.
    • Broaden and enhance our strong interdisciplinary collaborations with diverse national and
       international partners (Section 4a). We will extend our national and international networks
       and recruit prominent visiting fellows and professors (Section 2b).
    • Through the research centres, develop greater interdisciplinary collaborations with
       colleagues across the University, e.g., biology and engineering/computing, sustainability,
       and healthcare.
    • Raise the profile of our research by ensuring all academics actively engage with national
       and international industry and professional bodies, editorial activities, and conference
       organisation. Ensure funding is available and accessible to support such activities.

Enabling and Facilitating Impact. Continue building partnerships that increase our research’s
academic and social impact.
   • Improve the visibility and reach of our research centres, exciting the public to the benefits of
      research, and motivating new collaborations to co-develop and exploit our research
      (Sections 2a, 4a, and 4b).

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Use IEZ support and knowledge exchange projects to build partnerships with industry,
       focusing on the Stoke and Staffordshire LEP region (Section 4b).
   •   Build on our existing strengths and leadership in engaging with end user groups, NGOs,
       and influencing policy, as demonstrated in our healthcare research, to expand impact
       successes within all of our research themes.
   •   Acquire an open research platform to host all research outputs, data, and software. Collect
       access information to drive engagement and increase potential for new partnerships.
   •   Embed impact awareness training for all academics (with the University Research Impact
       Manager). Use specialist Vertigo Ventures Impact Tracker software to collect impact
       evidence as a matter of course.

Income. Double our per FTE research income and ensure a robust, diverse, range of funding
bodies (Section 3b).
   • Provide all academics with training to access funding opportunities, write successful
       funding proposals, and to lead and manage grant projects.
   • Support grant proposal development through our research centres, ADREs (Associate
       Deans for Research and Enterprise), RIIS, coaching, and internal peer review college.
       Expand use of cohorts to drive grant writing and peer-to-peer support.
   • Support internal and external collaborative proposals through networking events and
       funding to engage with potential partners.

       c. Research achievements since 2014

Our research themes, biomechanics (UoA26), sustainable and renewable engineering (UoA15),
and digital systems (UoA11) have remained since REF2014. We have organised them into one
unit to prioritise and support their strong underpinning engineering research as a basis for our
ongoing, sustainable growth.

We have achieved a stable, regulated expansion of our research capacity. Compared to UoA15
REF 2014, our research income has increased from £586,680 to £3,184,731 (£69,843 to £173,083
per FTE), the number of peer reviewed publications from 156 to 494 (18.6 to 26.8 per FTE). A
significant percentage of our publications are collaborative (67.4%) and co-authored with
international partners (51.8%). The number of PhD awards has increased from 9.5 (UoA15
REF2014) to 56.

We have invested in 8 staff appointments, state-of-the-art facilities in advanced manufacturing and
prototyping, advanced materials, digital facilities (Section 3c), and dedicated space for PhD
students (Section 2c). The investment has significantly impacted on our research capacity with 24
out of 46 REF2021 outputs submitted attributed to new staff. The University has invested in a new
SmartZone (2019) collaboration facility, enhancing our knowledge transfer capacity and the
research capability of our partner local companies.

We are one of twenty universities awarded funding to establish a University Innovation Enterprise
Zone (launched November 2020) to enhance the translation of our research, support industrial
collaboration, and nurture spin-out companies (Section 4b). We formed new strategic partnerships
with many international universities and NGOs (Section 4a), established two new research centres
(CRSE; CSSAIC) and developed interdisciplinary research initiatives internally with the School of
Health & Social Care and the School of Law Policing & Forensics.

We made significant impact in supporting industry (e.g., design of renewable micro turbine power
generators, deployment of LPG leak detection system, automated process for customised insoles)
(Section 4b). Our work in healthcare made national and international impact in policy (e.g., UK
Parliamentary enquiry on footwear choice; WHO Standard for Prosthetics and Orthotics), change
to clinical practice (e.g., treatment of diabetic foot conditions in India, Tanzania, and extended to
Peru and Turkey; standard operating procedures at Central and Northwest London NHS
Foundation Trust) and professional guidelines (updated British Association of Prosthetists and


                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Orthotists guidelines that are issued to all NHS agencies). These healthcare impacts form the
basis of our impact case studies.

Biomechanics. Since REF2014 the area has shifted focus from sports science (previously
UoA26) to biomechanics and clinical applications in healthcare. It is now internationally renowned
for its work on foot, spine, and eye biomechanics. The number of peer reviewed publications in the
period was 192. The research is underpinned by significant collaboration (75.5% of outputs
collaborative, 56.2% international).

Key achievements: We have made significant advances in the modelling and clinical management
of diabetic foot complications. In collaboration with AR Hospital, India, we developed a unique
approach utilising ultrasound elastography to establish that softer heel pads are associated with
foot ulceration in diabetic patients [output identifier 2424]. This work, resulting from the EU FP7
funded DiaBSmart project (2011-15), led to the development of a novel low-cost approach to
assess foot ulceration in developing countries. A patient-specific insole prescription that optimises
the insole stiffness to best redistribute pressure underneath the foot was proposed [2400,3066].
This work resulted in a patent (Deformable Support Structure, PCT/ 5170/4243PGB), which we
harnessed to win £1.1M of funding (NHS England) in collaboration with Cadscan Ltd to develop
ultra-customised insoles. This work continued in an investigation of the viscoelastic behaviour of
the heel pad under dynamic load and weight-bearing activities using novel simulation and shear
wave elastography [2434,3895,4812]. Chockalingam demonstrated, for the first time, the
application of Non-Instrumented Movement Inhibition (NIMI) to quantify embodied intellectual and
emotional engagement as elicited by visual engagement [2845]. NIMI was shown to be elicited by
adding visual accompaniment to audio-only stimulus or making a stimulus cognitively engaging
[3531]. We supported the WHO Standard for Prosthetics and Orthotics which were unanimously
approved in the Resolution on Improving Access to Assistive Technology at the 71st World Health
Assembly, May 2018. Research validating a simple clinical test (paper grip test) for assessing
strength of the hallux in people with diabetes has received significant interest among clinicians and
researchers [5427]. Advances in dynamic finite element modelling of age-related opto-mechanical
relationships in the eye based on Brillouin scattering and X-ray interferometric measurements of
the longitudinal modulus [6283] led to collaborations resulting in the EU Horizon 2020-funded
MSCA Innovative Training Network ’Opto-Biomechanical Eye Research Network’ (OBERON), total
funding €3.88M (awarded 2020). Our novel and highly accurate physiologically realistic gradient
refractive index model of the lens [6376] has been selected for inclusion in Optics and Photonics
News’s ‘Optics in 2020’ Best in Optics selection.

Renewable and sustainable engineering. Our research has made significant contributions in the
development of small and medium scale renewable energy generation and storage. 46 outputs
were published in the period, underpinned by significant collaboration (56.5% of outputs
collaborative, 47.8% international).

Key achievements: We advanced knowledge of how organic solar cells work at a molecular level.
Our findings allow significant performance improvements during the design stage and provide the
foundations for large scale organic photovoltaic devices [3007,4498]. This work led to Newton
Institutional Link funding (£143,686, awarded 2020) in collaboration with Alexandria University,
Egypt, to develop large-scale organic photovoltaic devices. For the first time, a solution to
simultaneous flame stabilisation and NOx emission control in thermo-photovoltaic micro-
combustors was developed [5844]. Working with Bladon Jets (UK) Ltd, funded by Innovate UK
(total funding £935,600, 2017-2019), Gohari Darabkhani designed and evaluated a combustor that
permits the burning of biogas in a commercial microturbine [6225]. The design was developed
commercially and led to the first deployment of a product of this size (12kWe), in South Sahara
Africa. Novel CFD optimisation has been applied to the shape, thermal and optical characteristics
of concentrating solar collectors [6744,6067] and phase change material thermal energy storage
[6062,6161]. Working in collaboration with partners in China, Australia, UK, and South Africa this
work was recognised by the German Ministry of Research and Education and was adopted by
industry (SOLASTOR, Australia)


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Digital systems. Bringing together researchers from the Departments of Engineering and
Computing, the research focuses on algorithm development and digital approaches to applications
including energy, communications, autonomous systems, and healthcare. 63.3% of the total of
256 published outputs are collaborative (49.2% with international co-authors).

Key achievements: In the area of networks, Griffiths (funded by GE Grid Solutions) proved in
simulation a novel fast non-unit protection algorithm for HVDC grids that requires minimal
hardware, has no communication delay, and offers reduced cost [5012]. We developed novel
approaches for network optimisation including self-reconfiguration of visual sensor networks [5102]
and dynamic spectrum allocation [3951]. The latter work was the first to apply post-optimisation
analysis to assess sensitivities and accuracy and now forms the basis for many 5G testbeds to
increase spectrum usage efficiency. Benkhelifa developed a solution for guard-band-aware
spectrum assignment in large-scale hardware-constrained IoT sensor networks [5436]. This
research led to a QR-GCRF collaboration with Yarmouk University, Jordan, to develop and deploy
an LPG-leakage detection IoT solution, since piloted in food outlets in Jordan. Soliman designed a
new strip–slot hybrid waveguide with extremely large and flat dispersion over broad wavelength
range that can be applied to on-chip ultrafast photonic networks [5694]. Sedky developed an
open-source 3D smart home simulator to support researchers in IoT and machine learning that led
to a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (£103,516, started September 2020) with VR Simulation
Systems Ltd [3622]. In the area of robotics, Dodd proved, for the first time, the benefits of using
informative priors in Bayesian map building for indoor simultaneous localisation and mapping
[6796]. He demonstrated the application of supervisory control theory as a formal method to
reduce ad hoc development in swarm robotics [6242]. Shiry Ghidary has pioneered the use of
deep belief networks for 3D motion reconstruction [6787] and made contributions to nonlinear
dimensionality reduction with application to EEG signal representation [6793,6794].


 2. People
   a. Staffing strategy

We recruit early-career and established researchers, providing tailored support to ensure they
have the capability to produce world-leading research and impact. Our strategy is to recruit people
who fit within one of our core themes (Section 1a) and research across at least two of the
methodologies (Section 1b), whilst ensuring diversity, sustainability, and agility within the themes.
We therefore strengthen our research team, exploit synergies, and respond to the changing
research landscape to meet future national and international priorities, e.g., in renewable energy
we have built from our strength in organic solar cells to broaden into wider small to medium scale
technologies with a strong focus on CFD modelling.

To provide strategic leadership in research and enterprise, the University recruited four ADREs
(REF5a, Section 2) with experience of interdisciplinary research and enterprise. Two are within this
UoA: Dodd (previously University of Sheffield) and Pierscionek (Nottingham Trent University).
Seker (UoA3) provides interdisciplinary leadership bridging biology and healthcare with
engineering and Zhao (UoA17) leads interdisciplinary research on business transformation through
technology. All academic recruitment panels include an ADRE to ensure research potential is fully
considered.

Our strategy to bring together our engineering research into one UoA (Section 1c) has allowed us
to use targeted recruitment to build on our strengths in focused areas.

Biomechanics: Maintained its critical mass with significant retention of staff from REF2014
UoA26. Branthwaite, Chatzistergos, Chockalingam, Healy, Naemi, and Needham all remained in
post, shifting their research emphasis from sport and exercise sciences to biomechanics (Section
1b). Pierscionek was recruited in January 2020 to broaden the research to vision and optics and
strengthen interdisciplinary collaboration with biological sciences. Dr Nicola Eddison (Clinical lead
for the Orthotics Service, The Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, not returned) has been seconded

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to CBRT since February 2019 (0.2FTE) as Senior Research Fellow supporting collaboration with
local NHS trusts and the wider prosthetics and orthotics community.

Sustainable and renewable energy: Recruitment has focused on building capacity in small to
medium scale energy generation and storage technologies. Gohari Darabkhani (Cranfield
University) was recruited (August 2016) to provide leadership and enhance our knowledge transfer
capabilities. Gohari Darabkhani’s research focuses on design and optimisation of biogas/hydrogen
microCHP systems, carbon capture, and liquid air energy storage using CFD. We appointed
Ardekani (University of Pretoria, August 2019) for his expertise in simulation-based optimisation
and computational thermofluids with applications to solar energy and energy storage systems. We
recruited Komilian (ex-PhD student, July 2020) to provide long term sustainability in organic solar
cells (supporting Sadat-Shafai).

Digital systems: We strengthened expertise in signal processing, artificial intelligence and
wireless networks and focused on greater interdisciplinarity between computer science and
engineering. We recruited Dodd (September 2019) to support growth in autonomous systems.
Asaduzzaman joined (February 2014) from the University of Dhaka based on his research on
statistical modelling in communications, healthcare, and the environment. Shiry Ghidary
(Amirkabir University of Technology, Tehran, February 2020) strengthens our research in machine
learning, computer vision, and brain-computer interfaces. Amjad joined the full-time staff
(September 2017) having previously completed a PhD in the University. Underlining our
commitment to staff development, we moved Griffiths from teaching focused to research active.
Amjad and Griffiths provide expertise in communications and signal processing to support Soliman.

   b. Staff development and support

We ensure a supportive research culture that encourages staff to be ambitious and take risks to
achieve their potential. We support staff to pursue research goals and seek opportunities that
develop them personally and professionally. Research staff receive at least 20% of their
contractual time to undertake core research activities including conducting personal research,
developing new research ideas, funding applications, and contributing to the internal and external
research culture (including editorial duties, conference organisation, and contributing to
professional bodies).

Workload planning is proactively used to balance responsibilities. Staff with a SRR have reduced
teaching and management responsibilities. The annual Performance and Development Review
(PDR) provides staff the opportunity to reflect on their activities, set objectives aligned to the
Research Centre, School, and University strategies, and identify development needs. An interim
PDR is held to reflect on progress and update objectives. The PDR process prioritises discussion
of career development and aspirations. All staff are encouraged and supported to undertake
relevant training.

Key career stages for academics are Lecturer, Senior Lecturer, Associate Professor and
Professor. Promotion to Senior Lecturer is through a formal HERA process. We have revised this
process (led by Dodd) to take greater account of research contributions. Promotion to Associate
Professor and Professor is through an annual call and includes external reviewers and members to
ensure sector standards. Staff seeking promotion attend dedicated support sessions and receive
mentoring from a senior member of staff. Staff promoted in the period: Chatzistergos, Healy,
Griffiths, Asaduzzaman, Sedky, Soliman, and Ardekani (to Associate Professor) and Benkhelifa,
Naemi, and Gohari Darabkhani (to Professor). Of the staff submitted: 3 are Lecturer, 1 Senior
Lecturer, 1 Course Director, 7 Associate Professor, and 7 Professor.

95% of staff in the UoA hold a doctorate. Branthwaite and Healy both successfully completed
PhDs by publication in the period (supervised by Chockalingam).

RIIS delivers a central research training and development programme based on the themes of
You, Your Research and Your University. RIIS developed and now refines the programme’s

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
content in collaboration with the ADREs. The programme draws on feedback from staff through
the Professoriate and the Culture, Employment and Development in Academic Research Survey
(since 2020), guidance from the Vitae Researcher Development Framework, and the principles of
the UK Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers. The award of the HR
Excellence in Research Award in 2018 reflects our commitment to developing our researchers.

Our research centres and principal investigators provide specific training and development
opportunities for postdoctoral researchers. This training is tailored to the researcher and project.
For example, CBRT provides training in biomechanics, equipment, and clinical practice facilitated
by industry (e.g., Vicon, Cadscan Ltd) and NHS partners (e.g., King’s College, Royal Stoke
Hospitals) and by international collaborators.

RIIS and ADREs work with the research centres to provide connected university-level support for
the development of funding applications and collaborative opportunities. We are planning to
finalise a formal internal peer review college. Centres have dedicated seminar series and run their
own research development opportunities, including ‘writing retreats’. The University runs an
annual research conference providing an opportunity to disseminate and share research and
develop new internal collaborations. The ADREs have initiated internal interdisciplinary networks
to bridge gaps between subject areas, e.g., computing and biology.

Staff are supported by a community of 26 Visiting and 11 Emeritus staff, who are active research
collaborators and provide challenge and stimulation for our research work, e.g., Professor Joe
Hammill (University of Massachusetts Amherst) mentors junior staff (Needham) and PhD students
and contributes to the CBRT seminar series; and Simon Bartold (previously research lead at
ASICS footwear) provides expert advice while being an advisor to NICE and MHRA.

   c. PGR students

A key area of growth has been PhD recruitment, enhancing our productive, dynamic research
environment. 56 PhD students (plus 12 students not included in HESA data as they undertook
PhD by publication (4) or distance learning (8)) successfully completed in the period (compared to
9.5 for UoA15 REF2014). To maximise flexibility, we offer full-time and part-time study, distance
learning, and PhD by publication. We currently have 80 registered PhD students including 2 by
publication, 7 professional doctorates, and 13 distance learning. Many of these students work in
collaborating universities or industry and support long term collaborations (Section 4a).

Staff undertake mandatory training prior to supervising PhD students. Training covers best
practice in supervision, pastoral care, regulations, and the examination process. All supervisors
undertake mandatory annual refresher training including sharing of best practice. Supervisors are
members of a University Supervision Training Network. Staff new to PhD supervision are allocated
a mentor (through the relevant research centre) and all PhD students have at least two
supervisors.

We select PhD students to ensure they have the relevant background, skills, and motivation.
Development of PhD students starts with the application process, which requires a research
proposal and interview with the supervisory team and an independent panel member (ensuring as
far as possible a gender balance). Support of PhD students is the joint responsibility of the
Graduate School, School PhD leads and supervisors. All students receive an induction together
with students joining in the same cohort (there are three admissions points during the year). PhD
students join the relevant research centre, which then provides specific training in relevant
techniques (e.g., data analysis and statistics in CSSAIC) and equipment (e.g., shear wave
elastography in CBRT).

PhD students undertake an early-, mid-, and late-stage review during the PhD. They are assessed
on a portfolio and interview at each stage to support their development. The student, supported by
the supervisory team, completes a skills appraisal and development plan based on the Vitae
Researcher Development Framework.

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

The Graduate School (GS) (REF5a) was formed to ensure a consistent approach to PhD support
across the University. The ADREs and School PhD leads work with the GS to support students
and to shape and deliver the central research training and development programme. We
subscribe to the ESRC funded University of East Anglia Online Training Series for PGRs and
actively encourage our students to participate. The GS runs an annual Postgraduate Research
Conference (now merged with the staff conference), providing opportunities to develop research
communication and collaborations. Students are encouraged to participate in regular PhD social
events and to join the Staffordshire University Postgraduate Society.

We provide career mentoring and tailored support for job applications and interview preparation.
As evidence of our success in PhD development we recruited PhD students: Amjad (September
2017) and Komilian (July 2020) to the academic staff. Examples where our PhD graduates in the
period have moved include: Nicola Eddison (Clinical lead, Orthotics Service, Royal Wolverhampton
NHS Trust), Sara Behforootan (Researcher, Imperial College), Muhammad Kamran Naeem
(Researcher, University of Wolverhampton), Raouf Abozariba (Lecturer, Birmingham City
University), Siva Karteek Bolisetti (Infineon Technologies UK Ltd), Hesham Aly (Arab Academy for
Science Technology & Maritime Transport), Thomas Welsh (Researcher, Lero Research Centre,
University of Limerick), Oluwasegun Adedugbe (Researcher, Zayed University, UAE), and Ochai
Oklobia (Researcher, Swansea University).

   d. Equality and diversity

As outlined in the Code of Practice, the University has a comprehensive ED&I framework which we
support throughout the UoA. We are a diverse staff. 54.3% of us are from a Black, Asian, and
Minority Ethnic background and 18.5% are female (compared to 0% in UoA15 REF2014). We are
committed to equality and diversity in ensuring a vibrant research environment and equality of
opportunity. Since 2014 two (out of four) of our female staff have been supported to achieve a
PhD by publication and two have been promoted to Associate Professor. The University has
recently implemented a blended working framework and supports flexible working to support
personal circumstances. It is compulsory for all staff to undertake unconscious bias training. Dodd
is member of the University Inclusion Champions group. Griffiths is a member of Women in
Science and Engineering. The University is a Stonewall Diversity Champion and in 2020 launched
a comprehensive Race Equality Action plan.


 3. Income infrastructure and facilities
   a. Income

Our research income in the period totalled £3,184,731 across 68 grants and represents an income
of £173,083 per FTE (£69,843 in UoA15 REF2014). We have a diverse and robust income
portfolio including awards from: EU government bodies, £1,061,204 e.g., EU Framework
Programme 7 and Horizon 2020; UK Government, £1,206,833; EPSRC, £50,992; industry,
£626,143; and UK Charities, £61,649. Overall, our research income increased by 442% (147% per
FTE), reflecting our increasing research capacity and activity.

Key grant awards highlights:
   • EU FP7/Horizon2020: £110,000 to develop Smartphone Thermal ANalysis for Diabetic foot
       Ulcer Prevention and treatment (‘STANDUP’).
   • ERDF (Section 4b): £1,064,910 to support regional growth in advanced manufacturing;
       £744,728 to support regional SMEs with digital innovation; £986,766 to support innovation
       in connected and intelligent mobility.
   • Innovate UK: £91,798 for low-cost in-shoe pressure measurement; £97,188 to develop
       customised orthoses for the treatment of ulcerated feet; £55,760 to develop a system of 3D
       perfusion mapping for diabetic foot ulcer assessment; £204,206 to develop a Micro Turbine


                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Renewable Energy Combustor (MiTREC); £44,200 to support feasibility research into
       Virtual Infrastructure Testing as a Service (VITaaS).
   •   KTP: £101,625 for cloud based digital transformation for logistics and transport; £78,225;
       for mobile device routing using machine learning; £62,774 to develop Industry 4.0 concepts
       including smart sensors and control.
   •   Newton Fund: Institutional Development grant (£43,982) to develop an ultrasound-based
       diagnostic tool for the Peruvian population; Institutional Links funding (£143,686) to
       collaborate with Alexandria University, Egypt, to develop and install a solar organic
       photovoltaic facility.
   •   NIHR: Invention for Innovation grant of £57,770 for ViscoTurf, preventing secondary
       diabetic foot ulceration.

   b. Future income plans

We will capitalise on existing research strengths and links with partners to double our per FTE
research income and ensure a robust range of funding bodies. We will target EPSRC, Innovate
UK (including KTPs), Horizon Europe, Royal Academy of Engineering, NHS, industry, and relevant
funding charities.
   • Our stronger, new internal peer review processes and a strategy for a peer review college
       are key to our plan to increase our research income.
   • We will prioritise sustainability by supporting early career academics, emphasising
       fellowships (in line with UKRI strategy), and building collaborations internally and with
       world-leading academic institutions and industry. We will target new academics who can
       submit high quality applications to the EPSRC New Investigator Award scheme to establish
       their track record and a platform for future funding (Section 2b).
   • We will continue our success in international collaborations by applying for international co-
       operation funding including Horizon Europe, GCRF, and Newton Institutional Links. We will
       use our overseas teaching collaborations as platforms for building research collaborations
       (e.g., the successful collaboration with XUPT, China).
   • Our recently established IEZ and knowledge exchange projects (Section 4b) are already
       building links with industry that will form the basis for Innovate UK (including KTPs), and
       direct industry funding in line with our Higher Education Innovation Fund Strategy. We will
       foster these relationships to underpin basic research funding applications (e.g., EPSRC)
       through pledges and letters of support.
   • We will continue to seek funding for policy and advisory work, e.g., from our links to the
       World Health Organisation.

   c. Facilities and infrastructure

In Digital Systems, we have established a SmartZone including high-performance computing to
support simulation work and facilities for AR, VR and 3D-scanning. Our work on AI and the IoT is
supported by a dedicated lab space. The SmartZone provides facilities for advanced
manufacturing and rapid prototyping that support our research in Renewable and Sustainable
Engineering. This theme has received external investment of £779,500 to establish an advanced
materials facility (Research England, SAMIAC – Section 4b) including Laser Induced Breakdown
Spectroscopy, Micro Scratch Tester, Particle Size Analyser, and Quantum Efficiency
Measurement. We established dedicated incubation space for new start-ups in advanced
engineering. We received £1,064,910 funding (ERDF, SAMPID – Section 4b) to establish an
advanced manufacturing and prototyping facility including 3D metal printing, gas turbine combined
heat and power system, advanced automation, and robot arms. These investments are key to our
future vision for sustainability and renewable energy and ensuring impact through collaboration
with industry. In Biomechanics we invested in shear wave elastography, laser speckle contrast
analyser, human performance testing, materials testing, and additive manufacturing. We
advanced our research into modelling the eye by using the Spring-8 third-generation synchrotron
radiation facility located in Japan.



                                                                                          Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have invested £57,000 in dedicated space for postgraduate and postdoctoral researchers
(172m2).

   d. Future investments

We will purchase a high-performance computing facility to support research in all areas, including
CFD, FEA, data analytics and large-scale simulations. CSSAIC will engage with regional partners
to build research testbeds, e.g., Internet of Things, SCADA testbed with ABB and/or GE. The
SCADA testbed empowers us to develop solutions to pressing problems in control and automation,
cybersecurity, design optimisation, and simulation. CBRT will purchase a nano-indenter and
hyperspectral imager to enhance our ability to study the effects of diabetes and ulceration on the
foot. We will support recent appointments and future growth in CRSE by investing in smart grid,
fuel cell, solar PV, and solar collector facilities and a low carbon electric vehicle testbed. To
support collaboration with healthcare we have recently been awarded (August 2020) £2.8M
funding from Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (£2.9M match) for a
new Health Innovation Centre.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base economy and society
   a. Research collaborations, networks, and partnerships

Interdisciplinary and international collaboration is at the heart of our research strategy. 67.4%
(51.8% international) of our outputs were collaborative with 99 organisations from 31 countries.
Key international collaborators were Amirkabir University of Technology, Iran (39 co-authored
publications), Jordan University of Science and Technology (39 publications), University of Malta
(26 publications), and University of Pretoria (18 publications).

Indicative academic collaborators:

UK: Swansea University; Bangor University; University of Wolverhampton; Birmingham City
University; University of Glasgow; Middlesex University; University of Sheffield; Kingston
University; Keele University; University of Dundee; Kings College London; Brighton and Sussex
Medical School.

Europe: University of Malta; Koc University Hospital, Turkey; DLR-Institute of Solar Research,
Germany; Istanbul Technical University, Turkey; University of Luxembourg; University Polytechnic
of Valencia, Spain; Karolinska Institutet, Sweden; Linköping Institute, Sweden, Utrecht University,
The Netherlands.

Middle East: Amirkabir University of Technology, Iran; Iran University of Medical Sciences; Jordan
University of Science and Technology; Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Iran; Alexandria
University, Egypt; King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, Saudi Arabia; Princess
Sumaya University for Technology, Jordan; Mutah University, Jordan; Prince Mohammad bin Fahd
University, Saudi Arabia; Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport, Egypt;
University for Business & Science, Beirut, Lebanon; Yarmouk University, Jordan; American
University in Beirut, Lebanon; Lebanese American University; Alexandria University, Egypt; Arab
Academy for Science and Technology, Egypt; Pharos University in Alexandria, Egypt.

Asia: Diabetes Hospitals, Chennai, India; Mobility India, Bangalore, India; Sri Ramachandra
University, India; Nanjing Tech University, China; XUPT, China; Xidian University, China;
APU/APITT Malaysia; University of Technology Malaysia; Chengdu University of Technology,
China; City University of Hong Kong; COMSATS University Islamabad, Pakistan; National
University of Sciences and Technology, Islamabad, Pakistan; NED University of Engineering &
Technology, Pakistan, Guangzhou Sport University.

South America: University of Sao Paolo, Brazil; Pontifical Catholic University of Peru; Pontifical
Xavierian University, Colombia.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

North America: University of Alabama, USA; Clarkson University, USA.

Africa: Mundiapolis University, Morocco; University of Pretoria, South Africa; Muhimbili University
of Health and Allied Sciences, Tanzania.

Examples of collaborations:
   • Working with Pontifical Catholic University of Peru (funded by a Newton Fund Institutional
      Links Programme), we developed and used an innovative method, ultrasound reverberant
      shear wave elastography, to assess soft tissue of the foot. This project established the
      ability of this technique to diagnose soft tissue abnormalities in people with diabetes. The
      technique is currently used by a hospital in Peru.
   • QR-GCRF funds have supported: 1. Mapping user needs for a functional prosthetic knee
      joint: A sociocultural perspective with Mobility India; 2. Promoting best practice in diabetic
      foot care in India with Sri Ramachandra University; 3. Should we think beyond plantar
      pressure? with University of Sao Paolo; 4. Liquid air energy storage and regeneration
      (LAESR) with Istanbul Technical University; 5. Bio-Hythane (H2+CH4) fuels from organic
      waste with Sao Paolo University.
   • Teaching partnerships have been successfully extended to research: 1. Distance learning
      programmes in engineering, XUPT, China; 2. Soliman led a joint ERASMUS+ collaboration
      with Tafila Technical University and Mu'tah University (Jordan), which subsequently
      developed into research including a £80k RAEng grant; 3. Sedky led two Erasmus+
      international credit mobility projects with Lebanese, Egyptian, and Moroccan universities.
   • Soliman acted as the external foreign expert on a Technical Review Panel of the
      Department of Electrical and Computing Engineering at COMSATS University, Islamabad,
      Pakistan, and as Member of the Advisory Board to the Faculty of Computer Science at
      Modern University for Business & Science, Beirut, Lebanon.

Our collaborative working strategy values visiting titleholders (Section 2b). They expand our
research environment through co-production, PhD supervision, joint grant applications, and their
links to industry organisations, user groups, and policy makers.

   b. Relationships with users, beneficiaries, and audiences

A strong philosophy of our research is co-creation and collaboration with users to ensure impact.
We work with regional, national, and international partners to drive research direction, facilitate
knowledge transfer, and ensure our work benefits the widest range of stakeholders.

Complementing our strong international collaborations, we work closely with regional partners in
line with the University vision as a civic university (REF5a, Section 1). We have won substantial
funding (£4,075,904) from Research England and the European Regional Development Fund to
develop collaborative research and knowledge exchange. The University has committed matched
funding (£2,819,868) to help us generate impact and supporting the regional economy.

Staffordshire Advanced Manufacturing, Prototyping, and Innovation Demonstrator
(SAMPID) – ERDF funding (£1,064,910, matched funding £709,940, 2019-23) to support 45
regional SMEs with product design, development, and prototyping through mini-KTP type projects
and access to a new advanced manufacturing facility in the University.

Staffordshire Advanced Materials Incubation and Accelerator Centre (SAMIAC) – funded by
Research England (£779,500, matched £734,000, 2019-21) in collaboration with Staffordshire
Business School, supports innovation in advanced materials. SAMIAC provides business
incubation space, a new research, prototyping, and innovation laboratory for materials
characterisation and testing, and a training academy in innovation and entrepreneurship.

Staffordshire Digital Innovation Partnerships (SDIPs) – funded by ERDF (£744,728, matched
£496,485, 2019-21) is a collaboration with Staffordshire County Council to transform 36 regional

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
SMEs through digital innovation. SDIPs has already created 26 new partnerships, a KTP,
additional industry funding (£50k), and 11 new products.

Staffordshire Connected & Intelligent Mobility Innovation Accelerator – funded by ERDF
(£986,766, matched £657,843, 2020-23) to support 45 SMEs to deliver innovation in connected
and intelligent mobility. SMEs will be supported through mini-KTP type projects led by dedicated
Innovation and Enterprise Fellows in collaboration with academics.

Enterprise Collaboratory – funded by Stoke-on-Trent and Staffordshire LEP (£500,000, matched
£221,600, 2020-21) to develop dedicated space for ideation and brainstorming for new start-ups
and local SMEs. The space will empower our existing students (including PhD students) to
commercialise their work.

These initiatives have been brought together in the Staffordshire University Innovation
Enterprise Zone (launched November 2020) to engage with regional and national businesses
including research collaboration, knowledge exchange, innovation, and skills development.

Key exemplars of relationships with users, beneficiaries, and audiences:

Biomechanics:
   • Our work on the biomechanics of the diabetic foot is motivated by a collaboration with AR
      Hospital, Sri Ramachandra University, and other leading diabetes centres in India. It has
      resulted in a significant improvement in the care for patients with diabetic foot
      complications.
   • Working with the University of Malta and Abbas Medical Centre (Tanzania), the
      development of a robust prognostic tool has led to more accurate and efficient assessment
      of foot ulceration.
   • Our work with Hospital Militar Geriatrico, Lima, Peru, led to greater understanding of the
      effect of diabetes on soft tissue mechanics of the foot, resulting in significant improvements
      in patient outcome.
   • Our collaboration with Koc hospital, Turkey, led to significant improvements in prevention of
      diabetic foot ulcer, in patient outcomes, and quality of life in low- and middle-income
      countries.
   • Our research of insoles has benefited Technofootbed S.L. (Spain), leading to their
      increased market share in Europe and the UK and a 10% increase in profit.
   • Our collaboration with the NGO Mobility India surveys the quality of life of people with a
      lower-limb amputation and explores how prostheses affect their ability to participate in work
      and social activities.
   • We have developed a novel computational method to customise shoe insole stiffness that
      can better redistribute pressure underneath the foot in diabetic patients. This research led
      to a patent (Customised Support Structure, Deformable Support Structure, PCT/
      5170/4243PGB) and to NHS England funding of £1.1M awarded to our collaborators
      Cadscan Ltd, who have commercialised an automated process for the low-cost creation of
      customised insoles. The Academic Health Sciences Network West Coast has invested
      £230k to test the feasibility of this system for adoption within NHS diabetic clinics.
   • Commissioned by the NHS, the British Association of Prosthetists and Orthotists, and the
      Royal College of Chiropractors we regularly run CPD courses for podiatrists, orthotists, and
      chiropractors. Our research on foot biomechanics supports evidence-based training in the
      innovative clinical management of diabetic foot complaints.
   • The annual Staffordshire Conference on Clinical Biomechanics provides a unique platform
      to train health practitioners (~150 p.a.) on state-of-the-art engineering methods and
      technologies including imaging systems, mathematical and numerical modelling, and data
      visualisation.
   • Our research has informed a UK parliamentary enquiry (2016-17) on footwear choice and
      contributed to the World Health Organisation Standards for Prosthetics and Orthotics
      service provision implemented in all 195 member countries (May 2018).


                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   We have received funding of £70k from Zeiss Zeiss-Meditec to develop novel implant
       lenses that alter focus like the biological lens (£70k).

Sustainable and renewable energy:
   • Funded by Innovate UK (total £935,600, SU £204,206), Gohari Darabkhani worked with
       Bladon Jets (UK) Ltd, Quality Transmission Equipment Ltd and Cranfield University to
       successfully design, manufacture, and validate a combustion system for small scale micro
       turbine power generators that can run on biogas. Bladon has subsequently commercialised
       a 12kWe biogas micro gas turbine with expected annual sales of 500 units (£10M).
   • Gohari Darabkhani is working with DRM Technic Ltd on an ERDF funded project (£80,000)
       (as part of the SEND project, Keele University) to research novel methods for measuring
       particulate emissions from small/medium combustion plant processes with the aim of
       reducing emissions.
   • Sadat-Shafai has received Newton Institutional Links funding (total £273,686, SU
       £143,686) to collaborate with Alexandria University, Egypt to develop, install and evaluate
       the socioeconomic impact of a solar organic photovoltaic facility in Egypt.

Digital systems:
    • In collaboration with Yarmouk University, Jordan, Benkhelifa developed a prototype novel
        end-to-end wireless sensor network for on-the-fly early detection and warning LPG-leakage
        detection IoT system. This network is being piloted in food outlets in Jordan.
    • Benkhelifa leads an initiative for enhanced cyber safety in businesses. Over 200
        organisations in the Staffordshire region have joined the initiative. The evaluation research
        demonstrated significant impact in reducing cybercrimes in the workplace and improved
        productivity through digital adoption.
    • Soliman received £14,000 funding (total award £80k) from the Royal Academy of
        Engineering to work with the University of Sheffield and Jordanian partners (Jordanian
        Ministry of Agriculture, Tafila Technical University, and Mu'tah University) to develop novel
        approaches to intelligent automation of olive harvesting.
    • Sedky has been awarded two KTPs (total funding £164,035) to work on Industry 4.0 (with
        StormKing Plastics Ltd) and the use of AI and machine learning to train crime scene
        investigators (with Virtual Reality Simulation Systems Ltd).

   c. Contributions to research base, economy, and society

Industry Work Groups and Professional Networks
   • Benkhelifa: lead research partner with Staffordshire Police Cyber Champion in the
       workplace initiative.
   • Branthwaite: leads the strategy for the College of Podiatry Musculoskeletal Biomechanics.
   • Chatzistergos: founding member of the Greek Society for Experimental Mechanics.
   • Chockalingam: expert to the European Parliament in policy areas relating to the
       assessment of new and emerging technologies, and foresight on long-term scientific and
       technological trends; elected Secretary, International Research Society on Spinal
       Deformities.
   • Gohari Darabkhani: team leader in the European Turbine Network; member of the
       Staffordshire Chambers of Commerce Energy, Environment & Sustainability Forum; and
       member of the UK Carbon Capture and Storage Research Centre.
   • Dodd: advisor for the IET Reference on Autonomous Vehicles, 2015; and member of the
       IET Aerospace Technical Advisory Panel.
   • Griffiths: mentor for the Women’s Engineering Society and STEM Ambassador.
   • Sadat-Shafai: member of the Engineering Gateways Advisory Group; and member of the
       Practice Transfer Partnership Engineering Council.
   • Soliman: member of the Digital Agriculture Special Interest Group, UK.

Conference Organisation, Keynote Speeches and Invited Lectures


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Submitted staff supported the delivery of over 50 national and international conferences,
       symposia, and other meetings in the period, acting as conference chair/co-chair (18) and
       membership of programme committees (32).
   •   Since 2002, CBRT has organised and hosted the annual Staffordshire Conference on
       Clinical Biomechanics (Section 4b).
   •   We organised and hosted the 2015 International Universities Power Engineering
       Conference.
   •   Staff delivered over 29 keynote and 46 invited lectures in the period.

Editorial Activities
    • Ardekani: Editorial Board of Energy and Power Engineering; International Journal of
        Current Research in Engineering and Technology; and Journal of Atmospheric Science
        Research
    • Asaduzzaman: Associate Editor of IEEE Access; and PLOS One.
    • Benkhelifa: Editor of International Journal of Grid and High-Performance Computing;
        International Journal of Big Data Intelligence; International Journal of Artificial Intelligence
        and Application; and International Journal of Design Engineering. Guest edited special
        issues of IEEE Transactions on Industrial Informatics; Journal of Cluster Computing;
        Journal of Multimedia Tools and Applications; Journal of Information Processing &
        Management; and IEEE Transactions on Cloud Computing.
    • Branthwaite: Editorial Board for Footwear Science and Journal Foot and Ankle Research.
    • Chockalingam: founding Associate Editor for Footwear Science and Scoliosis and Spinal
        Disorders; Associate Editor for Prosthetics and Orthotics International and The Foot;
        Editorial Board for Frontiers in Rehabilitation Sciences.
    • Healy: Associate editor for Assistive Technology Journal.
    • Soliman: Editor of PeerJ Computer Science; Associate Editor of IEEE Access.

Awards and Prizes
  • Ardekani: Green Talent 2015, Federal Ministry of Education and Research of Germany.
  • Gohari Darabkhani: Best Presentation Award, 20th International Conference on CCS
      Technologies; and Ghana Institution of Engineers Engineering Excellence Award in 2017
      for research on removing black powder impurities from natural gas transmission pipelines in
      collaboration with the Ghana Gas Company Ltd.
  • Chatzistergos: 5 awards including Editor’s choice award for 2018 from the Biomedical
      Engineering Society for the paper: ‘Subject Specific Optimisation of the Stiffness of
      Footwear Material for Maximum Plantar Pressure Reduction’; and Research and Innovation
      Award, Institute of Physics and Engineering in Medicine.
  • Pierscionek: Paper [6376] selected for inclusion in Optics and Photonics News’s ‘Optics in
      2020’ Best in Optics selection.

Examples of Public Engagement
   • CBRT delivered National Biomechanics Day – 6th April 2017, ‘Biomechanics: From Human
      Body to Sport to 3D Printing’ to secondary school pupils in the Staffordshire region.
   • Naemi et al delivered ‘Translating Our Research for Public Consumption: National
      Biomechanics Day and Beyond’, Brisbane, Australia, July 2017.
   • Ardekani has been interviewed for 53 articles and reports in international newspapers,
      magazines, and TV programmes.
   • Dodd has been interviewed by Newsweek on the topic of civilian drones.
   • Healy delivered a public lecture titled ‘Good Health and Wellbeing in an Unequal World’ for
      the University’s Profs in the Pav public seminar series.




                                                                                                 Page 15
