Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 32 Art and Design

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction and context

 Art and Design at Oxford Brookes comprises a dynamic group of researchers whose work
 encompasses a broad range of contemporary art practice and theory. Working within the rapidly
 expanding School of Arts (SoA; within the Faculty of Technology, Design & Environment, TDE),
 the researchers in UoA32 contribute to the SoA’s academic teaching programmes in UG and PGT
 Fine Art, ranked 5th in the Guardian league tables for Art in 2020, as well as UG programmes in
 Photography and Graphic Design. We have particular strengths in sound art as evidenced in the
 two Impact Case Studies (ICS) that form part of this submission. The unit’s researchers contribute
 to the School’s annual interdisciplinary sound art and experimental music festival audiograft, which
 presents the work of our researchers and research students alongside national and international
 practitioners to the public through performances, installations and talks. The FAR (Fine Art
 Research) group of researchers holds regular public talks, seminars and lectures with invited
 artists and theorists. All of the staff returned are based in the SoA, from Fine Art, Publishing and
 also from the newly developed Photography area.

 The SoA has strategically invested in developing the critical mass within the unit by the addition
 of three new posts: Kazan, Scott and Trott, plus Farmer as part of an AHRC funded project, as
 well as Research Fellows (RF) Williamson and Parker (ECR). Of those included in REF2014
 Lee, Cornford, Black and, the now Professor Emerita, Sacks are included in this return. Howard,
 Chinnery and Hughes have been included in the return for the first time. The staff FTE returned
 in this assessment is 9.6, a 20% increase from REF2014. Williamson and Parker were funded
 by University (Central Research Fund, CRF) and School QR as part of a strategic aim to invest in
 RFs. Scott’s inclusion has been made possible by the expansion of the SoA to include a degree
 in Photography. Our former AHRC Creative RF Eastley who returned with REF2014 is the subject
 of one of our ICSs.

 Since REF2014, we have continued to target resources towards the growth and increased quality
 of our research. We have increased our community of PhD researchers and doubled the number
 of PhD completions (see below). We have had considerable success in the outward facing
 activities of our impact generating activities.

 Lee as UoA32 coordinator convenes regular meetings for researchers to share ideas and discuss
 ideas and synergies. The research strategy focuses on a ground up approach, prioritising and
 supporting the production of highly impactful, internationally leading outputs and on ensuring that
 the unit’s researchers have sufficient support to continue to produce these high-quality outputs.

 1.2 Research Centres, Groups and Networks

 All researchers in the SoA are members of CoRA (The Centre of Research in the Arts
 https://www.brookes.ac.uk/research/units/tde/centres/cora/) that provides a context for the
 strategic development of the research culture in the School and UoA. CoRA is an interdisciplinary
 research centre that provides a context for the outstanding research practices in the arts, including
 - among Art & Design, Communication, Media and Culture, Digital Media, Photography, English,
 History and Publishing - also Music and Film. Within the Centre, several research groups are
 active. It acts as an umbrella for the activities of existing research groups from within UoA32: FAR
 (Fine Art Research), and SARU (Sonic Art Research Unit), as well as research groups in UoA33:
 OBERTO (Oxford Brookes Emerging Research Trends in Opera), PCRU (Print Culture Research
 Unit), PMRU (Popular Music Research Unit), FSRU (Film Studies Research Unit) and TAP (The
 Audience Project). It also offers support for innovative and creative collaborative partnerships

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 across Schools and Faculties within Brookes and with institutions and industry beyond. From
 UoA32, Trott, Parker, Scott and Howard play an active role in the organisation and management
 of the research group.

 Following the retirement of Sacks (now Professor Emerita) and the development of the Social
 Sculpture Research Unit (SSRU) as a legacy project, research within the unit is now organised
 around two main clusters: The cross disciplinary (with UoA33) Sonic Art Research Unit (SARU),
 and FAR (Fine Art Research). All returning staff are connected with these two research clusters.
 SARU (http://www.sonicartresearch.co.uk/) is an interdisciplinary research group providing a
 forum for dialogue and exploration in experimental composition and sound art. It is situated
 between the fields of Fine Art and Music. Areas of interest include electroacoustic and language
 based composition, interdisciplinary sound practices, field recording and auditory knowledge.

 The group comprises researchers and artists from UoA32 (Lee, Cornford, Parker, Farmer) and
 UoA33 (Dibley, Whitty). Since 2011 SARU has curated the annual festival of Experimental
 Composition and Sound Art audiograft produced in partnership with OCM (Oxford Contemporary
 Music), Modern Art Oxford, the Old Fire Station Arts Centre and OVADA (Oxfordshire Visual Arts
 Development Agency) providing a public platform for work by staff (Lee, Cornford, Parker,
 Farmer), research associates including visiting fellow Eastley, and practitioners Tess Denman
 Cleaver and Felicity Ford, and research students (Blow, Blackmore, Pegna, Decotes-Rodrigues)
 as well as visiting international sound artists and researchers.

 SARU hosts the field recording project Sound Diaries an online research platform for the
 documentation of everyday life in sound; the experimental music label Consumer Waste
 (Cornford); the public seminar series Sound I’m Particular curated by Farmer from 2015); and a
 regular series of publications including the anthology Listening and It’s Not (ed. Farmer) that
 brings together nineteen text realisations of a score by Patrick Farmer. Researchers from the
 SARU are cited in important surveys of experimental music and sound art including Experimental
 Music Since 1970 (Bloomsbury 2016) in which Jennie Gottschalk cites the work of Cornford and
 Farmer along with Whitty (UoA33). Cornford has a section on his work in the 2019 MIT Press /
 ZKM book on Sound Art: https://mitpress.mit.edu/books/sound-art. Lee has a chapter on his work
 forthcoming in the Oxford Handbook of Soundart (OUP 2021).

 FAR encompasses the research produced by the majority of UoA32 staff. FAR has presented
 over fifty research talks over the past cycle bringing internationally renowned artists and
 researchers to present their work with staff and students in a publicly accessible forum, including
 Cornelia Parker, Susan Hiller, Rebecca French, Daniel Lismore, Michael Takeo Magruder, Athi-
 Patra Rugi, Iris Zaki, James Massiah, Brian Catling, Aleksandra Mir, and school alumni including
 Saad Qureshi, Tom Milnes and Penney Ellis. FAR researchers have also presented their work in
 this context, with Chinnery, Kazan, Williamson, Trott, Black, Cornford and Lee giving research
 talks. FAR also provides a forum for discussion and debate among the researchers with regular
 discussion seminars where researchers present their work for each other, discuss their ongoing
 research in progress and consider research groupings and new and emerging synergies.

 In addition to the research groups hosted within the SoA, a Creative Industries Research and
 Innovation Network (CIRIN) was set up in 2020 as one of the Research, Innovation and
 Knowledge Exchange (RIKE) networks introduced recently at Oxford Brookes. Members of CIRIN
 include many researchers from UoA32 as well as from the SoA overall and elsewhere in the
 university. The work of CIRIN builds on our rich and diverse expertise to deliver the RIKE aims of
 multi-disciplinary research through internal collaborations, building external partnerships,
 enhancing Oxford Brookes’ profile as a world-class research institution, and influencing decision-
 making and shaping policy nationally and internationally.

 1.3 Research strategy

 The overarching objective for the unit during the assessment period has been to deliver the highest
 possible outcomes in research and impact. The key objectives identified in REF2014 have been

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 substantially delivered due to the strategy and support structures identified above and below.
 These objectives were as follows:

    ●   Significantly increase the number of active research staff
    ●   Expand the research base by increasing the number of early career researchers.
    ●   Develop research leadership
    ●   Establish support for staff to increase the international significance and impact of their
        research
    ●   Increase the volume and quality of external research funding applications
    ●   Increase the number of postgraduate researchers and enhance the PhD research
        environment

Staffing for UoA32 has increased since REF2014 and key staff have been retained. The number
of research active staff in the unit has been increased by 20%. This includes 3.5 FTE new staff, 1
FTE ECR and 1.8 FTE staff who had not previously been returned with the unit. This has helped
replace the staff who have left the University as well as bringing a significant overall increase in
FTE.

Existing staff who were not returned in the last REF cycle have been given targeted support
through QR funding and teaching release to develop their research (Howard and Chinnery) and
new staff have been recruited (Trott, Kazan, Scott, Parker, Williamson, and Farmer). For
example, Howard and Chinnery were supported by School QR funds for the exhibition Within and
Between: Women/Bodies/Generations 2019. With support from the University’s CRF and UoA QR,
the unit was able to appoint ECR Parker and RF Williamson, which demonstrates our
commitment to providing significant opportunities for research progression.

During this cycle Lee took over the coordination of the unit from Warr, who had left the University.
Lee was promoted to Professor in 2017. Treveri Gennari (UoA33) took the role of Research Lead
(RL) for the SoA, taking over from Whitty (UoA33) who became Head of School in 2019. The role
of RL provides overall coordination and planning of the School’s research strategies. All staff
produce a three-year personal research plan (PRP), which is reviewed annually by the RL and
requires Faculty approval. This PRP acts as a mentorship tool, noting research and impact
outcomes, founding bids, projects and opportunities for professional development as a researcher.
Based on projected outcomes staff are allocated workload hours for research (which equates to
significant responsibility for research, SRR).

The research groups allow opportunities for more junior staff to take on research leadership roles.
SARU has been co-led by Cornford and is currently led by Whitty (UoA33) and Farmer, who also
co-directs audiograft with Whitty. Farmer also curates the interdisciplinary Sound I’m Particular
series of public talks on sound art and related fields. The FAR research group, established in the
unit in 2017, was initially led by Chinnery and is now by Trott.

 All of the unit’s researchers receive an automatic annual QR budget of £500 to support research
 equipment and small-scale activities, such as presenting work at conferences, making prototypes,
 or developing small scale versions of projects. Staff can use this no-strings attached money to
 engage in research which may be outside of their usual trajectory in order to develop new ideas.
 For example, Lee’s project Congregation, a work for interactive sonic spheres and a research
 area outside of Lee’s normal expertise, started with a residency at the National Theatre Studio in
 London, partly funded with the £400 allowance. The work went on to raise over £66,000 for a
 project that has been presented nationally and internationally during 2019 and 2020.

 Trott has received a CRF Research Excellence Award (£16,805) investigating working-class
 representation in the arts and following on from her ACE funded Kahoon Projects. The award will
 enable Trott to take a sabbatical. In addition, teaching relief is provided to support researchers,
 for example, Black had a sabbatical supported by the SoA for an art residency at The Prieuré
 d’Ambialet, in France. Here she designed and delivered (cut short by Covid-19) an



                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 intergenerational, socially engaged project bringing together the local 3’eme Age (elderly) group
 and members of the Prieuré community.

 The Faculty provides support for external grant applications through its grants panel and targeted
 mentoring and advice for applicants. In the assessment period, UoA staff made multiple grant
 applications totalling £348,523. Of these applications, £118,799 has been awarded to support a
 range of projects, a success rate of 34% (see Section 2 for more details)

The unit has been very successful in bringing in non-HESA income in part due to fractional
appointments that enable artists to develop projects that overlap with their academic roles and
also because of the nature of available funding for practice-based research including Arts Council
England (ACE) who support individual artists and projects. During the assessment period
researchers generated £637,866 in direct non-HESA grants, fees and other financial support
excluding any support in kind. This income has, for example, enabled the touring of Lee’s large
scale kinetic sound art projects Chorus, Ring Out and Congregation to twenty-six countries across
four continents including Australia, Malaysia, Hong Kong, South Korea and extensively in Europe.
Williamson’s Demonstrating the World benefited from financial support of £59,200 from Arts
Council England and the British Council. Parker raised £34,721 for projects including People’s
Cloud, Memory Line, The Imitation Archive. Black raised £27,092 for projects including Beyond
the Balcony at the Ashmolean Museum, Oxford; Rose Hill community art project (Oxford City
Council); and My Dancing Days at the Trauma Ward, for Oxford Hospital Trust.

The level of non-HESA funding for researcher’s outputs demonstrates both the vitality of the unit
and the sustainability of its research, which we will be building on in the next REF cycle. More
detail is provided in Section 3.

Over the past six years the growing PhD research community (currently 24 students) has resulted
in a more than doubling of completions, from 5 in the previous cycle to 12 during the current cycle.
The PhD community is focussed around practice-based research and students are supported by
a popular and well attended weekly practice-based PhD seminar, which runs year round led by
Lee. In these, approaches to practice as research methodology are introduced and discussed and
researchers regularly present their research and feedback on their peer’s work in progress.

Over the next REF cycle our key priorities are to:

    ●   Prioritise world leading and high impact research outcomes by providing the
        appropriate support, guidance and resources to continue to produce world leading, high
        impact research. The UoA will continue to work closely with Faculty and University systems
        to ensure that staff can access funding, teaching release and guidance to further develop
        their research outputs and research careers. Recent successes that will lead to future
        outputs include a CRF Research Excellence award of £15,824 to pump-prime support for
        a new project Geology of the Technical Image by Cornford. We will continue to help staff
        prioritise high quality research through the discussion and analysis of their three year PRP
        tailored with individual mentoring from the SoA RL.

    ●   Increase external funding for research projects: The UoA’s high success rate in
        external funding of 34% gives us confidence that by increasing the volume of external
        grant applications the overall level of external income can be increased. Staff will be
        encouraged to make grant applications for both HESA and non-HESA to support their
        research and these will be supported through the annual PRP. In addition, staff who have
        been successful at generating research income through either route will give support to
        colleagues through research seminars and individual mentoring.

    ●   Provide ongoing support for research that generates impact: The outward facing
        research of the unit is ideally suited to generating high impact research. As detailed in the
        support for impact section we will continue to provide targeted support to identify and



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        develop research projects that can attain a high level of impact through annual personal
        research planning and support from the faculty impact excellence funding.

    ●   Continue to build the PhD research community: The unit has a vibrant PhD community
        and we will continue to build on this. The unit attracts a high proportion of self-funded PhD
        applicants and this will be enhanced through faculty funded research studentships.

    ●   Enhance the careers of early and mid-career researchers and develop research
        leadership in the unit: ECRs make a vital contribution to the UoA. We will use QR funding
        and Faculty/University support to continue to provide opportunities for ECRs within the
        Unit. Mid-career researchers will be assisted through targeted guidance, individual
        mentoring and encouragement to apply for promotion to Reader. They will be encouraged
        to take on more senior research roles within the UoA.

1.4 Impact support and development:

Support for impact is delivered through the Faculty Impact Group and assisted by the University’s
Research Impact Steering Group and research Impact Officers. The impact team offer support and
guidance to track and develop impact activity through seminars and workshops on planning,
delivering and recording impact. Potential impact case studies are identified by the RL, working
together with the unit coordinator and Head of School and supported by Faculty funds. Impact is
embedded in the annual PRP process for all staff where potential impact opportunities can be
identified and supported from an early stage. Through this process new projects with a potential
for impact can be nurtured and supported with targeted funding and mentoring so that the details
of the impact can be recorded and tracked through the ongoing development of the projects.

Projects during this cycle that have been supported through faculty funding to support impact
excellence include Lee, and Whitty (UoA33 for the Audible Forces ICS for UoA32). The work of
Black in hospital settings has been supported through impact support as a potential ICS and the
two case studies presented are Lee’s large-scale international touring outdoor kinetic sound art
projects and the Audible Forces project, which built on the work of AHRC RF Eastley, and which
received significant public funding through the ACE funded Without Walls arts touring network.
Both ICS detail the impact of broad reach and significance with extensive dissemination and have
impacted on the practices of artists and arts organisations..

 These public facing, interdisciplinary outdoor arts based projects that combine contemporary art
 and sound/music, have achieved considerable impact in terms of bringing sound art to a wider
 public awareness. The work of SARU through the regularly funded audiograft Festival and through
 its practitioners within the UoA, notably Lee, Cornford, Parker and Farmer, has resulted in
 research that has had a broad reach and significance outside of the academy. For example, the
 audiograft festival presented the UK premiere of Gordon Monahan’s seminal Speaker Swinging
 in 2015. Projects such as Earth Forum and University of the Trees, organised through the SSRU
 led by Sacks have involved thousands of participants in countries the world over.

The work of the UoA’s FAR researchers are highly focussed on public facing artwork and debate.
For example, Kazan’s article for World Records Dossier, Tracing Violence and the Coloniality of
Law’s Authority, Parker’s work on data storage facilities, Black’s work in hospital and community
settings, Williamson’s work with arts and disability, Howard’s work on arts and illness, Farmer’s
tinnitus research project, and Trott’s Working Class Avant Garde projects.

1.5 Interdisciplinary research

Although there are no outputs listed as interdisciplinary there are many examples of
interdisciplinary practice within the UoA32. The unit is home to the innovative and cross disciplinary
Sonic Arts Research Unit, situated between the fields of sound art practice and experimental music
and shared between UoA32 and UoA33. The outputs of UoA32’s SARU practitioners Lee,
Cornford, Parker and Farmer all cut across the boundaries of fine art practice and experimental


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
musical composition. For example, Lee’s work Ring Out was supported through a Performing
Rights Society (PRS) Composer’s award. Ring Out was broadcast on BBC Radio 3 in 2017. He
has previously won the British Composer Award for Sonic Art and was shortlisted for the award in
2014. Farmer’s work on tinnitus is part of an AHRC project led by Thompson from the Music
Department, Open University.

The research of virtually all of the unit’s staff displays strong elements of interdisciplinarity. For
example Williamson’s Disabled Avant Garde, Kazan’s work published in Forensic Architecture,
and the Feminist Law Journal, Sacks’ SSRU and it’s links with environmental activism, Trott’s
Working Class Avant Garde, Farmer’s work on aural diversity and tinnitus, Scott’s Do Not Bend
film, and Hughes work on museum and gallery publishing.

1.6 Open Access, ethics and integrity

 This UoA has gone beyond the Open Access (OA) requirements of REF. All UoA32 peer-reviewed
 publications that are required to grant OA are stored on the University’s institutional repository
 RADAR and to make our research as widely accessible as possible RADAR includes significant
 collections of research data like the continuous additions of images, videos, and sound files to the
 SARU collection (https://radar.brookes.ac.uk/radar/s/saru).

 Research projects are conducted according to the appropriate legal, ethical and professional
 frameworks, particularly those involving research participants or reaching out to wider audiences
 (e.g. The archives on RADAR include audiograft, Sound Diaries but also an extensive archive of
 Farmer’s field recordings and of Eastley's work). Research integrity of the unit is formally overseen
 by the University Research Ethics Committee, and all newly awarded projects are conducted in
 line with the university’s Data Management Policy and protocols that concerns data capture,
 management, confidentiality, retention, sharing and publication.

 Furthermore, all staff are encouraged to put original data, datasets, and other research materials
 and information in the open domain wherever possible through open web resources as evidenced,
 once again, by the substantial content available on the project/group websites of SARU and FAR
 practitioners.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing Strategy, support and development

 The University has strategically invested in the unit’s research underpinned by the high esteem
 that the UG programmes are held in (5th for Art in Guardian League Table 2020). Core REF2014
 staff have been retained through opportunities for promotion and through support for research and
 personal development. Recruitment of staff is based on strong evidence of high quality outputs,
 experience of funding proposal preparation, participation in research networks of international
 reach and potential for research-led teaching.

 As the UoA is within a School with a comparatively small Art and Design section, our strategy has
 been primarily to appoint staff to posts which combine research, teaching and administration with
 the exception of the RFs. This has helped to sustain our research culture, building on a strong
 base of a mixed economy of research and teaching income. During the current REF cycle we
 have appointed six new members of staff (Trott, Kazan, Scott, Parker, Williamson, Farmer)
 (FTE of 5.3).

 Lee has been promoted to Professor so that following the retirement of Sachs, the Unit retains
 professorial leadership. During the current cycle four members of research staff have completed
 their PhDs (Lee, Chinnery, Cornford and Farmer), with two more currently undertaking PhDs
 (Howard, Scott), which will mean that 11 out of the 12 returned staff have PhDs or are likely to
 have completed PhDs within the next two years. Cornford was supported with flexible working to




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 complete his funded PhD at Winchester. Trott, who was appointed in 2016, was promoted to
 Principal Lecturer in 2018.

 Development needs (including but not limited to workload allocation) are identified and assessed
 through an annual PRP exercise, which requires staff to submit plans for the following 3 years to
 include expected research outcome/outputs and grant-sourcing activities. PRP runs in parallel
 with the Personal Development and Review (PDR) process. Both are monitored through annual
 appraisals (with each researcher’s individual line manager) and through progress meetings with
 the RL (Treveri Gennari).

 All Category A staff hold permanent contracts. Our two RFs who were appointed to three-year
 career development posts on a pathway towards permanent appointment. The unit now has a
 balance of approximately 75% permanent staff to 25% ECR, RF and fixed term contract research
 staff.

 Early Career fellow Streffen left in 2019 to lead the MA Fine Art at De Montfort University. Former
 AHRC creative fellows from previous returns Gilchrist and Eastley maintain a relationship with the
 unit through visiting lectures, collaborative projects (e.g. Chinnery’s Remote Centres as a part of
 London Fieldwork’s Outlandia) and Eastley’s work for the SARU-led Audible Forces project.

 The SoA submits to UoA32 and UoA33. There is close collaboration between them principally
 through SARU. Lee leads UoA32 and also mentors and assists the more junior researchers. As
 detailed before all researchers complete an annual PRP outlining their research and funding
 objectives over the next three years. These PRPs are considered by the RL and Head of School
 and then by the faculty Associate Dean for Research and KE (ADRKE) and these plans are then
 used to help set goals and allocate workload allowances. Organisation support for the UoAs
 researchers is targeted towards projects that have potential for excellence; can attract external
 income, HESA or non-HESA, or achieve significant collaboration or impact. The development of
 the SARU over the past two RAE/REF cycles has enabled institutional resources to be focussed
 on this area of excellence.

 2.2 Research students:

 The SoA and UoA32 value research students as being the lifeblood of the research community.
 Recruitment to the unit’s PhD programme remains robust. During the cycle the unit benefited
 from 3 students receiving one of the University’s 150th year fully funded scholarships and the UoA
 currently has 24 PhD students. PhD completions have doubled over the past cycle, from 5 in 2014
 to 12 in 2021, with 2 additional students completing during 2020, but narrowly missing the census
 date for this REF period.

 Research students are recruited through an open selection process managed by the Faculty’s
 research student administrator. The process is managed at a school level by the School of Arts
 Postgraduate Tutor (PGRT) (Lee) and the Faculty research student administrator who works
 closely with the University Graduate Office. The PGRT liaises with potential supervisors and works
 through draft proposals with applicants.

 University regulations require all staff to complete the university supervisor training course before
 they can supervise PhD students, and staff need two PhD completions as part of a team before
 they can act as Director of Studies. New students are supervised by a team compromising Director
 Of Studies plus at least one second supervisor and additional advisors if required. All students
 undergo a robust process of independent annual review, with the registration and subsequent
 transfer from MPhil to PhD overseen by the University Research Degrees Committee. Over the
 past cycle research students have been clustered around Sacks and the SSRU; the SARU (Lee
 and also Whitty UoA33), but increasingly the PhD cohort is based around staff from FAR.
 Research staff new to PhD supervision are encouraged to become part of supervisory teams.
 Trott, Williamson, Kazan and Farmer have all joined PhD supervisory teams with 90% of the
 research staff now either supervising PhD students or undertaking a PhD themselves. Supervisory


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 responsibility is now more evenly shared across the unit’s researchers and demonstrates the unit’s
 commitment to sustainability in research supervision and management.

 The Faculty Doctoral Training Programme provides opportunities for researchers to access
 training relevant to their needs. In UoA32 this is principally through the weekly two-hour practice-
 based PhD seminar where aspects of methodology for practice as research are introduced and
 students regularly present their research in progress for discussion. Since March 2020, these
 sessions have continued online. Students also benefit from the range of sessions provided by the
 faculty Doctoral Training Programme and can attend sessions on, for example, getting published,
 preparing for vivas, statistical analysis and research planning.

 All research students are active members of the Graduate College. The College is student-
 focused and oversees all matters related to the programmes and student experience. Research
 students are represented on the Graduate College Steering Committee, University and Faculty
 RKE Committees and University and Faculty Research Degrees Committees. The University’s
 Graduate Office provides the central administrative support for all research students during the
 course of their programme from enquiry, admissions and enrolment to conferment of the degree.

 Research students are fully involved in the activities of the unit’s research. Doctoral students in
 the field of Sonic and Sound Art are encouraged to present works at the annual audiograft Festival,
 for example, Blow, Blackmore, Pegna, Colbert, Decotes-Rodrigues, Sherlaw-Johnson have had
 installations/performances as part of the audiograft exhibitions and events.

 PhD alumna Kasai developed the Contemporary Arts Research Unit (CARU), which while
 connected to and supported by the Unit, is independent and which organises an annual
 conference into research as practice. Blow has developed a career in academia and is now
 Professor of Interdisciplinary Arts at the International College of Liberal Arts, Yamanashi Gakuin
 University, Japan. The faculty organise an annual research Students Conference and UoA 32
 research students have featured strongly in these events.

 2.3 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion

 The University has a long standing commitment to Equality, Diversity and Inclusion. The University
 and Faculty of TDE hold Athena Swan (AS) Bronze awards at institutional and ‘departmental’
 levels, respectively. Under the Faculty AS award, the SoA and UoA32 take initiatives to achieve
 equality and diversity in recruitment and the unit has been fully compliant with the university Code
 of Practice for REF2021.

 Of the 20 (by headcount) eligible staff within the UoA, 12 (60%) have SRR through a workload
 planning allowance for research. Women make up 55% of eligible staff and 50% of those with
 SRR. There was no significant difference in those with SRR by any of the protected
 characteristics.

 Members of the UoA take leading roles in the equality, diversity and inclusion initiatives at Oxford
 Brookes. Lee is a regular mentor in Brookes’ own mentoring scheme. Williamson is a key player
 in arts and disability in the UK. He is Member of the Board of Trustees for Shape Arts - the UK’s
 leading disability-led arts organisation. Chinnery is a mentor in the School’s research mentoring
 scheme.

 The SoA is committed to advancing equality of opportunity throughout all of its research activities,
 and a concern for equality and diversity is embedded in our structures. Staff are able to take
 advantage of policies which support work-life balance which include flexible working and the ability
 for staff to organise their working week around caring responsibilities.

 In total, three out of the 12 within UoA32 have had maternity, paternity or caring leave during the
 present REF cycle; a further two members of staff have taken unpaid leave to accommodate
 sickness or other caring responsibilities.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Assessments regarding equality were undertaken during preliminary audits, and action taken to
 ensure a fair distribution of outputs across the submission. As far as possible the unit has ensured
 a fair spread of work between early career and more established researchers, and across
 genders. The EIA showed that on average more outputs were returned by men than by women.
 This discrepancy results from the number of women currently on fractional contracts. We will
 address this through the implementation of targeted support including teaching release and travel
 grants; there were no other significant differences by any other protected characteristics.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 The total research spend by the unit during the assessment period is £756,665. A distinctive
 characteristic of the unit is that a significant proportion of this income (£635,086) has come through
 non-HESA reportable sources. Artist researchers can navigate between the worlds of artistic
 research and artistic practice and access sources of funds that may be unavailable to other
 humanities researchers and is a key factor in our sustainability as a unit. This income generated
 through diverse sources has enabled Lee, Williamson, Parker, Black in particular to produce
 high quality outputs (details below).

 The £118,799 of research spend reported though HESA that has benefited the UoA includes
 Farmer’s (£37,072) for Tinnitus, Auditory Knowledge and the Arts, a project led initially by the
 University of Lincoln. £55,000 was received from Arts Council England to support the UoA’s
 annual audiograft festival of experimental music and sound art. Trott received £12,062 for Kahoon
 Projects, exploring the working-class avant-garde, and Sacks (14,667) for projects supporting the
 SSRU.

The non-HESA income and spend totals £635,086. This includes Lee (£430,133), Williamson
(£156,140) Parker (£34,721) and Black (£27,092).

Lee generated £303,491 for the touring of Chorus (REF 2014) across three continents. This
included a grant of £20,000 from the Arts Council of England via Farnham Maltings Arts Centre to
facilitate the touring of Chorus to South Korea in 2017. He raised £66,216 for the creation and
touring of Congregation (REF2021) including a production grant of £17,000 from the Without Walls
Consortium; £65,570 for the creation and touring of Ring Out (REF 2021) including £20,000 from
the Performing Rights Society Foundation for New Music, and Arts Council funding of £13,975;
£31,223 for the representation and continued touring of Siren (REF2008); and £25,000 towards
his new project Points of Departure, scheduled for Brighton May 2020 but postponed to 2021
because of Covid19. Williamson generated £156,140 from projects including £31,000 from Arts
Council England for his Inspirational Archives project at Attenborough Arts Centre, Leicester
University and £62,200 for Demonstrating the World from Arts Council England and the British
Council. Parker brought in £34,721 from a wide variety of sources including £10,000 from the
Deutsche Bank Creative Enterprise Prize 2014 for The People’s Cloud (REF 2021), £6860 from
the Arts Council of England for Memory Line, and £4725 from the Arts Council for The Imitation
Archive. Black’s projects generated £27,092, comprising £15000 from the Ashmolean Museum
for the exhibition Beyond the Balcony, £9,092 from Oxford City Council for Rose Hill Public Art
Project and £3,000 from the Oxford Hospital Trust for My Dancing Days, arts in health project on
the Trauma Ward. The Social Sculpture Research Unit, led by Professor Sacks up until her recent
retirement, enabled the development of projects including Earth Forum and University of the Trees.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The SoA has outstanding facilities to support the production of research within UoA32. The
 Richard Hamilton Building boasts state of the art facilities in moving image, print, book and
 materials and processes, with highly trained technical specialists all of whom have or are studying
 to have at least Masters level education in arts subjects. The University invested over



                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 £100,000,000 in the John Henry Brookes Building (completed in 2014), which offers state-of-the-
 art conference facilities.

 SARU has its own studio space for researchers and postgraduate students and has benefitted
 from capital investment from CRF (£36,000) to support the purchase of IT and field recording
 equipment. The University library provides an excellent range of research literature and digital
 resources including the Museum of Modern Art Oxford archive and is enhanced by Oxford
 University’s Bodleian Library, which is open to researchers and research students from Oxford
 Brookes.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


 4.1 Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The unit has focussed its efforts on making significant contributions to society and the arts
 economy. These are evidenced in part through the projects that form the two impact case studies
 being put forward for the unit. Both ICS, Sound Moves: engaging audiences through kinetic sound
 art and Audible Forces: Eastley and Aeolian Sound, are distinctive in their engagement with
 disadvantaged communities. They also are both inherently collaborative, involving very large
 teams of people, such as artists, curators, promoters. The works presented in these studies have
 been presented and experienced by audiences in excess of 100,000 in communities such as
 Stockton-on Tees, Hull, Woolwich, Great Yarmouth, that have high levels of social and economic
 deprivation. Lee’s work detailed in Sound Moves: engaging audiences through kinetic sound art
 has had extensive international reach.

 Williamson’s work exploring the disabled avant-garde, Trott’s the working class avant-garde
 projects, and Kazan’s work on conflict and capitalism show a commitment to confronting issues
 of disability, class, and economic instability. The work of Black (with her collaborator Brook)
 worked with disadvantaged communities in The Rose Hill Community Art Project which involved
 seventy-two residents of Rose Hill, in Oxford, participating in socially engaged art workshops and
 meetings over two years, to support the community consultation phase for the development of the
 new Rose Hill Community Centre. Black also worked with participants from MIND and Young
 Dementia UK in a series of gallery-led workshops for Beyond the Balcony exhibition at the
 Ashmolean Museum, Oxford and devised an innovative programme of bedside arts for patients
 on the Trauma Ward at the John Radcliffe Hospital for the Oxford Hospital Trust. These are
 examples of how our researchers are generating a positive impact outside of the academic
 institution.

 In addition to this, researchers have contributed to research collaborations and joint academic
 projects. For example, Williamson’s Art of the Lived Experiment – a large-scale exhibition
 featuring thirty international artists curated for the Bluecoat, Liverpool and DaDaFest International
 (2014) and Trott’s Kahoon Projects, a collaborative project that provides a platform for
 contemporary artists from working-class backgrounds, and through which to develop the
 contemporary understanding of the term ‘working-class’. Kazan’s Art Activisms Research
 Workshop #04 (Practice-Based Research and Social Impact), involved a screening and panel
 discussion at Birmingham School of Art. She is a Fellow at the Vera List Centre for Art and Politics,
 The New School, New York (2018-2020).

 As mentioned earlier the unit is home to the cross disciplinary SARU and organises the annual
 sound art and experimental music festival AUDIOGRAFT. This public facing research features the
 work of Lee, Cornford, Parker and Farmer as well as Whitty (UoA34). It is also an opportunity
 for our PhD students to present their work alongside international sound artists. AUDIOGRAFT
 has been running in Oxford for the past ten years and presents work at a range of city centre arts
 venues and contexts including Modern Art Oxford, The Old Fire Station, the OVADA Warehouse
 gallery, as well as non-arts spaces including churches, community centres and outside spaces.

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The festival has a local following within Oxford as well as attracting visitors from the wider UK and
 internationally.

 Lee’s work (Ring Out, Congregation, plus work described in his impact case study ‘Sound Moves:
 engaging audiences through kinetic sound art’) has been experienced by audiences the world
 over. His recent project Congregation was funded by Without Walls and toured to festivals in the
 UK including at festivals reaching a predominantly economically disadvantaged audience such as
 Stockton International Riverside Festival, Stockton on Tees, Hull Freedom Festival and Out There
 Festival, Great Yarmouth. His new work Points of Departure, a major outdoor performance
 installation for Brighton Festival, was due to be premiered in May 2020 (postponed until May 2021
 due to the Covid19 restrictions). His focus on outdoor public space for his large-scale kinetic sound
 works enables a large and diverse audience to experience the work.

 Cornford’s exhibitions and performances exploring electronic waste and consumerism have
 included the widely touring kinetic installation Migration including solo exhibitions in Tokyo, Berlin
 and Rennes, festivals in Canada and Poland and group exhibitions in Milan and Bristol.

 Parker’s work with the history of technology (People’s Cloud 2017; Memory Line 2018; The
 Imitation Archive 2015) has attracted media considerable interest (NPR interview 2015; BBC
 World Service 2015; BBC Radio 4 podcasts 2016; BBC Radio 6).

 Farmer’s co-investigator role in the University of Lincoln AHRC project Tinnitus, Auditory
 Knowledge and the Arts forges an important relationship between the medical and artistic
 understanding of sound.

 Howard and Chinnery have collaborated with Lisa Richardson on the exhibition Within and
 Between: Women/Bodies/Generations (2019) supported by Oxford Brookes University; Arts
 University Bournemouth; Imperial College, London; and Parkinson’s UK. The exhibition catalogue,
 with a contribution by Fran Norton, was published by Oxford Brookes University, Oxford, 2019.
 ISBN: 978-1-9165043-3-2

 Howard’s widely touring video works (Encounters with Illness 2017, and Echo (heart in my mouth)
 2017 and Chinnery’s projects Remains II: Twenty Future Fossils 2019, and The Human Nest-
 box 2017 are examples of how the unit’s researchers make a broad contribution to the arts both
 academically and publicly.

 Howard’s practice-based research projects under the umbrella of Encounters with Illness address
 how we can be affected by illness and disease such as Parkinson’s and cancer. The work was
 included in an exhibition at the University of Buckingham Medical School, and was selected for
 inclusion in the Science Museum conference programme ‘Representing the Medical Body’. Her
 video work Echo- heart in my mouth was screened at the International Papillomavirus conference
 in Barcelona in 2020 which illustrates the challenges and resiliency of women around the world
 who are confronted by complex reproductive health issues, highlighting the often invisible social
 determinants that marginalize women.

 Scott has made a significant contribution to photography with his internationally screened film Do
 Not Bend: The Photographic Life of Bill Jay, and his monographs Professional Photography: The
 Global Landscape Explained; New Ways of Seeing: The Democratic Language of Photograph;
 What Does Photography Mean to You? and The Essential Student Guide to Professional
 Photography.

 Hughes’ monograph Museum and Gallery Publishing: From Theory to Case Study explores an
 under researched area of relevance to fine art researchers.

 Sacks, now an Emerita, reached thousands of participants through the work of the Social
 Sculpture Research Unit’s Earth Forum, University of the Trees, projects that explore new
 thinking, engagement and action in the field of social sculpture and related transformative practice.


                                                                                               Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4.2 Indicators of recognition

 During the current REF cycle UoA32’s researchers have had a significant influence on and made
 considerable contributions to their wider research communities as reflected in this statement.

 Williamson has developed a significant reputation in the field of disability arts. He is an associate
 artist of the ‘Arts and Activism Directory’ based in Canada but operating internationally. He
 contributed The Collapsing Lecture for Disability, Space, Architecture, Routledge, 2017. He has
 been a regular selection panel member for projects funded by the Arts Council of England and
 British Council, including The Katherine Araniello Bursary Award and Unlimited, emerging artists
 award and major awards. He was the 2016 Artist’s Award winner in the category Art in Urban
 Space from the Arts Foundation. He has given keynote lectures, performances, conference chair
 roles at the Disability Arts Conference’ Birmingham Midlands Arts Centre in 2020, the School of
 the Arts Institute of Chicago, Visiting Artists Public Lecture, in 2019, the Art of the Lived
 Experiment conference introduction as curator of the exhibition, both at the Bluecoat, Liverpool in
 2014 and at UICA/ Ferris State University, USA in 2015.

 Lee has continued to develop his international reputation as a kinetic sound artist and over the
 past six years has shifted his output towards large scale outdoor presentation enabling a larger
 and more diverse audience makeup. He was shortlisted (as one of three) for the British
 Composers’ Award for Sonic Art in 2014 for Chorus (Ref 2014). He gave keynote and invited
 lectures for the Intime Conference, Coventry 2015; Hong Kong Technical University 2017; Seoul
 Street Arts Centre, South Korea 2017; Graz University of Technology 2019.

 Kazan has an impressive range of awards and invitations to present her work on conflict and
 capitalism internationally. In 2020 she was shortlisted for the Frieze Artist Award, London and
 between 2018-2020 she was a fellow at the Vera List Centre for Art and Politics in New York. She
 was the recipient of the CHASE AHRC Award for PhD project at the Centre for Research
 Architecture, Goldsmiths College, University of London, 2014-2018 and a research Fellow on the
 European Research Council funded project Forensic Architecture, Goldsmiths College, University
 of London (2012-2015). She has presented numerous artists talks and been a pane member at,
 amongst others, Sensing Violence, a curated panel for the 2019 Birkbeck Law Annual Conference
 on 'Dystopias Here and Now: Critical Thought at the End of Time’, London; 'Between Traces and
 Durable Marks: Researching Coloniality in the Middle East’, University of Vienna, 2019; Digital
 Earth Symposium in partnership with Ashkal Alwan, Beirut, 2019; Speculative Legal Futures and
 the Poetic Testimony of Violence, Lecture Performance at UnionDocs, World Records with The
 Vera List Centre, NYC, 2019; (De)constructing Risk, Remote Public Lecture at the Strelka Institute
 for Media, Architecture and Design, Moscow, 2016; ‘Middle of Where, East of What? New
 Geographies of Conflict’ conference at ICI, Berlin. 2016; XIII. Internationales Bauhaus-
 Kolloquium, Bauhaus, Weimar, 2016; Perspectives of Home and Deconstructing Risk, Artists
 Talks at KEX Studio as part of a selected residency, Vienna. 2015.

 Trott peer reviews for JAR (Journal for Artistic Research), and the WCSA (Working Class Studies
 Association). She is also co-editor of a special issue of Volupte and co-editor of the Working-
 Class Avant-Garde OLH Special Collection.

 Cornford was nominated for a Paul Hamlyn Award in 2015, was part of the European Capital of
 Culture residency programme in Wroclaw in 2016, was the recipient of a University of
 Southampton PhD bursary. He was commissioned to make a new installation for Coventry
 Biennial in 2019 and is currently Earth Art Fellow at Bristol University School of Earth Sciences.

 Howard’s Encounters with illness video works were reconfigured as photo/text and published in
 The Displaced and Privilege: live art in the age of hostility, a Live Art Development Agency Study
 Room Guide in 2016. She contributed the article Touching movements in-between: thinking with
 my feet for Un/writing the landscape, re/figuring the body PABlish Bergen Performing Arts ISBN:
 978-82-999991-8-2. She was also invited to contribute to the seers-in-residence programme a
 collaboration with Rhiannon Jones (University of Derby), Traci Kelly (Independent Artist),

                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Professor Jennie Klein (University of Ohio), Joanna Lee (Sheffield Hallam University) Deborah Pil,
 Kate Mahon and Helen Walkington (Oxford Brookes University) and the University of Bergen.

 Farmer has a growing reputation as a researcher, notably with his work on Tinnitus. He has given
 performative readings and lectures at the Writing Sound Symposium, Bristol, in 2014; the Q02
 Winter School, Brussels, Belgium and Nottingham Trent University, UK in 2014. In 2020 he was
 awarded Chase Funding for a series of talks around London concerning Aural Diversity and was
 a panel member for a discussion with Dr. Marie Thompson and Prof. John Drever at the annual
 British Tinnitus Association. His work was presented on the Late Junction programme of BBC
 Radio 3.

 Parker has been engaged in a wide variety of public talks and lectures on his research including
 at In the Clouds, International Symposium, Stavanger Art Museum / University of Stavanger,
 Stavanger, Norway, 2019; Sounding the Archive, ECR Masterclass, Wellcome Trust, London,
 2019; Invisible Symposium, Iklectik Art Lab. London, 2018; Investigating Infrastructure, Space and
 Place Research Network Symposium. Sheffield Hallam University, Sheffield, 2018; Data Centers:
 Investigating Socio-Technological Assemblages of the Cloud. Stockholm University, 2017; Points
 of Listening. London College of Communication, UAL, London, 2016; and the Walking Studies
 Symposium, The People’s Cloud, Keele University, 2015.

 Scott has been engaged in a wide variety of public talks and lectures on his research including
 as part of ‘Images of the future’ at the Hochschule München University of Applied Sciences. He is
 the founder of www.unitednationsofphotography.com and the weekly podcast A Photographic Life
 and has a growing reputation as a researcher and writer, notably with his work on photography
 within the UK between 1965-71. He has been an annual lecturer at the Vancouver School of Media
 Arts for the past four years.




                                                                                           Page 13
