Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Teesside University

 Unit of Assessment: 3 Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing, and Pharmacy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
Unit context and structure
Our Allied Health Professions, Dentistry, Nursing, and Pharmacy unit (60.5 FTE) comprises 65
researchers from the School of Health and Life Sciences. Our research is organised through three
research centres focused on rehabilitation, public health, and biosciences (through the recently
formed National Horizon Centre).
The Centre for Rehabilitation (led by Martin) includes 24.8 FTE staff, five graduate tutors and 31
PhD students. Our work is informed by our specific methodological research and expertise
including: physical, physiological, and psychosocial measurement; behavioural intervention
development; evaluation and optimisation; systematic reviewing and meta-analysis; research
design and statistical analysis; healthcare user experience and education; and technology
development and application. Research takes place across three themes: Management and
Prevention of Long-Term Conditions (led by Ryan and Harrison); Physical Activity, Exercise and
Health Outcomes (led by Batterham and Atkinson); and Applied Health Psychology (led by Avery
and Flynn). Our industry-facing research and innovation is delivered through the Health Innovation
Centre (HIC); established in 2017 to develop health technologies as part of a formal partnership
with independent research and technology organisation TWI. The HIC is part of TWI’s network,
which includes 12 innovation centres, the National Digital Catapult and the National Structural
Integrity Research Centre.
The Centre for Public Health (led by Zohoori) includes 13.7 FTE staff, five graduate tutors, and 11
PhD students. Research focuses on: behaviour change; children and young people's health; e-
health; nursing; nutrition and dietetics; obesity and obesogenic environments; oral health; physical
activity; and the clustering of health risk behaviours. This work is underpinned by: methodological
expertise in qualitative and quantitative research methods; systematic reviewing; service
evaluation; intervention development; co-production; and embedded research. Research takes
place across two themes: Public Health Interventions and Disease Prevention (led by Giles and
Nnyanzi); and Translational Public Health (led by Lake and van der Graaf). We have long-standing
collaborative relationships with the World Health Organization (WHO) and Public Health England
(PHE), as well as partnerships within regional and national infrastructures, such as Fuse (the
Centre for Translational Research in Public Health), the National Institute for Health Research
(NIHR) School for Public Health Research (SPHR), and the NIHR Applied Research Collaboration
for the North East and North Cumbria (ARC NE&NC) (see section 4).
The National Horizon Centre (NHC) is a centre of excellence for the bioscience industries (led by
Rand). It includes 22 FTE, seven graduate tutors and 17 PhD students. Research explores the
characterisation, understanding, and modelling of complex interactions within biological systems.
This work includes the study of: cancer and other diseases; food technology; development of
medical diagnostic devices; ecology and environment; forensic archaeology; and biotechnology
enhancement. Research takes place across four themes: Health and Disease (led by Ortiz);
Bioinformatics and Data Science (led by Li); Biotechnology and Analytics (led by Mina); and
Sustainable Planet (led by Bojko). The NHC is situated in a £22m purpose-built facility, opened in
October 2019. Our multidisciplinary team of researchers works in partnership with industry, the
NHS, and other stakeholders. NHC is a designated National Training Centre for the Advanced
Therapies Skills Training Network. It is part of the Northern Bio-Accelerator Partnership (NBioP), a


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
collaboration with the Centre for Process Innovation and Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies to
accelerate the bioscience sector in the Tees Valley through the creation of a bioprocessing,
biomanufacturing and biopharmaceutical hub.
The multidisciplinary nature of our research base means that our staff collaborate across centres,
between research themes and through the university’s three research grand challenge themes
(creating vibrant, cohesive and resilient and societies; forging a smarter, greener industrial
economy; and shaping the future of health, care and wellbeing), which drive institutional research
priorities aligned to regional growth, the UK’s industrial strategy and the UN’s sustainable
development goals.

Research and impact strategy
Research strategy
The university’s strategy for 2015-20 (Teesside 2020) reconfigured school structures to bring
together compatible disciplines and facilities (in our case biosciences with health in the School of
Health and Life Sciences). As part of Teesside 2020, and in partnership with the Tees Valley
Combined Authority (TVCA), the university developed the £22m NHC (funded by European
Regional Development Fund and TVCA) to drive economic growth in the Tees Valley through
collaborative research and innovation in the biosciences.
Our unit strategy in REF2014 set out to grow research aligned to our core academic functions
through strengthening sustainability, building capacity and improving research quality; and by
investing in our research base, developing our researchers and securing additional research
funding.
Since 2014, we have integrated biosciences research with our rehabilitation and public-health
themes by: creating a new school structure; refreshing our research centres; appointing 17
bioscience researchers and four graduate tutors; and investing in the University Alliance (UA)
Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA) in biosciences for health. Staff with Significant Responsibility for
Research (SRfR) have increased to 60.5 FTE, through mentoring and development of existing
staff, and investing in 36.2 FTE posts (in biosciences, bioinformatics, health psychology,
environmental impact, food science/nutrition). We have grown our research income by 39 per cent:
from an average of £657,000 a year in the REF2014 period to an average of £914,000 a year in
REF2021. We achieved this through industry collaborations funded by the EU and Innovate UK,
and projects with health-sector partners funded by NIHR and UK research councils (see section 3).
New and developing staff are supported to improve the quality of their research by a process of
mentoring, training and peer review, enabling them to build their research networks and develop
their publication records (see section 2). We have seen the benefit of this in increased publications
from existing staff not submitted in 2014 and the increased value of bids made. In 2017, bids made
had a total value £2.0m. In 2020, we submitted bids with a total value of £13.6m.
We have grown our postgraduate community by recruiting 116 PhD students and delivering 6.9
completions a year on average over the period (compared with an average of 4.9 in REF2014),
with the help of a £3.5m university investment in 52 PhD studentships, including 16 graduate
tutors.
We have facilitated industry engagement, partnerships and collaborations to support future impact
through the HIC and strategic partnerships with Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies, and the Durham
Tees Valley Research Alliance (DTVRA), which brings together County Durham and Darlington,
North Tees and Hartlepool and South Tees Hospitals NHS Foundation Trusts.




                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact Strategy
We have continued our focus on applied research and co-production methodologies to ensure that
our research addresses sector challenges, meeting health needs at regional, national, and
international levels. Specifically, our strategy has sought to: develop and provide robust evidence,
and open and accessible datasets, that are aligned to the needs of clinicians and policymakers to
support, or make changes to, both healthcare policy and practice; work closely with stakeholders
and beneficiaries across the research lifecycle to ensure research outcomes are embedded and
realised; and develop tools and digital technologies that enhance and transform the working
practices of our partners in health and sport, producing new insights and new ways of working.
Staff are mentored and trained in research design, stakeholder mapping and theories of change.
This approach is supported by work-based learning and our participation in, and contribution to,
established and emerging collaborative endeavours that bring together researchers, policymakers,
and healthcare professionals. Our strategy has led to the formalisation of relationships with the
region’s NHS trusts through memoranda of understanding, and engagement with DTVRA to
support co-production of research. Our on-going membership and contribution to Fuse, a virtual
research centre that brings together the five north-east universities (Durham, Newcastle,
Northumbria, Sunderland, and Teesside), has facilitated further the co-production of research and
its translation into impact. Fuse’s mission is to transform health and wellbeing and reduce health
inequalities through public-health research and value-for-money policy and practice. We lead the
Translational Research programme within Fuse and manage the innovative AskFuse service, a
rapid response and evaluation service for collaborative research projects with practitioners,
policymakers and local communities (van der Graaf).
In spring 2020, we contributed to the formation of the ARC NE&NC, a partnership of six regional
universities, the NHS, health and social care providers, local authorities, the voluntary sector,
community groups, members of the public and others to deliver better, fairer health and care at all
ages and in all places. Our on-going participation in this collaborative endeavour strengthens our
engagement with key stakeholders and the impact of our research. Work is based around seven
research themes: Martin leads the Integrating Physical Health, Mental Health and Social Care
theme and van der Graaf is deputy lead for the Knowledge Mobilisation and Implementation
Science theme.
Our strategy has facilitated knowledge exchange and commercialisation by accessing dedicated
professional support and pump-priming funding (HEIF) from the Department of Academic
Enterprise (DAE) and committing £300,000 to establish the HIC in 2017. As our unit has evolved to
incorporate biosciences, we appointed a principal lecturer for enterprise and business engagement
at NHC (Akram) and a DAE business innovation manager aligned to NHC, to facilitate knowledge
exchange and develop the commercial awareness and training of our early career biosciences
staff. Support for knowledge exchange and commercialisation routes to impact in biosciences has
been strengthened further by our participation in THYME. Led by York and coordinated at
Teesside by Rand, this £5m partnership, established in 2018 between the universities of Teesside,
York and Hull, seeks to establish a world-leading bioeconomy region across Yorkshire,
Humberside and the Tees Valley. It is funded by Research England’s Connecting Capability Fund
to mobilise knowledge exchange in biosciences through: support for proof-of-concept projects with
industry partners; secondments between institutions; toolkits for bioeconomy partnership working;
workshops to encourage innovation; and cluster development activities to drive innovation. Our
bioscience research will be supported further through participation in the newly formed NBioP hub;
designed to position the North East as a centre of innovation, attracting investment, enhancing
education and workforce development, and enabling more companies to quickly bring life-changing
medicines to market.

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Our approach to impact underpins the five impact case studies selected for submission, which
reflect the unit’s established track record in, and focus on, clinical and public-health research. This
has been achieved primarily through three mechanisms. First, we have enhanced the evidence
base within healthcare settings through clinical research, research synthesis and meta-analysis,
and the development of open research and open data, sharing outcomes with clinicians and
policymakers to support changes to both policy and practice. For example, our evidence synthesis
and randomised controlled trial research on physical activity and jet lag was disseminated and
discussed with relevant authorities leading to changes to official guidelines in the USA and the UK
(UK Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity Guidelines, Physical Activity Guidelines for
Americans, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention ‘Yellow Book’, the Civil Aviation Authority,
the NHS, and the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence, NICE). [ICS1]
Also, the NIHR-funded Proximal Fracture of the Humerus: Evaluation by Randomisation trial
(Handoll) produced evidence that surgery did not improve patient-reported outcome and was not
cost-effective. The trial findings were shared in a high-visibility journal and published in the funder’s
journal and provided the evidence for the NICE guidelines for the treatment of these fractures
(2016). The outcomes were also shared with surgeons leading to a reduction in those using
surgery to address the fractures. [ICS2]
Research on data on fluoride concentration in food (Zohoori) underpinned the analysis of a total
diet study undertaken by the Food Safety Authority of Ireland between 2014 and 2016. The fluoride
database was published openly on our website to facilitate access to the research by the public
and health professionals. The authority was provided with food safety surveillance information on
dietary fluoride and we also worked closely with it to analyse samples, enabling an evaluation of
possible risks to the health of children and adults resident in Ireland. [ICS3]
Second, through sustained partnerships working and coproduction, we have produced protocols,
evidence, and technical guidance to support policymakers in delivering public-health interventions
and programmes. For example, co-produced research on obesity, undertaken as part of a research
residency at PHE resulted in a series of evidence reviews that directly underpinned the UK
government’s sugar-reduction programme and the subsequent soft drinks industry levy, resulting in
sugar reductions by more than half of all soft drink manufacturers, as well as changes to
marketing-to-children regulations. [ICS4]
Following a request from Blackpool Council, research was undertaken in 2015 to develop a
monitoring protocol to carry out a urinary-fluoride excretion-monitoring project. This was to assess
fluoride exposure of school children and to provide robust evidence on whether the council should
introduce a fluoridated-milk scheme in primary schools in Blackpool. Based on the findings, the
council executive approved a proposal, in January 2016, to introduce fluoridated milk to more than
8,000 school children in 77 primary schools. [ICS3]
Third, we have worked with stakeholders on various projects to develop research-informed tools
and products with commercial potential that have enhanced and transformed the working practices
of our partners in the health and sports sectors. For instance, our research on systems for
monitoring the responses to training loads, undertaken with sports organisations, has led to the
development of the dRPE app to capture differential ratings of perceived exertion and an Athletic
Movement Analysis Tool (AMAT) to detail biomechanical analysis of movement performance.
These tools have been shared more widely and have led to improved decision-making within
international professional sports. The app has been adopted by Hull City Tigers Football Club, US
major league soccer team Philadelphia Union, Welsh Netball and British Cycling. AMAT
technology has also been adopted by elite youth-football academies internationally including in
China, Greece, Hungary, Portugal, Spain and the UK. [ICS5]


                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Impact is emerging in other areas of our research portfolio. For instance, the research-informed
development of AskFuse (van der Graaf) was used as a best-practice case study in a private
report for the Chief Medical Officer for England on how to engage local authorities with research.
The AskFuse service also provided a model for the SPHR Public Health Practice Evaluation
Scheme, NIHR Public Health Intervention Responsive Studies Teams and influenced the design of
the NIHR Behavioural Science Policy Research Unit.
Working with Medi-Direct International, we have set up a spinout to develop and commercialise
SensTrain, a medical device designed to deliver a therapy called sensory discrimination training in
the home; to avoid the costs, inconvenience and health risks of regular hospital treatment.
Our collaborative research to develop medical technologies is supporting the development of two
prosthetic devices. Funding of €587,338 (£489,000) from Horizon 2020 is enabling the
SocketSense project (Advanced Sensor-based Design and Development of Wearable Prosthetic
Socket for Amputees, GA 825429, total project funding €3.9m) to develop sensor-based and
wearable prosthetic sockets for amputees. Quickfit (Quick Fitting of Prosthetic Sockets for Above-
Knee Amputees, 133657-9933), a project on the development of prosthetic sockets for above the
knee amputees, has received £429,000 from Innovate UK (total project funding £972,982).
Future research strategy
In 2020, the university published its corporate strategy to 2025, Ambition Delivered Today, which
focuses on making a difference to the lives of people and driving forward the success of
businesses and the economy (REF5a, p2). As a civic university and anchor institution, the
research strategy for 2020-25 places engagement at the heart of the research process. Our five-
year research strategy is aligned to that institutional ambition. Our future research focus also aligns
to: the grand challenges set out in the UK government’s industrial strategy (Artificial Intelligence
and Data, Ageing Society); NIHR priority research themes (Bioinformatics, Therapeutics, Disease,
Older People with Complex Needs, Dementia, Mental Health); NHS strategy (Inequalities, Digital
Interventions); MRC delivery-plan themes (Prevention and Early Detection, Precision Medicine,
Advanced Therapies, Mental Health, Antimicrobial Resistance, Global Health); BBSRC priorities
(Bioscience for an Integrated Understanding of Health, Sustainable Agriculture and Food); EPSRC
priorities (Transforming Healthcare, Enhancing Future Digital Technologies); and the TVCA
regional investment priorities of healthcare, life sciences, and digital.
We have six strategic priorities for 2020-25.
   •   We will strengthen our relationships with the region’s NHS trusts, enhancing the impact of
       our research through the establishment of an Institute for Health to house our research
       centres for rehabilitation and public health. The institute will facilitate a regional alliance with
       the DTVRA to aid secondments and talent sharing and deliver co-produced research and
       impact with local communities. We will expand the remit of the Centre for Public Health to
       include clinical practice and develop the research focus of the Centre for Rehabilitation to
       include mental-health themes of resilience and recovery alongside physiotherapy and sports
       therapy. This will ensure research underpins our growth in allied health and clinical teaching
       and addresses the post-pandemic challenges faced by the health sector. The aim of the
       institute will be to transform health and wellbeing in the Tees Valley and beyond, by:
       influencing regional and national policy; leading on significant health initiatives with
       professional bodies; and engaging with international NGOs to extend the impact of the
       institute and its partners to deliver against our commitment to the UN sustainable
       development goals. We will draw in institutional expertise from across the university
       (especially from the Centre for Digital Innovation and the Centre for Social Innovation) to



                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      deliver interdisciplinary research to reduce health inequalities through the innovative use of
      digital technologies and public engagement.
  •   We will increase our research capacity, aligned to our teaching strengths, to at least 100
      FTE with SRfR by: investing in staff posts (in bioprocessing, proteomics, bioinformatics,
      analytics, advanced therapies and disease, translational healthcare, nursing, midwifery,
      radiology, sonography, imaging, optometry, and pharmaceutical science); developing staff;
      attracting fellowship funding; and investing in PhDs and professional doctorates using QR to
      leverage industry funds.
  •   We will improve our research capability by: increasing our readers and professors from 16.4
      FTE to 30 FTE; developing the research leadership skills of our senior researchers; and
      improving the international and industrial mobility of staff through investing QR and HEIF
      funding to support staff placements, sabbaticals, and joint posts.
  •   We will promote a responsible culture through: delivering best practice in relation to
      recruitment, mentoring and promotion practices aligned to our principles to support equality,
      diversity, and inclusion; recognising and rewarding team research; endorsing the benefits of
      open research on integrity and engagement; and improving support for developing
      researchers (including graduate tutors) through improved Professional Development
      Planning and Review (PDPR) processes, early career researcher (ECR) mentoring, and our
      researcher development programme.
  •   We will ensure our research gains traction by expanding our networks and deepening our
      collaborations and partnerships with communities, industry and healthcare providers. Our
      research centres will direct potential impact through their stakeholder management and
      theories of change plans and develop the skills of staff and students by implementing the
      university’s Impact Framework, which outlines the behaviours, skills, and mechanisms for
      advancing research impact. Commercialisation activity will come from our participation in the
      Northern Accelerator and THYME programmes and be supported by the university’s new
      subsidiary company Teesside University Enterprise and Innovation.
  •   We will improve the sustainability of our research base through collaborative and contract
      research supported by our external-facing industry units (NHC, HIC) and strategic
      partnerships with CPI, Fujifilm Diosynth Biotechnologies and by participation in larger
      consortia (for UKRI and NIHR funds) involving healthcare partners and other HEIs,
      supported by our Fuse and NIHR ARC NE&NC networks. We will focus on attracting
      prestigious fellowship funding to increase research capacity and capability, and work with
      our cohort of ECRs to develop their networks and publications and secure their first awards.

Interdisciplinary research
Interdisciplinary research is central to the mission of the university (REF5a, p.3) and is embedded
firmly in our research and impact strategy. We understand today’s complex societal challenges
benefit from interdisciplinary approaches using expertise from various perspectives to solve them.
For example, Harrison engaged in a project, The Life Of Breath: Breathing In Cultural, Clinical And
Lived Experience, with the British Lung Foundation (supported by the Wellcome Trust grant
number 103339/Z/13/Z.) to develop a holistic understanding of the physical and psychosocial
benefits of dance as an intervention for people living with chronic breathlessness, which involved
physiotherapy, physiology, anthropology and medical history. The ARC NE&NC network has
enabled interdisciplinary research between the Centre for Public Health (Hamilton) and the
university’s Centre for Digital Innovation (Han) using Evolutionary Game Theory to explore whether
financial incentives motivate pregnant smokers to quit.



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The integration of biosciences researchers into the school affords opportunities for interdisciplinary
work with rehabilitation and public-health researchers. As an example, Rand is exploring a
programme of research involving the identification of new biomarkers that might explain treatment
response heterogeneity observed in randomised clinical trials, using Atkinson and Batterham’s
statistical methods for quantifying individual response variance and exploring factors that might
account for it.
The THYME project has provided seed funding for interdisciplinary research across university
research centres and with external academic collaborators and industry partners. For example,
Akram led a THYME-funded project to explore increasing protein production with Angione (from
the Centre for Digital Innovation, in the School of Computing, Engineering, and Digital
Technologies), Thomas and Springthorpe (from the University of York) and Fujifilm Diosynth
Technologies.

Open research
Our researchers proactively promote open research relating to policy, public engagement and
publication. We ensure new staff are aware of the university open access (OA) policy and research
data management (RDM) policy (REF5a, p3). At unit level we have just one non-compliant output
in our outputs pool among the 105 outputs within the scope of the policy.
We promote the university researcher development programme (RDP) bite-size workshops
(REF5a, p.6) on OA and RDM and alongside this have delivered skills-based training at unit level
including computer programming and bioinformatics with data reproducibility, publishing methods
(e.g. sharing programmes and scripts on Github) and OA (e.g. uploading to data repositories such
as dbGAP, GEO).
Our health research relies upon accurate, valid, reliable data. All trials and systematic reviews are
pre-registered, with protocols (including analysis plans) available in the public domain before data
collection is complete. This helps to ensure that our research findings are reproducible and
replicable, preventing P-hacking and outcome switching. We are members of the UK
Reproducibility Network, a national peer-led consortium that aims to ensure the UK retains its
place as a centre for world-leading research.
We routinely provide raw data and analysis code to facilitate reproducibility efforts. For example, to
enable others to reproduce and extend our results we published full analysis code alongside the
paper Predicting Future Weight Status from Measurements Made in Early Childhood: A Novel
Longitudinal Approach Applied to Millennium Cohort Study Data (Mead, Batterham, Atkinson, Ells,
2016). [ICS4] Consequently, our data modelling methods have been adopted and implemented by
others, including PHE, illustrating the scientific and wider impact of the work.
Other data-sharing examples include: Li’s meta-analysis data to identify significant common
differentially expressed genes and pathways, in Parkinson’s disease and Alzheimer’s disease,
which was shared on publication (2019); Cummings’ dataset of gut microbiota profiles of preterm
infants (2016) to inform further biomarker development to improve understanding of gut-mediated
mechanisms of necrotising enterocolitis; and Zohoori’s Database of the Fluoride (F) content of
Selected Drinks and Foods in the UK and Ireland (2015), which demonstrates the effectiveness of
the new method and provides a standardised benchmark for other teams.
The unit has contributed to developing the university’s OA and research data management policies
and systems. As chair of University Research Ethics and Integrity Sub Committee (UREISC),
MacSween contributed to the development and implementation of the RDM policy (REF5a, p.3)
and is supporting implementation of our new Mendeley data management system and DMP online
subscription across the unit. Giles and Innerd led on the development of a contract template


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
around data sharing and use, based on good practice, to allow for greater collaboration as projects
developed. This has been implemented by the unit and university.

Research integrity, ethics, and governance
Our research is undertaken within existing university research governance and policy designed to
support high-quality ethical research and assure the highest standards of conduct and integrity.
The main external reference for the governance of much of our health research is the UK Policy
Framework for Health and Social Care Research. Through local induction and seminars, we
ensure staff are familiar with the university’s Policy, Procedures and Guidelines for Research
Ethics and information security requirements, the framework, and relevant legislation such as the
Human Tissue Act (2004) and the Mental Health Capacity Act (2005). The NHC holds a Human
Tissue Licence and has developed an online training course that staff must attend before
retrieving, storing or depositing tissue samples. For clinical trials, reference is made to relevant
statute and the role of the Competent Authority and the Health Research Authority. The university
holds not only public and products liability (including medical malpractice cover) and employer’s
liability, but also separate clinical trials insurance cover.
The review and clearance of individual research projects is undertaken by the School Research
Ethics Subcommittee (SRESC). Its chair (Flynn) oversees the day-to-day application and
enactment of policy, undertakes annual reviews of the subcommittee’s operations, and reports to
UREISC. The SRESC ensures that all data processing is undertaken in full compliance with GDPR
and the Data Protection Act (2018), and in accord with the institutional policy on research data
management. The SRESC operates with reference to policy drivers and the university’s principles
for the ethical conduct of research (REF5a, p.5).

 2. People
Staff development strategy
We recognise our staff as our most important asset and our staffing strategy supports the
university’s commitment to attract, retain, develop and reward staff, and to enable staff to achieve
their full potential.
Our approach to the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers is in line with
the university’s Concordat Implementation and Enhancement Action Plan (REF5a, p.6). We aim to
appoint staff to a permanent contract, however at the census we had six staff in fixed-term
positions. Two of these are former graduate tutors who will complete their training in July 2021 and
receive the opportunity to take a lecturing contract. One, due to visa reasons, has since been
granted indefinite leave to remain and now has a permanent contract. One is due to retire in 2021.
Two 0.2 FTE contracts will end in June 2021 and become honorary contracts. Those on fixed-term
contracts are supported by the university’s careers service and Redeployment Policy (REF5a, p.5).
In our unit, readers and professors mentor ECRs via a formal programme (carefully matching pairs
based on career stage, area of study, and goals) to cover all stages of the research process
including: study conception and design; income generation; impact planning; protocol development
and pre-registration; study execution and management; data cleaning and analysis; writing reports
and writing for publication; data and code sharing; dealing with reviewers’ comments (including,
importantly, coping with rejection); management of dissemination via social media and other
routes; and realisation of impact. Staff research achievements and plans (including impact),
development needs, and longer-term career aspirations are discussed formally with their head of
department and research lead via an Initial Development Plan (new staff) and the annual PDPR
process.



                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All researchers (including PhD students) are encouraged to access the RDP, which covers all
stages of a research career (REF5a, p.6). Staff from our unit contribute substantially to the design,
content, and delivery of this programme including dedicated training on systematic reviewing and
meta-analysis. ECRs are supported by the university’s induction and ECR Forum initiatives
(REF5a, p.6). Two of our staff (Burn, Eaves) are elected co-chairs on the ECR Forum.
At unit level, our senior researchers deliver workshops to ECRs focused on all aspects of the
research process relating to originality, significance, and rigour of outputs. These activities
address: the critical importance of the research question; research design to reduce confounding
and bias; methods (including precision of measurement); study conduct, data analysis, and
inference; drawing out the contribution of the work to the body of knowledge; logical coherence of
argument; and potential scientific and non-academic impact of the research. Implementation of this
strategy is facilitated by our expertise in both quantitative and qualitative health research
methodology, measurement, research design, meta research, and statistics.
Alongside this we work with ECR cohorts for first awards and other competitions. For example, the
NHC biosciences group mentored a cohort of ECRs to develop applications for the Academy of
Medical Sciences Springboard mentoring and career development programme in April 2020,
running an internal selection process to nominate three candidates. The university springboard
champion (Cummings) arranged a series of training workshops and appointed senior colleagues
as mentors to provide discipline-specific support. The competition and cohort approach created an
opportunity for ECRs to define and pitch their research focus.
We have focused on quality of output over volume, supported by the university’s policy and
implementation plan on the use of quantitative indicators in research evaluation (responsible use of
metrics) and endorsement of initiatives such as the San Francisco Declaration on Research
Assessment (DORA) and the CRediT framework (contributor roles taxonomy) for output authorship
(REF5a, p.5).
Protected time for staff with SRfR is assigned through a new Workload Framework and Academic
Workload Allocation Model (REF5a, p.2). Substantial efficiency gains in taught-programme delivery
have led to an increase in research capacity, with an expectation of engaging in high-quality
research for considerably more individuals. Going forward, we intend to use these gains for a
rolling programme of sabbatical leave to provide focused blocks of time to work on research inputs,
outputs, and research impact.
In this period, we have facilitated exchanges between academia and industry or public or third-
sector bodies to support our research and impact strategy. For example, Scrivens holds an
EPSRC Researcher in Residence award (EP/S515772/1), The Application of Mass Spectrometry
Approaches to Support the Design, Manufacture and Characterization of Biotherapeutics. This
funds 20 per cent of his time to work at the CPI Biologics High Value Manufacturing Catapult to
develop advanced mass spectrometry approaches to aid in the manufacture of biotherapeutics and
to transfer the research expertise to the catapult (see section 3).
In 2016, Harrison co-produced research with the DTVRA as part of a CAD902,000 (£520,000)
international randomised clinical trial on balance training for falls reduction in people with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) funded by the Canadian Institute for Health Research
(CIHR, Grant reference PJT-148566) involving Canada, Australia, Portugal and the UK. The
project funded a research assistant and balance equipment for two local NHS trusts. As well as
enabling NHS physiotherapists to deliver the balance-training intervention as part of pulmonary
rehabilitation, the research demonstrated that patients in our region were eight times more likely to
fall compared with patients in the wealthier cities in Portugal, Australia and Canada. This research
has informed a future £1.1m NIHR advanced fellowship award (NIHR300856) for Harrison to

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
continue to explore socio-economic factors, in addition to physical and behavioural factors,
contributing to poor balance in people with COPD in the Tees Valley.
The DAE has facilitated exchanges between industry, academics, and clinicians through
investigator-initiated trials of new medical devices and medical technology and innovations. For
example, DAE brokered an exchange for Ryan with MediDirect International (funded by HEIF) to
carry out exploratory work into the delivery of sensory-discrimination training, which resulted in the
development of the SensTrain medical device (Martin and Ryan). This led to a KTP (grant
reference 511434) with MediDirect, a university spinout 2PD, and a Patient Stimulation
Device patent (GB20160007594 20160429). The industry engagement also supported Ryan’s
application for promotion to professor.
Within our unit, staff are recognised and rewarded for excellent research and for achieving impact.
The annual university star awards celebrate the excellence and service demonstrated by staff
throughout the year. Students and staff in the unit may nominate individuals for the Research
Performance (including impact) award; Giles won in 2020. Exceptional performance for research or
research impact may be rewarded by a ‘significant contribution’ salary increment.

Staffing and recruitment strategy
In 2014, we submitted a return of 16 FTE: one senior manager (six per cent); six professors (38
per cent); five readers (31 per cent), four senior lecturers (25 per cent); and no early career staff. In
line with the 2015-20 institutional aspiration to invest in research our staff base has grown to 60.5
FTE with SRfR.
Of the 60.5 FTE in this submission, 36.2 FTE (60 per cent) have been appointed in the period (with
a particular focus on biosciences, but also in disciplines of chemistry, sport and exercise,
physiotherapy, health psychology, health promotion, and behaviour change). One-third of the staff
being returned, 20.4 FTE (34 per cent) are defined as ECRs (none in 2014), helping to future
sustainability and succession planning through our recruitment strategy to employ ECRs with a
PhD and support their development as independent researchers.
Alongside our investment in new posts we appointed 16 graduate tutors over the period. These
posts include protected time to undertake a PhD alongside some teaching experience and are
designed to produce home-grown, research-active academics and increase the research base. As
well as supporting the career development of these postgraduate researchers, this has allowed us
to create a pipeline of talented ECRs, ensuring continuity of research focus and sustainability of
the unit. Two have moved onto lecturing contracts (Hockney, Graham), and 12 are on track to
complete their PhDs in the coming year (with others completing in 2021-22) and will move to a
lecturer contract and be allocated on-going research time to support the next stage of their career
development.
In line with our institutional Recruitment and Selection Policy (REF5a, p.4) we aim to recruit and
retain high-calibre staff whose expertise aligns with our areas of research excellence, including
areas targeted for development. Eight of 16 staff returned in REF2014 remain, with five staff
retiring from higher education and three leaving in this period. Of the 60.5 FTE submitted to
REF2021, there are 10 (9.6 FTE) at professor level (one senior manager), nine (7.8 FTE) readers,
one additional senior manager, four principal lecturers, 21 (18.3 FTE) senior lecturers, 17 (16.8
FTE) lecturers, two senior teaching fellows (independent researchers) and one research fellow.
The university’s Academic Promotions Pathways (REF5a, p.5) has supported the promotion of 16
staff over the period. Four were promoted to professor (Hamilton, Lake, Ryan, Zohoori) with
Cummings (also senior management), Rand and Scrivens appointed at professor level. A further
three staff were promoted to reader (Giles, Handoll, Harrison). Six new staff were appointed at


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reader level (Alkhatib, Avery, Flynn, Lake, Li, Mosely). Four former PhD students at Teesside
progressed to permanent academic contracts (Burn, Loughran, McNaughton, K Weston).
We have integrated NHS-employed active researchers into our unit. For example, the following
research-active clinicians at South Tees Hospitals were (and remain) visiting professors in this
period: Sam Eldabe (consultant anaesthetist specialising in pain medicine research) and Amar
Rangan (consultant orthopaedic surgeon). Rangan was one of the investigators for the research
underpinning our impact case study on treating proximal humerus fractures.
In addition, the head of dietetics for Tees Esk and Wear Valleys NHS Foundation Trust has a joint
post with our unit as a Clinical Research Network Fellow, and is involved in multiple funded
projects in this REF period including evaluation of the A Weight Off Your Mind initiative, developed
and brokered through AskFuse.
The integration of Fuse, NIHR SPHR, ARC NE&NC, HIC and formal NHS partnerships will ensure
further growth in our work with NHS-employed researchers in the next REF cycle (see section 4).
Alongside these initiatives, the establishment of the NHC forms a key part of the university’s
strategy of supporting industry-focused research and innovation and will further facilitate
interdisciplinary work in healthcare.

Research students
Supported by the university’s investment in PhD and graduate tutor programmes (REF5a, p.6) our
doctoral training has more than doubled in the period. Since August 2014, we have registered 116
PhD students and have had an average of 6.9 successful doctoral completions a year, compared
with 4.9 a year in REF2014. The remainder are due to complete in the next REF cycle.
We have invested £3.5m in 52 studentships over the period from both internal and external funds.
This has supported 21 institutional studentships (£1.2m), six UA studentships (£367,000), 16
graduate tutors (£1.7m), seven fees-only studentships (£150,000), one EU DTA COFUND project
studentship (£56,000) and a Horizon 2020 student who transferred to us with his supervisor
(£12,000).
Within the period, we have benefited from our involvement in, and contribution to, the UA DTA. We
contribute to the Applied Biosciences for Health DTA (Rand is the Deputy Director for the national
DTA), which comprises 15 participating universities, allowing our students to benefit from its
collaborative power, expertise, and reach.
Beginning in 2015, there have been five waves of PhD student recruitment to date, with seven
students recruited successfully to our unit. Recently, this doctoral training initiative was extended,
utilising €6.5m from a Horizon 2020 COFUND Grant (801604-DTA32018-2023) Extended UA DTA
in Applied Biosciences for Health, Energy, and Social Policy: DTA3 – Marie Skłodowska-Curie PhD
Fellowship programme.
Our research students include both full-time and part-time PhDs, professional doctorates, and
graduate tutors. The doctoral research programmes are closely aligned to our research centres
with, typically, interdisciplinary supervisory teams assigned to each student (two to three
supervisors, one acting as director of studies). Students are supported by postgraduate tutors in
each school, and by the university’s Research and Innovation Services team (REF5a, p.7).
At unit level, complementing the RDP, a bespoke training package specific to each PhD
programme and student is developed, based on a needs analysis of the knowledge, skills, and
abilities required to undertake the programme of work successfully. Pastoral care and support are
provided within the unit by postgraduate tutors and other staff, as appropriate, and centrally by
Student and Library Services.


                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Doctoral students (both DTA and others) may access our DTA Advanced Statistics elective,
developed and delivered by Atkinson and Batterham and led directly by our own research. This
elective focuses on conceptual, philosophical, and cognitive elements of data analysis and
inference, transferable to any doctoral programme involving quantitative health-research methods.
Many of our PhD students in this cycle have benefited from this training, backed up and extended
by one-to-one support specific to their projects.
In our doctoral programmes, we aim to produce well-rounded, critical, and analytical individuals
well-equipped for a research career, or with highly transferable problem-solving skills attractive to a
wide range of employers in different fields. The two students recruited to our unit in the first round
of the DTA in Applied Biosciences for Health have completed their PhD programme. Lolli
subsequently obtained a highly competitive research position at the Aspire Academy, Qatar, and
Kenny is now a research associate in the Faculty of Medical Sciences at Newcastle University,
focusing on systematic reviews and meta analyses.
We encourage all our doctoral students to publish high-quality work during and/ or very soon after
their studies, depending on the nature of the programme of work. The unit’s recruits to the 2016-17
DTA cohort (Burn, Loughran) have been appointed as lecturers and are returned in this
submission.

Equality and diversity
All university activity, including recruitment, promotion, and research, is conducted in accordance
with the Equal Opportunity Policy (REF5a, p.5) Our unit is committed to equality and diversity, and
staff are active in supporting a number of university, school and unit initiatives.
The Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) for the unit highlights gender as an area of concern. The
proportion of women who have been identified as having SRfR is lower than the proportion of
eligible staff: women make up 58 per cent of eligible staff, but only 42 per cent of staff with SRfR.
However, across other areas, low disclosure rates (such as the number of staff who disclosed a
disability or sexual orientation) have limited the conclusions that can be drawn from the unit’s EIA.
The lower proportion of women with SRfR highlights the need for action under the auspices of
Athena Swan. Cook is our Athena Swan Champion, delivering the university’s action plan locally
and supporting the school’s preparations for a department-level submission. For example, Cook is:
implementing new approaches to recruitment (to include using preferred modern language in
adverts to attract a broader range of applicants and identify university family friendly policies such
as flexible working, job share, sabbaticals and secondments); encouraging staff to promote of staff
vacancies and postgraduate recruitment through their social media accounts; and promoting the
university mentoring scheme to support women preparing applications for academic promotion.
Over the period, there have been seven internal promotions to reader or professor, including six
women: three to professor (Hamilton, Lake, Zohoori) and three to reader (Giles, Handoll, Harrison).
Of these six staff, three have benefitted from the Athena Swan mentoring programme since 2018.
The university’s Flexible Working Policy (REF5a, p.5) includes arrangements for supporting
flexible/ remote working and study leave, including sabbaticals. At unit level, remote working is
encouraged and supported as an efficient approach to research production. Part-time and fixed-
term staff have equivalent support and opportunities. In February 2020, as part of the university’s
Athena Swan campaign to promote the achievements of women, we celebrated Lake’s recognition
by TimeWise as one of the UK’s top 50 Power Part-Timers for her achievements
(https://timewise.co.uk/power-list/).



                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Equality and diversity issues are considered when planning all research activities, with school and
university support for equal access to research inputs and outputs, training, and promotion and
reward structures. Assistance and support with arrangements for conference attendance and other
necessary research travel for staff with caring responsibilities or limited mobility is provided by the
school’s senior management and university travel department on a case-by-case basis.
Support for staff or research students returning from periods of leave, or ill health, is provided by a
well-established Return to Work programme at unit level, based on a thorough needs assessment.
Staff with long-term illness, or caring responsibilities, are supported by the school’s flexible working
arrangements. The health and wellbeing of the unit’s staff and students is paramount, and
everyone can access the full range of university facilities and support services, for physical,
mental, and social issues, within the University’s Staff and Wellbeing Strategy (REF5a, p.5).

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
Income
Our research grant and contract income (RGCI) has increased by 39 per cent from an average of
£657,000 a year in REF2014 to £914,000 a year in this period. Our bidding strategy has focused
on generating income through user-led collaborative research with industrial and health-sector
partners. Almost 40 per cent of our income is from central government, local authority, health and
hospital authorities; 21 per cent is from NIHR and 14 per cent from UK research councils.
Our collaborative partnership approach has been facilitated by the on-going support and financing
for Fuse (£150,000) and the investment of £300,000 in the HIC. Our research funding is distributed
across a wide range of staff at all levels, as principal, or co-applicants and most of our work is
interdisciplinary; both principles are embedded in our collaborative team science philosophy. Our
strategy emphasises clear and direct links between research funding and subsequent outputs and
impact. A good example is the work of Handoll on treatment for proximal humeral factors. This
multicentre randomised clinical trial was funded (c. £1.5m) by the NIHR Health Technology
Assessment programme (NIHR HTA 06/404/53) and represents a collaboration with South Tees
Hospitals (Rangan, a visiting professor and consultant orthopaedic surgeon), and the University of
York (Clinical Trials Unit and Centre for Health Economics). The research findings from the
ProFHER trial have resulted in substantial impact through informing clinical decision-making and in
significant potential cost savings for the NHS. [ICS 2]
A similar example is Hamilton’s evaluation of a smoking cessation intervention package in
pregnancy. This evaluation, funded by the NIHR SPHR (£230,000), is a collaborative Fuse project
with Newcastle University. Study findings were published in a high-quality outlet and impact has
accrued, as the intervention is commissioned and rolled out widely across the NHS.
Strategic investment by the university in new staff appointments has greatly increased our
research volume and intensity. Since 2014, we have appointed 38 new staff, including two at
professor level and six initially as readers, with particularly strong investment in biosciences
research.

Infrastructure and facilities
We have use of extensive laboratory space and facilities for staff researchers and PhD students.
Our specialist technician support and specialist equipment facilitate the accurate and precise
measurement of a wide range of health-related and other outcomes. The investment in biosciences
staff has been backed by the £22m invested in setting up NHC. Our facilities and equipment
include:




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   purpose-built hydrotherapy pool: underwater treadmills, swimming flume, integrated wall-
       mounted cameras for underwater gait tracking
   •   exercise physiology laboratories: environmental chamber for manipulation of heat, humidity,
       and wind speed, and for altitude simulation; online metabolic expired-air analysis systems
       for measurement of energy expenditure; blood analysis systems; Woodway motorised and
       non-motorised treadmills and a variety of other ergometers; impulse oscillometers for lung
       function; isokinetic dynamometers; combined sensing units (accelerometry and heart rate)
       for state-of-the-art measurement of free-living physical activity energy expenditure; eight-
       electrode bioimpedance spectroscopy analyser for body composition testing
   •   biomechanics/rehabilitation sciences laboratories: GAITRite instrumented walkway; Kistler
       force platforms; Electromyography (EMG) systems; 12-camera Vicon motion capture
       system; Privo and SportsCam high-speed cameras; EMG systems (Aurion, Biopac); XSens
       motion tracker system
   •   diagnostic ultrasound suite: laser Doppler for blood flow measurement
   •   materials laboratory: fluoride electrodes, fluoride meters, centrifuges, ashing furnace, muffle
       furnace
   •   National Horizons Centre: analytical instrumentation, including Waters Select Series and
       XEVO instruments (QToF and TQ) for separation and identification of molecules; bioimaging
       Raman Confocal Spectroscopy and Confocal Microscopy for cell imaging; mammalian Cell
       Culture facilities; Omics - Illumina Next Generation Sequencing for microbiome,
       complimented by automated extraction platforms; Bioprocessing equipment - 15 and five-
       litre bioreactors, single-use reactors, AKTA for microbiological and mammalian cell growth;
       and software platforms in our bioinformatics suite
   •   Waters Bioanalytical Laboratory: seven mass spectrometers and five associated UPLC
       systems. The analytical laboratory has the capacity to work with small volatile compounds to
       very large complex proteins, enabling research in proteomics and metabolomics. Waters
       Corp designated the laboratory as one of their world-wide Centres of Innovation
       partnerships, officially opening in October 2019. The laboratory has recently installed a
       SELECT SERIES cyclic ion mobility-enabled quadrupole time-of-flight (Q-cIM-oaToF) mass
       spectrometer, which provides world-leading capability in ion mobility separation.
A substantial proportion of our research activity in rehabilitation and public health is either field-
based applied work, taking place outside of our university facilities (clinical and public health
settings), or is based on rigorous secondary data analysis and meta research. For the latter, we
benefit from being part of several Cochrane Review groups, our expertise on design,
measurement, and statistics, and comprehensive access to all requisite review and statistical
software, together with software facilitating qualitative data analysis. Of our five submitted impact
case studies, only one [ICS 2] was founded substantially on lab-based research. The underpinning
research for the others involved studies taking place in the clinical care context (e.g. surgery), field-
based research, or secondary data analysis and evidence-synthesis research.
As part of our impact strategy, the expanded biosciences research expertise, facilities, and
equipment facilitate transdisciplinary research within a bench-to-bedside or bench-to-community
translational research agenda. Collaborative cross-institution use of research infrastructure is
enabled by our membership of and contribution to Fuse, the NIHR ARC NE&NC, and our
involvement in the UA DTA. Fuse and ARC NE&NC institutions frequently share facilities and
equipment to support projects. Access to hospital-based facilities (including medically staffed
cardiopulmonary exercise testing laboratories) comes from our close integration with research-
active NHS clinicians across the region.

                                                                                                Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


Contribution of the unit
Unit members are fellows of professional bodies including the American College of Sports
Medicine (Batterham), Royal Society of Biology (Sarker), Royal Society of Medicine (Alkhatib),
Royal Statistical Society (Atkinson, Batterham) and the Institute of Biomedical Science
(Khundakar, Philippou), as well as associate fellows of the British Psychological Society (Avery,
Fishburn, Flynn).
We also engage with and contribute to a number of professional associations as members,
including:
  •   American Association for Cancer Research (Islam)
  •   American Society for Cell Biology (Juanes Ortiz)
  •   American Society for Mass Spectrometry (Moseley)
  •   British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences (M Weston, Wright)
  •   British Dietetic Association (Lake)
  •   British Mass Spectrometry Society (Moseley)
  •   British Psychological Society, Division of Health Psychology (Avery, Flynn)
  •   British Scoliosis Society (Bettany-Saltikov)
  •   British Society for Cell Biology (Juanes Ortiz)
  •   British Society of Haematology (Rand)
  •   British Society of Parasitology (Ebiloma)British Thoracic Society (Harrison)
  •   Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (Alexanders, Bettany-Saltikov, Harrison, Kandasamy,
      MacSween)
  •   European Health Psychology Society (Avery)
  •   European Inter-Group for Childhood Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma (Rand)
  •   European Organisation for Caries Research (Zohoori)
  •   European Respiratory Society (Harrison, Moheimani)
  •   International Association for Dental Research (Zohoori)
  •   International Research Society for Spinal Deformities (Bettany-Saltikov)
  •   International Society of Paediatric Oncology (Rand)
  •   Nutrition Society (Lake)
  •   Physiological Society (Atkinson, Batterham, Sarker)
  •   Royal Society of Chemistry (Islam, Mosely)
  •   Society for Applied Microbiology and the Microbiology Society (Gao)
  •   Society on Scoliosis Orthopaedic and Rehabilitation Treatment as chair of the Educational
      Committee (2009-s17) and member of the Research Committee (current) (Bettany-Saltikov).
Unit members are chartered/registered practitioners, including:
  •   Accredited Psychological Wellbeing Practitioner (Fishburn)



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Certified Sport Nutritionist (CISSN, International Society of Sport Nutrition) (Alkhatib),
       Chartered Practitioner Health Psychologist, Health & Care Professions Council (HCPC)
       (Avery)
   •   Chartered Psychologist (Eaves, Fishburn)
   •   Chartered Psychologist and registered practice supervisor, British Psychological Society
       (Avery, Flynn)
   •   Chartered Scientist (Eaves)
   •   Registered Nutritionist (Association for Nutrition) (Alkhatib)
   •   Registered Public Health Nutritionist (Association for Nutrition (Lake).
Editorial work carried out by unit staff includes as: editor-in-chief of pain and rehabilitation, Journal
of the Physiotherapy Pain Association (Ryan); senior statistics editor for three Physiological
Society journals – Journal of Physiology, Experimental Physiology, Physiological Reports –
(Batterham); Cochrane Review group co-ordinating editor (Handoll); editor for PLOS One,
Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology, and Journal of Biological Methods (Dean);
academic editor for PLoS One and Medicine, and international editor for Physiotherapy Practice
and Research (Martin); member of the Statistical Advisory Board for BMJ Open (Atkinson)
senior editor of a volume in the Karger series Monographs in Oral Science, on the topic Nutrition,
Diet and Oral Health (Zohoori).
Also, a number of our staff are editorial advisory board members: BMJ Open (Atkinson);
International Journal of Sport Nutrition and Exercise Metabolism (Atkinson); Journal of Applied
Microbiology (Cummings); Journal of Community Dental Health (Zohoori); Journal of Life Science
(Juanes Ortiz); Letters in Applied Microbiology (Cummings); Nutrition Bulletin (Lake); Ortopedia
Traumatologia Rehabilitacja (Bettany-Saltikov); PLoS One (Bettany-Saltikov, M Weston);
Registered Reports with Science and Medicine in Football (M Weston); Science Journal of Public
Health (Nnyanzi); Scientific Reports (Li, Rand); Sports Medicine (Atkinson).
We provide associate editors to the following journals: Access Microbiology (Dean); BioInvasions
Records and Biological Invasions (Bojko); BMC Nursing (Hamilton); BMC Public Health (Giles,
Lake); Chronic Respiratory Disease (Harrison); Exercise and Sport Sciences Reviews (Batterham);
Journal of Alzheimer's Disease (Khundakar); PLoS ONE (Giles).
Staff also act as review editors for the following journals: Frontiers in Psychiatry (Khundakar); BMC
Biotechnology (Mina); Frontiers in Cardiovascular Medicine (Sarker); Frontiers in Cell and
Developmental Biology (Sarker); Frontiers in Cellular and Infection Microbiology (Mina); Frontiers
in Molecular Biosciences (Mina); Frontiers in Parasite and Host (Mina); Scientific Reports (Mina).
We participate in grant committees for external organisations, including: Academy of Finland
Research Council of Biosciences, Health and Environment, invited member of International Expert
Grant Review Panel (Atkinson); Asian Nutrition Society for Sport and Health (Alkhatib); BBSRC,
MRC, NIHR, member of the expert reviewer pool (Batterham); Health Research Board, Ireland,
Applied Partnership Awards review panel member (van der Graaf); Health Research Board
(Ireland) Research Training Fellowship for Health Care Professionals (Ryan); NIHR Research for
Patient Benefit, 2014-17 (Atkinson); Swedish Research Council Health Care Sciences panel,
international member (Martin); UKRI Future Leaders fellowship programme, member of the peer
review college (Batterham); Versus Arthritis (formerly Arthritis Research UK) fellowships panel
member (Martin).
Examples of our grant-proposal review responsibilities include work for the following organisations:
BBSRC (Dean, Juanes Ortiz, Lake, Li, Mina); British Heart Foundation (Avery); Cancer Research


                                                                                                 Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
UK (Lake); Diabetes UK (Avery); EPSRC (Khundakar); ESRC (Lake); MRC (Atkinson, Avery, Lake,
Li, Martin, Rand); NERC (Dean); NIHR (Avery, Bettany-Saltikov, Flynn, Martin, Ryan, van der
Graaf); Pain Relief Foundation (Ryan); Royal Society (Dean); UKRI fellowship programmes (Avery,
Giles); Versus Arthritis (Martin); Wellcome Trust (Dean).
Unit members have participated in the production of health guidelines. Atkinson was an author of
the CDC Travel Health Yellow Book guidelines and the Civil Aviation Authority guidelines, both on
the management of jet lag. Batterham was an invited member of the expert group overseeing the
2019 revision of the UK Chief Medical Officers’ Physical Activity Guidelines, and an invited core
member of the UK Chief Medical Officers’ Expert Committee for Physical Activity Surveillance.
Martin contributed to the British Geriatrics Society/British Pain Society guidelines on pain and older
people. Ryan contributed to the British Pain Association Pain Management Programme guidelines
and was invited to write a chapter on Physiotherapy in the Core standards for pain management
services in the UK by the Faculty of Pain Medicine, Royal College of Anaesthetists. M Weston was
invited onto the European Space Agency’s five-person expert panel to investigate the use of
exercise as a countermeasure for the reduced physiological function experienced by astronauts,
leading to a collaborative publication with the European Space Agency (High-intensity Interval
Training: A Potential Exercise Countermeasure During Human Spaceflight? Hurst, Scott, Weston
KL, Weston M, 2019).
Other participation in policy groups and committees includes: Harrison is a member of the
American Thoracic Society (ATS) pulmonary rehabilitation assembly, outcomes adviser group, and
is the lead for balance outcomes; Kandasamy is an invited expert group member of the NEURAXIS
(Institute of Applied Medicine and Research); Lake is an invited member of the British Nutrition
Foundation (BNF) Scientific Advisory Panel, a member, of the NIHR Obesity Policy Unit Advisory
Board, and represented the British Dietetic Association as a member of the Public Health
Responsibility Deal's Food Network High Level Steering Committee Committee; Lake was invited
to give oral evidence, 2018 House of Commons Science and Technology Select Committee on
Energy Drinks and Young People (2018); Moseley is the chair, of the British Mass Spectrometry
Society; M Weston is scientific adviser to US Major League Soccer's Player Health and
Performance Subcommittee; Zohoori was a topic expert, at the World Health Organisation Global
Oral Health meeting in 2018, and topic expert and rapporteur at the Fluoride Symposium:
Guidelines for Fluoride Intake - Are They Appropriate? (2017)
Examples of prizes and nominations include: Avery, who was a winner of the Quality in Care
Award (2019) for prevention and early diagnosis of Type 2 diabetes, Digital Diabetes Prevention
Programme, and was also short-listed in the Diabetes Professional Care Awards (2018) for Patient
Education Campaign of the year, Digital Diabetes Management Programme; and Zohoori, who was
nominated for the ORCA prize in recognition of outstanding contributions to the field of dental
caries research and IADR E.W. Borrow Memorial Award 2018 for research in oral health
prevention for children.
Invited presentations and communications given by staff include:
   •   Atkinson: Quantifying Treatment Response Heterogeneity In Replicated Crossover Trials in
       The Physiological Society online symposium Variability: How To Deal With It, Interpret It,
       And Learn From It (2020); Tactics for Football Data Analysis: Complex ‘Build-up’ Plays With
       Big Data or ‘Route One’ Statistics? at the Isokinetic Medical Group Conference on Football
       Medicine Outcomes, Barcelona (2018)
   •   Batterham et al: Symposium Debate: High-Intensity Exercise As A Public Health Strategy?
       (Batterham, Biddle) at International Society for Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity
       (ISBNPA) Annual Meeting (2015); Regular Symposium - Multidimensional Physical Activity:


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
      An Opportunity And Not A Problem (Thompson, Batterham, Bauman), at ISBNPA Annual
      Meeting (2016); Quantifying Treatment Response Heterogeneity In Parallel Group
      Randomised Controlled Trials (Batterham), in The Physiological Society online symposium
      Variability: How To Deal With It, Interpret It, And Learn From It (2020)
  •   Flynn: The Lifestyle Intervention for Liver Transplantation, at the Institute of Engineering and
      Technology Peri-Operative Exercise Testing & Training Society Annual Congress (2018);
      Advancing Quality Alliance (AQuA) Improving Access and Experience for People with First
      Episode Psychosis, Third Improvement Community Event, Involving Mental Health Service
      Users In Shared Decision Making (2016); AQuA Mental Health Crisis Care Concordat
      (Flynn) – National Improvement Collaborative Meeting, Shared Decision-Making And Mental
      Health Crisis Care Planning (2016)
  •   Harrison: Adapting Pulmonary Rehabilitation To Meet The Patient’s Needs After An Acute
      Exacerbation Of Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD), at symposium The
      Management of Acute Exacerbations of COPD, European respiratory society congress
      (2016); The Patient Experience Of An Acute Exacerbation Of COPD, at symposium An
      Acute Exacerbation Of COPD: Is Pulmonary Rehabilitation The Solution? American
      Thoracic Society Conference (2015)
  •   Juanes Ortiz: Invited mini-symposium, Interplay Among Human Eb1, Apc, And Dia1 In
      Coordinating Microtubule And Actin Dynamics at American Society of Cell Biology
      conference (2019); Invited micro-symposium, The Role Of Apc-Mediated Actin Assembly In
      Focal Adhesion Turnover at American Society of Cell Biology conference (2019)
  •   Mina: A Cell-Free Expression of Integral Membrane Proteins workshop at University of São
      Paulo, invited by and fully sponsored by BBSRC-FAPESP network and Cell Free Science
  •   Moseley: Waters Ireland Technology Symposium (Keynote, 2016); 2nd Global AstraZeneca
      Mass Spectrometry Users Meeting (Keynote, 2016); 65th American Society for Mass
      Spectrometry conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics (2017); 67th American
      Society for Mass Spectrometry conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics (2019);
      Shimadzu Global Innovation Summit 2019 (2019); 68th American Society for Mass
      Spectrometry conference on Mass Spectrometry and Allied Topics (2020)
  •   Ryan: Pain neurophysiology education – the patient’s perspective, at Irish Pain Society
      Annual Scientific Meeting (2018); Pain neurophysiology education – the patient’s
      perspective at 4th International Conference on Pain Physiotherapy (2017)
  •   Scrivens: How effective industrial-academic interaction benefits both sides. RSC lecture tour
      of India (2015); Some Ethical and Moral Dilemmas in Biomedical Research. Society of
      Ordained Scientists (2017); Characterisation of pharmaceutical formulations using ambient
      ionisation and shape selective mass spectrometry. British Mass Spectrometry Society
      (2018); Isolation and Characterisation Of Radical Cation Species Utilising A Cyclic Ion
      Mobility-Enabled Quadrupole Time-Of-Flight (Q-cIM-oaToF) Mass Spectrometer (2019)

Collaborations
In addition to our many established UK links, we also participate in international collaborations,
including with the WHO through, for example, our obesity and oral health work. At home, we are an
integral part of public health research centre of excellence Fuse and a member of the NIHR SPHR.
We are a core partner in ARC NE&NC, which with 14 other ARCs across all regions of England
comprises a £135m core investment by NIHR to support collaborations among universities and the
full range of health and care stakeholders to conduct high-quality applied research aligned with the
needs of local populations and local health and care systems.


                                                                                             Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
One of the cross-cutting research themes of ARC NE&NC (Integrating Physical and Mental Health
and Social Care) is led by Martin. Members of the Centre for Rehabilitation (Atkinson, Batterham,
Ryan, Avery, Flynn, Harrison) are senior investigators in this theme. Nixon is an ARC research
associate and two ARC PhD studentships have been appointed to be based at the centre. We aim
to better understand the integral needs of people with different health conditions, to inform R&D in
care pathways that best meet those needs (right care, right place, right time). These aims are
closely aligned with those of the Centre for Rehabilitation, with linked initial projects exploring: new
approaches with technology for self-management and point-of-care assessment; third sector as
providers of services for health and well-being; investigating the needs of older adults with mental
health problems in the community; and the evaluation and roll-out of the North of England Back
Pain Pathway.
van der Graaf is deputy lead for the Science of Knowledge Implementation and Mobilisation
crosscutting theme in the ARC NE&NC. The theme aims to develop a best-practice model of how
to mobilise and implement evidence in local health practice and policy that accounts for contextual
complexity and offers tools for users, These aims link directly with the key theme of translational
research at the Centre for Public Health, and the Translational Research programme across Fuse,
which is led by van der Graaf. Lake and Giles are core members of the Prevention, Early
Intervention, and Behaviour Change theme within the ARC.
Our Centre for Public Health has a formal Memorandum of Understanding with Middlesbrough
Council, providing opportunities for collaborative research bids, student placements, and joint
teaching and training activities. This project ensures a sustainable and scalable pathway for
students and staff to experience, develop, and lead innovative public health research, and provides
an infrastructure for networking and knowledge transfer. Lake works with the Advanced Public
Health Practitioner with Middlesbrough Council, on the NIHR-SPHR-funded Foodscape project.
Dovetailing with HIC, in 2019 the Centre for Rehabilitation signed a new collaborative agreement
with MedConnect North, a bespoke service connecting the NHS with new technology from
industry, directed by Eldabe (consultant, James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough, and
visiting professor). A research methodologist post (Wellburn) has been established, funded jointly
by the university and the Academic Health Sciences Network and supervised by Batterham, to
provide support for investigator-initiated trials of medical devices and innovations. To date, we
have supported 10 new projects under this initiative.
Taken together, the collaboration with MedConnect North and clinician researchers, and the work
of the HIC provide a structure supporting a phased transition from product development,
evaluation, implementation (of successful treatments), commissioning within the NHS, and impact.
Complementing these initiatives are formal research collaborations with South Tees Hospitals NHS
Foundation Trust (Tees Healthcare Innovation Partnership), Public Health South Tees, North Tees
and Hartlepool Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, and County Durham and Darlington NHS
Foundation Trust, within our enterprise and business engagement portfolio.
Five of our researchers (Ryan, Harrison, Giles, McNaughton, and Robinson) are official external
advisers to the NIHR (North East and North Cumbria) Research Design Service, which provides
support for regional research teams to develop high-quality applied health and social care grant
applications to national peer-reviewed funding programmes.
Submitted, and wider, research inputs and outputs show our successful academic collaborations,
evidencing our team science philosophy. Our research strategy actively fosters national and
international collaborations, with many materialising through our research strengths and reputation
for rigorous health research methodology. Although our national collaborations are vital to our



                                                                                               Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
success, we have nurtured our international collaboration. Here are two brief examples of this
internationalisation of our work.
Zohoori is a world-renowned authority on fluoride research in public health, resulting in frequent
approaches to work with other international experts including: the Urinary Fluoride Parameters In
Spot Urine Samples project, funded by the Borrow Foundation, between Teesside University,
Brazil (Sao Paulo University), Chile (University of Talca) and Colombia (Universidad El Bosque),
since June 2019; on-going studies of Fluoride metabolism with Whitford (Department of Oral
Biology, Dental College of Georgia, University of Augusta), since 2014; collaboration with Buzalaf
(Bauru Dental School, University of Sao Paulo) since 2011, including Fluoride (F) Metabolism/Body
F Retention: Effects of Host (Genetic Variation) and Environment (F Dose and Exercise) Factors,
funded by FAPESP through the SPRINT programme; collaboration with Martinez Mier (Indiana
University) since 2003, including Development of a Fluoride Assay Methodology for Plasma from
Capillary Blood Samples, funded by the Borrow Foundation; and between 2013 and 2015, work
with Liu (Harbin University of Commerce, China), including assessment of Fluoride contents of
drinks in China.
Martin is leading research in the use of virtual reality for pain management in a major EU project;
the €4m VR4Rehab (Virtual Reality for Rehabilitation) project is funded by €2m from the EU North
West Europe Interreg programme. A consortium of partners from the Netherlands, the UK, France,
Germany, and Belgium comprising experts in research, design, and industry are developing VR-
based products to help people with rehabilitation. Our European partners are: Sint Maartenskliniek,
Nijmegen; the European Association of Virtual Reality and Augmented Reality; St. Mauritius
Therapieklinik, Meerbusch - Subpartner Aachen University; Royal Free London NHS Trust;
Université de Lille 1 - Sciences et Technologies; and Games Solutions Lab, Eindhoven.
These two examples provide a snapshot the internationalisation of our work. In this period, we
have collaborated nationally and internationally (including published outputs) with leading
departments in many institutions including in: the UK (Loughborough University, Durham
University, King's College London, Lancaster University, Liverpool John Moores University, London
School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Newcastle University, University of Bath, University of
Bristol, University of Cambridge, University of Exeter, University of Liverpool, University of Oxford);
Europe (University of Copenhagen, Erasmus MC, the Netherlands, Charles University, Prague);
North and South America (Harvard University, Indiana University, Sao Paulo University, University
of Augusta, University of British Columbia, Washington State University); Australasia (Victoria
University, University of South Australia, University of Otago, University of Newcastle, Monash
University); and the Middle East (Aspire Academy, Qatar).
We also respond to both national and international research priorities and initiatives through our
contributions to Fuse and SPHR, as well as to ARC NE&NC. Our involvement in the Council for
Allied Health Professions Research Network (Harrison, Ryan) has facilitated our responses. Our
transdisciplinary expertise, including rigorous health research methodology, attracts collaborative
partners worldwide to address key questions in the field.
Our approach to securing research impact has resulted in five case studies in this REF period.
Beyond these, we have a variety of evolving impacts that will mature for the next REF exercise.
For example, Ryan is leading the development of a novel software-led self-management device for
people with phantom limb pain. We approached Medi-Direct International with this idea, which led
to the formation of spinout 2PD Ltd, a patent application (Senstrain patent number WO2017187202
A1) and a successful Knowledge Transfer Partnership application. A randomised clinical trial is
underway and the research is expected to result in game-changing impact for patients with
phantom limb pain, as well as the potential to develop the device for other clinical conditions
including stroke and multiple sclerosis. A systematic review and high-quality proof-of-concept

                                                                                              Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
research underpinning this potential impact has been published (Graham et al, 2020; Batsford,
Ryan, Martin, 2017; Ryan, Harland, Drew, Martin, 2014).
Other developing impacts include: wide-ranging changes to care pathways in the NHS based on
our clinical work; innovative interventions targeting health risk behaviours in chronic disease,
including wearable technologies; and multiple co-produced impacts on public health.
Our approach to encouraging best practice in undertaking research that is reproducible is outlined
above (see open research, above). Briefly, our gold standard involves pre-registration of studies
(including protocols, statistical and health economics analysis plans, as appropriate); rigorous
design and accurate and precise measurement to reduce confounding and bias; conducting and
analysing studies according to the protocol; providing open access to raw data and analysis code;
and reporting studies according to accepted guidelines including CONSORT (for randomised
controlled trials) or PRISMA (for meta-analyses); and, for intervention research, describing
interventions with sufficient detail to permit replication, according to accepted guidelines such as
Template for Intervention Description and Replication (TIDieR).




                                                                                            Page 21
