Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bolton
 Unit of Assessment (UoA): Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience (A4)
 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research, and impact strategy

 Teaching Intensive Research Informed (TIRI)

 The University of Bolton promote and adhere to the Teaching Intensive Research
 Informed (TIRI) agenda when transferring knowledge and prompting active, sustainable
 research. The following five points denote the fundamental principles which underpin the
 TIRI agenda, known university wide as the 5-point strategic plan:
       Improve the quality of research and enterprise activities which support teaching
       Ensure research centres map research on to teaching
       Make all teaching informed by high quality, current and innovative research, and
        professional practice
       Identify, deliver, and evaluate innovative and effective ways of teaching
       Engage with business, industry, and the community in knowledge transfer through
        consultancies, knowledge transfer partnerships and applied research linked to
        teaching

 Changes in Research Strategy (REF 2014-REF 2021)

 In the REF 2014 unit level environment submitted by Psychology, Psychiatry and
 Neuroscience, it was stated that the department amalgamated into one single discipline-
 based research group, The Psychology Research Team (PRT), under the then newly
 constituted Education and Psychology Subject Group. This amalgamation occurred in
 2012 and was trialled throughout the REF 2014 assessment period. However, since the
 previous submission the unit context and structure of the submitting unit for REF 2021 has
 altered. The department remains incorporated within the university’s School of
 Psychology and Education but operate as a singular department. Since REF 2014, staffs
 within the submitting unit have been fragmented into research clusters based on their
 specialism and interests. This allows the departments to easily identify different strands of
 research and promotes cross collaboration across research clusters. This method is also
 more advantageous for undergraduate and post graduate students when choosing
 academic staff to oversee their research orientated dissertations and theses, respectively.


 Psychology Research Objectives

 The submitting unit (Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience-A4) is encompassed within
 the university’s School of Psychology and Education but operate as a singular
 department. Within the current REF period, separate from, but encompassed under the
 TIRI agenda, the Psychology department have defined their own, departmentally specific
 research objectives:
      Contribute to the TIRI agenda by linking research to taught programmes
      Increase the number of psychology staff who are research active and support
         those who wish to undertake postgraduate research and/or professional practise
         degrees
      Mentor research active staff to attract funding, increase the quality of published
         work and publicise research via conferences and external networks
      Support post graduate research students to publish and publicise their work and
         mentor staff who are new to post graduate research supervision


Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Integrate research with evidence-based practice and increase research impact

 Research Clusters

 Since the previous REF submission, to further develop and refine areas of research, the
 department has been fragmented into four overarching research clusters; Applied Social
 and Forensic Psychology, Cyberpsychology and Online Technology, Social and Cognitive
 Neuroscience and Neurodevelopmental Disorders and Positive Psychology, Health and
 Wellbeing.
 Systematically categorising staff into four broad research clusters allowed staff the
 opportunity to further specialise their research interest, focus on generating impact and
 ensure sustainable research by aligning themselves with colleagues with similar research
 interests. As well as categorising the research clusters for their specificity, clusters also
 correlate by their topical correlation to existing undergraduate and post graduate taught
 programmes.

 Each research cluster is guided by a senior member of staff within the Psychology
 department. Said staff members are responsible for the development and coordination of
 research and postgraduate students within their cluster, in accordance with the research
 objectives of the submitting UoA and the TIRI agenda. It is not uncommon that staff may
 sit within more than one research cluster depending on their research interest, the nature
 of their expertise and publications. Research clusters comprise broad themes that
 encompass existing expertise and published research and it is in fact encouraged for staff
 to cross collaborate. Engaging in cross collaboration between clusters has allowed staff to
 further develop their knowledge base, research skills and external collaborations and has
 promoted a more conducive and successful research environment.

 Cluster 1: Applied Social and Forensic Psychology

 Cluster Lead and Research Focus

 The lead for Cluster 1: Applied Social and Forensic Psychology is Dr Michelle Lowe
 (Reader). The research focus of this cluster is on applied social psychology, criminological
 psychology, violence, and victimology. This cluster links to the Criminological and
 Forensic Psychology BSc (Hons) undergraduate degree. This cluster generates
 researching which explores; violence and victimology in varied populations, post traumatic
 growth and resilience in victimised samples, attitudes and attributions towards victims,
 offenders and criminal situations from an applied social psychological perspective,
 explorations of the cultural and societal scope of criminological and forensic psychology,
 honour based violence, and violence against sexual minorities and crime reduction and
 resolution, including work within criminal justice and restorative justice.

 Research Projects and Impact

 Male and Sexual Minority Survivors of Sexual Abuse

 Spanning two decades, Lowe’s research on male and sexual minority survivors of sexual
 abuse has led the field in the UK and is well known internationally through publication in
 internationally respected journals. Within the current REF period, Lowe’s male survivor
 research has produced eight academic outputs, one review published in the British
 Psychological Society’s flagship publication, The Psychologist, a number of others under
 editorial review or in preparation, and her work is included in an information pack on male
 survivors for medical services in West Yorkshire.


Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Post-Traumatic Growth

 Staff within this cluster actively carry out research on post traumatic growth and resilience
 regarding the effects of trauma, and positive psychology. There have been several
 published outputs from this project, published in international journals regarding the
 development of a novel post traumatic growth model. More recently, staff have
 encouraged collaborative research with post graduate students exploring post traumatic
 reactions in military veterans.

 Honour Based Violence

 Lowe’s research into honour-based violence began when she worked at the University of
 Central Lancashire (up to May 2014) and has continued during her employment at the
 University of Bolton (from November 2014) and throughout the current REF period. This
 research involves international collaboration with researchers across Europe and Asia.
 This research has resulted in three journal articles, one book chapter and several others
 in preparation. From this research, Lowe has also produced a professional report on
 honour-based violence for Lancashire Constabulary. A project which concerns assessing
 vulnerable victims began when Lowe worked at the University of Central Lancashire, and
 has during her employment at the University of Bolton, culminating in a report for the
 European Union, a showcase UK conference, a series of workshops for victim support
 services, and academic publications within the current REF period.

 Crisis Plans

 The CRIMSON trial was the continuation of an individual level, randomised control trial
 comparing joint crisis plans with treatment as usual for people with severe mental illness.
 The initial trial was completed in the REF 2014 period, however, write ups and follows up
 research occurred in the current REF period. The results were disseminated to all
 community teams involved in the trial (CMHT/ AOT/Crisis teams) and resulted in
 enhanced engagement from care coordinators.

 Ethnic Minorities in Psychiatric Research

 SHAMIL was a project which built on previous research from the University of
 Manchester. It focused on exploring the under representation of ethnic minorities in
 psychiatric research, despite their over representation in mental health services.
 Considering the limited resources and acknowledgement of securing efforts to recruit
 minority groups into mental health research in the UK; the main aim of this project was to
 train field researchers to improve the recruitment process for participants from ethnic
 minority groups. A training manual was created, and this has been delivered to a range of
 researchers, clinicians, academics, medical students.

 Men in Sheds

 Men in Sheds is a national initiative designed to help men from diverse backgrounds
 reconnect with their wider community, whilst developing practical skills and forming a
 social network. This research project examined the efficacy of participating in community-
 based shed use on health and well-being to explore the impact of this intervention more
 fully. This research has boosted a request for a social prescribing initiative for the funding
 of more sheds due to the robust evidence of their benefits.

 Female Genital Mutilation (FGM)


Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Lowe and Brown carried out research into FGM and the psychological effects on women
 in the Bolton area. The initial findings of this ongoing project were presented at a
 multidisciplinary FGM conference at The Royal Bolton Hospital. Due to this mixed
 methods research leading the field in this area in the UK a new, validated scale was
 introduced to measure the impact of experience. These findings have been disseminated
 to healthcare workers across the North West.

 Behavioural Change for Crime Intervention

 The CHANGE research study aimed to provide a formal evaluation of Project Chameleon
 delivered through Global Policing; facilitated in 10 schools across Bolton. Project
 Chameleon is an educational ten-week behavioural change crime intervention, facilitated
 by former police officers. It is delivered to Year 5 primary school pupils within their
 curriculum, aiming to raise understanding of the implications of crime and social
 awareness of pupils, by encouraging different thinking about their behaviour and effects
 on others. Work was disseminated at the professional body education conference. The
 research was also recognised by TV and news features such as Granada Reports.

 Strategic Aim

 The strategic aims, respectively, for continuation and sustainability of research in this
 cluster are as follows; promote the dissemination of research and exposure surrounding
 the issues so that victims may feel more comfortable and supported when disclosing their
 experiences and to further promote the implementation of the post traumatic growth within
 organisations and charities. Following the CRIMSON trial, further integration of
 collaborative planning into care teams requires further research prior to implementation.
 Regarding research exploring the under representation of ethnic minorities in psychiatric
 research, researchers aim to fully evaluate the training, considering impact of the
 attendees on their future research and how this is reflected in recruitment rates from BME
 groups. A Men in Sheds event will be held at the University of Bolton for the ‘shedders’
 and community partner organisations. Further steps in this project will result in
 collaboration with Manchester Metropolitan University and Age UK. Within the FGM
 research, the cluster will continue research using qualitative methods and participants
 from the BSCA. Under the CHANGE project, research will continue and grow as the
 intervention travels across the country and will be sustained by continued collaboration
 with Global Policing. The research cluster will continue to embody the University of
 Bolton’s TIRI agenda by actively seeking student participation in research projects to
 provide early research experience and promote a positive student-academic research
 culture.

 Cluster 2: Cyberpsychology and Online Technology

 Cluster Lead and Research Focus

 The lead for Cluster 2: Cyberpsychology and Online Technology is Dr Julie Prescott
 (Reader). The focus of this cluster is to investigate research in Cyberpsychology and the
 use of online technologies. Cyberpsychology and Online Technology links with the BSc
 Psychology, Psychotherapy and Counselling BSc (Hons) pathway. This cluster
 participates in research surrounding; online counselling approaches and how technology
 can support and enhance therapeutic practices, gender consideration and influence in the
 gaming industry and wider STEM sector, aspects of cyber psychology and human
 computer interaction including technological innovations in teaching and learning and how
 new technologies such as mobile apps, computer games, virtual reality and social media
 can improve and support mental health.

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Research Projects and Impact

 Maternal Anxiety

 This cluster has carried out research exploring how pregnant women and new Mothers
 use the online platform. The research evidenced that whilst technology can be a good
 resource for health information, it can also further increase health anxiety related to
 pregnancy and new parenthood. This work is continuing with the development of a mobile
 app through a funded PhD and work with internal colleagues on maternity and
 cybernetics. The cluster has recently carried out research an exploratory study which
 aimed to understand the current levels of general and health anxiety in pregnant women
 and the positive and negative effects of social media usage, in general, and during the
 COVID-19 global pandemic.

 Mental Health Apps

 The cluster explores the positive and negative effects of mobile technology on mental
 health. Prescott collaboratively researches in this area with post graduate researchers
 using varying demographics who suffer with anxiety. For example, Barnes and Prescott
 are exploring the efficacy and viability of accessible virtual interventions for adolescent
 anxiety disorders, and the implications of user-feedback in their development for end-
 product acceptability and user-engagement. The final stage of this research is a
 gamification mobile app for anxiety reduction in adolescents. Rathbone and Prescott’s
 research concerns anxiety and health anxiety during pregnancy and the development of a
 psychoeducational app for the reduction of the occurrence using skilful surfing, a
 conducive way of searching the internet for information during pregnancy. This area of
 research with the support of Prescott has enabled postgraduate researchers to publish
 with several conferences and over ten outputs in peer reviewed journals.

 Online Counselling and Support

 Over the current ref period, this cluster has collaborated with Dr Terry Hanley (University
 of Manchester) and the external counselling provider, Xenzone researching young people
 and online counselling. The initial research carried out pertained to the efficacy of
 technological interventions, consisting of several robust literature reviews. The current
 focus in this collaboration, commissioned by Xenzone, is looking at the Digital Outcomes
 in Therapeutic Support (DOTS). These measures are currently being tested and
 validated, with an aim to achieve acceptability within the NHS. This research
 demonstrates efficacy in providing Xenzone with an evidence-base to further commission
 their counselling service UK wide. This research has influenced an Education Policy
 Report and was cited by the Association of Child and Adolescent Mental Health (ACAMH)
 whose membership comprises of clinicians, practitioners, and world-leading child mental
 health researchers. This research prompted a US based online mental health community,
 18percent, to request research collaboration with the cluster. This research is ongoing
 and explores online mental health communities, self-efficacy and transition to further
 support and will continue to consider site moderators and the influence of digital altruism.

 Commencing Research

 Prescott is also undertaking research with Passmore (Lakemore University, Canada) to
 develop a mobile app utilising identity structural analysis (ISA) for counselling supervision.
 This work builds on their previous collaboration on the use of ISA as a mentoring tool for
 trainee teachers. Previous external funding has also been secured from HEFCE to fund a

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 project looking at technology to enhance teaching and learning. The cluster will work
 collaboratively with the Education department.

 Strategic Aim

 The strategic aim for the sustainability of this research is to continue to explore technology
 and its effects on anxiety for at risk demographics such as adolescents and pregnant
 women. It is also planned that the cluster will repeat the data collection with several online
 mental health communities to provide a wider and more robust data set from varying
 sources. Mobile apps developed in this cluster will continue to collect data and evolve to
 meet the optimum efficacy for users through user feedback. The cluster aims to work
 collaboratively with current and emergent online mental health
 communities/organisations/charities to ensure that the service provided is supported by
 robust empirical research.

 Cluster3: Social and Cognitive Neuroscience and Neurodevelopmental Disorders

 Cluster Lead and Research Focus

 The lead for this cluster is Dr Pedro Vital. This cluster researches areas of neuroscience
 using social, cognitive, and developmental dimensions. This cluster links with the Social
 Neuroscience MSc. Within this cluster there is research exploring the neural basis of
 cognitive and social processes in developmental disorders such as Autism Spectrum
 Disorder (ASD), research focused on gaining a better understanding of the neural
 correlates of cognitive performance throughout the life span, exploration of the potential
 advantages of combining neuroimaging with molecular genetic techniques and research
 into the potential interaction between social factors and neural plasticity, mainly applied to
 socially-based therapeutic interventions.

 Research Projects and Impact

 Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD)

 Vital works on developing his previous research interests around Autism Spectrum
 Disorder (ASD) by including a neuroscientific dimension, and to explore more recently
 added interests, mainly Misophonia. Within this cluster there are several PhD students
 who work closely with Vital research ASD. Due to the equipment available within the
 department such as the eye tracker, ECG, EEG, and software such as FaceReader and
 Observer, the department offers postgraduate students many possibilities and resources
 when carrying out research. Shorts used said equipment based on the neural bases of
 social maintenance behaviours in children with ASD. The focus is on contributing to a
 better understanding of the neural bases of social processes in ASD and other conditions.
 Endredi is also exploring the links between emotion understanding and facial mimicry in
 ASD.

 Alzheimer’s Disease

 Jaggers’ research focuses on the neural mechanisms and electrophysiological signatures
 of episodic memory. This approach has been applied to the memory disorders that are
 seen in Alzheimer’s disease and theoretically how early changes could be detected using
 EEG. The early detection of Alzheimer’s disease has become the primary research focus.
 Changes due to early neurodegeneration at the asymptomatic stage should theoretically
 be detectable using EEG, as in the earliest stages of Alzheimer’s disease (>10 years
 before diagnosis), synaptic dysfunction is present. The research cluster has presented

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 these ideas at the International Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s conference and will present
 experimental results at the next conference. Within the cluster there is one full time PhD
 student investigating this area. The research fits with a major initiative in the Greater
 Manchester area ‘The Early Detection and Diagnosis of Dementia’ co-ordinated by Health
 Innovation Manchester. This cluster has received a Jenkinson’s award from the university,
 which allowed staff and students from the department to attend an advanced training
 course in EEG in Hamburg in 2019. This allows staff within the cluster to further develop
 the submitting unit’s EEG capabilities and subsequently, the research. In terms of social
 neuroscience, further research is carried out from a neuropsychological perspective and
 centres on social deficits in patients with acquired brain injuries. Social cognition in clinical
 practice, is an under researched area and yet is of utmost importance, in terms of patient
 rehabilitation and recovery from brain injuries. Social neuroscience is a relatively new
 discipline and the ‘communication’ between academic and empirical research and clinical
 practice is small.

 Strategic Aim

 The research cluster are currently in the process of establishing a new undergraduate
 pathway: BSc (Hons) Psychology, Neuropsychology and Neuroscience. This will further
 stimulate the research conducted by the group by the addition of more projects and the
 development of collaborations. Whilst this process is in its infancy, the primary objective of
 pump priming research into this area is to encourage students to collaborate with staff and
 creating a ‘centre of excellence’ for Psychology and Neuroscience teaching and research
 at the University of Bolton within the Psychology department.

 Further, the involvement of external partners will provide research and employment
 opportunities for all students. One aim is to create better links with clinical practice and the
 NHS within the Greater Manchester area and industry partners (mainly pharmaceutical) at
 a national level. Social neuroscience research within this cluster aims to bridge the gap of
 empirical evidence informing clinical practise by using theoretical models to inform
 clinicians to better understand social functioning in their patients. The primary objective of
 this research is to provide clinicians with the tools to be able to assess social deficit in
 patients with acquired brain injuries.

 Cluster 4: Positive Psychology, Health and Wellbeing

 Cluster Lead and Research Focus

 The lead for this cluster is Professor Jerome Carson. This cluster explores research in all
 areas of Positive Psychology. This cluster links with the Positive Psychology MSc. In the
 current REF period, the Positive Psychology research group was established and led by
 Carson and Kannangara. Initially the group focussed on PhD research, Durkin
 (Compassion), Rozehnalova (obesity), Ujhelyi-Gomez (dual diagnosis), Kannangara
 (dyslexia). Apart from developing novel positive psychology interventions (PPIs), Carson
 and Kannangara developed an MSc in Positive Psychology and then Kannangara and
 Prescott established an MSc in Counselling and Positive Psychology. The group have
 also developed several new psychometric scales to be used in research. These have
 included a measure of maternal wellbeing C-Mews (Clarry), compassion in nursing
 students (Durkin), forgiveness (Amanze) and academic resilience (Kannangara and
 Carson). Another PhD student, Macfarlane, has developed a positive psychology
 intervention (PPI) for nurse associates, with a train-the-trainer element to build in
 sustainability.

 Research Projects and Impact

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Happiness

 The research cluster also focuses upon how the concept of happiness has altered
 throughout the ages. Access to the Mass Observation Worktown Study material (initially
 collected in Bolton in 1938) was gained in 2013. This included 226 letters written by the
 public in 1938 and a set of their questionnaires asking them to rank order 10 aspects
 linked to happiness. The cluster then adapted the material for a major study in 2014,
 which replicated the competition of 76 years earlier. This occurred in conjunction with the
 local media (Bolton News). Comparison of the findings of the two competitions showed
 how the concepts of happiness had changed for the town’s residents in the 76-year
 period. It highlighted the economic and social changes that had occurred and provided
 indications of how well-being could be enhanced.

 The cluster presented these findings at the 2015 BPS Annual Conference in Liverpool and
 attracted national and international attention with the study being shown on BBC TV, on
 radio stations, and there was a feature in the Daily Mail. Invitations were received from
 two publishers for the submission of a book proposal. Further presentations of the
 research and the use of the template took place in Bolton, Manchester and in Brazil in
 2016, 2017 and 2018. An invitation to present the study in Rio de Janeiro and
 publications in Brazil indicates international interest in the research. Coding of both the
 1938 data and the 2014 data were analysed and compared, illustrating the differences
 between the two periods in what made people feel happy as expressed in their own
 words. The results were presented to the 2017 BPS Annual Conference in Brighton.
 In continuation of the research, in 2019 research was undertaken. Focus groups were
 used in addition to questionnaires with several small women’s groups. The increased
 importance of leisure and its role in well-being was more evident in the 21st century
 research. Further research commenced in 2019 within the local Asian community which
 will provide data to explore the importance on religion, focusing on diversity. This research
 is still ongoing.

 Dyslexia

 The cluster used the personal narratives of those with dyslexia, to develop the
 ‘Languishing to Thriving.’ This theoretical framework suggests that those with languishing
 dyslexia face challenges with anxiety, avoidant obstacle-related behaviours, perceive
 criticisms negatively and engage in self-depreciation when experiencing failure, whilst
 those thriving; embrace challenges, use signature strengths to overcome, learn from
 criticisms and persevere when met with failure by finding alternative methods. As a
 positive psychology intervention (PPI), participants were signposted to the Values in
 Action (VIA) Strengths Survey, to identify their signature strengths. The host website
 presents a dyslexia friendly interface; allowing users to alter font type, colour, and size.
 The model uses a PPI to promote ‘Desirable Dyslexia’ by encouraging people to utilise
 their signature strengths. The research team used an interdisciplinary approach, which
 concluded that there is scope for the application of positive psychology to dyslexia.

 Student Well-Being

 Continuation of this research involved the ‘Languishing to Thriving’ model being applied to
 students in general. Three studies explored traits in undergraduate and postgraduate
 students which contribute to grit, for example, self-control, mental well-being, life
 satisfaction, feelings of worth, resilience, growth mind-set, perceived stress, and
 perseverance/time management skills, amongst other. This evidenced the usefulness of
 measuring constructs such as grit and mental well-being, for student success and

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academic performance. The team developed a specific 12 item measure of tenacity
 (seven items) and self-composure (5 items); two constructs crucial to academic success.
 The Bolton Uni-Stride scale (BUSS) included items relating to mental health and signature
 strengths use. Based on literature evidencing rising mental health issues in schools, and
 the efficacy of PPI in secondary schools, the Hummingbird Project as developed; a
 psycho-educational PPI, delivered to schools in Greater Manchester in collaboration with
 the charity, Mediquip4kids.

 Hummingbird

 Psychology Interventions (PPIs) in secondary schools have been shown to improve
 mental health outcomes for students. The charity, Mediquip4kids, funded the cluster to
 deliver a positive psychology intervention (PPI) to secondary school students in the North
 West. The Hummingbird Project consisted of two phases which. Phase one consisted of 8
 weekly, 1-hour sessions and included positive psychology topics. In phase two, sessions
 were condensed to 6 weekly 1-hour sessions. Outcomes evidenced positive changes in
 mental health, using a pre and post-test design. the results of this projects have been
 published in the Frontiers in Psychology journal.

 Strategic Aim

 The sustainability of Positive Psychology research can be seen in a growing number of
 publications and PhD completions. The cluster is aiming to establish themselves in the
 forefront of Positive Psychology research in the North of England. The expansion of MSc
 and PhD research will give more students the opportunity to participate in this
 comparatively new research area and fits perfectly with the University’s TIRI agenda. The
 happiness research is ensuring sustainability by exploring all variables relating to the
 concept and further exploring marginalised demographics. Current and upcoming
 research is exploring the concept of happiness in relation to culture and religion. The
 Hummingbird Project, having been successfully delivered for two years, now needs to
 move towards a more sustainable model. To ensure this, the cluster are currently
 adapting the Hummingbird Project for deliverance to primary school students and
 developing resources for parents and guardians to ensure longevity of improvements in
 student mental health and wellbeing.

 Implementation and Continuation

 Research clusters have initiated school-based collaborations to support the designing and
 writing of research for publication in preparation for REF 2021. Where appropriate
 research cluster leads should form collaborative writing groups within and beyond their
 respective clusters to support knowledge transfer in research activities and writing for
 publication. All psychology staff already engaged in research report their research
 activities to the research cluster leads as appropriate. Staff not currently research active,
 who wish to develop a research profile may be mentored as appropriate to design and
 implement their research in line with one or more research cluster remits. Staff outside of
 the School of Education and Psychology may join the research clusters if they are
 publishing research within the research cluster remits, and if appropriate may join the
 collaborative writing groups to drive forward research outputs. All psychology staff are
 encouraged to support students in joint publishing where appropriate, to support the
 further development of the TIRI agenda, the psychology research objectives, and when
 this enhances the student experience. The submitting unit encourage and support the
 development of opportunities for external networking and collaboration beyond the
 university and will foster the continuation of external research in situations where
 successful collaborations already exist.

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Section 2: People
 Staffing Strategy

    (i)     Staff

 Within the submitting unit the staffing structure is as follows; 1 Technical Officer
 (Harrison), 1 CBT Therapist (King), 2 Academic Coordinators (Harrison- Student
 Recruitment and Retention, Rabbit- Standards, Enhancement and the Learner
 Experience), 1 Variable Hour Tutor (Barnes), 2 Associate Lecturers (O’Brien, Patel) 4
 Lecturers (Chandler, Hill, Jagger, Luckhurst), 4 Senior Lecturers (Greenhalgh, Matthews,
 Preston, Vital), 1 Assistant Teaching Professor (Kannangara), 1 Associate Teaching
 Professor (Brown), 2 Readers (Lowe, Prescott), 1 Professor (Carson), 1 Academic
 Operations Lead (Al-Talib) and 1 Head of School (Waugh). In contrast to the previous
 REF 2014 submission, the staff roster has altered. From the staff list above, 14 have been
 employed either prior to or at the commencement of the current submitting REF period
 and 7 have been employed within.

 Staff within the psychology department are encouraged to take up further roles and
 memberships both internally and externally if they wish to do so.

 Editorships

 Prescott is an editor for the Journal of Medical Internet Research (JMIR). Lowe is an
 editor for both the Journal of Aggression, Conflict and Peace Research and the Journal of
 Sexual Aggression and Sex and Sexuality Studies.

 Fellowships

 Carson, Kannangara, Prescott, Al-Talib, Lowe and Preston are all Fellows of the Higher
 Education Academy and Prescott, Al-Talib and Lowe are Associate Fellows of the British
 Psychological Society. Brown holds a Honorary Senior Research Fellowship with
 University of Manchester.

 External Awards

 Kannangara has won the Heinz von Foerster Award and an Early Career Researcher
 award from the British Council (Iran) for a collaborative research project between Iran and
 the UK.

 External Roles

 Greenhalgh is the External Examiner at Goldsmiths, University of London for CBT
 Programmes of Study. Lowe is an external supervisor within the doctorate in clinical
 psychology programme at the University of Liverpool and Waugh is the Chief Examiner at
 the University of Ulster.

    (ii)    Staff Support

 The UoB have in place the Staff Teaching Enhancement Programme (STEP); a
 programme which promotes and facilitates continuous professional development (CPD)
 for academic staff. Within STEP, there are several accredited programmes available
 which support the teaching intensive aspect of the universities TIRI Agenda. There are
 also several accredited programmes relating to the research environment, such as

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Education Masters Scheme, Educational Doctoral Programme, Supervising Taught
 Research Projects, and Research Degree Supervision. Staff have access to internal and
 external research related workshops. Staff are encouraged to attend and disseminate
 research at conferences as and when possible.

 Within the submitting REF period (2015) the university celebrated innovative research by
 establishing the Jenkinson’s and Ryley Awards in which the academic staff bid for small
 internal research grants of £1,300 and £5,000 to pump prime innovative research within
 submitting UoAs. Since its beginning, the psychology department have won at least one
 Jenkinson award annually. In 2019 the department won two Jenkinson’s awards, (Carson
 & Prescott). Carson also won a Ryley award which entailed promoting the publishing of
 final year psychological projects. Ian Harrison, the psychology department’s research
 technical officer also won Research Support Professional of the Year.

 Ethics

 The university, on an organisational level holds a Research Ethics Framework which all
 students and staff are required to adhere to. To encourage further specificity each
 submitting unit are subject to their own Departmental Research Ethics Committee. For
 Psychology, Psychiatry and Neuroscience the ethical approvals for research are headed
 by the two departmental readers, Lowe and Prescott. Lowe and Prescott revise ethical
 requests individually and then as a team to ensure that requests are considered by two
 separate staff. If any further information or changes to the research process are required
 Lowe and Prescott will contact the researcher to clarify and request amends.

 Open Access

 The university also promote the UK Concordat on Open Research Data, which ensure
 that where possible, UK research is made open access in regards to relevant legal,
 ethical, disciplinary and regulatory frameworks. Researchers within the department are
 encouraged to publish their works as Gold open access (OA) where possible, considering
 journal relevance and funding. However, if this is not possible, students and staff are
 encouraged to deposit their research using the Green OA method, wherein manuscripts
 are deposited into the University of Bolton’s Institutional Repository (UBIR). If publication
 copyright from closed access journals allow for such a deposit, this enables authors to
 make their research open access using the Green OA route which is often either the pre-
 print or the author accepted manuscript (AAM).

    (iii)   PGR Support

 In the submitting unit there is a vibrant, research focused culture amongst the PGR
 students. There are currently 24 doctoral students. Doctoral students are offered provisos
 in the same location as staff; inclusive of but not exclusive to, offices, desktop facilities,
 research equipment and software and the use of the staff restaurant. The department
 deem doctoral students to be contemporaries and promote collegial relationships. This
 culture amongst the department promotes engagement in research across specialisms
 and provides PGR students and staff alike, the opportunity to engage in an array of
 research topics outside of, or collaboratively with, their respective research cluster.

 The university has established and manages the Journal of Learning and Student
 Experience, a peer-reviewed online journal which aims to help all within the university to
 publish their research and ideas. One of the journal managers, Carson, is in the
 submitting unit.


Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PGR students situated in this UoA are encouraged to partake in other taught post
 graduate lectures, seminars and workshops which will be relevant too and enrich their
 current research, free of charge. PGR students have unlimited access to taught classes.
 The UoA considers this especially useful for students who may have enrolled onto a PhD
 straight from undergraduate completion and wish to use more advanced research
 methods in their thesis. Not only are students signposted to the relevant research
 methods classes, but they are also offered the opportunity to deliver research methods
 workshops if they feel comfortable doing so. This helps the PGR students remain familiar
 with researcher methods throughout their studies.
 Within the current REF period the Ainsworth Scholarships were established. These
 scholarships provide the opportunity for students to undertake their doctorate whilst
 having their fees paid for and receiving a doctoral stipend in line with the RCUK.
 Currently, there are two Ainsworth scholarship students within the submitting UoA; one
 who has just begun and another who will be submitting by the end of 2021.

    (iv)   PGR Training

 All PGR students are supervised by two academic members of staff. Students will be
 allocated a first supervisor and a second. PGR students submit annual reviews of their
 research and are actively encouraged to prepare for their R1 and R2 submissions and are
 assisted to prepare for their viva voce when the time comes.

 PGR students are automatically enrolled onto the Research Skills Development
 Programme. To further cement the integration of PGR students and staff, the resource is
 open to all postgraduate research degree students and staff, and forms part of the UoB
 Researcher and Staff Development Programmes, focusing on research skills
 development. Within the programme, weekly seminars and/or workshops, supporting
 materials and resources and relevant links to support research skills development can be
 accessed. This programme consists of two sessions (Session A and Session B)
 conducted once weekly. The programme is based around the Researcher Development
 Framework (RDF) and consists of four domains; Domain A: Knowledge and Intellectual
 Abilities, Domain B: Personal Effectiveness, Domain C: Research Governance and
 Organisation and Domain D: Engagement, Influence and Impact. There is also a section
 to signpost PGR students to further links and resources and some satirical content
 regarding the PhD experience is included. This allows PGR students to explore the
 personal experiences of others and how they overcame the obstacles and challenges
 which presented during their research. This is included as UoB considers the optimum
 mental health of all students to be imperative.

 PGR students of the UoA are encouraged to present their research and findings both
 internally and externally. One such opportunity facilitating this is the annual research
 degree student conference hosted by the Postgraduate Research Students Society. The
 Changing Attitudes, Changing Lives Society is a society based in the submitting UoA. The
 students from this society hold an annual Psychology, Psychotherapy and Counselling
 (PPC) Conference, accessible to all. Several PGR students have not only presented their
 research at the UoB, but also at national conferences, such as; Psychology Postgraduate
 Affairs Groups (PSYPAG, 2018; Barnes & Short), Annual British Psychological
 Association Conference (2019; Oing & Short), Some have also presented at international
 conferences such as the World Congress of Behavioural & Cognitive Therapies in Berlin
 (2019; Barnes). PGR students can apply for financial support when presenting at national
 and international conferences.

 PGR students who require further training or CPD specific to their research area are
 encouraged to access provisos across the UoA. For example, there have been instances

Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in which PGR students required further training in the use of the department’s
 electroencephalogram (EEG) equipment. One student was supported to attend training at
 Kings College London (KCL) on general analysis. When the UoA’s software was updated
 in 2018, the student was supported to attend training on said updates in Hamburg,
 Germany. Another example is that a PGR student required a more in depth understanding
 of therapeutic and counselling techniques for their research. Therefor the university
 funded said student to complete the ABC Level 3 qualification in Counselling Skills.
 The training of PGR students in the submitting unit have been proven efficacious by the
 increasing doctoral student completions over the current REF period. Overall, from August
 2013 to July 2020 there have been 15 completions. For the academic year 2019/2020
 alone, there were 30 enrolled doctoral students and 5 completions.

    (v)     Equality and Diversity

 The Athena SWAN charter is actively recognised and supported within the university. This
 can be evidenced in the psychology department when presented with the promotions for
 female academic staff over the current REF period. Kannangara has been promoted to
 Assistant Teaching Professor, Brown to Associate Teaching Professor and Prescott and
 Lowe have been promoted to readers due to their academic success and progression
 within their respective research areas.

 As reported by The Times & The Sunday Times Good University Guide 2020, the
 University of Bolton remains one of the most socially inclusive universities across
 England. In reference to the submitting unit there is a Psychology society which all
 undergraduate and postgraduate students are free to join. Here they can gain both study
 and research support from other students.

 Within the UoA, there are provisions made for staff with protected characteristics. For
 example, one reader was on maternity leave but was still eager to engage in research.
 Provisions were made so that the member of staff could carry out certain aspects of her
 research from home whilst still on maternity leave.

 Creating equality and diversity amongst the student body and within research is a strong
 focus for staff and post graduate researchers alike. Research across the department
 within the current REF period has focused on underrepresented factions such as mature
 students, students with anxiety and other mental health issues, male domestic abuse
 victims, victims of FGM, pregnant women and many more. This inclusivity within the
 departments research aims to provide a stronger voice for the underrepresented within
 empirical research and subsequently, within society.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 In the current REF period, the submitting unit have received £27,286.52 in research
 funding from both UK based charities (£24,886.52) and UK industry commerce public
 corporations (£2400).

 Regarding the research environment within the school of Education and Psychology,
 research is often facilitated by the school’s technical officer, Ian Harrison. Ian is a member
 of ATSiP (Association of Technical Staffs in Psychology) an association of technical staff
 in universities that aims to network and share ideas and helps via its forums, web
 presence, and most importantly the annual conference. Within this REF period, Ian has
 won the inaugural national award ‘Technical Support in Psychology Research’ in 2014,
 awarded jointly by ATSiP and the British Psychological Society and was awarded the


Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Jenkinson ‘Research support Professional of the year ‘ award this year from the University
 of Bolton.

 The university have various technological equipment and software licences which can be
 used when carrying out research. The submitting unit have equipment such as; SMI Eye
 Tracker, Noldus Media Recorder (used in counselling classes for recording counselling
 sessions), HTC Vive Virtual Reality head set, 64 channel Neuroscan EEG acquisition
 system with Syn amps and Biopac MP150 16 channel modular acquisition system for
 ECG (electrocardiogram) and EDA (electro dermal activity). The university has software
 such as; FaceReader software (emotion detecting software), the Observer (behavioural
 software), Eprime3 (experiment generator software), OpenSesame (experiment generator
 software). The university also has licenses for products such as Qualtrics (online
 questionnaire writing software). The research of both staff and students alike is supported
 and made possible by the schools’ technical officer.

 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and
 society

 Within the submitting unit, spanning the current REF period, many researchers have
 external academic and societal collaborations, both national and international.

 Lowe works collaboratively with universities and organizations such as; the University of
 Liverpool, University of Worcester, Birmingham City University, University of Central
 Lancashire, Manchester Metropolitan University, Bolton Solidarity Community Association
 (BSCA), Survivors West Yorkshire, Lancashire Constabulary, Victim Support, Fortalice,
 Trust House Lancashire, the National Association for People Abused as Children and
 international researchers from Cyprus, England, India, Pakistan, Malaysia, Iran and
 Portugal.

 Brown has worked in collaboration with; University of Manchester, University of
 Birmingham, Kings College London, Institute of Psychiatry, Manchester Mental Health
 Trusts and Lancashire Care Foundation Trust in the CRIMSON trial. In SHAMIL, Brown
 collaborated with University of Manchester and Manchester Mental Health Trust. In
 collaboration with Bolton Solidarity Community Association (BSCA), Bolton Council and
 Bolton Hospital Brown explored the psychological effects of FGM. Bolton Council and
 Bolton at Home also worked collaboratively with Brown for the Men in Sheds project.
 Regarding current and on-going research Brown is working with Global Policing.

 Prescott worked collaboratively with several Mother and baby groups, SureStart and the
 NCT and KOOTH (online counselling service for young people). Prescott is currently still
 collaborating with Dr Terry Hanley (University of Manchester) and 18percent (US based
 online mental health community).

 Carson has developed partnerships with local mental health providers MhIST (community
 days services for people with mental health problems) and Northern Healthcare
 (residential services) and with Kannangara, the MedEquip4Kids connection. Working with
 Tytherleigh (University of Chester), the team are developing positive education initiatives.

 Vital works collaboratively with Dr Diana Prata from the Institute of Biophysics and
 Medical Engineering at the University of Lisbon and the University of Hamburg.

 Jagger works collaboratively with Dr Tarek Gaber (Consultant; Rehabilitation Medicine at
 the Wrightington, Wigan and Leigh NHS foundation trust), Dementia Framework Detection


Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and Diagnosis Task and Finish Group, Health Innovation Manchester, Dementia Industry
 Group, Dementia United and Alzheimer’s UK.




 Institution: University of Bolton
 Unit of Assessment (UoA): Psychology (A4)
 REF5a COVID-19 annex

 The COVID-19 outbreak has been the causal factor of many changes in research carried
 out within the submitting UoA. To minimise the risk of cross contamination, the rota of
 academic staff has been altered so that they are not spending as much time within the
 department physically. This is also true for PGR students who are now required to phone
 ahead and book their office space/time so that social distancing can be adhered to within
 the PhD rooms. Whilst this has slightly fragmented working relationships and changed the
 onus of research, staff and students alike have been encouraged to engage with each
 other using platforms such as Teams, Zoom and Skype. This way PGR students still have
 frequent access to their supervisors and those who are researching collaboratively can
 still communicate.

 Several internal conferences involving the department been cancelled but have since
 been delivered online. The acquisition of free tickets was facilitated for all attendees.

 Staff have noted important areas of research considering the outbreak. For expel, Carson
 has explored the ever-changing definition of happiness in current circumstances and
 Kannangara has explored the effects of the outbreak on student mental health. This
 research will be considered and used to ensure that the transition back into university life
 for the students will be as easy as possible, ensuring that mental health requirements are
 identified and addressed.

 PGR students have also had to alter their doctoral theses considering the outbreak. For
 example, Rathbone planned to collect health data from pregnant women prior to the
 outbreak. An unexpected study had to be added prior to the last to justify possible skewed
 health data. Endredi has been carrying out research with those with ASD using the eye
 tracker device. Due to social distancing and shielding guidelines, this research has been
 halted and there is uncertainty as to when it will be continued. The department and the
 university are striving to work with PGR students who have experienced disruptions in
 their data collection to facilitate solutions.

 Previously planned research projects such as the Hummingbird Project has been put on
 hold due to the in-person deliverance of the material required within school settings.
 Whilst there has been internal disruptions, staff and students alike have also experienced
 external disruptions to their research.

 Due to the outbreak, resources and facilities within the department are not as easily
 accessible due to COVID-19 guidelines. The department are working tirelessly to ensure
 that research may still be carried out in a safe and hygienic manner which will reduce the
 risk of cross contamination.




Unit_Level_Environment_A4_26_10_2020
