Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University

 Unit of assessment: UoA 28 History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Context and structure

 Our UoA’s research closely links History and Heritage in an interdisciplinary and socially
 engaged manner. It brings together 11 FTE historians within the School of Humanities,
 including 8 members of staff from the History and Heritage Subject Group, 2 intellectual
 historians from Philosophy, Study of Religions and Ethics, and a Research Fellow affiliated to
 English. The submission comprises 4 Professors, 2 Readers, and 2 ECRs, alongside one
 Professor who left during the REF period.

 All members of the Unit work together through the History and Heritage Research Centre with
 a wider community of pre- and postdoctoral scholars interested in the past and its
 contemporary uses. Located in the Bath World Heritage City, on a campus whose history goes
 back to the Bronze Age, we employ exceptional historical resources locally, and interact
 extensively with scholars and stakeholders worldwide.

 Our research and impact focus on developing a critical understanding of the modern world by
 looking at the interplay of people, place, belief and memory through a perspective that links the
 local and the global. Chronologically, we cover history since c. 1500; geographically, we work
 on entangled British, European, Asian, African & Caribbean, and Transatlantic histories.
 Thematically, work clusters around a. British political and social history; b. imperialism and
 post-imperialism with particular emphasis on migration; c. global intellectual history; and d. the
 history, theory and practice of heritage.

 One of the oldest research-intense UoAs in the university, History has grown substantially in
 numbers, diversity, internationality, interdisciplinarity, and outward-facing nature. This was
 facilitated by the University’s restructuring of its Departments into Schools and the creation of
 university-wide research centres, supporting Bath Spa’s wider ambitions to become a ‘leading
 university in creativity, culture and enterprise’.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 We believe in the importance of the past as a resource for the present and future and our
 research and impact strategy is designed to respond to local, national and global challenges.
 To fulfil the goals set out in REF2014, our priority was to create a supportive and sustainable
 environment that allowed the UoA to:

        shape historical research internationally through a greater number of world
         leading publications (see submissions)
        almost double the number of staff submitted to REF from 6.2 to 11 FTE
        provide more institutional support for dedicated research time by funding teaching
         relief and writing retreats
        increase external research income over 50% (from GBP132,140 to GBP200,000)
        grow our postgraduate research student body by 300% and provide it with
         interdisciplinary support, training and integration into the research and
         professional community
        consolidate our expertise in Early Modern British history and transnational history while
         enabling new areas of excellence including global history of philosophy, heritage
         studies, and medical humanities

Page 1
        have more meaningful impact by informing public debates, policy and professional
         practice through historical research and creative engagement, by combining our
         expertise in history and heritage, and by enhancing our external partnerships
        establish the History and Heritage Research Centre to encompass the full breadth of
         historical research across the University and the Global Citizenship & Identities
         Research Group
        strengthen the international profile of our research, particularly through strategic
         engagement with the Global Academy of Liberal Arts (GALA), an international network
         established by BSU, and European funding
        develop an open research environment, above and beyond the REF open access
         policy requirements

 Fostering interdisciplinarity

 Key to our strategy is the creation of a vibrant environment, locally rooted and internationally
 connected, with a strong disciplinary foundation. At the same time, we are able to exploit the
 University’s unique strengths in the liberal and creative arts, through collaborative work across
 the institution.

 Members of the UoA have embraced the creation of the University’s strategic interdisciplinary
 research centres and groups since 2014 (see Institutional Environment statement (IES) 2.3).
 We are on the steering groups of the university-wide research centres for Environmental
 Humanities (Manning; Swenson) and Culture and Creative Industries (Swenson), lead the
 Global Citizenship & Identities Research Group (Hackett, Malik, Flavel, Otele), and are
 engaged in groups on Print Culture (Coast; Marshall), and Medical Humanities (Williamson,
 Morton, Coast).

 We acted on the need to better connect all historically working scholars in the university with
 the exceptionally large number of heritage organizations across the region. Therefore, we
 integrated History with Heritage in terms of teaching, research and impact at School and UoA
 level. We took the initiative of bringing together scholars from other disciplines with an interest
 in the past and its contemporary uses to form the History and Heritage Research Centre
 (HHRC) in 2018. The HHRC continues the work of the Centre for History and Culture,
 operating since 2007. Its mission, however, is broader, taking into account the significant
 growth of research on heritage across the University. The creative industry
 outlook of this research in combination with the strong public interest in heritage, and the
 University’s unique location in a World Heritage site, provided a fertile ground for excellence in
 research and impact. Therefore, the Centre not only became a locus for internal collaboration
 but the ‘go-to point’ for external partnerships. It helps to shape the development of heritage
 practice through the application of a historical and creative perspective and uses heritage
 expertise to translate historical research into impact. We run seminars, public lectures, and
 conferences, and hold workshops between scholars and stakeholders to mutually enhance
 impact.

 Creating a vibrant and sustainable environment

 By providing a space to exchange ideas, receive feedback and anchor mentoring, these new
 structures contributed to enhancing the quality of outputs. We increased funding successes
 through new support mechanisms put in place with the Research Support Office (RSO). By
 offering support for ECRs, the Centre also facilitates the transition into mid-career research.
 Integrating graduate students more into our research culture has increased applications and
 completions.

 These infrastructure changes also transformed our supervisory practice, fostering joint PhD
 supervisions with colleagues in English, Media, Geography, Education and Business. They
 moreover led to funded collaborations within and beyond the UoA, including between Hackett

Page 2
 and Malik (researching and devising Higher Education in Uzbekistan as part of the Erasmus+
 NURSLING Project with UoA Education), Otele and Malik on legacies of slavery (Horizon
 2020), and between Otele and colleagues in Geography and Media for AHRC projects on
 ‘disrupted histories’ and ‘reluctant sites of memory’.

 Internationalisation

 These funded projects also reveal a stronger integration between the local, national and
 international levels in our strategy; as research on the emergence of global connections grew
 in the Unit, so did work across borders. Members of the Unit have strategically built
 international links individually, as a Unit and together with wider University initiatives, such as
 the Global Academy of Liberal Arts (GALA - see IES 4.2.4), which brings together Liberal
 Arts universities from around the world. Through GALA, the Unit developed a research project
 on ‘Phantoms of the Past’ with Huron University in Canada, and annual summer schools for
 graduate students in Heritage with Claremont Colleges in California, and on ‘Chinese Thought
 and Culture’ with Peking University, Beijing Foreign Studies University and Fudan University.
 Staff have also worked strategically to cement BSU as a leading venue for research in global
 religions and philosophy by founding and developing the only Annual Colloquium in this area
 in the UK. In turn, Otele's and Malik's work with a number of African universities through
 Horizon 2020, led to the creation of the first GALA partnerships in Africa with Addis Ababa,
 while Flavel developed the University’s links with China beyond the UoA.

 Public Engagement and Impact
 Over the REF cycle, we systematically programmed impact into our research. All members of
 the UoA are contributing to society beyond academia through a range of pathways. Our
 approach of nurturing both blue sky and applied research has allowed us to build long-term
 areas of impact, and to respond flexibly to current events, for instance in relation to Covid-19
 and Black Lives Matter.

 Our public engagement and impact focuses on three broad areas: 1. co-creating diverse
 histories for connected societies; 2. shaping heritage practice through long-term perspectives;
 3. informing policy through the social history of politics.

 Together our public engagement and impact activities address major contemporary
 challenges linked to the rise of populism and fake news, and the renewed strength of
 nationalism, racism and islamophobia, which are often underpinned by an instrumentalisation
 of history. By communicating with stakeholders’ complex histories of the circulation of ideas,
 objects, and people we offer alternatives to simplistic accounts, provide a space for a more
 reflective debate and help to develop restorative justice, wellbeing and sustainability through
 heritage.

 Impact cluster I: Co-creating diverse histories for connected societies

 Given our interlinked foci on transnational history and on heritage, we are committed to co-
 creating public histories that reflect the diversity and connection of contemporary societies.
 Through the Global Citizenship & Identities Research Group, Hackett’s and Malik’s research
 contributes collaboratively to Changing Attitudes to Muslim Migration and ‘the Muslim
 World’ (ICS UoA28-1 AMM) in a range of international, national and local contexts. Their
 research has given British Muslims the opportunity to reveal personal migratory experiences,
 providing a voice to smaller and more peripheral Muslim communities. It has shaped wider
 public discourse, and enhanced public knowledge, with regards to long histories of
 entanglement across Asia, Africa and the West, and on issues of integration, race and social
 cohesion. Research has influenced the national-level debate in Britain regarding the
 development and creation of archival collections relating to Muslim communities in the UK,
 and it has contributed to the training of public sector staff, diplomats and military personnel.


Page 3
 Together with work by Morton, Newland, Otele and Swenson, their research affects how
 questions of social cohesion and cultural diversity can be understood, and shaped, through and
 despite, segmented collective memories. The funded projects ‘Phantoms of the Past’, ‘Slavery
 in Africa: a dialogue between Europe and Africa’, ‘Disrupted Histories, Recovered Pasts’, and
 ‘People of African descent’ made histories and legacies of empire, slavery, and migration
 visible in a number of locations in Europe, Canada & Africa, affecting curatorial practice from
 the National Museum of Kenya to the Holburne Museum in Bath. They also contributed to
 enhanced understandings amongst organisations supporting refugees and migrants (especially
 the South East Wales Racial Equality Council) regarding monitoring, the movement of
 individuals from refugee and asylum seeker status to ordinary people status, and the
 importance of making visible stories that diverge from an institutional narrative of recovery and
 integration. The critical mass and connections built through these projects underpin our
 ongoing collaborations with cultural partners and community groups through the ‘Bath &
 Colonialism Action Group’.

 Impact cluster II: Informing heritage practice through long-term perspectives

 Sarah Morton’s work with the Royal College of Surgeons of England (RCS) on Repatriating
 Human Remains: Changing Museum Practice forms our ICS UoA28-2 RHR. The
 repatriation of the human remains of Indigenous peoples collected within a colonial context has
 been the subject of debate for decades; many museums have returned human remains to their
 countries of origin. There has been, however, a lack of consideration of the meanings created
 as remains move through different spaces. By studying the legacies of repatriations from the
 RCS to Australia, New Zealand and Hawaii, Morton helped shape policy and practice at RCS,
 contributed to sector and public debates on restitution and decolonisation, and helped foster
 relationships between museums and source communities.

 This feeds into a cluster of research by members of the Unit assisting ethical and sustainable
 development in the museum sector through long-term and interdisciplinary perspectives:
 Research with Brunel University and the Museum of London on Smithfield Market informed the
 museum’s recording and use of sensory histories (Swenson). Meanwhile, methods to analyse
 long-term visit data, developed with a team of academics and consultants in Britain and New
 Zealand, have attracted interest from the Observatory of Audiences of Cultural Heritage of
 Catalonia for their design of a new visitor traffic count model. Through the NESTA-funded
 ‘Digital Research and Development Fund for the Arts’ on the potential benefits of big data
 analysis for museums, the UoA, in collaboration with public sector consultancy Black Radley
 Culture Ltd, affected strategic thinking around the repositioning of UK museums and the extent
 to which they needed to change in order to remain sustainable.

 Impact cluster III: Shaping policy through the social history of politics

 The UoA continues its tradition of informing policy through histories of security, secrecy and
 terrorism (Malik, Marshall), and built new pathways to impact through research on the social
 history of medicine (Williamson) in combination with work on ‘rumours’. Coast’s work on Early
 Modern ‘rumours’ and ‘the will of the people’ have informed debates about ‘fake news’ and
 ‘populism’, contributing to enquiries by a Parliamentary Committee on ‘fake news’, and to the
 Parliament of Victoria’s (Australia) inquiry on social media and elections. His current UKRI-
 funded collaboration with the Institute for Historical Research (IHR), the Alan Turing Institute
 (for big data analysis), and ‘History and Policy’ places rumours around Covid-19 in a historic
 perspective, and contributes to improved government communications and policy on public
 health and vaccination campaigns.

 Future Research and Impact Strategy:

 Covid-19 disrupted our public engagement work, planned collaborations with museums and
 heritage organisations, and preliminary work to scope out new projects bringing together

Page 4
 research and practice, including around the ways in which we might reveal and retell the
 histories of Bath. All of these will resume as the pandemic restrictions ease, while the process
 of recovery will create new opportunities for collaborative work with existing and new partners.
 These connect the future of the city with that of the University, as part of a more fundamental
 reimagining of both spaces.

 The UoA’s goal for the next five years is to become an internationally recognised model for
 engaged and interdisciplinary research in History and Heritage. The UoA will support existing
 and emerging research strengths through mentoring and strategic use of QR funding, and will
 deepen international research ties through strategic use of the University’s staff mobility
 programmes, its Global Challenges Research seed-funding, and GALA. We will work with
 research leaders elsewhere in the University to establish new opportunities for collaboration
 and critical interchange. Through a new Centre for Applied Humanities that will launch in
 2021, the UoA will embed the UN’s sustainable development goals into its impact strategy,
 focusing particularly on social resilience, sustainability, and climate change. These support
 and enhance the contribution of history and cultural heritage to the future of the city and the
 wider region.

 The UoA is committed to address urgent questions of decolonizing historic spaces. We
 secured funding from the Royal Historical Society to host a symposium early in the next REF
 cycle on how to tackle the uneven acknowledgement of diverse histories. This will bring local,
 national and international scholars, heritage professionals, activists and artists together to
 share experiences and develop a research and impact strategy to involve divided
 communities.

 By bringing our cultural partners together, and drawing on the UoA’s relationships with the
 university research centres on Environmental Humanities and Cultural and Creative
 Industries, we plan to develop Bath into a living lab for addressing inequalities and the
 environment crisis through historically and creatively informed research. In parallel with this,
 our research provides the foundation for supportive collaboration with a number of agencies
 across the city, through which they can develop their own professional practice. Research
 projects will be designed to deliver demonstrable outcomes from the outset.

 The History and Heritage Research Centre will systematically record all impact activities
 through an impact tracker. We will work with existing and potential partners and communities
 to identify shared interests and values so that these can be at the heart of future projects.
 Having built strong links across the university and with external partners locally, nationally and
 globally, the UoA aims to translate these connections into more collaborative bids, including
 for doctoral funding. In the next five years in particular we aim to transform the successes in
 bidding for smaller grants into larger bids, to increase the proportion of UoA staff who are
 involved in externally funded research and to diversify the sources of income, including
 strengthening the UoA’s consultancy work, particularly in relation to heritage. The latter is
 likely to be particularly relevant in the context of post-pandemic recovery, in a region which
 was economically dependent on cultural tourism.

 1.3. Open Research and Integrity

 The Unit’s strategy for open research is guided by the institutional strategy, policies and
 processes (IES 2.8.1). The University’s REF Code of Practice gives the UoA Leader
 responsibility for ensuring that UoA colleagues keep their details on the institutional open
 access repository ResearchSPAce up to date. Visibility of the Unit's outputs allows the Library
 repository team to gather full text or datasets, as appropriate, for open publication. The UoA
 Leader is able to monitor open research compliance by metrics provided through the
 University’s annual Quality Review.



Page 5
 The Unit closely collaborates with the Library repository team to ensure all staff have a clear
 understanding of open research requirements and opportunities. The Library team proactively
 monitor the open access status of the Unit's outputs, requesting full text content where
 publisher policies allow. The BathSPAdata repository is available to host accompanying
 research data from the Unit's outputs, in keeping with the UK Concordat on Open Research
 Data. The Unit's online staff profiles are automatically populated with publication data from the
 open access repository, thereby incentivising academic engagement.

 Within the institutional strategy there is scope for the Unit to develop its own approach to open
 research, going beyond the minimum requirements of REF2021. For History, where the
 monograph remains central to the discipline's publication culture, this has led the Unit to
 consider the challenges for open access monographs. The Unit supports the principle that
 scholarly monographs developed with public funds should be made publicly available. Within
 resource limitations, the Unit is taking practical steps to realise this principle, by a. increasing
 the number of book chapters made openly available by the Unit’s authors, b. utilising 'green'
 open access publisher policies, and c. supporting Library investment in new publishing models
 for open access monographs. Examples of published book chapters made openly available
 include Astrid Swenson’s ‘Cologne Cathedral as an international monument’

 The Library has pledged funds to the Knowledge Unlatched project, a consortial initiative to
 ‘unlock’ monographs for open access publication, including a collection of History titles. The
 Library also supports the Open Library of Humanities (OLH), a publishing model intended to
 drive the transition to full and immediate open access for scholarly journal titles (“Plan S”). This
 includes titles relevant to UoA 28 such as '19: Interdisciplinary Studies in the Long Nineteenth
 Century'. The Unit is able to monitor progress towards making its monographs openly
 accessible through the University’s annual Quality Review.

 The Unit’s strategy for research integrity is also guided by the institutional strategy, policies
 and processes (IES 2.8.2). All researchers have completed and refreshed their ethics training.
 Through their research, members of the Unit have been actively involved in developing
 professional ethics guidelines, in particular with regard to repatriation, as detailed in ICS28-2
 RHR. These in turn, have informed wider approaches to the ethics process in the School,
 addressing work with, and impact on stakeholders at the design stage of each project.



 Section 2. People


 2.1 Staffing strategy

 The unit is returning 11 FTE to REF2021, almost doubling from 6.2 FTE in REF2014. All staff
 are full time: 10 on permanent contacts, 1 on a research contract.

 The pillars of our staffing strategy have been to focus expertise, nurture ECR and Mid-career
 scholars, and enhance equality and diversity. We consolidated existing strength in early
 Modern British history through the appointment of Coast and Berry. We consolidated our
 growing expertise in transnational and public history by hiring scholars who combine modern
 European, imperial and post-colonial history with an interdisciplinary approach to heritage
 (Morton, Newland, Swenson) and developed the global history of ideas, with particular
 emphasis on religion (Manning, Flavel).

 Over the course of the REF period, the proportion of Readers (18%) and Research Professors
 (36%) substantially increased. The successes in the research route of the internal promotion
 process are testament to the way research is at the core of the UoA’s staff development for
 ECRs and Mid-career scholars. The research route led to 2 promotions from Lecturer to Senior
 Lecturer (Coast; Morton), 4 promotions to Reader (Flavel; Manning; Hackett; Otele), and 4 to
Page 6
 Professor (Malik, Marshall, Hackett, Otele). Swenson was appointed at professorial level to
 lead the UoA’s research strategy.

 Wherever possible, the UoA makes permanent appointments rather than offering short-term
 positions except to replace colleagues on externally funded projects or parental leave.
 Following the departure of Otele for a prestigious chair at Bristol University in early 2020, we
 focused on raising the research capabilities of our UoA by making all our part-time senior
 lecturers full-time academic staff.

 2.2. Staff Development

 The UoA is committed to supporting and developing staff at all stages of their careers, through
 mentoring, promotional opportunities, workload management, research training, and
 engagement with the research centres.

 The Unit adopted a more systematic approach to planning and supporting research following
 REF2014, using funding strategically to enable the completion of key projects and to enhance
 their impact. This approach will be further consolidated as part of planning for the next REF
 phase.

 Staff development includes an annual Research Review with the line managers to ensure
 personalised support. For example, this has allowed the UoA to support Williamson, who was
 not entered in REF2014, to develop a strong submission for 2021. At UoA level, we hold
 regular holistic research mentor meetings and workshops to discuss research development,
 publications, grant writing, career development and promotion procedures, as well as writing
 retreats.

 The RSO offers a wide range of training for staff and postgraduate students from ‘Data
 Visualisation for Researchers’ to ‘Ethics and Managing Relationships’. ECRs also can make
 use of mentors beyond their field through the University’s Research Mentoring Scheme and
 access externally hired coaches (see IES 3.2-3.4).

 To develop future research leaders and plan succession in research management, early and
 mid-career scholars have been invited to join QR funding selection panels and were involved in
 the REF process through the advisory group. Building on this, Coast was selected for the
 inaugural cohort of a new Research and Enterprise Leadership Programme at Bath Spa. ECR
 Morton was externally trained to lead writing retreats.

 We developed and implemented a systematic strategy for institutional support for dedicated
 research time. This is organised through an annual round of competitive applications for
 periods of teaching relief, open to all staff across the university. Additionally, our UoA took
 measures above and beyond the University policy, to adjust teaching timetables to take
 account of the needs of particular research projects and their impact. We used the change of
 the teaching year from three terms to two semesters in 2018 to redesign the curriculum with
 team-taught modules to consolidate research time. For example, Otele’s teaching was time-
 tabled to allow her more time to finish outputs in 2017-2018 and 2018-2019; Malik’s teaching
 has been front-loaded in 2018-19 into S1 to finish a monograph on the Silk Road; as was
 Hackett’s for her monograph on rural migration, in S2. In 2019-2020, Morton received
 teaching relief to work on the impact of her research on repatriation. When the move to a new
 interdisciplinary humanities curriculum will be complete in the next REF cycle, we will
 approach collegiate sabbaticals more systematically through a formal application process.




Page 7
 2.3. Research students

 Our close-knit PhD community has been growing steadily, continuing the upwards trend
 started in the last REF cycle. Since 2014, we supervised 7 PhD students to completion as
 part of supervisory teams. This number comprises 4 HESA-returned students, increasing our
 return by 300%. We are currently supervising 20 research students, including 10 PhD
 students and 2 MPhil students as first supervisors, and 8 PhD students as second
 supervisors in interdisciplinary teams across BSU (with English, Media, Business and
 Education) and with institutions in the AHRC-funded South West and Wales Doctoral Training
 Partnership (SWWDTP).

 While students enrolled in the PhD programme in the last cycle were largely local, mature,
 part-time students in History, we now have a mixture of part- and full-time, local and
 international students, researching classic historic topics, as well as doing interdisciplinary
 and practice-based work, supported by supervisory teams across and beyond the University.

 Growth and diversification of the research student body have been enabled through investment
 in training, funding and partnerships. This was initiated at the end of the last REF period
 through the successful application for the South West and Wales Doctoral Training Partnership
 (8 partners, 2014-2019). Its successor programme (10 partners) began in 2019-2020.
 Successful students are supervised across two institutions; they receive fee-waivers, full
 bursaries, and targeted support for research activities such as archival work, and they
 participate in a bespoke programme of research training and placement opportunities across
 the partnership. The UoA recruited 4 DTP students (one with BSU as the lead institution).
 Three UoA staff have served on the Peer Review College.

 Research training provision has also been designed to enhance student recruitment. The MA
 in Heritage Management (created 2010) has led to a steady increase of PhD students in this
 area. With the creation of an MA in History (started 2019), we aim to further increase
 retention of post-graduates. Having conducted a research project on ‘Student Placements
 in Museums: Exploring models of good practice for mutual benefit and future sustainability’
 through the Museums and Universities Partnership Initiative Match Fund (Morton), and
 having built strong partnerships with the cultural sector, in the next five years, we aim to
 extend the opportunities for work with museum and heritage organisations through cultural
 engagement fellowships and AHRC collaborative awards.

 Support at doctoral level has been systematically enhanced in terms of supervision and
 training: All doctoral students are supervised by teams of two and occasionally three
 supervisors, sometimes from within the UoA or as collaborations within BSU, or another HEI
 within or beyond the SWWDTP. For instance, we currently co-supervise with one of our
 GALA Partners at Claremont Graduate University. New supervisors are mentored by more
 experienced colleagues and all supervisors attend regular training on research supervision
 and student mental health and wellbeing.

 Training for PhD students is provided through a combination of university-wide and subject-
 specific opportunities through the Graduate College, the Subject Groups, Research Centres,
 the SWWDTP and external providers. Training needs are considered at admission, confirmed
 at arrival and regularly reviewed. Funding is available through the Graduate School and
 Subject funds. All research students have opportunities for relevant work experience through
 the Graduate Teaching Assistant Scheme and the Graduate Research Assistant Scheme.
 One of our current PhD students has recently been awarded a Civic Scholarship, funded by
 the Institute of Community Studies / Young Foundation, which will enhance and extend his
 research expertise and complement the approach adopted by the UoA as a whole.



Page 8
 Postgraduate students are a central part of our research community. PhD students regularly
 have the opportunity to present during the Research Seminar and the Public Lecture Series,
 and are supported in running their own PG seminars and reading groups. The Unit started
 funding an annual postgraduate history conference from 2018-2019 (postponed in 2020 due to
 Covid), organised by PhD students to showcase their work, engage with external speakers,
 and broaden their networks. Funding is available to attend and organize conferences. In
 addition to the workshops run by the Graduate College and RSO at Corsham Court, we offer a
 series of subject-specific workshops on writing, publishing, public engagement and career
 planning.

 2.4. Equality, Diversity & Inclusivity

 Commitment to equal opportunities in the recruitment and support of research staff is
 evidenced by the University’s status as a Stonewall diversity champion and our Investors in
 People badge. All staff involved in hiring, line management, and the REF selection process,
 complete equality and diversity training (see IES 3.5).

 The Unit has worked hard to meet and exceed the University’s Equality Action Plan to ensure
 that female representation at all leadership levels (currently 43.1%) is within a 5% variation of
 all female staff at BSU. Within the UoA, hiring and promotion of female members of staff was
 higher than that of male colleagues during the REF period. We also transformed all part-time
 contracts, which disproportionately applied to female staff members, into full time contracts. We
 have now achieved a parity of men and women on permanent contracts in the UoA and among
 the professors and readers. We are working to increase the ethnic diversity within the UoA. A
 third of the academic staff in the UoA was born overseas. While the proportion of BME
 colleagues and research students remains below the average of the UK population, in 2018 the
 Unit promoted Britain’s first black female professor in History, and the proportion of BME
 professors remains above the BSU target of 15%.

 Flexible working is in place for those with caring responsibilities, and in relation to health.
 Reductions in teaching after parental leave have been enabled through changes in timetabling
 introduced by the Head of School. Throughout the REF cycle, a proportion of HEQR funding
 was ring-fenced for ECRs and positive action has been taken in the allocation to support those
 with caring responsibilities and on part-time contracts. We plan research activities, training and
 seminar programmes to accommodate the needs of researchers with childcare and other
 caring needs and to facilitate different forms of participation.

 In the future allocation of internal research funding for staff and PhD students, we will try to
 mitigate against the inequalities in research time created during the pandemic. In making our
 selection of REF outputs we prioritised, among outputs of similar quality, those that enhanced
 diversity. More broadly, as a Unit we are committed to increasing diversity and inclusivity
 through co-creative research (ICS I and II), work for learned societies including the RHS Race,
 Ethnicity and Equality Working Group, postgraduate training, and the invitation of speakers.


 Section 3: Income, Infrastructure, and Facilities
 3.1 Income

 The UoA has grown its external research income by over 50% to nearly GBP200,000 and by
 over 500% since RAE2008. Major funders included the AHRC, UKRI, NESTA, the British
 Academy, Erasmus+, Horizon 2020 (MSCA Rise), and Swedish Tom Hedeliu och Jan
 Wallanders Foundation. Researchers in the UoA also benefited from GBP45,125 external
 funding and several ERASMUS+ grants, and secured c. GBP70,000 competitive internal
 funding.

Page 9
 Grants reflect the UoA’s research strength in Early Modern History (Lewis Walpole Library
 Fellowship at Yale University, US, Coast, GBP2,125; ‘COVID-19 Rumours in historical context’,
 UKRI, Coast, GBP23,039, (total GBP96,097); ‘Civic London 1559-1642’, AHRC, funding
 Berry’s postdoctoral research (GBP202,048); Migration and the Muslim World (‘Immigrant
 integration programs in European Cities’, Tom Hedelius och Jan Wallanders Stiftelse, Hackett,
 GBP17,000, (total GBP243,000); ‘NURSLING: National Qualification Frameworks’,
 ERASMUS+, Hackett & Malik, GBP30,000 (total Euro751,046); and Histories of slavery and
 of people of African descent ('Phantoms of the Past’, Huron University, Otele, CD12000;
 ‘Slavery in Africa : a dialogue between Europe and Africa’, MSCA RISE, Otele & Malik,
 GBP270,000 (total Euro1,107,000); ‘Disrupted Histories, Recovered Pasts: A Cross-
 Disciplinary Analysis and Cross-Case Synthesis of Oral Histories and History in Post-Conflict
 and Postcolonial Contexts’, AHRC/LABEX, Otele, GBP79,794; ‘People of African descent’,
 AHRC, Otele, (GBP24,023).

 The global history of philosophy and religion was supported by a BA Grant on Buddhist
 Engagements with Ethnic and Religious Minorities in Contemporary Sri Lanka (GBP9,900) and
 ‘Emergence: From Biology to Theology’, The Faraday Institute for Science & Religion, St
 Edmund’s College, Cambridge University, Manning, GBP112,737. Research on museums
 was funded by NESTA (‘Digital Research and development Fund for the Arts’, GBP34,419),
 through a collaborative project on ‘Sensory Smithfield’ (Brunel University, GBP5000, Swenson)
 and the Museums and Universities Partnership Initiative Match Fund (GBP1000, Morton).

 The UoA’s success in growing external research income, and in diversifying its funding
 sources, in particular with regard to international funding, reflects the ability to conceive world
 leading individual research, and to foster genuine collaborative links on impactful themes with
 researchers and organisations outside of the University regionally, nationally, and
 internationally.

 It is also testament to the effectiveness of mentoring and support from RSO, including the
 Research Development Team and the Impact Research Fellow. All bids are discussed with
 RSO, relevant research leads and line-managers to coordinate support, before submission to
 the University’s internal peer review college; three UoA staff serve as internal reviewers.

 The UoA has made strategic use of its HEQR funding to provide targeted research support.
 The distribution of QR funding has been for the most part devolved to the Schools and UoA
 leads rather than held centrally. We have strategically used funds for meaningful teaching relief
 for researchers working on outputs and research bids, and to support impact activity and
 networking at external events. These internal grants have considerably strengthened the UoA’s
 outputs and can also be linked to external grant success (e.g. QR and GALA awards supported
 early stages of Hackett’s, Otele’s and Coast’s research which led to subsequent larger grants).

 HEQR funding has also been used to enhance the vitality of the research environment through
 seminars and conferences. Members of the Unit received GBP50,957 in HEQR funding for a
 range of personal research projects in addition to subject funding for conference attendance,
 archival research, research seminars and public lectures (GBP14,175) and six GALA awards
 (GBP4500).

 3.2 Infrastructure & Facilities

 Campuses: BSU campuses and collections provide a historical resource in their own right.
 With institutional roots going back to 1851, the UoA is based on 2 campuses in parks
 designed by Capability Brown: Newton Park in Bath - whose history goes back more than a
 millennium - and Corsham Court in Wiltshire, which houses the RSO and Graduate School.
 The sites, as well as the extensive archives and collections of the estates and the educational
 institutions that ultimately became BSU (most prominently Bath School of Art and the Teacher

Page 10
 Training College at Newton Park) are used as hands-on resources for postgraduate training,
 as well as being researched and curated by members of the Unit and PhD students.
 Professional oversight for these collections is provided by the University Curator, whose work
 directly supports the UoA as well as the institution more widely.

 Library: There has been a continuous investment in library resources. The scholarly
 infrastructure for the UoA includes Library subscriptions to high impact and internationally
 excellent journals. The Library collections directly relevant to the UoA include more than 900
 journal subscriptions, 17,000 books and 4,500 e-books. The Library’s extensive digital
 collections include 19th Century UK Periodicals, 16th to 19th Century British Newspapers, the
 Burney Newspaper Collection, Eighteenth Century Journals, Empire Online, The Guardian
 and The Observer archives, House of Commons Parliamentary Papers, The John Johnson
 Collection, Punch Historical Archives, Slavery Abolition & Social Justice. Within the University,
 the UoA has access to a significant collection of books relating to colonial history, the
 Lawrence Collection. Specialist collections are also available from neighbouring disciplines,
 including Literature, Music, Art, Theatre, Dance and the History of Science.

 Library resources for the UoA are underpinned by a team of Subject Librarians, who provide
 subject-specific support and a defined point of contact for research enquiries. The University
 has heavily invested in its infrastructure for open research, with both an institutional repository,
 ResearchSPAce, and a research data repository, BathSPAdata, as well as in impact tracker
 software. The repositories are supported by two Research Publications Librarians, who work
 proactively with the UoA to develop its open research profile. The Library’s Writing and
 Learning Centre supports an inclusive research culture through one-to-one writing support,
 social media workshops, 'Journal Club' workshops in scholarly writing, and research methods
 training with software such as Nvivo, R, and SPSS. The UoA also maintains an institutional
 membership to the IHR.

 Section 4: Collaboration and Contribution to the Research Base, Economy, and Society
 4.1. Cultural Partnerships

 BSU has a number of formal partnerships with regional cultural institutions. These include the
 Holburne Museum, The Bath Preservation Trust, and the Bath Festival, where Memoranda of
 Understanding have supported close collaboration with the UoA through research projects,
 public engagement and knowledge transfer. In addition, the UoA benefits from its
 collaborations with a much wider network of informal partners in the cultural sectors, including
 the National Trust, BRLSI, Wiltshire Museum and the Wessex Museum Partnership.

 The Unit also systematically expanded collaborations in digital humanities (for instance with the
 Alan Turing Institute), and worked with private sector consultancies (such as Black Radley
 Culture Ltd), think tanks (such as ‘History and Policy’), charities and community groups through
 formal and informal partnerships.

 4.2. International Networks

 We substantially grew our international networks and reach, through invited talks in Europe,
 North America, Asia, Africa and Australia. Members took up visiting fellowships in Europe,
 Africa and North America: Coast was a visiting fellow at Yale (2017), Hackett and Malik were
 visiting professors at the Universities of Southern Denmark (both, 2014, 2017), Bergen
 (Hackett, 2015), Helsinki (Malik, 2016), Malta (Hackett, 2016) and Mauritius (Malik, 2018). In
 turn, the Unit hosted visiting fellows, and heritage professionals, from Austria, Malta, Ethiopia
 and Kenya through Erasmus+ and Horizon 2020 funded programs, and set up staff
 exchanges with Canada, the US and China through GALA.



Page 11
 During this REF cycle, members of the UoA also established for the first time strong academic
 and non-academic international collaborations though externally funded projects. ‘Disrupted
 Histories’ was jointly funded by the UK (AHRC) and France (LABEX); Otele and Malik worked
 on the Horizon 2020 funded SLAFNET with a multidisciplinary team of some 50 researchers
 in a consortium of 13 partners from Kenya, Mauritius, Cameroon, Ethiopia, Senegal,
 Germany, Portugal and France. Hackett’s and Malik’s capacity-building project NURSLING
 brought together scholars from the UK, Portugal, Italy and Germany with universities and
 politicians in Tashkent and Samarkand in Uzbekistan and Hackett collaborated on ‘Immigrant
 integration’ with Malmö and Leiden.

 Beyond these flagship projects, extensive individual networks underpin almost all areas of
 scholarly activity in the Unit. Members researched in archives on 5 continents, wrote
 academically in German, French and Urdu, as well as in English, and their work was translated
 into Swedish, German, French, Spanish, Russian and Mandarin. Publications co-edited with
 international teams include special issues of Comparative Migration Studies (with Max Planck
 Institute for the Study of Religious and Ethnic Diversity), Journal of Contemporary History (with
 Konstanz), and Cultural Trends uniting a team of researchers and consultants from the UK &
 New Zealand.

 In terms of wider professional networks, Coast, Hackett, Malik, Marshall, Otele and Swenson
 are Fellows of the Royal Historical Society; Marshall is a Research Associate of the ODNB and
 Malik an MCR of Wolfson College, Oxford. Memberships in professional associations reveal
 the range of overlapping interests and networks of UoA members. They include the North-East
 England History Institute, the Cromwell Association, the British Association for South Asian
 Studies, the German History Society, the Centre international de recherches sur les
 esclavages, Historians against Slavery, the Council for European Studies, the International
 Council of Museums, the Museum Association, the Institute of Conservation, and the
 International Association for Critical Heritage Studies.

 4.3. Contributions to the Research Base

 Given the interdisciplinary nature of our Unit and our collaborations, academic beneficiaries
 include scholars from history, heritage and museum studies, cultural policy, urban studies,
 archaeology, human geography, classics, art history, English, anthropology, architecture,
 politics.

 Through different projects, members contributed to creating new archival resources and
 increased access to collections for minority communities (see ICSs). Collectively, members of
 the UoA have been working to make the University’s collections and the rich archaeological,
 architectural and natural heritage of the University campuses available as a research resource
 to other scholars, as well as to the public, through the creation and cataloguing of the archive
 (started during the previous REF period and completed by one of our PhD students), now
 managed by the University Curator (for bona fide access). Newland has started an
 archaeological project (involving community groups) to survey and excavate the Newton Park
 Campus, and Newland, Morton and Swenson are working with a newly appointed curator
 under the auspices of the school of Humanities to make the university’s art and natural history
 collections researchable. We have begun an internal research project to decolonise the
 university’s own history, and inscribe it into wider histories of empire in the region through
 collaboration with similar projects underway across the museum and heritage sector.

 We contribute to the discipline through conference organisation, editorial roles, reviewing,
 advisory work and leadership in professional bodies. In Bath, the UoA hosts a regular
 seminar and public lecture series, an annual ‘Heritage Matters’ conference, and the ‘Annual
 Colloquium for Global Philosophy and Religion’, held in collaboration with the Continental


Page 12
 and Comparative Philosophy Circle, The Friedrich Nietzsche Society, and The Society for
 Asian and Comparative Philosophy, establishing BSU as a centre of excellence in this area.

 We also co-convene key national research seminars, including Rethinking Modern Europe at
 the IHR, London and the Punjab Research Group at Oxford. We serve on committees for the
 annual Conference for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (Cyprus), the International Congress
 for Critical Heritage Studies, the Turkish Migration Conference and the European Social
 Science History Conference. UoA members regularly co-organise panels, e.g. at the
 International Conference of Europeanists and the North American Conference on British
 Studies, and coordinated the Biennial Conference for Historians Against Slavery to celebrate
 the 10th anniversary of the International Slavery Museum, Liverpool (2017). Other thematic
 conferences hosted include ‘News, Secrecy and Foreign Policy in Early Modern England’ (Bath
 2015); ‘The Will of the People: constructions of the popular voice from c. 1500 to the present’
 (Bath 2018); ‘Reluctant Sites of Memory’ (Bristol, 2018); ‘Modern Histories of Migration’ (Leiden,
 2018).

 Members of the Unit further shape their fields through editorships in emerging fields: Hackett
 is editor of the Journal of Migration History (with colleagues in Holland, France, Sweden); Malik
 is a founding editor of Critical Muslim (and editorial board member of Pakistan Journal of
 American Studies; International Journal of Punjab Studies and Contemporary South Asia).
 Swenson is an editor of the new Critical Heritage Series of Cambridge University Press
 working with colleagues from Sweden, China and Australia. The Unit also shapes critical local
 history by editing the Bath History Journal. Editorial work in the history of philosophy and
 religion includes the British Journal of Religious Education, the Rowan and Littlefield Reframing
 Continental Philosophy of Religion series, Goddess Theology. A Journal for the Study of
 Feminism and Religion, Comparative and Continental Philosophy, and The Edinburgh Critical
 History of Christian Theology.

 Members of the Unit review for a variety of outlets, including generalist journals such as
 Journal of Contemporary History, Journal of Modern History, Historical Journal, specialist
 journals, publishers (Yale, Harvard, Cambridge, Oxford, & University of California UPs, Pluto,
 Palgrave, Hurst, Routledge & Bloomsbury), and grants for the AHRC (Manning, Otele,
 Swenson serve on the Peer Review College), the ESRC, H2020 MSC-Fellowships, MSCA
 RISE, foundations in the UK (e.g. Nuffield) and beyond, from Sweden to Hong Kong. Advisory
 roles include Marie Curie Fellowships and AHRC projects, and strategic advice for the AHRC
 Global Challenges Research Fund and the AHRC heritage strategy.

 Members’ commitment to increase diversity within the profession, as well as links across the
 international community has driven leadership in professional bodies. Otele was elected
 vice-president of the Royal Historical Society in 2019, after having served on various key
 boards. She is also board member of the influential American body Historians Against Slavery,
 and the British Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies, a committee member for the Society for
 the Study of French History, and the V&A Museum’s research committee. Swenson served on
 the German History Society Committee. Morton is part of the Institute of Conservation’s
 Archaeology Group and Archaeological Archives Forum which reviews policy and provides
 guidance. Members have also served as Associate Officer of the Comparative and Continental
 Philosophy Circle, on the Executive Committee of the International Society for Science and
 Religion, and the Board of Directors of the Institute for Theology and Deasophy, the Steering
 Committee of the American Academy of Religion - Buddhism Section, the Board of the Society
 of Buddhist-Christian Studies, the managing Committee of the Spalding Symposium on Indian
 Religions, and on the North American Paul Tillich Society Board.

 Members are committed to PhD training beyond our institution, by serving on The
 European Graduate School for Training in Economic and Social Historical
 Research (Krakow 2017, Florence 2018); peer-reviewing doctoral fellowships for UK bodies,
 and serving as external examiners (LSE, De Montfort, York, Lancaster, Sunderland,

Page 13
 Central Lancashire, Strathclyde, East Anglia, Oxford and internationally at Maynooth,
 Copenhagen, and Quaid-i-Azam University Islamabad, International Islamic University
 Islamabad, GC University Lahore, University of Karachi, Islamic University Bahawalpur,
 University of Peshawar in Pakistan).

 4.4. Key non-academic partners, beneficiaries and audiences


 The Unit’s beneficiaries and audiences are local, national and international. We reached wide
 and varied audiences through public events, festivals from Glastonbury to Karachi, exhibitions
 (see portfolio), print media (BBC History, National Geographic, Economist, Guardian) and
 broadcasting in Britain and abroad. Malik alone made over 100 media appearances. He
 frequently appears on BBC Radio 4, World Service, BBC Urdu, BBC Hindi; Newland continues
 building on her extensive media work, including her award-winning work for ‘Time Team’ prior
 to joining BSU, as a presenter of the archaeology sections of BBC ONE’s ‘The One Show’ and
 of ‘Coast’, the popular factual show for BBC TWO; she is regularly invited as a commentator,
 for instance on the fire at Notre Dame on ‘Good Morning Britain’, and since 2018 has been
 recording as a presenter for ‘Impossible Railways’ and ‘Impossible Engineering’ (UKTV). In
 2019 she contributed to ‘Stealth ships’ for the Smithsonian Channel; Williamson discussed
 Bubonic Plague on Radio Scotland, Sky News (2018) and Channel V (2020) and has been a
 sought-after expert to comment on Covid-19 in light of earlier pandemics; Marshall advised on
 TV programmes on Cromwell.

 We work with schoolchildren and teachers, through the Children’s University (Morton,
 Newland) an archaeology project for primary school children in Bristol (Newland), the West
 Wiltshire Rural Music School (Hackett), the German History Society (Swenson), and
 internationally by training teachers in Uzbekistan through NURSLING (Hackett; Malik).

 Many of our projects involve collaboration with local communities (especially in the South
 West and Wales through Hackett’s work with Muslim communities, Otele’s work with people of
 African descent, and Newland’s community archaeology projects), charities (such as the
 West Wiltshire’s Multi-Faith Forum, South East Wales Racial Equality Council & the Social
 Justice Charity for SE Wales) and artists, including of African descent, to develop creative
 solutions on contested histories.

 We work extensively with the museum and heritage sector. Beyond our official partnerships,
 we worked also with the Medical Museum, the American Museum and Fairfield House in Bath.
 A member of the Unit represents the University on the UNESCO Bath World Heritage City
 Board, advising in particular in relation to decolonisation and climate change. Members of the
 UoA have also worked on projects to shape exhibitions or practices with museums in Bristol &
 Liverpool (International Slavery Museum), London (Museum of London; Royal College of
 Surgeons’ Hunterian Museum); Newcastle (Discovery Museum) and the National Museum of
 Kenya. More broadly they worked with staff from the heritage sector, architects and urban
 planners, via conferences, KT and training workshops. Morton sits on the Continued
 Professional Development Committee of the Institute for Conservation and mentors the
 accreditation process of conservators. Consulting work in buildings archaeology (Newland)
 brings together different communities, for instance on projects such as the Castle Park
 redevelopment (Bristol's flagship new shopping quarter), the Stadium for Bath and several
 listed buildings in Bath and Bristol.

 Finally, our work engages with policy makers, civil servants & diplomats locally (through
 Hackett’s work with Wiltshire Council) and internationally through contributions to
 parliamentary inquiries in the UK and Australia on fake news and restitution (Coast, Morton),
 training of MoD and FO staff and the shaping of Uzbek higher education policy (Hackett and
 Malik).



Page 14
