Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Cardiff Metropolitan University
 Unit of Assessment:
 UOA24: Sport and Exercise Sciences, Leisure and Tourism
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Cardiff Metropolitan University School of Sport 1 has achieved significant growth across a
 number of key performance indicators during the current REF census period, including a 225%
 increase in the number of staff being returned, a 154% increase in research funding, a 988%
 increase in external PhD studentship funding, and an 88% increase in PGR completions.
 Internal University and School funding to support staff and student research-related activities
 amounted to £2.7 million across the assessment period contributing to 14 staff PhD
 completions, 47 research prizes and short-listings, and collaborations spanning 75 countries.
 Staff held 55 Editorial Board and Guest Journal Editorships across 48 journals during the period.

 Context, Structure and Strategy

 In 2014, predicated on 20 years of collaboration and HEFCW’s strategic research imperatives,
 Cardiff School of Sport at Cardiff Met and the School of Sport, Health and Exercise Sciences at
 Bangor University made a joint submission to UoA26 under the auspices of the Institute for
 Research Excellence in Sport and Exercise (IRESE). The research environment was rated 75%
 4* and 25% 3*. The REF2014 IRESE strategic priorities were to: (a) consolidate and extend the
 well-established research links between the two universities; (b) establish a structure that
 assures recognition for high-quality research; (c) develop robust and sustainable mechanisms to
 encourage and support research; (d) increase grant capture for research initiatives that produce
 high-quality outputs; and (e) continue to exploit the impact of IRESE research beyond academia.

 The close working relationship with Bangor has continued during this census period, with
 collaborative initiatives aligned to these strategic priorities including: three jointly funded and
 supervised PhD studentships; nine cross-institutional PhD student supervisions; six successful
 grant applications (circa £150k); over 20 jointly authored publications; and, reciprocal input
 into respective School research seminars. The jointly funded Cardiff Met-Bangor PhD
 studentships resulted in two international scientific expeditions to Nepal and Peru to better
 understand altitude-related health. These expeditions, which involved researchers from three
 continents and had Global reach, resulted in three successful collaborative funding applications,
 and 19 published outputs by members of IRESE. In addition, the £600k UK Sport funded Great
 British Medallists project provided a catalyst for collaboration on the UK Sport funded
 Performance to Podium and the English Institute of Sport and British Triathlon Federation
 funded Triathlon Mindset projects. However, arguably the most notable Cardiff Met-Bangor
 collaboration was the awarding of the prestigious ESRC Doctoral Training Partnership
 pathway in Sport and Exercise Sciences in 2016 (also including Swansea University), one of
 only two such pathways in the UK. To date, the pathway has been awarded 13 ESRC doctoral
 studentships, with Cardiff Met and Bangor securing 10 of these (5 each), at an estimated value
 of £680k. Part of the ESRC DTP pathway, the annual pan-Wales PGR Sport and Exercise
 Sciences Student Conference has attracted over 200 PGR students from the partner institutions
 (Cardiff Met, Bangor, Swansea and South Wales Universities).

 Despite the ongoing success of the collaboration, both Institutions resolved that they would
 make separate submissions to UoA24 for REF2021. This decision was based on several
 strategic, logistical, financial and reputational factors. For example, the necessity to return all
 individuals with a ‘significant responsibility for research’ made a joint submission of two

1 In 2017 the School of Sport merged with the School of Health Sciences to form Cardiff School of Sport

& Health Sciences (CSSHS). Where the narrative refers to the merged School it will be denoted by
CSSHS. School in isolation is used to denote the original School of Sport for the whole census period
through to July 2020.


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 departments with different size (16.8 FTE vs 42.2 FTE) and academic role profiles incompatible
 in terms of modelling the highest quality return. Financial imperatives, QR funding formulae,
 regional strategic priorities and the desire to better evidence individual institutional growth and
 evolved research emphases were also factored into the decision.

 The School’s strategic research priorities for this census period, which aligned with those of
 IRESE, centred on ‘enhancement’. Specifically, (a) increased volume and quality of research by
 fostering an inclusive and sustainable research culture; (b) growth and diversification of research
 and innovation income; and (c) increased research impact. The key performance indicators of
 success against these three strategic priorities are as follows:

 (a) Increased volume and quality of research

 A 225% increase in the number of staff being returned to REF2021 (an increase from 13 to 42.2
 FTEs) is testament to the growth in our output volume and quality during the census period. The
 increased volume is also reflected in the number of School outputs uploaded to the University’s
 open access repository (D space) since January 2014 (n=663), compared to the previous
 census period (n=305). Indeed, the growth in the volume and quality of research from School
 staff was integral to Cardiff Met being listed in the THE World University Rankings for the first
 time in 2019 and again in 2020 (with the School contributing over a third of the total publications
 across the University). In 2020 we also had our inaugural listing in the THE World University
 Young Rankings. Our research quality is also evidenced by its impact across a range of
 stakeholder and end-user groups (discussed below and throughout this environment statement).

 (b) Growth and diversification of research and innovation income

 The School has achieved significant growth and diversification in external funding sources since
 REF2014. During the census period, HESA-defined research income has grown 154%
 (£287,476 to £729,043) from a variety of public (e.g., NHS, English Institute of Sport, Sport
 Wales, South Wales and Gwent Police forces) and private (e.g., World Rugby, FIFA, Welsh
 Rugby Union) sector organisations. PhD studentship income has grown 988% (from £32,103 in
 2014 to £349,351 in 2020). This includes 5 ESRC studentships, 14 Knowledge Economy
 Skills Scholarships (KESS-2), and 3 Coleg Cymraeg Cenedlaethol studentships.

 (c) Increased research impact

 In line with Cardiff Met’s R&I strategy, impact is integral to our research activity. Building on our
 REF2014 return (Impact rating 66% 4*, 33% 3*), the four Impact Case Studies (ICS) that
 comprise this submission and emanate from five of our most established research groups
 (Physiology of Health and Sport; Youth Physical Development; Sport Injury and Medicine;
 Biomechanics; and, Sports Coaching and Physical Education) are testimony to the success of
 our strategy to support and nurture high quality impactful research across a breadth of research
 foci. The four ICS were selected from over 10 impactful programmes of research from seven
 different research groups within the School.

 Mechanisms for achieving strategic research priorities

 Research Groups have provided the conduit for all research activity in the School. For the
 majority of the census period nine cognate groups, led and supported by Professors, reflected
 the areas of existing research foci and strength, critical mass and emerging areas of research
 within the School: Physiology of Health and Sport; Youth Physical Development; Sport Injury
 and Medicine; Sport and Exercise Psychology; Biomechanics; Socio-cultural; Sports Coaching
 and Physical Education; Performance Analysis; and, Sport Management and Development.
 Under the leadership of the School’s Associate Dean for Research, these Research Groups
 have been a catalyst for operationalising the School’s strategic priorities.



                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 A number of University and School initiatives supported the attainment of our strategic priorities.
 At Institutional level these included competitive internal funding schemes such as the Research
 Innovation Awards (RIA) and the Research, Enterprise and Innovation Fund (REIF), which were
 predicated on nurturing research with 4* potential for quality and impact, and enhancing external
 grant capture - through funded PhD studentships, research assistantships and external
 collaborations. The Get Started scheme provided seed funding to stimulate growth in new
 research and innovation activities. During the census period the School secured over £330,000
 in internal competitive funding through these schemes, including: three interdisciplinary
 programmes of PhD research (e.g., a fully funded PhD studentship led by Gittoes, which
 examined the relationship between psychosocial factors and physiological stress-related
 markers in injury occurrence); three programmes of research that form the basis of ICS led by
 Drane, Moore, Lloyd and Oliver that are part of this submission; and a further three
 programmes of research with potential to form the basis of future ICS (e.g., a multi-centred,
 multidisciplinary clinical trial into the effects of high-intensity interval training [HIIT] versus
 moderate-intensity steady-state [MISS] exercise in cardiac rehabilitation in NHS settings; Lord).
 Six outputs externally rated as potentially 4* and being returned as part of this submission have
 also directly resulted from these centrally funded initiatives, as have eight applications for
 external research funding.

 Institutional funding has been complemented by School funding initiatives targeted at growth and
 diversification in the volume, quality, financial sustainability and impact of our research. These
 include funding of full and part-time PhD studentships; research assistant hours to support
 research-related activities; writing awards to relieve staff workload for an extended period of
 time; and two-year post-doctoral fellowships. Other funding initiatives include support for staff
 PhD completion; PhD candidature awards to provide additional support following the conclusion
 of existing funding arrangements; a PhD publication output fund to provide support during
 publication of thesis outputs; and a seed-corn scheme to pump prime research with potential for
 external grant capture. Thus, internal funding from the School to support our strategic priorities
 was significant (£1,714,675m). Additional support in the form of bespoke School staff
 development workshops, a research seminar series, termly research fora, funding for
 conference attendance and research mentoring have supplemented the Institutional programme
 of staff development initiatives that target the specific needs of staff and research groups to
 enhance research quality and impact.

 A number of other activities have been integral to fostering impact in our research. The School
 Impact Working Group led by our REF Co-ordinator is key to helping foster and support
 programmes of impactful research and the development of the ICS that form part of this
 submission. Quarterly group meetings supplement individual impact support meetings. Early in
 the REF cycle external input into our impact strategy and the quality of 10 ICS was provided by a
 previous REF panel member. Three central institutional assessments of the development and
 quality of the ICS and multiple ‘away days’ provided further catalysts for the ongoing
 development and selection of the case studies for this REF.

 By way of illustration of the breadth of our impactful programmes of research, including those
 being returned for this REF, the head injury prevention and management in cricket and rugby
 union ICS led by Moore (Sport Injury and Medicine group) shows how research informed policy
 and practice resulting in a new British Standard for Head Protectors in Cricket (BS7928:2013),
 and a national concussion education programme in Welsh rugby union. The Youth Physical
 Development group ICS led by Lloyd and Oliver shows how research into the long-term athletic
 development of children and adolescents has informed guidelines on youth resistance training
 and long-term athlete development - including the American College of Sports Medicine’s Youth
 Fitness Specialist certification programme. Meanwhile, the International Primate Heart Project
 (IPHP) led by Drane (Physiology of Health and Sport group) demonstrates the impact of
 cardiovascular research in humans on critically endangered species of great apes; informing the
 largest ever re-introduction programme of chimpanzees back into the wild. Finally, the coach
 education and professional practice ICS (led by Jones and Irwin - Sports Coaching and Sports
 Biomechanics groups) evidences how research has shaped the practice of sports coaches and

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 scientists both internationally and in the UK. A further ICS supported within the School led by
 Bolton (Sport Development and Management group) is being returned to UoA17 Business and
 Management Studies and Aldous is part of an education ICS being returned to UoA23. Other
 developing ICS include: psychosocial factors in talent development and world-class performance
 (Evans; Sport Psychology); the development of physical literacy in schools (Morgan; Sports
 Coaching and Physical Education); and, physical activity, psychological wellbeing and
 presentism within the police force (Thomas; Sport Psychology).

 Alongside impact, interdisciplinarity has been integral to several initiatives over the current REF
 cycle. Indeed, it has been central to the University (e.g., Research Innovation Awards) and
 School (e.g., PhD studentships) funding calls and multi-day researcher-led sandpits to develop
 interdisciplinary research partnerships and research plans, which our staff have engaged with.
 Interdisciplinarity was also integral to the awarding of the ESRC Wales DTP pathway in Sport
 and Exercise Sciences (SES) and has been evidenced by a number of outputs being returned
 by staff to UoA24 as part of the current submission. It was also a key driver for the launch of the
 Centre for Health, Activity and Wellbeing Research (CAWR) in 2019, a conduit to respond to
 current and future imperatives around public health and wellbeing. Drawing expertise from
 across the sport and health sectors, CAWR seeks to address Welsh and UK Government
 strategic priorities and United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (2013) around health
 and wellbeing, economic growth and fostering sustainable communities. Crone’s appointment to
 lead CAWR will enable us to capitalise on our breadth of research expertise to employ
 interdisciplinary approaches to address some of the major societal issues within the changing
 research landscape.

 Open Access

 Following the introduction of the University’s Open Access policy in 2014, considerable progress
 towards an open access research environment has been achieved over the census period. Our
 researchers work closely with the University’s Library Services following a schemed workflow to
 ensure outputs (and other research resources) are uploaded to the institution’s open access
 repository (DSpace) in line with the REF open access policy. In 2018, the University invested in
 FigShare to support our drive towards a more open research environment and go beyond
 current REF open access policy requirements. Importantly, FigShare provides a more effective
 platform for the sharing of research data and associated outputs whilst facilitating impact via
 research and general population user engagement. For example, Moore’s recent BASES
 funded interdisciplinary project examining gait and physiological characteristics provides access
 to a range of materials used in the research (including raw data and computer software macros)
 that were developed to allow lay individuals to perform research-level analysis to inform sports
 performance. Furthermore, recent directives from The Physiological Society and the American
 Physiological Society require the presentation of individual data wherever possible, adequate
 description of methodologies to allow for reproducibility, and the publishing of raw data in an
 online repository (e.g., FigShare).

 Research Integrity

 All research undertaken within the School is subject to the scrutiny and standards of the School
 Research Ethics Committee (SREC), which reports to the University Ethics Committee and
 operates in accordance with the University’s Ethics Framework. The SREC contains six
 subpanels (natural sciences, social sciences, biomedical sciences, psychology, health care, and
 food and applied community sciences), which meet on a fortnightly basis and report quarterly to
 SREC. Ethical queries can also be referred to the University Ethics Committee where necessary.
 Professional development sessions on the University and School’s ethics frameworks and
 governance are held regularly. A Designated Individual for the Human Tissue Act sits on the
 School’s Research Ethics Committee and Persons Designated are members of the subpanels to
 ensure compliance with the University’s license to conduct work involving the procurement,
 storage, handling, transfer, transportation and disposal of human derived materials. Adherence
 to accrediting body ethical codes of conduct for programme and staff accreditations also

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 features within our research integrity practices and culture. Examples include British Association
 of Sport Rehabilitators and Trainers, British Association of Sport and Exercise Sciences, British
 Psychological Society, Broadcast Journalism Training Council, Chartered Institute for the
 Management of Sport and Physical Activity and National Strength and Conditioning Association.

 Future Strategic Aims

 Over the next five years, we will continue to build on the growth seen during the current REF
 period in research quality and impact; the diversification of research income to safeguard the
 sustainability of high quality research and research culture; and, the preponderance of multi and
 interdisciplinary research that addresses priority research needs across sport, health and wider
 societal agendas. We will also continue to build on existing pan-Wales collaborations within, and
 beyond the ESRC DTP in SES. Over the next REF cycle and aligned to the University’s 5-year
 strategic plan (2018-23) and specific University and School measures of success, our objectives
 include:

 (a) growth in research funding, in particular from cherished and charitable funding sources;
 (b) enhancing the quality of our research outputs and impact through ongoing strategic School
     initiatives, such as research mentoring;
 (c) increasing the number of staff with significant responsibility for research through formal
     mentoring and ECR schemes and programmes;
 (d) enhancing international R&I partnerships through targeted support of programmes of
     research that have global reach;
 (e) fostering new areas of interdisciplinary research by harnessing the strengths of our
     reconfigured research group structure.

 A key mechanism for achieving these strategic priorities will be the recently formed Global
 Academy for Health and Human Performance, one of three University level Global Academies
 which bring together strengths in research and innovation to address challenging global
 priorities. The Global Academy combines expertise and knowledge found within the CAWR, the
 recently reformed CSSHS Research Groups and the strengthening infrastructure that exists
 within the School.

 2. People

 Staffing Strategy and Staff Development

 The School’s strategic priorities for this census period are epitomised by its commitment to
 research excellence through the appointment, support and development of high-quality staff.
 This is evidenced by the: (a) targeted recruitment of well-established, internationally recognised
 scholars with a record of research leadership, grant capture and impact (e.g., Crone, Mellalieu);
 (b) planned and targeted investment in early career, emerging and established researchers who
 show the potential to produce 3 and 4* quality research (Corsby, Drane, Jennings, Lord, Moll,
 Moore, Pugh, Stembridge, Stöhr) and impact (Drane, Lloyd, Lord, Moore, Oliver, Stöhr); (c)
 internal promotion to Reader (Bezodis, Gittoes, Lloyd, Moore, Oliver, Stembridge) and
 Professor (Cooper, Evans, Jones C, Oliver) for applicants who meet the criteria; and, (d)
 engagement of eminent researchers to advisory roles and as Emeritus Professors (Hardy,
 Kerwin, Maddison), Visiting Professors (Ackerman, Cockcroft, Speed, Nokes) and Visiting
 Readers (Backx, Yousef, Zouwail).

 Throughout the census period the School adopted several mechanisms to help staff realise their
 aspirations and potential for delivering high quality impactful research. The performance and
 development review scheme, which involves three annual staff review meetings, acts as an
 important mechanism to ensure staff research goals and activities are aspirational and
 strategically aligned. It also acts as a conduit for the allocation of protected research time, which
 research active staff receive over and above the research and scholarly activity time allocated to
 all staff. The amount of allocated research time is based on actual - or in the case of new and

                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 emerging staff, potential - research productivity, quality and impact. Where staff are part-time or
 fractional the allocation is pro rata. All staff also have access to a research mentor, a senior
 researcher in the School, who provides guidance and support for their professional
 development. The success of this scheme and its effectiveness in providing support for talented
 researchers at different stages of their career is best evidenced during this census period by
 Drane’s progression from Research Assistant to Lecturer; Stembridge’s progression from
 Research Fellow to Lecturer, Senior Lecturer and Reader; Moore’s progression from Research
 Assistant to Lecturer and Reader; Lloyd’s progression from Lecturer to Senior Lecturer and
 Reader; and Oliver’s progression from Senior Lecturer to Reader and Professor. Significantly,
 Drane, Moore, and Lloyd and Oliver also lead three of the four ICS being returned as part of
 this submission.

 As part of its commitment to supporting research excellence among early career (ECR),
 emerging and established researchers, the School retained the services of six external world-
 leading researchers and subject experts, including five previous REF panel members, and
 invited all staff to have a paper of minimally 2* quality externally rated by them. Each member of
 staff received individual feedback, while research groups were given group feedback. This
 process of external review, which was intended to enhance staff understanding of research
 quality and the process of achieving it, complemented a process of internal scrutiny and output
 rating by an internal School panel of senior researchers. It also supplemented external input into
 the School’s impact strategy outlined in the previous section.

 Other approaches employed to foster an inclusive, vibrant and supportive research culture that
 facilitates research excellence included: the School research seminar series, which involved
 internal and external speakers (including PhD students in joint presentations with supervisory
 team members); weekly journal clubs; and, research group meetings dedicated to the discussion
 of research ideas and proposals, grant activity, and impact. Other initiatives to specifically
 support ECRs include, the ECR forum, which supports staff in the formulation of personal
 research development plans through action learning sets (which Moore co-leads) and PGR
 supervisory teams comprising ECRs alongside a senior, established researcher. This approach
 to the composition of supervisory teams, which is integral to increasing high quality supervisory
 capacity, was successfully employed for the five ESRC DTP PhD studentships we secured.

 As highlighted in the previous section, the University and School also offered a suite of internal
 funding initiatives that provided support for ECRs and more established researchers, each with
 specific steers aligned to our strategic priorities. They included evidence of potential for 3 and 4*
 research and impact, external grant capture, and interdisciplinarity. These initiatives provided
 staff with a number of funding opportunities including PhD studentships (£197,767), research
 assistant support (£14,483), workload relief for specific research objectives (£69,014), and seed
 funding for early research project ideas (£8,666). All staff also had access to a staff development
 fund (total spend £254,585), which supports for example, conference attendance, upskilling, and
 maintenance of professional qualifications (e.g., British Society of Echocardiography
 accreditation). The internal funding initiatives have contributed to 22 staff submitting successful
 grant applications.

 The School has a policy of match-funding externally part-funded funded studentships. We have
 secured 13 such studentships worth £748,871 in external funding, providing £379,194 in match-
 funding. Such support has been integral to safeguarding the quality and sustainability of the
 research activity in the School as well as the vitality of our research culture. Other support for
 staff research activity has been provided through a centralised programme of staff development
 which includes: training and assistance in writing grant bids; regular updating on funding
 opportunities including visits from research councils and other funding agencies; writing retreats
 for PGR students and staff; interdisciplinary ‘sandpits’ to foster internal and external research
 collaboration; developing impact; supervisory training; and, doctoral examination and Chair’s
 training.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Staff within the School have also benefitted from a number of external schemes that support
 ECRs and talented researchers. For example, Moore and Aldous were supported through the
 highly competitive Times Higher Education award-winning Welsh Crucible programme
 (contention rate 5:1); a package of personal, professional and leadership related courses
 designed to support early to mid-career researchers. In addition, 29 staff have benefitted from
 School financial support (e.g., fee waivers) and workload relief (e.g., an additional 271 protected
 hours annually) to undertake an MPhil or PhD, or professional or taught doctorate. This has
 contributed to 14 staff PhD completions during the period at a cost to the School of circa
 £1,018,898m. Staff have also been supported financially to enable them to undertake and
 participate in a wide range of international research projects and collaborative initiatives. For
 example, four staff were supported to conduct five large-scale scientific expeditions on three
 different continents and a further five staff were supported to participate in international field trips
 and dissemination events in Africa and Indonesia. The total value of University and School
 funding to support staff across the assessment period was £2,745,940m.

 PGR Students

 Considered the research lifeblood of the School, PGR students are integral to our research
 strategy and culture - thus our strategic focus on studentship funding. Most School PGR
 students are based in a dedicated research building (Research House) on the Cyncoed
 Campus, where they have a fully equipped and dedicated workspace. The hub of PGR activity, it
 provides a supportive, vibrant environment where students can interact for an enriched, shared
 research experience. The School’s Graduate Studies Coordinator is also based in Research
 House to provide readily accessible formal and informal pastoral support and advice – support
 that is complemented by two PGR mentors (1 male and 1 female) who sit outside of the
 supervisory team to provide additional pastoral support. At the time of writing the School has 105
 PGR students enrolled on research degrees (66 male, 39 female, 7 BAME, 73 PT, 32 FT), a
 54% increase from 2014 (n=68); a studentship demographic that is reflective of our commitment
 to equality and diversity. During this census period PGR completions have almost doubled from
 26 to 49 (see Table 1 for Panel C required disaggregated breakdown). This increase in PGR
 students and completions is consistent with, and evidence of, the realisation of our strategic
 priority to foster a sustainable research culture through increased and diversified studentship
 funding sources.

 Table 1.
 PhD, Professional Doctorates for period 2014-2020
  Year        2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2016/17                    2017/18      2018/19     2019/20
  PhDs           7          3           10         4               10            7           6
  Prof Doc                               1                                       1


 During this REF period the University invested in PhD Manager, a bespoke online system for the
 support and monitoring of PGR students. This purpose-built system is used as an interface
 between students and their supervisory teams and covers all post-enrolment milestones (e.g.,
 research degree proposal, transfer from MPhil to PhD), review and monitoring practices (e.g.,
 annual monitoring reports, research training reviews, requests for change to supervisory teams)
 and examination processes (e.g., thesis submission, approval of examination teams, submission
 of examination reports). Meanwhile the recent launch of a University Doctoral Academy, a ‘one-
 stop-shop’ for all PGR related information, resources and online training/events, provides a
 central hub for all PGR activities moving forward. During this census period we also became a
 full member of the UK Council for Graduate Educators and invested in the VITAE network.

 At the start of their studies, all PGR students complete an induction programme and attend a
 centrally organised Research Skills week. This programme is supplemented by ongoing training
 offerings to support the research skills and professional development of PGRs and includes
 evening sessions to cater for part-time provision. To safeguard the quality of supervision,
 researchers who embark on research degree supervision for the first time complete an induction

                                                                                                  Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 programme before being eligible to join supervisory teams. Consistent with established good
 practice across the sector and the QAA Code of Practice, staff new to PhD supervision join
 supervisory teams with at least one other experienced supervisor to maximise mentorship
 opportunities. At present, 56 members of staff in the School are engaged in PGR supervision,
 compared to 35 in 2014.

 We consider the personal and professional development of our PGR students as vital and
 integral to our commitment to foster research excellence. Several formal and informal School
 mechanisms exist to support and safeguard this in addition to those already mentioned. Formal
 interactions between PGR students and established researchers are facilitated by the activities
 outlined in the Staff section above (e.g., research seminar series, journal clubs, and research
 group meetings). In addition, the annual University PGR Poster Presentation, School PGR
 Student Conference and Pan-Wales PGR Sport and Exercise Sciences Conference provide
 students with opportunities to present their research, interact with other students in a supportive
 conference environment, and network. They also facilitate the cross-fertilisation of ideas within
 and across disciplines and universities. Since its inception in 2016, the 2-day annual pan-Wales
 conference has provided additional research training opportunities through presentations by
 senior researchers both from and external to the constituent universities (Cardiff Met, Bangor,
 Swansea and South Wales) on cutting-edge research developments and topics of
 methodological and broader interest. Students are also supported in chairing sessions and
 introducing speakers. All students are encouraged to avail themselves of these opportunities
 with all costs met by the organising partners and in the case of the pan-Wales conference, part-
 funded by the ESRC Wales DTP. The School also fully funds all students to attend and present
 their research at one national and one international conference during their candidature. 35
 students have received School conference funding across this census period at a total cost of
 £61,866. Other School funded activities include students undertaking placements, travelling
 internationally for data collection and networking, and support for additional research training
 experiences beyond those directly associated with their own PGR studies. These are initially
 identified in their Research Training Review, which is part of their enrolment, as well as in their
 Annual Monitoring Report. The School makes every effort to meet students’ bespoke training
 needs. For example, Drane’s cardiovascular research on critically endangered species of great
 apes involved data collection field trips to sanctuaries and zoos in Africa (Cameroon, Zambia,
 Sierra Leone and Republic of Congo), Indonesia, Europe (Spain, Netherlands and Germany)
 and the UK. A number of other PGR students (Curry, Dawkins) and staff (Lord, Shave,
 Stembridge, Stöhr, Pugh) were supported to participate in these field trips and were thus
 afforded exceptional value-added research training and professional development experiences.
 Finally, the ESRC’s recent approval of the MRes in Sport and Exercise Social Sciences (led
 by Cooper) as meeting the ESRC’s 1+3 doctoral research training requirements for ESRC
 funded students provides PGR students with access to additional research training
 opportunities.

 Equality and Diversity

 Consistent with its position as a values-based University, Cardiff Met is committed to all aspects
 of equality, diversity and social inclusion. This commitment was recognised in 2019 through our
 inclusion in Stonewall’s Top 100 Employers list and the awards of Institutional Bronze Athena-
 SWAN Equality Challenge Unit charter marks in 2016 and 2020. The School’s Dean (Thirlaway)
 is Chair of the Institutional Athena-SWAN Self-assessment Team. In September 2020, the
 School achieved the University’s first departmental Silver award for the period 2015/16 to
 2018/19, building on the Bronze it secured in 2017. Significantly, the School Athena-SWAN
 group is led by a senior researcher (Gittoes), with other key members of the group being senior
 researchers and research leaders within the School (e.g., Brown, Mellalieu, Moore,
 Stembridge), as well as ECRs (e.g., Lord, Pinder). Advance HE identified the School’s Athena-
 SWAN Silver application as exemplary and an example of best practice in the area of flexible
 working and shared parental leave. The positive impact of the School’s work was also
 highlighted in the recent Athena-SWAN (Sport) First Lockdown Survey, resulting in Advance HE
 recommending it as an example of best practice (for March to September 2020).

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Cardiff Met’s Recruitment and Selection Guidelines mandate a systematic approach to ensure
 all staff are selected solely on merit with discrimination on the grounds of any protected
 characteristics explicitly forbidden, including pay, career progression and promotion. The
 University and School have been committed to identifying equality and diversity (E&D) issues
 and in instigating a range of measures to promote equality of opportunity and diversity. These
 include implementing policy change relating to the mandatory scheduling of all committee
 meetings within core working hours (10am-3pm). The School was pivotal to the University policy
 change to offer equal benefits to all parents taking maternity, shared parental and adoption
 leave. We were also pioneering in covering maternity leave with a fixed-term contract that
 extends beyond the period of leave to mitigate the motherhood penalty associated with research
 activities. During the reporting period, 13 academic staff took maternity and 6 paternity leave –
 with one researcher taking an extended one-year paternity leave.

 The School has also worked to improve perceptions of, and practices related to flexible and
 fractional working and career breaks. Our Flexible Working Scheme allows staff to request a
 temporary (usually a maximum of two years) move to flexible, fractional work. Since 2015,
 flexible working uptake has increased from 1 to 10 staff, which includes two senior researchers
 (Gittoes [F], Mellalieu [M]) currently working temporary fractional 0.7 and 0.5FTE contracts
 respectively. One female academic also took a non-parental leave career break during the
 reporting period.

 Other enhanced E&D practices we have supported include the Women to Professor Action
 Learning Set series, to which several Professors in the School contribute (e.g., Cooper, Crone,
 Evans). Led by the University Director of Research and PVC R&I, and with input from the VC,
 this pioneering series outlines the routes and requirements for promotion and empowers
 attendees to shape their performance-related objectives and associated working practices. Eight
 female School staff (Dohme, Drane, Gittoes, Howells, Lord, Moore, Robinson, Thirlaway)
 have attended the programme in the last two years, with one (Moore) having already
 successfully progressed to Reader.

 The proportion of females included in this submission (38%) aligns with the School’s proportion
 of female academics during the early portion of the cycle (average of 36% from 2013-2019) but
 is slightly below the current proportion (41%). Females currently occupy 34% of eligible
 returnees, 31% of senior researchers and 33% of Professor roles in the School. The School
 recognises the continued low representation in our submission from other protected
 characteristics such as BAME, as well as the need to continue to promote E&D in its policies,
 practices and research culture. An ambitious five-year E&D action plan that formed part of the
 successful Athena-SWAN Silver award will provide the basis for further addressing School E&D
 policy and practices moving forward. In addition, Cardiff Met has established a Race Equality
 Charter stakeholder working group, as part of its drive to achieve an Advance HE Race Equality
 Charter by 2024. The University also aims to achieve an Institutional Silver Athena-SWAN
 award. The School will contribute to both these goals through a series of strategic initiatives
 ensuring that our Directorate and senior researchers reflect the diversity of our society in the
 next REF period.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 HESA research income increased by 154% during the census period (from £287,476 to
 £729,043), while external studentship income increased 988% (from £32,103 in 2014 to
 £349,351 in 2020). Funding sources include UKRI (e.g., AHRC, ESRC); European Union (e.g.,
 ERASMUS+); charities and foundations (e.g., Help for Heroes); public sector (e.g., Cardiff and
 Vale University Health Board, South Wales and Gwent Police forces); national and international
 sporting bodies (e.g., English Institute of Sport, FIFA, World Rugby, British Gymnastics); and,
 learned societies (e.g., Physiological Society). While our HESA defined research income during

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the census period is more modest in contrast to the external studentship funding, a recent
 increase in grant capture suggests a significant upward trend; in 2019-20 we secured £510,637
 in research funding as compared to £8,477 in 2013-2014. This growth is rooted in the School’s
 strategy to increase and diversify research and innovation income, and to foster a sustainable
 research environment that provides for increased research quality, volume and impact.

 Examples of externally funded research include Lord’s Waterloo Foundation funded (£71,709)
 research with the University Hospital of Wales and Cardiff University. Using a randomised,
 controlled trial, it compares the effects of high-intensity interval training (HIIT) with moderate-
 intensity steady-state (MISS) training on wellbeing, cognitive performance and physical health in
 women with Polycystic Ovary Syndrome. The findings have the potential to inform exercise
 guidelines in disease management and a REF2028 ICS. Stembridge, Oliver, Lord, Pugh and
 Talbot also secured £55,292 from the Waterloo Foundation and a $25,000 USD FIFA Research
 Scholarship in collaboration with Cardiff University’s Brain Imaging Centre and the Centre for
 Lung, Heart and Vascular Health at the University of British Columbia Okanagan. The research
 examines how brain blood flow and energy use differ at rest and exercise in pre- and post-
 pubertal boys and girls, and whether regular exercise alters control of brain blood flow. The
 findings could have significant health implications for children, providing an evidence base to
 inform public health promotion and policy. Finally, Thomas secured over £192k from South
 Wales and Gwent Police forces to improve levels of physical activity, psychological wellbeing
 and presentism within UK policing – a national and international collaboration with colleagues
 from Cardiff Met (Moll, Neil), Sheffield Hallam and the University of Tasmania. The research has
 already positively impacted the working practices and behaviour of control room staff and the
 forces’ strategic direction in relation to physical activity in the workplace.

 Given the strategic importance of PGR students to the research culture and its sustainability, a
 key School imperative during this period has been to increase the number of externally funded
 research studentships. We have had considerable success in this regard, securing externally
 funded studentships as the result of new and established collaborations with ‘industry’ partners.
 During the census period we secured 14 funded studentships (total value £983k) from the
 European Union and Welsh Government funded KESS-2 programme. This Wales-specific
 knowledge transfer programme links companies and organisations with academic expertise in
 the HE sector to undertake collaborative research that informs knowledge exchange activities by
 embedding the student within the company while they work towards a PhD or Research
 Masters. Collaborating partners included Cardiff and Vale Health Board, Sport Wales, I-Act for
 Positive Mental Health and Wellbeing, the Welsh Rugby Union, Wales Golf and the Valleys
 Gymnastics Academy. In several instances KESS studentships have built upon existing
 programmes of research, further strengthening ongoing collaborations and the quality and
 impact of the research. For example, having secured in excess of £200k for her injury
 surveillance research from multiple national and international sources (e.g., English and Wales
 Cricket Board, International Cricket Council, Welsh Rugby Union, World Rugby), Moore secured
 two KESS funded PhD studentships to further extend the application of knowledge to injury
 rehabilitation in rugby union.

 Another key and highly successful funding source has been the ESRC Wales Doctoral Training
 Partnership. Since 2016 we have secured 5 ESRC DTP funded studentships (total value
 approximately £360k). We have also secured studentship funding from the Coleg Cymraeg
 Cenedlaethol, a body established in 2011 by the Welsh Government to incentivise higher
 education teaching and research through the medium of Welsh. We have secured three such
 studentships to the value of £127,315 during the census period. Considerable studentship
 funding has also been secured via a number of public and private sector collaborations and
 sources. For example, Thomas, Evans and Lane secured £40k from British Triathlon in
 collaboration with the English Institute of Sport and Bangor University to retro- and prospectively
 examine talent development within a psycho-social framework among elite British triathletes.
 Early findings from the project have already fed into the British Triathlon Athlete Development
 Framework. Irwin was a member of the research team in a similar collaboration between Cardiff
 Met and the Universities of Bath and Exeter that secured £130k from the Lawn Tennis

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Association to gain insight into the key biomechanical indicators of performance that may be
 used to develop athlete-centred training programmes for improved performance. Collectively
 these studentships, some of which are match-funded, evidence the School’s commitment to
 fostering research quality and pathways to impact. Notably, the four ICS that form part of this
 submission have resulted or benefitted from the aforementioned funding streams and
 studentships.

 Infrastructure

 The infrastructure that has been integral to realising the School’s strategic priorities and the
 quality and impact of our research has changed across this REF cycle in-line with the changes
 to, and evolving aspirations of, the University’s Senior Management. In 2017 the Cardiff School
 of Sport and Cardiff School of Health Sciences merged to form the Cardiff School of Sport and
 Health Sciences (CSSHS). However, throughout the REF cycle, research management within
 the School has rested with the Associate Dean, Research (ADR; 0.4 FTE), REF Coordinator
 (REFC; 0.4 FTE) and Graduate Studies Coordinator (GSC; 0.4 FTE) with the support of the
 Senior Researchers Group and Research Group Leads. Initially, Research Group Leads, all
 Professors, provided the operational support and leadership of seven cognate groups that
 reflected the central areas of research foci, strength and critical mass within the School. As a
 result of the merger, the structure of the research groupings was revised in 2019 to capitalise on
 the strengths of the newly formed CSSHS. This revised structure was intended to provide a
 catalyst for an increased research and innovation profile across sport, health, physical activity
 and wellbeing, as well as realise the interdisciplinary potential of the CSSHS. The revised
 structure consolidated the research groups across Sport and Health into four strategic research
 themes: (a) Applied Sports Science; (b) Cardiovascular Health and Ageing; (c) Culture, Policy
 and Professional Practice; and, (d) Population Risk and Healthcare. Within these themes, 23
 research groups support the direction of all research (and innovation) activity in the CSSHS.
 Eleven of these groups feature in our current submission: High Performance; Philosophy and
 Ethics; Applied Injury Science; Sport Psychology; Youth Physical Development; Qualitative
 Research Methods and Social Theory; Cardiovascular Physiology; Performance Analysis; Sport
 Coaching; Applied Health, Physical Education and Lifelong Learning; and, Mental Wellbeing in
 High Performance Environments. All research groups continue to have an appointed Research
 Lead who provides both strategic guidance and support to group members. Collectively these
 Research Leads receive over 1,000 hours workload allocation to undertake their roles and
 responsibilities. All groups feature senior, mid and early-career researchers as well as PGR
 students, and provide for an inclusive, dynamic, and supportive research culture and
 environment. The Senior Researchers’ Group, which comprises all Professors and Readers,
 provide further strategic and operational support for all research-related activities, including
 reviewing, rating, and providing feedback to staff on the quality of their research activities and
 outputs. Research staff are supported by an administrative team consisting of a Research and
 Innovation Services Officer and two research administrators (2 FTE). A School R&I committee
 oversees all R&I related activities including policy, strategy, facilities, operations, and
 performance. A pan-University R&I committee, chaired by the PVC R&I, is responsible for
 overseeing all University R&I activities, supported by a centralised Research and Innovation
 Services unit.

 Research Facilities and Environment

 Since 2014, the School’s research environment and facilities have been strategically enhanced
 through major capital investment in the physical infrastructure, and the replacement and
 upgrading of, research-related facilities and equipment. To elaborate, during this REF period the
 National Indoor Athletics Centre (NIAC) on our Cyncoed Campus was extended to provide a
 two-storey specialist strength, conditioning and rehabilitation facility to support our Youth
 Physical Development research activity. A further extension to NIAC enabled us to augment our
 existing purpose-built biomechanics research facility to include additional dedicated research
 and laboratory space. We also extended and enhanced our existing physiology and performance
 analysis research laboratories (total cost £1.6m). The equipment costs associated with this

                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 enhanced physical infrastructure equated to a further £190k, an expenditure that was additional
 to the replacement and upgrading of other research-related equipment (a further £1.5m). For
 example, we invested in new Vicon systems (£150k); ultrasound hardware and state-of-the-art
 three-dimensional speckle-tracking software for the analysis of cardiac and vascular mechanics
 (£55k); respiratory analysis equipment for cardiopulmonary exercise tests (£75k); Kistler force
 plates (£75k); and, gym equipment for a new cardiac rehabilitation centre (£40k).

 The infrastructure investment and capital expenditure outlined above has ensured the School
 continues to provide extremely well equipped and technologically advanced facilities to support
 all research activity. Our existing facilities include: five exercise physiology laboratories,
 including a dedicated cardiovascular suite; two purpose-built biomechanics laboratories that
 complement bespoke integrated in-situ research facilities within NIAC; three fully equipped
 performance analysis suites; and, the new 2-storey strength and conditioning training facility and
 laboratory. Each facility is fully equipped, for example, the physiology laboratories have a wide
 range of ergometers, respiratory gas analysis, temperature monitoring and a hypoxic chamber.
 A cardiovascular assessment suite houses six cardiovascular ultrasound devices, beat-by-beat
 blood pressure monitoring, and arterial stiffness via tomography. An additional range of
 equipment allows the interrogation and manipulation of the cardiovascular system (e.g., bespoke
 lower body negative pressure box with incorporated cycle ergometer). A team of 7.9 FTE
 dedicated technical staff provide support for our research activities including use of specialist
 research equipment, data collection and processing. Our staff also benefit from cross-school
 collaboration involving the use of a purpose-built tissue culture facility, licenced human tissue
 freezer bank and chemical analysis suite. These biomedical facilities are co-located within a
 ‘Health Assessment Suite’ that has supported clinical research trials with over 5,700 participating
 patients during the census period. Other facilities staff benefit from include the £147k Perceptual
 Experience Laboratory (a mixed reality laboratory in our School of Art & Design that can
 simulate real world environments using immersive sound, smell, temperature and vision).

 Our staff have also formed external strategic alliances and collaborations that facilitate access to
 a wider range of world-leading facilities and infrastructure. Locally, this is demonstrated by our
 four externally funded interdisciplinary projects with the School of Physics and Astronomy at
 Cardiff University Brain Imaging Centre (CUBRIC), a £44 million, purpose-built centre housing
 four magnetic resonance imaging laboratories. Internationally, our collaborations include
 ongoing research with the Centre for Heart, Lung and Vascular Health at the University of British
 Columbia Okanagan. Over the last six years, this collaboration has yielded over 48 joint
 publications, involved two jointly supervised PhD students, and the bi-directional mobility of
 academics (Stembridge, Lord, Pugh), technical staff (Dawkins, Talbot) and 11 PGR
 students. The Centre boasts seven world-leading laboratories for the assessment of integrative
 and clinical physiology, all funded by the National Sciences and Engineering Research Council,
 Canada. This ongoing collaboration has facilitated access to techniques such as invasive
 measurements of cerebral metabolism and the dynamic control of end-tidal gases that would
 have otherwise not been accessible.

 Our research environment is also enhanced through our support of and collaborations with key
 stakeholders, including through formal agreements. For example, we are one of only three FIFA
 Medical Centres of Excellence in the UK and 57 globally; one of the central aims of which is
 applied and novel research to support FIFA’s long-term development strategy. We also have
 written partnership agreements with, and are the Centre of Excellence for, several national
 organisations and governing bodies of sport, including Welsh Triathlon, Welsh Athletics, Welsh
 Netball and Disability Sport Wales. ‘Sport Cardiff’, which is an integral part of the University and
 the ‘go to’ body for community sport in Cardiff, addresses social inequalities through sport and
 physical activity ensuring a lifelong enjoyment of sport for all. These partnerships provide an
 important conduit for some of our impactful research activity.




                                                                                              Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Contribution to the Research Base, Economy and Society

 During the census period our staff have made significant and wide-ranging individual and
 collective contributions to the research base, economy and society. The scope and effectiveness
 of their contributions are evidenced through their advisory roles within professional bodies,
 collaboration and engagement with key stakeholders, service providers and end users, and
 contributions to the sustainability of the discipline nationally and internationally. All staff are
 supported in undertaking external engagement activities, which enhance the standing of both the
 School and our staff, as well as the quality and impact of our research and innovation activities.

 Professional service and advisory roles held during the census period with policy makers,
 research users and beneficiaries are wide-ranging: REF2021 Panel Member UoA24; ESRC
 Peer Review College Member; AHRC Clwstwr Steering Board Member (Hanton); Academy of
 Social Sciences Council Member; ESRC Peer Review College Member; CBI Wales Council
 Member; Cardiff Capital Region City Deal Economic Growth Partnership Board Member
 (Aitchison); Sportscotland and Sport Wales Board Member; Olympic Committee, Olympic
 Solidarity Commission Advisor (Robinson); British Gymnastics Non-Executive Director
 (Bolton); Public Health Wales Non-Executive Director; Public Health England Mental Health
 Campaign ‘Every Mind Matters’ Expert Advisor; International Expert member of National
 Development Group, University of British Columbia and Canadian Society for Exercise
 Physiology (Crone); Health Care Professions Council, Registrant Council Member; Cardiff and
 the Vale Health Board Scientific Review Committee Member; Wales Public Health Improvement
 Research Network Advisory Board Member; Welsh Rowing Board Member (Thirlaway);
 SportsCoach UK Director; UK Coaching Committee Chair (Smith); Sport Wales Board Member
 (Longville); Equality Challenge Unit Athena-SWAN Panellist (Gittoes); Women and Science
 and Engineering Board Member (Lord): ESRC (Wales) DTP Management Board Member
 (Evans); BASES CPD Committee Member; BASES Safeguarding and Welfare Advisory Group
 Chair (Miles); English Premier League Growth Maturation Advisory Group Members (Lloyd,
 Oliver); American College of Sports Medicine CPD Content Developers (Lloyd, Oliver); UK
 Strength and Conditioning Member Board of Directors (Lloyd); World Rugby, Medical Steering
 Group Member; Premiership Rugby, Science Advisory Group Member (Mellalieu); BASES
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusivity Committee Member; Welsh Rugby Union and PRO14 League
 Injury Surveillance Group Chair; English and Welsh Cricket Board Injury Surveillance Group
 Member (Moore); Badminton World Federation Sport Science Commission Member (Hughes);
 Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) Medical Centre of Excellence Co-
 Director; Federation of Internationale de Gymnastique Expert Advisor; British Gymnastics
 Scientific Advisor; Football Association Wales Medical and Performance Group Member (Irwin);
 Sport Wales Physical Literacy Advisors (Morgan, Edwards); British Universities Colleges Sport
 Mental Health Network Board Member (Mellick).

 Further contributions to professional bodies, learned societies and recognition for substantive
 contributions through Fellowships and elected positions include: Academy of Social Sciences
 Fellow (Jones R); Royal Statistical Society Fellow (Cooper); World Leisure Academy Senior
 Fellow (Aitchison); International Society of Biomechanics of Sport President (Irwin);
 International Association for the Philosophy of Sport President (Hardman); International Society
 of Biomechanics of Sport Fellow (Bezodis); British Psychological Society Division of Sport and
 Exercise Psychology Education and Training Committee Members (Evans, Thomas).

 In terms of indicators of wider influence, and contributions to, and recognition by the research
 base, 21 staff have fulfilled editorial roles for world-leading peer review journals and 4 hold the
 role of Editor-in-Chief (i.e., Mellalieu - Journal of Applied Sport Psychology; Jones R - Sports
 Coaching Review; Hanton - The Sport Psychologist; O’Donoghue - International Journal of
 Performance Analysis in Sport). Staff have also held 17 Section or Associate Editorships
 across 14 different journals. For example, Journal of Applied Sport Psychology (Evans,
 Mellalieu); Journal of Sport Science and Medicine (Neil); Journal of Strength and Conditioning

                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research (Lloyd); Sport Biomechanics (Irwin); Sport, Leisure and Tourism: Frontiers in Sports
 and Active Living (Hardman); Annals of Tourism Research (Leisure and Recreation; Aitchison);
 Journal of Global Sport Management (Robinson). In total, staff have held 55 Editorial Board
 positions and Guest Journal Editorships across 48 journal titles during the census period
 (e.g., Frontiers in Sociology; Journal of Applied Sport Psychology; Journal of Sports Sciences;
 Qualitative Research in Sport, Exercise and Health; Quest; Societies; Sports Biomechanics;
 Sport Coaching Review; Sport Education and Society; Sport, Ethics and Philosophy; The Sport
 Psychologist).

 Our staff’s international standing and contribution to the research base are also reflected in the
 number of invited keynote addresses, presentations and Visiting Professorships during the
 census period. Staff have delivered 37 invited keynote addresses and over 90 invited
 presentations spanning national and international organizations and conferences, including: the
 Royal Society of Medicine (Lloyd); American College of Sports Medicine (Stöhr); Association
 for Sport and Exercise Sciences (Bezodis); The Physiological Society (Stembridge, Stöhr);
 British Association for Sport and Exercise Medicine (Lloyd, Moore); International Society of
 Biomechanics (Moore); International Association for the Philosophy of Sport (Hardman, Jones
 C); British Association for Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation (Neil); British
 Psychological Society Division of Sport and Exercise Psychology (Crone); Sport Global
 Governance Conference (Edwards); Global Sport Science Conference (Jones R); European
 College of Sport Science (Stembridge); London Marathon Medicine Conference (Evans);
 National Strength and Conditioning Association Conference (Lloyd, Oliver); Public Health
 Wales (Mellick); Sport Performance Research Institute New Zealand (Oliver); and, UK
 Policing’s ‘Oscar Kilo’ Upbeat Conference (Thomas). Visiting and Honorary Professorships
 include: Auckland University of Technology (Irwin, Oliver); Norwegian School of Sport Science
 (Jones R); University of Ostrava (Irwin); University of Innsbruck (Stembridge); Universita' Degli
 Studi di Catania, Italy (Laudani); University of South East Norway (Jones R); and University
 College Newman, Birmingham (Mellalieu). In total 20 staff have fulfilled visiting research roles
 at other institutions.

 Further evidence of the contribution of staff and their standing in the research community is
 provided by invited grant reviews undertaken. Staff have completed over 30 grant reviews for
 cherished and prestigious national and international funding sources, including: Diabetes UK
 (Stöhr); Heart Research UK (Stembridge); Arts and Humanities Research Council (Jones R);
 The British Academy (Evans, Jones R); British Heart Foundation (Hughes); Economic and
 Social Research Council (Jones C, Mellalieu, Thirlaway); Engineering and Physical Science
 Research Council (Irwin, Stöhr); Leverhulme Trust (Evans, Mellalieu); National Research
 Foundation of South Africa (Mellalieu); Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council of
 Canada (Pugh; Stembridge, Stöhr); Royal Society (Irwin); Rosetrees Trust (Moore); and,
 Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council of Canada (Dohme, Mellalieu, Moll).

 Reflecting their international standing, 22 staff have also served on the organising and scientific
 committees of a wide range of national and international conferences, including the: International
 Society of Biomechanics in Sport Annual Conference; British Association of Sport and Exercise
 Sciences Annual Student Conference; British Psychological Society Division of Sport and
 Exercise Psychology Annual Conference; European College of Sport Science Annual Congress;
 International Association of the Philosophy of Sport Annual Conference; British Association of
 Sport and Exercise Sciences Annual Conference; International Congress on Sport Science
 Research and Technology; UK Strength and Conditioning Association National Conference;
 International Conference Cluster for Research in Coaching; and, pan-Wales PGR Sport and
 Exercise Sciences Conference.

 The quality of our research and impact has also been recognised by the awards our staff and
 doctoral students have received (n = 21) and been shortlisted for (n = 26). For staff these
 include: Times Higher Education Research Project of the Year Award shortlist for the
 ‘Comparison of the biographies of GB serial medal and non-medalling Olympic Athletes’
 (Evans); Winner, Warren Fraleigh Distinguished Scholar Award - International Association for

                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the Philosophy of Sport (Jones C); Winner, European College of Sport Science Young
 Investigator Award and Winner, Hypoxia Symposium Early Career Award (Stembridge);
 Winner, BASES Early Career Practitioner Researcher Award (Moore); and, Winner, Outstanding
 Young Investigator of the Year – National Strength and Conditioning Association (Lloyd).

 The awards our doctoral students have been recipients of include: Physiological Society,
 Winner, Best Oral Presentation (Meah); Physiological Society, Winner, Michael J Rennie Best
 Oral Communication; Physiological Society, Winner, Rob Clarke Award (Simpson); International
 Society of Biomechanics in Sport, Winner, International New Investigator Award; International
 Society of Biomechanics in Sport, Winner, Hans Gros New Investigator Award (Manning);
 Okanagan Cardiovascular and Respiratory Symposium, PhD Student Presentation Runner-up
 and Physiology Society Europhysiology, Winner, Early Career Research Poster (Wakeham);
 and, British Association for Sport and Exercise Sciences, Winner, Biomechanics Oral Student
 Special Interest Group Presentation (Brazil, Burton).

 Collaborations

 The quality, significance and reach of our research has been considerably enhanced by the
 collaborations, networks and partnerships staff have been involved with. Nationally our
 collaborative research and impact activities have been enhanced by our involvement with bodies
 such as Sport Wales’ Welsh Institute for Performance Science (WIPS - O’Donoghue, Oliver)
 and the Welsh Institute of Physical Activity, Health and Sport (WIPAHS - Crone, Thomas).
 Supported by Welsh Government funding, they bring together Welsh academics to enable Sport
 Wales to attain its strategic policy and practice priorities around sporting performance and the
 physical activity and health of the Welsh nation. Other Sport Wales collaborations include, the
 Physical Literacy Programme for Schools Project, a collaboration between Sport Wales, Cardiff
 Met (Morgan, Edwards) and the Universities of Wales Trinity St David, Bangor and South
 Wales to support the development of Physical Literacy across Wales. The project findings have
 been used to guide Physical Literacy education and its development by Sport Wales. Our
 research has also benefitted from and provided benefit to a range of governing bodies of sport
 and key national and international stakeholders, including the Welsh Rugby Union, Welsh
 Athletics, Football Association of Wales, England and Wales Cricket Board, British Athletics,
 British Triathlon Federation, English Institute of Sport, UK Sport, and Lawn Tennis Association.
 Internationally, collaborations extend to, for example, the Federation of International Gymnastics
 (Irwin), World Athletics (Bezodis), World Rugby (Irwin, Moore, Mellalieu), International Cricket
 Council (Moore, Ranson), Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA; Irwin,
 Stembridge, Oliver, Lord, Pugh), and International Olympic Committee (Robinson).

 Our research collaborations have also responded to and addressed a number of pressing health
 and wellbeing imperatives. For example, Jones C’s ESRC funded collaboration with the Living
 Room Cardiff (a community based addiction recovery centre) and Swansea and Bath
 Universities addressed the increasing incidence and manifestations of addiction (alcoholism,
 gambling and disordered eating behaviours) among athletes, and the role that sport can play in
 recovery from them. The research provides important new insights into the nature of addiction
 within sport and exercise contexts and improves our understanding of the addictive process and
 recovery from it. Pugh’s Health Care Research Wales funded collaboration with the University
 Hospital of Wales and local General Practice Surgery clusters involves the first randomised
 controlled trial of the independent and combined effects of exercise training and statin therapy
 on blood vessel function in vulnerable individuals at risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD). The
 project utilises cutting-edge ultrasound techniques to provide healthcare practitioners with an
 initial evidence-base to endorse regular exercise as a low-cost intervention to augment the
 cardio-protective benefit of statins, potentially leading to greater CVD-risk reduction and
 substantial healthcare savings. Other examples that evidence the diversity of our collaborations
 with regional and national stakeholders, research users, and beneficiaries include: the Aneurin
 Bevan Health Board (Lord, Pugh), South Wales and Gwent Police forces (Thomas, Moll, Neil),
 Cardiff Orthopaedics (Evans), Conservatoires UK Association of British Orchestras and British
 Association for Performing Arts Medicine (Wasley), Wales Heart Research Institute and Wales

                                                                                           Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gene Park (Cooper), Mind UK (Mellick), and Cardiff and Vale University Health Board
 (Laudani, Crone, Moore).

 The global reach of our international research engagement and collaboration extends to 75
 countries (see map). The following examples illustrate the nature of these collaborations, the
 breadth of our stakeholder partnerships and the collaborative arrangements for PGR training
 that they provide. PGR training and research collaboration is at the heart of a bilateral inter-
 institutional international agreement between Cardiff Met (Laudani) and the University of Rome
 Foro Italico (neuromechanics group led by Macaluso) supported by Erasmus+ mobility funding.
 This collaboration, which has supported staff and student mobility and collaborative research
 since 2016, has enabled four University of Rome students to spend 6-12 months conducting
 research at Cardiff Met and three Cardiff Met students to conduct their research at either the
 Functional Assessment Laboratory of Villa Stuart Sports Clinic (FIFA Centre of Excellence) or
 the Neuromechanics Laboratory of the University of Rome. The collaboration has also been a
 catalyst for joint supervision, enhanced quality research training, and student involvement in a
 number of high-quality multi and interdisciplinary research projects and outputs.




 In 2015 Lloyd and Oliver were supported by £47k from the university Research, Enterprise and
 Innovation Fund to enter into a similar arrangement with Auckland University of Technology
 (AUT; Cronin, Harrison) in the field of youth physical development. The partnership involved the
 cross-fertilisation of programmes of research, joint research student supervision, staff and
 research student mobility, and the shared translation of research into professional development
 activities for external agencies. Five jointly supervised PhD students have completed or
 submitted since the partnership started, with a further four students currently enrolled. The
 partnership also created opportunities for wider collaborations, including with the National
 Institute of Fitness and Sport in Japan. Eight Cardiff Met and four AUT staff have participated in
 exchange visits and week-long writing retreats. The funding also contributed to Oliver and Lloyd
 securing two fully funded KESS PhD studentships (value circa £140k). Since 2015 the
 partnership has resulted in 27 co-authored peer-reviewed journal outputs and influenced
 professional practice locally and globally (as evidenced by the Youth Physical Development
 ICS). Another partnership with the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital Medical Center (Myer) in the
 fields of paediatric strength and conditioning and sports medicine resulted in a further four PhD
 completions, 55 jointly authored peer-reviewed papers, international grant capture and the

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 National Strength and Conditioning Association position statement on long-term athletic
 development, which has had significant global impact on youth sport policy.

 Successful collaboration in relation to high quality PGR training is also evidenced by the ESRC
 (Wales) collaborative DTP pathway in Sport and Exercise Sciences. The success of the
 collaboration and the quality of PGR training is exemplified by ESRC Wales’ approval of the
 research training at Cardiff Met (MRes in Sport & Exercise Social Sciences) as meeting ESRC
 research training standards.

 The success of our global collaborations are further illustrated by successful collaborations with
 some of the most prestigious Universities and University departments in the world. Stöhr’s
 €252,000 European Commission Horizon 2020 Marie Sklodowska Curie Actions Fellowship
 funded a two-year fellowship at Columbia University Irving Medical Centre, the number one
 medical research centre in the world (Nature Index), to conduct a novel study into macro and
 microvascular differences in blood flow haemodynamics in patients with Left Ventricular Assist
 Devices (LVAD). This ground-breaking research has meant that patients with heart failure fitted
 with a LVAD can now have their blood pressure measured where this was not previously
 possible. This research also contributed to Stöhr and colleagues recently being awarded a
 Welsh Government grant of £98k to examine the effects of COVID-19 on the mechanisms of
 drug treatment for hypertensive individuals – illustrating our responsiveness to evolving health
 imperatives.

 Finally, the global nature of our research collaboration is also illustrated by our involvement in
 five large-scale scientific expeditions on three different continents to examine altitude-
 related chronic health. Institutionally led by Stembridge, each of these expeditions involved a
 range of academics spanning Professors to undergraduates. Co-investigators from the United
 Kingdom (Cardiff Met, Bangor University, University of Cambridge), Canada (University of British
 Columbia, University of Alberta, Queen’s University, University of Manitoba), United States of
 America (Duke University, Loma Linda University, University of Texas, University of Colorado)
 and Netherlands (University of Twente) collaborated with local academics and physicians (e.g.,
 Universidad Peruano Cayetano Heredia, Peru) to deliver 15-20 unique and distinct multi and
 interdisciplinary research projects over the course of each three to four week expedition. The
 work was supported by grants from funders such as the National Sciences and Engineering
 Research Council (Canada), Canadian Institute of Health Research, Wilderness Medical
 Society, The Physiological Society, Santander Universities, and American College of Sports
 Medicine. The research findings are directly relevant to the tens of millions of people who
 annually travel to high altitude locations as part of the global tourism industry, and the 140
 million people who reside at high altitude across the globe.




                                                                                             Page 17
