Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Bristol
 Unit of Assessment: 16: Economics and Econometrics
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


Unit context and structure
Economics at Bristol has a distinctive focus and a reputation for excellence: we combine
innovative, policy-focused research and a firm commitment to outreach, with high-level advances
in economic theory, structural modelling and econometrics. We have a very strong record of both
highest-quality research and impact, where for the latter, all our Impact Cases were rated 4* in
REF2014. This record has been reinforced over the current REF period, as evidenced by
publications in top general interest and field journals stemming from all four of our research groups,
by our Impact Cases influencing national government policy, and by our varied public engagement
activities and leadership in UK-wide initiatives to improve diversity in the discipline.
We are now a stand-alone School of Economics, having formerly been part of a School of
Economics, Finance and Management. During this REF cycle we have expanded significantly,
submitting just under 40 FTE staff to REF2021, more than double the number at REF2014.
Recruitment has been focused at the junior level; a deliberate strategy to hire talent at the research
frontier on the international market. Early career researchers (ECRs) therefore make up a high
proportion of our staff, with 33% of submitted staff at Lecturer level and 18% formally classified as
ECRs. As part of our commitment to improving diversity in the economics profession we have
worked hard to support female staff achieve promotion and to place women in key leadership
positions in the School.
The substantial growth in staff has both broadened and consolidated the School’s research
strengths. We have maintained our distinctive focus – high-level, technical research in
econometrics and economic theory together with innovative, high-impact research in public policy –
and have expanded capacity in other areas, such as macroeconomics. This strategy is explicitly
linked to the growth of our postgraduate research (PGR) programme and the need to cover all
areas of advanced teaching and supervision. We are now organised into four research groups:
   •   Applied microeconomics: public, development, education, urban and health economics.
       (Arni, Barsbai, Berg, Burgess, Cannon, von Hinke, Koenig, de Magalhaes, McCauley,
       Philippe, Seror, Siddique, Sievertsen, Simpson, Smith, Valente, Wang. Departures prior to
       Census date: van den Berg, Bergemann, Caria, Heblich, Proto. Recruited during the REF
       period to join after: Costa Dias, Haseeb, Spittal, Tran)
   •   Econometrics: theoretical and applied microeconometrics. (Botosaru, Hubner, Iaria, Muris,
       Pacini, Polisson, Sokullu, Stouli. Departures: Tetenov, Windmeijer. Joining: Han)
   •   Macroeconomics: macroeconomics and structural labour economics. (Ábrahám, Choi,
       Doligalski, Jolivet, Sephasalari, Turon, Zylberberg. Departures: Lalé, Temple. Joining:
       Morchio, Yazici)
   •   Microeconomic theory: information economics, mechanism design, contract theory and
       political economy. (Doğan, Giovanonni, Grout, Halonen, Hu, Jeong, Oliveros, Park, Wirtz.
       Departures: Eguia, Hiller, Xiong. Joining: Tsur)
In practice, many staff members span more than one group, allowing for cross-fertilisation of ideas,
innovative uses of data and advances in techniques. In addition, many staff conduct
interdisciplinary work with co-authors outside of economics. Each group holds regular work-in-
progress seminars, and hosts an annual research workshop at Bristol, including international
speakers, to boost the profile and visibility of the School’s research.

                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Research and impact strategy
Our over-arching goals are to:
     1) Make outstanding research contributions and foster interdisciplinary research
     2) Deliver policy impact and inform public debate
     3) Improve diversity in economics

Our research and impact strategy is overseen by the Research Director (Simpson), Impact
Directors (Burgess and von Hinke) and Postgraduate Research Director (Jolivet), together with a
Research Committee and supported by a School Research Manager. The School’s strategy links
to broader University initiatives including the Jean Golding Institute for data-intensive research, the
Bristol Digital Futures Institute and the Elizabeth Blackwell Institute for Health Research (see
REF5a). This section outlines our aims following on from REF2014, and the outcomes we have
achieved. Sections 2, 3 and 4 add detail.


1)   Make outstanding research contributions and foster interdisciplinary research
The key element of our research environment is the people we employ. We have aimed high, to
recruit and retain the highest calibre staff. We ensure that staff have the time and resources to
conduct internationally recognised research, evidenced by the increased number of publications in
world-leading journals during this REF period. Our strategy is firmly aimed at fostering a vibrant
and productive research culture.
The increase in staff numbers has broadened the scope of our research; at the same time we
continue to emphasise specialisation and critical mass in core areas of strength. For example, our
applied microeconomics group draws on shared empirical methods to tackle a wide range of public
and economic policy questions. Over the REF period, we have continued to host the annual
Econometric Study Group conference to maintain the international profile of econometrics research
at Bristol. Many applied researchers and members of the econometrics group combine forces in
the ESRC Centre for Evidence-based Public Services (CEPS), (formerly the Centre for Market and
Public Organisation (CMPO)).
A distinctive feature of the School is our deliberate emphasis on interdisciplinary research. We
believe that other disciplines can enhance the quality and insights of economics research, but also
that economists have important contributions to make in interdisciplinary collaborations. We have
fostered connections with epidemiologists and geneticists to investigate the importance of gene-
environment interactions in the generation of health and education inequalities, and have
longstanding connections with geographers, now focused on environmental hazards and cities. We
have developed links with the Alan Turing Institute, which have bolstered our data-intensive
research.
We recognise the value of a wide network of international, world-leading collaborators at top
institutions, and our strategy maximises interaction with the wider research community. We have
greatly enhanced our research seminar programme and increased the number of international
visitors we host each year, including both academics who are leaders in their field and new rising
stars. Additionally, van den Berg, von Hinke and Park held international Professorships at
Groningen and Erasmus Universities, the Netherlands, and Sungkyunkwan University, Korea,
respectively (all were employed at Bristol more than 0.8 FTE).
As a School we are fully committed to open research, open access and ensuring replicability of our
work. Staff pre-register Randomised Controlled Trials (RCTs) with the American Economic
Association (AEA) RCT Registry, and the School Ethics Committee ensures our research is

                                                                                                Page 2
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
subject to rigorous scrutiny with respect to ethical standards. This sits within the broader
institutional structure of the Faculty and University Ethics Committees.
Since REF2014 we have established a new School Research Fund of up to £100,000 per-annum,
providing a wide variety of research support and prioritising support for ECRs. Personal research
budgets have been increased. This funding ensures that our researchers have the resources to
present their work at the best international conferences, and to fund research assistance.
Much of the strength of our REF2014 submission was underpinned by ESRC Centre funding for
the CMPO. When this ceased in 2015 we acted to diversify our sources of external funding and
increase the number of staff engaged in grant-raising activity. We also used funds provided by the
Faculty to reward and incentivise grant applications among non-professorial staff. As evidenced
below, this strategy has been highly successful.
Finally, we have strengthened our research student programme through the institution of an MRes
and the creation of a PhD bursary scheme. These ensure that we can attract the best candidates
for postgraduate research and deliver a training programme that is internationally competitive. We
have implemented a weekly PhD student seminar series and worked to better integrate the PhD
student community into the wider department.


Outcomes
Staff are making significant advances in economic theory and econometrics, in macroeconomics
and structural labour economics, and in innovative, policy-relevant empirical research. Our
interdisciplinary research is breaking new ground. We have been highly successful in diversifying
our sources of grant income and have substantially expanded our postgraduate research provision.
The success of our strategy can be seen partly in our research outputs. Both established and
early-career staff have published in ‘top 5’ journals: three articles in the American Economic
Review (Heblich, Oliveros, Polisson); one in Econometrica (Tetenov); four in the Journal of Political
Economy (Eguia, Philippe, Proto, Zylberberg), one in the Quarterly Journal of Economics (Iaria);
and five in the Review of Economic Studies (Ábrahám, Caria, Jolivet and Turon, Park, Xiong). Staff
have also published multiple articles in other leading general interest and field journals (including
the Economic Journal, International Economic Review, Journal of Econometrics, Journal of the
European Economic Association, Journal of Labor Economics, Journal of Public Economics,
Journal of Economic Theory, Quantitative Economics and the Review of Economics and Statistics).
Our network of international collaborators means that over two-thirds of our submitted outputs
featured at least one international co-author, with around 50% based in Europe and a further 40%
in North America. Our ECRs are extremely strong in their research contribution – all submitting at
least one output – and our PhD students have published in leading international journals (Section
2).
Over the REF period we also published several articles in non-economics and interdisciplinary
journals including: Nature, Science, Biometrika, Journal of the American Statistical Association,
The American Journal of Political Science, Management Science, British Educational Research
Journal, Current Biology, Social Science and Medicine and PLoS ONE.
We have established a series of annual workshops associated with each of our research groups
and hosted high-profile conferences and events. In 2016 Angus Deaton, Nobel Laureate and
former Professor of Econometrics at Bristol, was awarded an Honorary Fellowship and gave a
public lecture. In 2019 Nobel Prize winner Oliver Hart visited the School and spoke at a contract
theory workshop, hosted jointly with the Law School. We hosted the 2017 Royal Economics
Society (RES) Annual Conference and will host the RES Easter School from 2021.

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Our strategy for broadening both our sources of research grant income and the set of staff applying
for funding has been very successful. During the review period we won substantial,
multidisciplinary grants and awards from international funders (Section 3). For example, in 2019
von Hinke was awarded an European Research Council (ERC) Starting Grant of £1.2million. Our
ECRs have had a very high success rate with applications to the British Academy (BA)/Leverhulme
small grants scheme. We see this success in securing smaller grants as building towards larger-
scale proposals and embedding a much more proactive culture of grant capture within the School.


2)   Deliver policy impact and inform wider debate
Long before impact became a REF metric, Economics at Bristol emphasised the importance of
getting research findings out to the people who need to see them. Many of the staff we employ, at
all career stages, are determined to go beyond journal publications and use their research to
improve policy.
Since REF2014 we have worked to broaden our contribution to public policy debate and to deliver
impact internationally. We have maintained our core areas of expertise in education, health, labour
market policy and regulation, and have extended into new areas including transport, the
environment and crime. We continue to embed impact and dissemination activity into all our policy-
relevant research, for example in the co-design of RCTs in collaboration with policy-makers.
Our strategy for delivering high-level policy impact is based on building a reputation for robust and
insightful research and from active engagement with policy-makers through face-to-face meetings,
policy conferences and accessible publications. We also provide evidence and insights that shape
public debate. The School Impact Directors help staff turn their research into practice and policy
advice and ensure that the potential for impact is considered at a very early stage in the research
design.


Outcomes
Our Impact Cases exemplify the success of our strategy – a focus on working closely with the
policy community to embed impact at an early stage, together with relationship-building and the
translation of research expertise into policy guidance. Our Cases cover four areas:
     •   Increasing charitable bequests Smith and co-authors demonstrated the impact of
         behavioural nudges to increase legacy giving. The results of an RCT were acted on by
         charities and government ministers to change practice in the sector and to help to preserve
         inheritance tax charity relief.
     •   Understanding school performance in London The strong performance of London
         schools since the early 2000s was widely attributed to the policy ‘London Challenge’, with
         policy-makers advocating its extension throughout England. Burgess was instrumental in
         halting the rollout, demonstrating that the underlying evidence was flawed and that the high
         performance was instead due to the very different demographic mix of pupils in London.
     •   Pricing of essential public services Our research has had an impact on UK regulatory
         bodies which protect consumers in markets where companies face insufficient competition.
         Grout’s research, coupled with his senior role at Ofgem, has impacted the level of prices
         that the regulator allows utilities to charge, directly affecting almost all UK households and
         businesses.
     •   Reforms to unemployment policy In Germany, unemployed workers sign mandatory
         agreements stipulating their obligations when looking for a job. An RCT by van den Berg

                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
       and co-authors showed that these agreements were not helpful for individuals likely to have
       short unemployment spells. This led to the abolition of the policy for this group, benefitting
       millions of people since 2015.
Section 3 details other examples of research impact that we are currently working towards. Section
4 describes the response of our staff to help guide national policy during the Covid-19 pandemic.
Our advice is regularly sought by government, and staff have taken up formal advisory roles to
deliver impact (Section 4). Our PGR students have also maximised the impact from their research,
including through secondments to government departments (Section 3).
In 2019 we were successful in securing ESRC Legacy Centre Status for CEPS, which brings with it
funding to further develop research impact. The remit of the new Centre emphasises the
increasingly international nature of our policy-focused work and the value of data-intensive
research.
The School also has an impressive record of broader user engagement, at a local, national and
international level (Section 4). In keeping with this, in parallel with the 2017 RES Conference, we
introduced the very first ‘RES Presents’ public events covering topics from Brexit to re-skilling the
UK. Staff have contributed regularly to the Bristol Festival of Economics and the Festival of Ideas.


3)   Improve diversity in economics
Our staff are committed to using their time and energy to improve the vitality of the economics
discipline and the longer-term pipeline of talent. This is central to what we do as a School of
Economics and is achieved through two initiatives.
First, we place a strong emphasis on wider outreach and are working actively to improve diversity
within the discipline from the ground up. Smith launched, and is Co-Director of, the RES Discover
Economics initiative, a national campaign aimed at changing perceptions of what studying
economics entails, and at increasing representation from women, minority ethnic students and
students from state schools.
Second, by hosting the Economics Network we aim to improve economics pedagogy. This
organisation supports economics education and enhances teaching and learning both nationally
and internationally. In line with this, we have developed a strong economics education career
pathway, with staff promoted to both Professor (Birdi) and Associate Professor (Proud and
Spielmann).


Outcomes
To improve the strength and shape of the discipline, Smith is playing a nationally leading role in
helping to diversify the economics profession through school outreach initiatives and the
establishment of Discover Economics. A national launch event was held in 2019 at the Resolution
Foundation, and at a local level staff have engaged with schools to boost the pipeline of students
choosing to study economics through our Schools Event, run alongside the Festival of Economics
in Bristol and attracting over 250 students.
We have continued to raise the profile of the Economics Network, in part through sustained
expansion in staff numbers on our teaching-focused career pathway. We provide support for
teaching within the discipline, and the Network’s website and training courses are leading
resources for economics education. We have delivered both pedagogical training focused on early-
career staff, and research in areas such as graduate employability and the public understanding of


                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
economics. As well as playing a prominent role in the Network, our staff are publishing pedagogical
research in leading journals.
Finally, we have continued to innovate and strategically support our commitment to outreach. To
deliver impact, to make progress in the way that economics is communicated and to improve the
public perception of the discipline, we have established the UK’s first Chair in the Public
Understanding of Economics (Davies).


Future strategy
Our future strategy retains the core elements of combining leading-edge research with policy-
relevant impact and builds on past success. The move to becoming an independent School of
Economics is a significant boost to our profile and coincides with further growth in staff. We will
continue to prioritise staff retention and development and will provide the support needed for staff
to reach senior levels. Overall, this will advance our research and enable critical mass, increase
our international visibility, ensure robustness to staff departures and extend our capacity for PhD
supervision and advanced training. We will continue to raise the profile of our MRes and PhD
programmes, and further increase PGR student numbers.
We will re-bid for ESRC Centre funding for CEPS once we have established the new Centre’s
identity. Shorter-term, the ESRC funding allows us to launch a new website and magazine, and to
host policy conferences tailored to fill gaps in the evidence-base identified by policy-makers. We
aim to capitalise on our interdisciplinary research agenda, which puts us in a strong position to
respond to other, large-scale interdisciplinary research calls, e.g. from UKRI, and we will continue
to use our networks to apply to international sources of research funding.
Our aim is for our newly appointed Professor in the Public Understanding of Economics to raise
both the profile of economics research at Bristol, but also, crucially, the wider impact of the
discipline. One vehicle for this is the Economics Observatory website, which brings economic
analysis and evidence on the Covid-19 crisis to national policy and public attention. School
members have contributed articles and Smith is a lead editor. We will continue to push our focus
on policy impact and contributions to local initiatives, such as the Festival of Economics, to improve
the public perception of the type of insights that economics can offer. In line with this, we will
enhance our outreach activity with a view to increasing diversity within the discipline, with knock-on
beneficial effects on the variety of ideas and viewpoints which economics reflects.
Finally, we plan for new appointments to bolster the role which the Economics Network can play in
improving economics pedagogy, pushing forward the frontier of how economics is taught and
benefitting the health of the discipline.


 2. People


Staffing strategy
We have achieved our objective from REF2014 of substantially increasing staff numbers and have
embedded equality and diversity into our hiring strategy. Recruitment has been focussed at the
early-career level, hiring at the research frontier on the international market, and leading to a young
and dynamic research environment. Each recruitment round we have conducted initial interviews
at the AEA/ASSA meetings and/or the equivalent meetings within Europe. We have recruited
talented researchers from prestigious PhD programmes, including Stanford, University of
Pennsylvania, EUI Florence, Toulouse, Oxford and UCL.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
At senior level, we seek individuals who provide leadership and support the professional
development of early-career staff and research students, and who have the skills needed for the
highest-level research. At all levels, we emphasise the need to draw in researchers who can
address important practical or policy questions in innovative ways and deliver research impact.
During the REF period we have had some departures, with most moving abroad (van den Berg,
Bergemann, Heblich, Hiller, Lalé, Tetenov, Xiong), and three to positions within the UK (Caria,
Proto, Windmeijer). We have hired new Chairs to bolster academic leadership within each of the
research groups: macroeconomics (Ábrahám, Yazici); econometrics (Han); applied
microeconomics (Costa Dias); economic theory (Hu, Oliveros) – the appointment of Hu, with
expertise in monetary economics, being one where we had identified a research gap. Recruitment
at the senior level takes place in a tight market. We have therefore worked hard to retain staff and
to promote from within to ensure that we have research leadership across the board. Over the REF
period, Cannon, Giovannoni, von Hinke, Jolivet and Simpson were promoted to Professor.
We have also increased our community of postdoctoral researchers, who have subsequently
progressed to permanent positions or further fellowships. Carter was awarded a British Academy
Postdoctoral Fellowship and Wang worked on a grant-funded position on gene-environment
interactions and was subsequently awarded an ESRC postdoctoral fellowship. We hosted a
University of Bristol Vice-Chancellor’s Fellow (see REF5a), Seror, with a research focus on urban
and environmental economics applied to China. Following this, Seror gained an Assistant
Professor position at Université de Québec à Montréal, Canada.


Career development, promotion and progression
Early-career staff are assigned a mentor within the School with whom they can discuss research
and professional development. Postdoctoral researchers also typically collaborate on research
projects with their mentor. In addition, all staff participate annually in the University-wide Staff
Review and Development programme, which is a formal opportunity to discuss career goals and
future development with a senior colleague. Staff have access to a wide variety of University
training programmes encompassing teaching (leading to Advance HE Fellowships), research and
leadership. Postdoctoral researchers and ECRs can access the Bristol Clear development network
and can join the Faculty early-career network.
We recognise that time is a key resource constraint when it comes to producing the highest-quality
research for career progression. New research staff receive a teaching reduction in their first year
and we use a teaching-relief scheme to reward individuals who publish at the highest-level.
Teaching for research staff is also concentrated into a single teaching block, to allow for a
focussed period of research time and to facilitate research visits. This condensed teaching
schedule substitutes for formal periods of sabbatical leave. Staff also receive teaching-free days to
dedicate to research.
As well as research, impact is an integral part of the promotion and progression criteria. While it is
recognised that not all research will lead to practical outcomes, impact and engagement activity is
formally considered by promotion committees. Impact is also accounted for within our workload
model via a teaching-relief scheme. Taking secondments and external advisory positions is
encouraged and staff can move to part-time working to take up more substantive external roles.
ECRs are initially expected to progress within the lectureship grade based on clearly defined
criteria in terms of publications, teaching, impact and citizenship, with an up-or-out tenure-track
structure. Staff whose academic profile is progressing faster than expected have successfully
applied for ‘accelerated progression’. Although all progression and promotion cases are considered


                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
by a Faculty-level committee, we have created a School-level advisory group to review candidates’
applications and provide feedback and support, before they reach the Faculty stage. Promotions to
Associate Professor and to Chair draw on reports from external assessors. Equality and diversity
considerations are accounted for in all progression and promotion cases.


Postgraduate research students

Structure, recruitment and funding
We have implemented structural changes to our PGR programme to sustain its growth and further
improve the quality of our training. In 2015 we created a one-year MRes in Economics. The
programme has now doubled in size, with a cohort of 12 students in 2019. We are now further
integrating the MRes and PhD, moving to a model where completing the MRes (or equivalent) is a
pre-requisite.
The strengthening of our PhD programme has been supported by bursaries funded by both the
School and the Faculty. Students have also received grants from the ESRC (including through the
Economics Pathway in the South West Doctoral Training Partnership (SWDTP)), the China
Scholarship Council, and for interdisciplinary research, from the Medical Research Council (MRC)
(through the GW4 Doctoral Training Partnership).
Our primary source of student funding has been 1+3 and +3 ESRC/SWDTP studentships (21
during the REF period, including through the Advanced Quantitative Methods Pathway). Our
second source is our School bursaries for 1+3 years or 3.5 years. These started in 2017 and we
have gradually increased their numbers, to up to four students per year. The School bursary
programme is generating growth in both the number and quality of our PhD students, by increasing
our competitiveness in attracting the very best. This will soon be reflected in increased PhD awards
and in improved job market placements.
During the REF period we have made 27 doctoral awards (no professional doctorates) to a diverse
group of students; of the PhD awards over the period, 60% of students identified as female and
45% as BAME.


Core training
Advanced training has been improved. Our MRes programme has core courses in econometrics,
microeconomics and macroeconomics as well as applied research units to prepare students for a
PhD. Students complement their training through workshops offered by the SWDTP, or by
attending external training sessions at the RES Easter School and the Centre for Microdata
Methods and Practice (CeMMAP). Students have attended and presented at summer schools
organised by IZA (Institute of Labor Economics) in Germany and at PhD conferences in the UK.
From 2021 we will host the RES Easter School in Bristol.
Our students also have access to the training courses and support offered by the University of
Bristol Doctoral College (BDC; see REF5a). These range from training in specific programming
software to research ethics, writing research papers or posters, and public engagement. Students
also attend training sessions on teaching, as most acquire teaching experience by leading classes
throughout their studies.
In 2016 we instituted a formal, weekly PhD seminar series, at which each student presents work-
in-progress at least once a year. All students must attend, and staff are highly engaged with the



                                                                                            Page 8
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
initiative. The seminars provide students with feedback on their research and serve as a useful
milestone. They also receive advice on presentation skills and on handling questions.


Supervision and progress monitoring
All PhD students have two supervisors, at least one of whom has already supervised a PhD
student to completion. This method of paired supervision is not only beneficial for the student, but
also provides valuable training in postgraduate supervision for staff. We also co-supervise with
academics from other disciplines. Students meet with their supervisors weekly and at a minimum
of once per fortnight. Many students start their PhD by working on a joint project with a supervisor,
before beginning a solo-authored chapter once they have gained experience.
To progress to the end of the PhD, each student gives a presentation at a progression panel after
12 to 18 months and submits a draft chapter for detailed feedback to a committee of at least two
academics. Finally, each student’s progress is reviewed once a year in a meeting between the
PGR academic team and the supervisors.


Research support and development
We encourage strong research interactions between PhD students and staff. Students are based
in the same building as academic staff and share the staff common room. PGRs are integrated into
the School’s four research groups which allows them to identify a wider set of staff with whom they
can meet to get feedback on their work. Students attend, and present at, the School’s workshops,
and we organise PhD poster sessions during the annual School Research Day to give students a
further opportunity to discuss their research with staff.
Students’ research is financially supported through an individual research allowance, and they can
apply to the School for further funding. Each student has access to at least £2,000 for research
expenses over the course of their studies. This has enabled students to present at the RES and
European Association for Research in Industrial Economics (EARIE) conferences, at IZA
workshops and at highly selective workshops, such as the Winter Meeting of the Econometric
Society.
PGRs are also allocated collective funds for social events. Wellbeing support is provided within the
School, via the Student Wellbeing Service and through the BDC, which offers courses on personal
development tailored towards staying well during a research degree. During the University Covid-
19 closure, research students were asked to check in with the postgraduate support team weekly,
and supervision and viva examinations have continued successfully online.
We have a PhD placement officer (Ábrahám) who meets with students to discuss their career
plans and to prepare for the academic job market. Practice job talks are organised in the PhD
seminar series.


Research and job market outcomes
Students are encouraged to publish their doctoral research. During the REF period, many students
have published in leading journals, including: American Economic Journal: Macroeconomics
(Borowczyk-Martins), European Economic Review (Carter), Journal of Banking and Finance
(Orujov), Journal of the European Economic Association (Bradley), Journal of Econometrics
(Sanderson), Review of Economic Dynamics (Borowczyk-Martins), Journal of Health Economics
(Janke), Journal of Economic Behaviour and Organisation (Sanders), Journal of International


                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Economics (Carter), Labour Economics (Borowczyk-Martins), Scandinavian Journal of Economics
(Sin) and Econometrics Journal (Rose).
Recent cohorts have been well placed in postdoctoral and tenure-track positions (Bradley at
Cambridge; subsequently Nottingham; Borowczyk-Martins at Sciences Po and Copenhagen
Business School; Rose at Toulouse and Queensland; Sanders at Harvard, Kennedy School and
Oxford, Blavatnik and Kings College London), and at leading research institutes (Britton and
Stockton at the Institute for Fiscal Studies (IFS)). PGRs have also taken up policy positions (Sin at
the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Chande, Kettle and Sanders at the Behavioural Insights
Team, Robinson and Stoyanova at the Office for National Statistics (ONS)), and progressed into
careers in interdisciplinary research (Janke, Health Research; Lancaster and Sanderson, MRC
Integrative Epidemiology Unit, Bristol).


Equality and diversity
Recruitment and promotion
Equality and diversity considerations are integral to our hiring and are accounted for by all
promotion committees. Female representation at senior level continues to increase. Compared to
other UK economics departments a high fraction of our Professors and Associate Professors are
female: at July 2020, 30% female at Professor level, and 40% at Senior Lecturer/Associate
Professor level, compared to UK averages of 14% and 27% respectively (RES Women’s
Committee, 2016). The share of Lecturers with research responsibilities is lower at 20% female
(compared to a UK figure of 33%). During the REF period two female staff members were
promoted to Professor and one to Associate Professor. In two cases, these promotions took place
shortly after periods of maternity leave.


Research and academic environment
Equality and diversity are embedded in the day-to-day functioning of the School and in the physical
work environment (both main office buildings are wheelchair accessible). Measures are taken to
avoid bias (conscious or unconscious) and discrimination (direct or indirect). Meetings are
scheduled to end by 5:15pm to allow members of staff with caring responsibilities to participate
fully in the life of the School. After consultation with staff, seminars have been moved to lunchtime
and a set of seminar good practices has been introduced to create a respectful environment. We
monitor our seminar series for diversity and have made gender an explicit consideration in
selecting speakers.
The School allows flexible working hours and part-time work, and staff members, both with and
without protected characteristics, use these opportunities to combine work with their caring
responsibilities. Circumstances such as maternity leave (three among REF-eligible staff since
2014) and ill-health are accommodated by re-assigning teaching and by buying in replacement
teaching, which helps protect research time. As per University procedures, staff can claim
childcare costs to enable them to attend conferences. In addition to formal leave, staff are also
able to request, and are granted, career breaks of up to one year.
The School is particularly proactive about gender equality and female leadership. Smith was Chair
of the RES Women’s Committee and has been a mentor at RES and European Economic
Association (EEA) female mentoring events, which early-career staff attend. 45% of academic staff
with administrative responsibilities related to internal research funding decisions and REF
decisions are female. The Director and Deputy Director of CEPS and two of the five research
strand leads are female. The CMPO had a female Deputy Director and three female theme leads.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
A working group reflecting the diversity of the School in terms of gender, age and roles, was set up
in 2019 to prepare an application for Athena Swan Bronze status in 2021. This demonstrates our
commitment to reflect upon our current practices and further improve our inclusiveness. For
example, all staff were surveyed during the 2020 lockdown to better understand how additional
childcare due to school closures affected research productivity. We subsequently decided to
implement teaching reductions in the next academic year for all non-professorial staff with below
secondary school age children to reflect the adverse impact on research.
At PGR level we are close to gender parity, and doctoral students with circumstances such as
maternity leave and caring responsibilities are supported in the same way as staff (e.g., flexible
teaching arrangements and funding childcare costs during conferences). Students have taken
maternity leave with commensurate extensions to their thesis submission dates and are given
support on their return to study. Those with caring responsibilities can be particularly vulnerable
due to time limits on their funding. The School has an alumni hardship fund, which has helped
support research students facing financial difficulties.


REF
The School’s procedure for the selection of outputs to be submitted to the REF follows the
University’s code of practice. The University has a fair and transparent approach to guide decisions
regarding who and what outputs are submitted, and all REF-eligible members of staff were invited
to submit information, on a voluntary basis, if they felt they had experienced any circumstances
which restricted their research during the relevant period. This was then evaluated anonymously by
a panel whose composition did not include anyone with a role in REF-related decisions.
All eligible staff were given equal opportunity to propose their best outputs for consideration for
submission and these were evaluated internally by at least two members of staff. When selecting
outputs for inclusion at equivalent level of quality, we followed the principle set out by the
University and chose outputs that contribute to a fair representation of staff and their protected
characteristics. To avoid conscious or unconscious bias, the REF UoA lead (Simpson, formerly
Windmeijer) took part in a specific REF training workshop on EDI-related issues. Female staff
account for 20% of our submitted outputs (by Category A staff) and one of our four Impact Cases is
female-led.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


Research income
We have a strong track record of using external funding to strengthen our research environment. In
2015, ESRC Centre funding for the CMPO came to an end. In response, we diversified our
sources of research income, leading to higher proportions of funding for interdisciplinary research
and from international funders. We have also built on the previous ESRC Centre, winning ESRC
Legacy Centre Status for CEPS in 2019.
Research income has been significantly boosted towards the end of the REF cycle. This has been
achieved through our strategy of broadening the set of staff members applying for grants, including
ECRs, strategic financial support for grant capture, and better positioning ourselves to bid for
grants internationally and as part of interdisciplinary consortia.




                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Examples of the success of our strategy include:
   •   Education Endowment Fund grants of over £1.7million for a series of RCTs (Burgess)
   •   £1.2million ERC Starting Grant (von Hinke)
   •   £375,000 New Opportunities for Research Funding Agency Cooperation in Europe
       (NORFACE) award (von Hinke)
   •   £250,000 ESRC New Investigator grant (Stouli)
   •   £200,000 from the International Growth Centre and Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation
       (Valente)
   •   £180,000 Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft award (van den Berg)
   •   ESRC Legacy Centre Funding of £100,000 (Simpson)
Interdisciplinary awards include a £360,000 Natural Environment Research Council (NERC) award
on the effects of hydrometeorological hazards in Vietnam in collaboration with Geographical
Sciences at Bristol (Co-Investigator Zylberberg; income allocated to UoA 14), and von Hinke’s
NORFACE and ERC grants on gene-environment interactions and later-life economic outcomes
and health. The start of the ERC award was postponed and hence not included in our research
income figures.
Staff are part of collaborative awards with other institutions. von Hinke’s NORFACE award is joint
with Erasmus University and the University of Zurich. Arni’s funding for work on Swiss labour
market policy is joint with the University of Lausanne. Simpson was a Co-Investigator on the What
Works Centre for Local Economic Growth led by the LSE and the Centre for Cities. Windmeijer
collaborated on an Australian Research Council grant. At July 2020, we await the outcome of two
large-scale international grant applications on which we are leading and which have reached the
final stage of the Open Research Area (ORA) scheme joint with researchers in France and
Canada.
ECRs have been highly successful in raising small-scale external funding to support their research
activity (with five successful applications to the BA/Leverhulme small grants scheme). We are
building new cohorts of researchers with the tools to bid for research income, with recent success
in the form of Stouli’s ESRC New Investigator grant and Wang’s postdoctoral fellowship.
We have also been successful in raising money for research impact, with the £100,000 ESRC
Legacy Centre funding being dedicated to impact activity. As of July 2020, we are applying to host
the newly established Economics Observatory website to tie in with our appointment of Davies as
Chair in the Public Understanding of Economics.
Female leadership is reflected in our grant award success. For grants held during the REF period,
female staff were Principal Investigator (PI) on 35% of these awards by number, and 20% by
value, rising to nearly 40% by value in the final two years.


Infrastructure and facilities for research
The School’s research budget covers the School Research Fund (up to £100,000 per-annum), the
Impact Fund (£15,000), seminars, personal research allowances and research expenditure by
PGRs. We use the budget to create a stimulating and productive research environment.


The School Research Fund
The Fund is used to enable each research group to host at least one annual workshop. These are
the:


                                                                                          Page 12
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
   •   Econometric Study Group
   •   Search and Matching Workshop
   •   Bristol Workshops on Economic Policy Interventions and Behaviour
   •   Bristol Macroeconomics Workshop
   •   Bristol-Kent-Southampton Workshop in Economic Theory
   •   Bristol Junior Economic Theory Workshop
These workshops have the dual purpose of bringing prominent, international researchers to Bristol
and allowing our researchers to engage with frontier research, as well as enabling us to showcase
our work and to develop new collaborative links.
The remainder of the budget is allocated by a panel on a competitive basis following a formal
application process, prioritising ECRs and applications that lead on to an external grant application.
We fund data development – in particular, that which benefits multiple researchers – as well as
research assistance. Hiring research assistants from the undergraduate and MSc cohorts enables
us to identify promising candidates for postgraduate research. From the competitively allocated
part of the Fund, around a third of awards by value were made to female staff and around half to
ECRs.
Finally, the Research Fund is used for academic visits, both to and from Bristol, conference
attendance and journal submission fees.


Other research infrastructure
We place significant value on research interactions. We have substantially expanded our seminar
series, which during term, now averages over two external speakers per week. Each research
group also holds informal, work-in-progress seminars, in addition to the weekly PhD student
seminar which MRes students also attend. We have formed several reading groups which include
PGRs, for example, on econometrics, on applied microeconometric methods and on machine
learning. Each year we have also held either one or two all-staff Research Days at an offsite venue
where staff and PGRs present to the whole School.
Personal research budgets are set at a minimum of £2,000 per-annum, increasing for those who
supervise multiple MSc dissertations, and for new recruits. These funds can be used for any
research or impact-related activity including spending on I.T. equipment. Research allowances for
PGRs are covered in Section 2.
We use internal funding and external grants to boost an area of strength in the School: the
development of large-scale, novel datasets, for example digitised historical and micro-geographic
data. We also make use of national research data and infrastructure, in particular in our
interdisciplinary work, e.g. the Bristol-based Avon Longitudinal Study of Parents and Children
(ALSPAC) data and the UK Biobank. As a Fellow, Zylberberg accesses the research facilities at
the Alan Turing Institute. Staff also draw on major UK data investments such as Understanding
Society and the UK Data Service Secure Data Lab. Simpson contributed to the University’s
successful bid to host a ‘Safepod’ allowing researchers to access confidential data in a secure
setting.
Given our research focus on both theoretical econometrics, advanced macroeconomic modelling
and the development of large-scale data for applied research, we draw heavily on both School and
University computing infrastructure. We use the High-Performance Computing facilities, and the
University’s data storage facilities for secure data (e.g. for safe storage of administrative data). We
have a nominated staff member, Choi, whose role is to regularly assess our computational


                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
infrastructure and hardware and software needs to ensure that no staff are held back in their
research.
To increase our external research income we draw on the expertise of the University’s Research
and Enterprise Development (RED) team, which identifies funding opportunities, advises on
research proposals, co-ordinates large collaborative bids and manages peer review to improve the
quality of applications. PolicyBristol and RED’s Knowledge Exchange colleagues advise on
delivering impact (see REF5a).
We draw on University funding – the Faculty Grant Capture Fund, International Strategic Fund and
Global Challenges Research Fund – to pump-prime grant applications, develop new, international
collaborations and fund Official Development Assistance (ODA) research addressing the UN
Sustainable Development Goals. We have used the University Benjamin Meaker Visiting
Professorships to bring Oliver Hart, Mark Ottoni-Wilhelm and Krishna Pendakur to Bristol.
Finally, we have appointed a full-time School Research Manager, who provides support for grant
applications, administers research budgets, and assists with workshops and website development.
In addition, the CEPS funding has allowed us to appoint a part-time communications post to work
alongside the School’s marketing and communications team.


Infrastructure and facilities for impact

Our impact goals are achieved through a multi-strand approach. To encourage broad interest, on
joining the School new staff attend a half-day workshop on understanding and achieving impact.
Our Impact Directors meet individually with staff to optimise impact from their research, and the
School strongly supports those who want to disseminate their work and achieve policy change
through it. This includes advice and training, financial support and freeing up time to devote to
impact. We are also supported in our impact activities by PolicyBristol and the University’s Public
Engagement Unit.
The Impact Directors administer the Impact Fund, to which staff can apply for any impact related
activity, e.g. travel to meetings with the policy community or hosting workshops which target non-
academic attendees. Since the receipt of ESRC Legacy Funding for CEPS we have been able to
supplement the impact funding available and improve our research communications.
We fully recognise that impact takes time and commitment and goes beyond standard research
dissemination. Individuals with strong, developing Impact Cases are given teaching reductions to
allow them to translate their research into policy impact over a long time-horizon. Over the REF
period 50% of recipients were female.
Given this, in addition to the Impact Cases submitted we are already working to translate our
research into impact in a range of other areas. These include: the submission of patent
applications for auction design mechanisms (Jeong); transforming school attendance in
Mozambique (Valente); the take-up of contraceptives in low-income countries (Valente); reforming
the pricing of airport landing slots (Sokullu); the implications of teacher assessment versus exams
(Burgess and Sievertsen); advising on the effects of ‘place-based’ policies and on high-speed rail
(Simpson); and labour market policy design in conjunction with the Swiss Ministry of Economic
Affairs (Arni).
PhD students are also encouraged to maximise the impact from their research. Sanders and
Chande took up placements at the Behavioural Insights Team, Cabinet Office, Stoyanova
combined her research with an appointment at the ONS, and during her PhD Greaves has



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
presented at the Department for Education and provided advice on both reforms to school
admissions policy and to teachers’ pay.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


National and international collaboration and networks
Our strategy maximises interaction with the wider research community. This is done through a
vibrant seminar programme, by inviting leading researchers from around the globe to visit Bristol
and by allowing staff the time and funding to visit departments both within the UK and overseas.
As well as hosting visits from leading scholars such as Manski (Northwestern) and Newey (MIT),
we have also hosted longer-term sabbatical visits (e.g. Nørmark Sørensen (Odense), Tchuente
(Kent), and Skeels (Melbourne)) and visits for international PhD students (Bocognano (Aix-
Marseille) and Hu (VU Amsterdam)).
Our staff work with a wide range of co-authors including international leaders in the field, enabling
us to produce research at the frontier. For example, Aguirregabiria (Toronto), Bonhomme
(Chicago), Bontemps, Ivaldi, Jullien, Magnac (all at Toulouse), Chernuzhukov (MIT), Crawford
(Zurich), Dolado (European University Institute (EUI)), Egger (Zurich), van der Klaauw (VU
Amsterdam), Lalive (Lausanne), Lindeboom (VU Amsterdam), Newey (MIT), Payne (Melbourne),
Pendakur (Simon Fraser), Redding (Princeton), Sadoff (University of California, San Diego), Spady
(John Hopkins) and Taylor (Harvard).
Staff have made research visits to: the US (Berkeley, New York University); Canada (Edmonton,
University of Alberta, Ottawa); Australia (University of Sydney, Melbourne, University of
Queensland); Germany (CESifo, University of Munich, IZA Bonn, Institute for Employment
Research (IAB Nuremberg)); France (Banque de France, CREST, Sciences Po, Le Mans, Nantes,
Toulouse); Spain (Universitat Autonoma Barcelona); Sweden (Centre for Health Equity Studies
(CHESS), Stockholm); Norway (Oslo); the Netherlands (Groningen, Tilburg); UK (LSE); Italy (EUI
Florence); Belgium (Gent, Louvain); Switzerland (Lausanne, Basel); and Russia (The New School,
Moscow).
Staff affiliations include major national and international networks and research centres: Centre for
Economic Policy Research (CEPR) (Burgess, Caria, Grout, Iaria, Simpson, Smith, Temple),
CeMMAP (Pacini, Sokullu, Stouli, Tetenov, Windmeijer), IFS (von Hinke, Iaria, Polisson, Smith),
IZA (Arni, van den Berg, Bergemann, Burgess - IZA Economics of Education theme lead, Heblich,
Siddique, Sievertsen, Turon, Valente), CESifo (Arni, van den Berg, Heblich, Temple, Zylberberg),
The Abdul Latif Jameel Poverty Action Lab (J-PAL) (Caria), The Danish Center for Social Science
Research (VIVE) (Sievertsen), Alan Turing Institute (Zylberberg). Bristol is also a member of the
Political Economy UK Group (POLECONUK) network of researchers in political economy.
To broaden our grant capture to include a wider range of international funders, we have sought out
international partners for research bids (Section 3). As evidenced by our Impact Cases, our
research has also been carried out in collaboration with non-academic partners and research
users. Finally, we have fostered strong and productive links through our interdisciplinary research,
for example with the Bristol MRC Integrative Epidemiology Unit. Beyond Bristol, our
interdisciplinary links are supported by our NORFACE and NERC grants and a Turing Fellowship.




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Relationships with research users and audiences
The School has a very strong record of policy advice to national and international government
bodies and to non-governmental organisations, and of public engagement and outreach activity.
Staff have continued to work on policy-relevant research questions, to present work to policy
audiences and to engage directly with policy-makers through individual meetings and by taking on
advisory roles. This approach has led to significant and sustained research impact. As examples:
   •   Burgess has been working with policy-makers in education for over a decade. In 2020, he
       co-led the multidisciplinary Data Evaluation and Learning for Viral Epidemics (DELVE)
       Royal Society report on schools and Covid-19. He has given presentations at the
       Department of Education, is on the Advisory Boards of Teach First and the Behavioural
       Insights Team and served as the Independent Chair of the Somerset Challenge, a school
       improvement body.
   •   Grout has roles with prominent regulatory bodies, following a lifetime’s research on the
       economics of regulation. He is a non-executive director of the Office of Gas and Electricity
       Markets (Ofgem), is the Chair of the Gambling Commission Expert Advisory Group, and the
       Bank of England Senior Advisor for Competition. In this latter role he advises the Governors
       and senior Bank of England staff on regulation and competition in the banking market.
   •   Simpson gave talks at HM Treasury on place-based policies, at the Department for
       Transport on high-speed rail and the Department for International Trade on outward
       investment, and has academic and peer review roles at the Department for Business,
       Energy and Industrial Strategy and the Department for International Trade.
   •   Smith was invited to present work on charitable giving to the All-Party Parliamentary Group,
       at the Law Commission and to numerous practitioner audiences of will-writers and charities.
   •   Sokullu is an Academic Collaborator with the UK Civil Aviation Authority and Bristol Airport.
   •   Stouli has been appointed to the UK Government’s What Works Trial Advice Panel.
   •   Valente has given talks at the World Bank on the take-up of contraceptives, and to the
       Department of Education in Mozambique on incentivising school attendance.


Wider public engagement, contributions to the economy and society
We place substantial emphasis on communicating economics, and our own research, to wide
audiences. Our appointment of the UK’s first Professor in the Public Understanding of Economics
demonstrates this commitment.
Staff members regularly participate in the Festival of Economics, which is open to all and
generates very lively discussion. Sessions where staff have acted as panellists include: Burgess,
“Higher education, decline and fall”; Simpson “Is innovation really good for us?” and “Why are so
many places becoming ‘left behind’?”; Smith, “What are women worth?”; and Birdi and Spielmann
“Ask an economist: economics – what is it good for?”. Smith was also a panellist at the York
Festival of Ideas. In addition, the RES Conference in Bristol initiated the ‘RES Presents’ events for
members of the public, which drew audiences of over 1,000.
We have run highly successful outreach events for schools as part of the Festival of Economics,
and the Discover Economics campaign aims to generate greater interest in the discipline among
secondary school students. One example was the Covid-19 blog in 2020, which provided insights
from economics aimed at this target audience.


                                                                                             Page 16
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Contributions during the Covid-19 pandemic include the work of Burgess and Sievertsen on the
effects of missed education and exams, including the DELVE report co-led by Burgess. Smith
contributed evidence on the gender balance of childcare during lockdown. Arni contributed to an
IZA repository on international labour market policies during the crisis, and Burgess and Simpson
both participated in the RES webinar series on policy responses to Covid-19.
Staff have been active in the media. As examples, Smith appeared on BBC World Service More or
Less discussing women in economics and Burgess featured on Radio 4 Briefing Room on the
inequalities of lockdown. Our research has received media coverage: van den Berg’s research on
the economic effects of grief following the loss of a child; von Hinke and Smith’s work on the
effects of the Healthy Start voucher scheme on diet; von Hinke’s research on smoking and weight
loss; Sievertsen’s work on school starting age and mental health; Smith’s work on charitable
donations; Heblich and Zylberberg’s research explaining why the east-sides of cities are typically
poorer than the west. Smith’s work to improve diversity in economics has featured in a variety of
print media.
In addition to this, much of our contribution to the economy and society comes through the impact
that we deliver from our research. This is exemplified by our Impact Cases (Section 1) by the wider
examples of nascent impact (Section 3) and by the numerous advisory positions held by our
researchers.


Contributions to the sustainability of the discipline
The School is making two major contributions to the vitality of the discipline over the long term: 1)
the Discover Economics campaign, and 2) the work of the Economics Network. In addition, we
believe that our appointment of a Chair in the Public Understanding of Economics will help to re-
establish the valuable contribution that economics can play in shaping public and policy debate.
Finally, our focus on interdisciplinary research is broadening the set of questions on which
economics can provide insights.
At a local level, staff have run a Discover Economics outreach day as part of the Festival of
Economics. In 2019 this brought together over 250 year 10-12 students to compete in a challenge
applying economics to real-world issues and to give an insight into studying economics as a
degree. We are now launching a student ambassador outreach programme that we hope can be
rolled out to other universities. Other school-focused activities include: the Training Partnership
schools conference (c.500 students); multi-school events at Woodhouse College in North London
and the Royal Grammar School in Surrey (each c.300) and the Scottish Economics Society
Schools conference (c.400).
Smith is Chair of the RES Diversity in Undergraduate Economics campaign (from 2019), was Chair
of the RES Women’s Committee (2017–2020) and has regularly acted as a mentor at the RES
Women’s and EEA mentoring events. Smith was also an invited panel member at the European
Central Bank–Bank of England–Federal Reserve Board Workshop on Gender and Career
Progression. She has been invited to discuss diversity in economics at the European Central Bank,
Bank of England, Global Economic Symposium conference, Scottish Economics Summit, Erasmus
University and Copenhagen Business School.




                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Contributions to the research base and indicators of wider influence
Journal editorships and peer review
During the REF period staff members served as editors, associate editors or board members for
the following journals: B.E. Journal of Macroeconomics (Ábrahám); Bulletin of Economic Research
(Giovannoni); European Economic Review (Giovannoni); Fiscal Studies (Simpson); Journal of
Applied Econometrics (Windmeijer); Journal of Economic Behaviour and Organisation (Proto);
Journal of Economic Geography (Heblich, Simpson); Journal of Economic Growth (Temple);
Journal of the European Economic Association (Simpson); Journal of Health Economics (von
Hinke); Journal of Mathematical Economics (Hu); Journal of Urban Economics (Heblich); Oxford
Bulletin of Economics and Statistics (Temple); Regional Science and Urban Economics (Heblich,
Simpson).
All staff regularly act as reviewers for leading economics journals, and many staff peer review work
in journals outside of the discipline.
Simpson was appointed as a member of the ESRC Grant Assessment Panel (2016–2020), and
other staff have served on the ESRC Peer Review College, and ESRC commissioning panels
including Centres competitions. Many staff members have reviewed proposals for overseas grant
award bodies.
Smith is a member and Deputy Chair of the REF2021 panel.


Conference and seminar organisation
Smith was Programme Chair of the 2017 RES Conference in Bristol, with de Magalhaes and
Sokullu as Local Organisers. Many staff members (Jolivet, Simpson, Valente, Zylberberg) have
served on the RES Programme Committee over the REF period, and many have organised special
sessions. Bristol has been selected to host the RES Easter School for PhD students and ECRs
from 2021.
Heblich was Programme Chair of the European Urban Economic Association Meeting 2017, and
Simpson and Zylberberg are on the Programme Committee. Many staff serve on other conference
programme committees including the EEA, the Econometric Society and the Conference of the
Society of Institutional and Organizational Economics.
Finally, our staff were active in initiating national and international online seminar series during the
2020 lockdown: Virtual Seminars in Economic Theory (Giovannoni and Wirtz); Virtual Industrial
Organisation Seminar Series (Iaria); and POLECONUK, (Giovannoni), all of which have attracted
high-profile speakers.


Other advisory and elected positions
Staff have contributed to running national and international economic associations. Birdi is a
Council Member of the Scottish Economics Society. Park was President of the Korea-America
Economic Association in 2016. Smith was an elected Member of the EEA Council, and Smith and
Windmeijer have served as members of the RES Council and Executive Committee.
Staff hold senior roles in economics education. Birdi is Chair of the EEA Education Committee.
Birdi is the Director of the Economics Network, and Cannon, Proud and Spielmann are members of
the Executive Board. Proud is a member of the RES Education and Training Committee. Smith
was a member of the Executive Committee of CHUDE (Conference of Heads of University


                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment statement (REF5b)
Departments of Economics) and is Chair of the CORE EquSS (Economics as a Quantitative Social
Science) advisory group.
In addition to the policy and governance positions listed above, Burgess is a governor of the
National Institute of Economic and Social Research and sits on the advisory boards of Save the
Children’s ‘Children’s Communities’ programme, the What Works Centre for Transforming Access
and Student Outcomes in Higher Education, and Understanding Society (Ethnicity Strand). Smith
is a member of the Scientific Advisory Group at the Max Planck Institute for Social Law and Social
Policy.


Keynote talks and training
Keynote talks: Ábrahám: European Doctoral Program Jamboree, Florence, 2018. van den Berg:
Aletta Research Meet Up, Groningen, 2019. Heblich: Public Policies, Cities and Regions
workshop, Lyon, 2019. Simpson: Uddevella Symposium, Trollhätten, 2017; ZEW Public Finance
Conference, Mannheim, 2020 (cancelled, Covid-19). Smith: European Research Network on
Philanthropy, Copenhagen, 2017; Scottish Economic Society Conference, Perth, 2018;
Workshop on Behavioural Economics, Reading, 2018; Glasgow Student Economic Forum,
Glasgow 2020; Conference on Gender in Economics, Copenhagen, 2020 (postponed, Covid-19).
Valente: Annual Economics PhD Conference, Nottingham, 2016. Windmeijer: Econometric Study
Group, Bristol, 2017; American-European Health Economics Study Group, Harvard Business
School, 2018.
Staff have given advanced training courses at other institutions: Tetenov and Windmeijer at
CeMMAP; Simpson at Summer Schools in Urban Economics in Barcelona and at the LSE;
Zylberberg at Warwick. Many staff have acted as external examiners for PhDs in the UK and
abroad.


Prizes
Park won the The Maekyung-KAEA Award in 2014, a lifetime scholarly achievement award given
to a Korean economist each year by the Korea-America Economic Association. Koenig won the
Best Paper in Applied Economics award at the 2017 Econometric Society European Meeting.
Smith won the Best Paper award at the 2019 Association for Research on Non-profit Organisations
and Voluntary Organisations conference.




                                                                                          Page 19
