Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Institution: University of Manchester

Unit of assessment: UoA28 (History)

Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

a. Context and Structure
The History department is a thriving unit of 44 full-time staff (44 FTEs, including 7 PDRFs)
based in the School of Arts Languages and Cultures (SALC) within the Faculty of
Humanities. Our UoA is distinguished by its chronological and geographical scope and by
its methodological innovation. Staff research spans the medieval, early modern and modern
periods and it ranges globally with particular strengths in Europe, East Asia, Africa, India,
the Americas, and the Islamic world. Manchester historians have established and emergent
strengths in several historical sub-fields, which shape our research groups. Longstanding
specialisms include the cultural history of war, modern British history, and medieval history;
newer research areas in which we make distinctive contributions include the histories of
embodied emotions, economic cultures, political culture and diplomacy, and histories of
race. Colleagues are at the cutting-edge of developing new historical methodologies: these
include the remaking of historical objects and recipes as a method of analysis (Hanß); the
treatment of cultural production during wartime as a sensory device (Carden-Coyne); the
application of experiential networks software to visualise historical economic decision-
making processes (Smith) and digital microscopic analysis of material artefacts (Handley,
Hanß).

Key to the UoA's strategy has been the generation of world-leading research that has
advanced our discipline both methodologically and intellectually, and that has benefitted
global communities beyond the academy through high-quality public engagement and
impact activities. Our research is deeply embedded in local and national resources
(archives, cultural partners, communities) and it addresses global challenges of racial,
gender, and economic inequalities, migration crises and environmental change. We
particularly value research that promotes social justice and engages diverse communities
by recovering marginalised histories and by providing vital historical contexts for pressing
issues of the day. The UoA's appointment of Professor David Olusoga OBE as our second
Professor of Public History in 2019, alongside Professor Michael Wood OBE affirms our
commitment to fostering inclusive histories and engaging diverse audiences beyond the
academy with pertinent historical debates.

History is one of nine UoA submissions from SALC, one of the UK's largest concentrations
of humanities researchers. Historians foster interdisciplinary initiatives as part of this wider
structure. Historians lead the University’s John Rylands’ Research Institute (three staff,
including Institute director) and form the core of three SALC interdisciplinary Research
Centres: Medieval and Early Modern Studies (ten History staff), Economic Cultures (ten
staff, including centre co-director), and Cultural History of War (eight staff including centre
director). History staff also have strong connections to Manchester's China Institute (two
staff) and the Humanitarian and Conflict Response Institute (HRCI; five staff). All History
staff engage with SALC’s Centre for Interdisciplinary Research in Arts and Languages
(CIDRAL).

These principles and structures have enabled significant research successes. Highlights of
our achievements in this REF period are:

      Published over 130 journal articles and over 35 books and monographs, which
       garnered 12 major prize nominations and 7 wins.
      Captured £3.7m in external grant money — over 50% increase on REF2014
       (£1.69m).


                                                                                           Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Delivered high-quality impact and engagement work with national and international
       partners, including a Knowledge Transfer Partnership (KTP) with The National Trust,
       and original programming for the BBC with global reach (Ghosh; Olusoga; Wood).
      Performed academic service for over 100 national and international journals, 30
       academic publishers and 25 national and international funding councils.
      Supervised 61 doctoral students to completion with at least 25% of them securing
       academic posts.
      Hosted thirteen Independent Postdoctoral Researchers with full funding.
      Recruited three Presidential Fellows in key areas (economic cultures; environmental
       history), and a high-profile Professor of Public History (Olusoga).

b. Research Strategy
Since REF2014, the department has received significant University investment, expanding
staff numbers from 35 to 44. This growth was strategically engineered to consolidate
longstanding research strengths in the cultural history of war (Humbert, Laycock) and
British history (E. Jones, Moss) and to proactively develop new strengths. To support
‘decolonisation’ of the department and academy, we have expanded into new geographical
areas (e.g. via recruitment of Chairez-Garza, Menchinger). Conscious of new intellectual
directions in our discipline, we have moved to highlight our researchers’ distinctive
contributions: research groups focused on ‘embodied emotions’ and ‘economic cultures’ are
unique within the UK. Decisions on recruitment have been consultative, with input from
SALC, Faculty, research groups, and staff away days that identified shared intellectual
priorities. This growth has helped us fulfil (and in some areas exceed) our REF2014
research and impact objectives. We are now strategising for sustainable evolution of the
unit within a changing research and higher education landscape.

b.1. Implementation of REF2014 strategic objectives
Five key objectives were identified in REF2014, which shaped the evolution of the
department’s research culture towards its current incarnation:

i. Development of existing and new research groupings
Our research groups showcase and nurture Manchester History’s distinctive contributions to
the field. They foster shared research interests amongst colleagues and provide a
supportive ‘home’ for staff. The groups have undergone significant alteration and expansion
since REF2014 and now reflect the full range of staff research interests, including new staff
recruited to strengthen activity in key areas (e.g. global history; histories of race). Four of
our seven research groups are new since REF2014 and all include colleagues working with
different chronologies, territories and methodologies. They meet regularly to share
publications-in-progress, review funding bids and organise research events. Our research
groups foster research collaborations and successes, and play a vital part in helping
colleagues, particularly ECRs, navigate the path to successful publication, grant capture
and public engagement/impact initiatives. (See also section 2.ii)

While colleagues continue to pursue individual research agendas, the distinctive shared
intellectual missions and indicative successes from in-group collaborations are shown
below. (*indicates new groups since REF2014)

Cultural History of War: (Carden-Coyne, Dreyfus, Gatrell, Houghton, Humbert, M.
Jones, Laycock, Ochman, Taithe)
Shared themes include population displacement, collective memory and humanitarianism.
Events: In the Shadow of the First World War conference (2014); No end to the War
conference (2019); Chronicling the War, Re-imagining Frenchness workshop (2019).

      Publication highlight: ‘Decolonising Imperial Heroes’ special issue of Journal of
       Imperial & Commonwealth History (2014); Manchester University Press book series
       with 28 titles to date.

                                                                                        Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


      Funding highlight: 'Laughing in an Emergency', European Research Council (2018-
       20); Simon Visiting Professor Joy Damousi (2017).

Modern British History: (Godden, Houghton, E. Jones, M. Jones, S. Jones, Mort, Moss,
Roddy, Strange, Summerfield, Taithe, Wildman)
Shared themes include consumption and cosmopolitan cultures, migration, personal life.
Events: Life Stories roundtable (2015); After Death workshop (2018); Where is British
History now? roundtable (2018).

      Publication highlight: The Charity Market and Humanitarianism in Britain, 1870-1912
       (2019).

      Funding highlight: AHRC ‘Challenging domesticity in Britain, 1890-1990’ network
       grant (2019-21); Simon Visiting Professor Judith Walkowitz (2017-18).

Medieval History (Christ, Insley, Mossman, Oldfield, Pope, Rembold)
Shared themes include piety, memory, intercultural exchange.
Events: Political Culture from the Carolingians to the Angevins (2016), Memory and
Documentary Culture conference (2019), Anglo-German Colloquium 'Geschichte Erzåhlen'
(2017 funded by Fritz-Thyssen Foundation).

      Publication highlight: Special Issue of History on ‘Political Culture, c.800-c.1200’
       (2017).

      Funding highlight: Leverhulme Trust Early Career Fellowship, 'The oppression of the
       nobility: town, country and identity in medieval Germany' (2018-21).

Political Cultures (Faucher, Goeschel, E. Jones, S. Jones, Laycock, Mort, Moss, Pierce,
Pimblott, Tunstall-Allcock, Velkar, Wildman)
Shared themes include diplomatic cultures, state and institutional policy, political thought.
Events: Cultures of Diplomacy workshop (2015, 2018 supported by Manchester's Jean
Monnet Centre of Excellence (JMCE)); The Guardian in local, national and global history
conference (2017); ‘States, Empires, Global Spaces (2019; supported by Royal Historical
Society (RHS) and JMCE).

      Publication highlight: ‘Rethinking Child Welfare and Emigration Institutions’, Cultural
       and Social History (2017);

      Funding highlight: British Academy Research Fellowship 'The rise of European
       cultural diplomacy: expatriate communities, nationalism and transnationalism' (2018-
       21).

*Embodied Emotions (Handley, Hanß, Morgan, Spinks, Strange, Winchcombe)
Shared themes include emotion and materiality, environment and emotions, emotions and
the supernatural.
Events: John Rylands Library (JRL) seminar series Print and Materiality in the Early Modern
World (2014-15); Magic, Witches and Devils in the Early Modern World exhibition, JRL
(2016); Affective Artefacts seminar series (2018-); International collaboration: research
network with the University of Melbourne’s History of Emotions Centre
www.objectsandemotions.org, supported by Manchester's institutional partnership with
Melbourne.

      Publication highlight: 'Curating Magic at the John Rylands Library, Bulletin of the
       John Rylands Library (2016).


                                                                                         Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

      Funding highlight: British Academy Rising Star 'Microscopic Records: The New
       Interdisciplinarity of Early Modern Studies' (2019-20).

*Economic Cultures (Barker, Christ, Doyle, Ewen, Godden, Locatelli, Roddy, Roessner,
Scholz, Serra, Smith, Velkar, Yates, Zheng)
Shared themes include history of capitalism from below, capitalism in the long durée,
alternative economic systems.
Events: The Road to Wealth conference (2017); The Future of Capitalism workshop (2019);
Women, economic practice and colonialism conference (2019).

      Publication highlight: History & Economic Life research handbook (2020).

      Funding highlight: ESRC Future Research Leaders, 'Visible Divinity: Money and Irish
       Catholicism, 1850-1921' (2017).

*Race, Roots and Resistance (R3) Collective (Chairez-Garza, Ewen, Ghosh, Houghton,
Moss, Pimblott)
Shared themes include historical construction of ‘race’, legacies of racial oppression,
histories of political and cultural movements formed by people of colour.
Events: Film screening with The University’s Ahmed Iqbal Ullah Race Relations Resource
Centre (AIU; 2018); Global Black Freedom Movements network event (2019).

      Publication highlight: InColour student zine;

      Funding highlight: Simon Postdoctoral Research Fellowship, 'The Modern Mind at
       Sea: Medical Care, Masculinity and Race in the Royal Navy' (2019-22).

ii. Enhancement of interdisciplinary research links
Since 2014, History has built opportunities for interdisciplinary exchange through research
group-led collaborations across SALC, and the University. This includes collaboration
between historians and colleagues in HCRI, notably Taithe (UOA25), author of an impact
case study. HCRI unites colleagues from the Faculties of Humanities, and Biology,
Medicine and Health. The latter includes colleagues in the Centre for the History of Science,
Technology and Medicine (CHSTM), notably Chakrabarti. Exchange begins with
overlapping membership of research groups. Co-produced events include the Modes of
Memory workshop (Medievalists and Cultural History of War, 2019); and Bretton Woods to
Brexit seminar (Modern British History and Economic Cultures, 2019). Arising from the
conference ‘Behavioural Research in Extreme Settings’ (2019) which included the
European Space Agency and Danish armed forces, M. Jones is working with Psychology
colleagues to develop a new interdisciplinary methodology for analysing psychological
responses to extreme environments.

Interdisciplinarity is further strengthened by staff participation in and development of SALC’s
research centres and institutes. For example, the new Centre for Economic Cultures puts
historians in dialogue with colleagues in American Studies, Economics, and the Alliance
Manchester Business School; the Embodied Emotions group’s ‘Affective Artefacts’
seminars combine speakers and audiences from Anthropology, Archaeology, Art History,
Music, Sociology, and the Whitworth Art Gallery. The linked Manchester Material Culture
Lab is a collaboration with archaeologists.

SALC's interdisciplinary environment promotes collaborative grant applications across REF
units. Successes here include Barker’s £1m AHRC-funded project with Linguistics scholars
on everyday language in Georgian England, and a £250k AHRC-funded project ‘Translating
Asylum’ with Translation Studies involving Gatrell.




                                                                                        Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

iii. Globalisation of research strengths and links
Through strategic staff recruitment and international partnerships, History has significantly
enhanced its global research strengths and links. Increasingly, colleagues specialising in
British and European history are engaging in projects with transnational foci, ranging from
Moss and Wildman’s work on transatlantic child migration, Roessner’s comparative study
of the rise of modern capitalism, to Velkar’s work on the global history of measurement.

Strategic staff appointments have extended our global coverage: Laycock spreads our
European coverage to the Caucasus with cutting-edge research on migration; Pimblott
brings a new focus on African-American and African diaspora history; Ochman adds
expertise in Polish memory studies; Chairez-Garza offers a unique focus on comparative
Mexican and Indian intellectual history; Serra works on the economic and social history of
Ghana and Nigeria; Menchinger focuses on early modern Ottoman intellectual and cultural
history; Hanß adds expertise in early modern global history with projects on the Americas,
and Smith researches the economic history of early modern West Africa and South Asia.

International research networks and joint research grants have been driven by our longer-
standing research groups, with strategic investment from Faculty, and now include war and
humanitarianism projects with Melbourne and Amsterdam (Carden-Coyne), and
humanitarianism and refugee projects with universities in India, Australia, Norway and
Finland (Gatrell). Using internal and external funding, our newer research groups are
following this lead: e.g. Embodied Emotions colleagues established a history of emotions
network with Melbourne (Handley, Hanß, Morgan). Economic Cultures colleagues have
developed a BA-funded project exploring borderlands in collaboration with Free University
Berlin (Smith), a religious fundraising history network with Copenhagen (Roddy) and an
AHRC-backed financial investment network with Harvard and Cambridge (Yates).

iv. Leading the development of historical research in the North-West region
History remains a hub of historical activity for the city and surrounding region, meaningfully
engaging with other history departments, and the region’s rich archive and heritage
resources. Our staff take leading roles in the M6 medieval history seminar, the North West
Early Modern Seminar, and they are supported by SALC's Creative Manchester initiative,
established in 2018, to engage with cultural partners across the region. A local archive
postgraduate training strategy has been developed with museums, libraries and archives,
including work placements for MA and PhD students. Colleagues have brought public-
facing research festivals to Manchester including the AHRC Being Human festival (Ewen,
Ghosh, Handley) and the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences (Yates). Barker is chair of the
Trustees of Manchester Histories Festival, co-ordinated with Manchester City Council on
WWI commemorative events (2018), and led the city’s Peterloo commemorations,
incorporating over 180 public-facing events (2019). Regional heritage partnerships on
research-led projects have also been fostered through an AHRC KTP with the National
Trust, which led to Barker’s and elements of Handley’s impact case studies, including
capacity-building of National Trust staff and volunteers, and several collaborative doctoral
awards. Through the latter, new relationships have been forged with the Lancashire Wildlife
Trust, heritage properties run by Salford, Bolton and Chorley councils, and the Imperial War
Museum. Staff have also contributed to Heritage Lottery Fund projects with Manchester and
Liverpool Central Libraries and the Pankhurst Centre (Wildman; Moss).

Local heritage sector professionals have been directly engaged through other routes, e.g.
Pimblott and the R3 Collective organised BAME heritage and history events at Manchester
Central Library with the AIU. Several staff serve as trustees and advisors to diverse heritage
and cultural organisations: e.g. Manchester Museum’s South Asia Gallery (Ghosh),
Manchester Jewish Museum (Dreyfus), Chetham’s Library (Barker). Other work with
Manchester’s cultural and heritage sector includes acclaimed public exhibitions; those
curated by Carden-Coyne and the Cultural History of War group (Sensory War,
Manchester Art Gallery, 2014; Visions of the Front 1916-18, Whitworth Art Gallery, 2016;

                                                                                        Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Wounded: Conflict, Casualties and Care, Science Museum, 2018) reached audiences in the
hundreds of thousands and shaped curatorial practices of displaying disabled bodies.

v. Making our research resonate throughout society
The wider societal impact of History’s research continues and extends well beyond the
target audiences identified in REF2014's impact strategy. Audiences benefitting from
Manchester’s historical expertise and collaboration include: school students in the North
West; local museums; culture and heritage organisations (detailed above); community
groups; local, national and international charities, NGOs and policy-makers; media outlets;
and the general public in Britain and beyond. Our four impact case studies exemplify our
core principles of promoting social justice (Dreyfus, Davey, Taithe) and engaging diverse
communities with history (Barker, Handley).

Our research is directed towards impact via strategic outward-facing activities. Many are
funded through SALC’s Social Responsibility Fund, which helped us to engage and impact
diverse beneficiaries. Public lectures given by our two professors of public history, Michael
Wood and David Olusoga, have attracted wide and diverse audiences, e.g. over 500 people
attended Olusoga’s inaugural lecture (2019). Outreach to schools, identified by the RHS as
one important means of encouraging the long-term diversification of History research and
the profession, includes Ochman’s annual conference for Polish GCSE students in
northern England, Tunstall-Allcock’s Cold War visits at Jodrell Bank Observatory,
Houghton's and Moss's development of oral history materials to engage with WP activities
in local schools, and school visits by many colleagues. Wood received the British
Academy's President's Medal (2015) in part due to his outreach work with schools in
disadvantaged regions of the northwest. Zheng received an honorary fellowship of the
Historical Association to recognise her extensive schools talks, podcasts and a textbook
aimed at A-Level students. Development of schools history resources has been undertaken
by Barker (Industrial Revolution) and Handley (sleep history) with the Historical Association
and Schools History Project, by Pimblott and the R3 collective (transatlantic black freedom
struggles), and by E. Jones who created material for A-Level Government and Politics
teachers and students. Pimblott has been consulted by the AQA on A-Level curriculum
reform in light of the RHS Race Report.

Community engagement and social outreach remain strengths of our impact strategy.
Colleagues in Modern British History have collaborated on community events on poverty,
social cohesion and women’s rights with regional organisations including Wood Street
Mission (Roddy, Strange), Oldham Coliseum theatre (Strange), the Pankhurst Centre
(Moss, Wildman), and on the environment with Greenpeace (M. Jones). Wildman leads a
project on local history and civic engagement with community groups in South Manchester,
while Ghosh ran public events on Bengali folk songs with local Bangladeshi and Indian
communities. Colleagues from the Cultural History of War group working on
humanitarianism have influenced policy debates and implementation across a range of
national and international NGOs, as detailed in Davey and Taithe’s and Dreyfus’s impact
case studies, and also including work with the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR) via Gatrell’s AHRC project on refugeedom. Beyond third sector policy,
individual staff have presented their research to parliamentary committees (Chairez-Garza,
House of Lords, 2018), to government (Moss, UK Home Office, 2017, Dreyfus French
Foreign Ministry, 2015, 2017) and to the Civil Service (Roddy, UK Cabinet Office, 2016).

Most colleagues have disseminated their research to broader publics via broadcast, print
and online media. Olusoga and Wood are regular columnists for the UK's best-selling
History magazine, BBC History Magazine, with a combined print and online circulation of
over 1m. Staff have appeared on over 20 TV channels in Australia, Canada, France,
Germany, Ireland, Netherlands, Portugal, UK, Ukraine, US, Latin America and the Middle
East and China and contributed to multiple radio broadcasts. This includes over 15 different
BBC Radio 4 programmes, and Ghosh’s original two-part series Printing a Nation that

                                                                                      Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

attracted over 11 million UK listeners and responses from India, China and Algeria. Staff
research is cited in popular periodicals globally, including Canada’s Globe and Mail,
Denmark’s Kristeligt Dagblad, Germany’s Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung and Rheinische
Post, Ireland’s Irish Times, Italy’s Corriere della Sera and La Repubblica, Poland’s Gazeta
Wyborcza, Portugal’s Publico, the UK’s Guardian and Financial Times, and the US’s New
Yorker. Our two Professors of Public History (Wood, Olusoga) have contributed to growing
expertise in communicating our research to the public: e.g. both have run filming history
sessions with staff and postgraduate students. The exchange of expertise is reciprocal with
Wood’s major six-part BBC television documentary The Story of China (2016) featuring
Zheng as consultant and major contributor. The series attracted millions of viewers in fifty
different countries. It aired three times in the USA (on PBS/PBS World), and on China
Central Television. China's President Xi commended the series and China's national Xinhua
news agency said it had 'transcended the barriers of ethnicity and belief and brought
something inexplicably powerful and touching to the TV audience'. Wood's BBC4 series Du
Fu: China's Greatest Poet had comparable global impact.

b.2. Future Research and Impact Strategy
History’s research strategy post-2021 is to continue to lead the field in distinctive ways, and
deepen our societal impact. Five priorities lead this strategy:

i. Enhancing Manchester History’s reputation for cutting-edge research
We nurture distinctive research specialisms, and intend further development of our research
groups to enhance existing strengths. This is likely to include staffing and resource
investment in environmental history and global histories of race. Appointment of Ramesh to
a Presidential Fellowship in Environmental History and collaboration with Chakrabarti
(CHSTM) has kick-started the former. A new research grouping, emerging from a teaching
team of recently-appointed staff, is already taking shape, with S. Jones leading Chairez-
Garza, E. Jones and Menchinger in a Global Intellectual Histories network focused on the
history of political thought beyond Western Europe. We anticipate further investment in
technologies to support world-leading methodological innovations, including further
equipment for material culture analysis and digital humanities work. Methodological
innovation and leadership will continue, including through Hanß’s British Academy Rising
Star Engagement Award that offered training for ECRs on material culture analysis and
Scholz’s capacity-building work in spatial digital humanities. We also commit to making
more of our research open access.

ii. Producing research with positive societal impacts
Our research will continue to be impactful, underpinned by a social responsibility ethos that
challenges inequalities and promotes engagement with diverse communities to accelerate
the decolonisation of our research. Research groups will continue to be channels for
delivering public engagement and impact, with newer groupings learning from established
groups who have partnered with non-academic organisations to design and disseminate
their research. Barker's AHRC KTP created one of our impact case studies alongside a
strategic plan for successful long-term partnerships between academic researchers and the
National Trust. We will expand further the non-academic audiences that our research
engages, in part through the popular lectures, media work and schools-based work of our
two Professors of Public History (Olusoga and Wood).

iii. Fostering further internationalisation of our research
We will build on existing international research links. First, we will take further advantage of
UoM’s strategic partnerships with overseas institutions, in particular Melbourne,
Amsterdam, Toronto and the Chinese University of Hong Kong, to foster links with leading
historians in other countries. Second, given our strategic recruitment of staff with expanded
global coverage, and with new appointments for 2020/21 in Chinese Islamic (Rian Thum)
and Indian environmental (Aditya Ramesh) history, we are well placed to respond to
research council ‘global challenges’ calls. Third, by maintaining and enhancing outward-

                                                                                          Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

facing, world-leading research agendas, we will continue to attract PhD students from
beyond the UK, to conduct cutting-edge research funded by UoM, and by the new provision
for international students with UKRI-funded doctoral programmes. Finally, in keeping with
our University’s social responsibility agenda, we will realise these increased links in
environmentally sustainable ways (e.g. via digital conferencing).

iv. Sustaining a supportive research environment
In addition to maintaining a strong, supportive research group culture, we will enact and
continue measures designed to build confidence, especially among ECRs, in developing
innovative ideas and targeting top-tier publications, and to help colleagues at all stages
improve the quality of their research. These will include: writing workshops; pre-submission
book and article workshops at which manuscripts can be discussed in-depth; reflections on
successful and unsuccessful grant bids to foster best practice; voluntary debriefs with
mentors, the Research Co-ordinator and/or grant writers on revising unsuccessful funding
bids and articles to determine how they can be repurposed.

v. Adopting transformative Equality and Diversity policies for staff and students
Our efforts to diversify staff and research outputs since REF2014 are building success (see
section 2.a) and we will continue them. We will embed the recommendations of the RHS
report on race and inequality, in which the R3 Collective was positively mentioned, and to
which our Modern British group was the first set of UK historians to publicly respond
https://uomhistory.com/2019/02/27/uom-modern-british-historians-respond-to-the-rhs-race-
report/ ), and about which we have held departmental discussions, including a workshop
with the RHS President. We will continue to improve BAME access to the historical
profession. Our public historians, schools engagement, and work on decolonising the
curriculum are beginning to address this ‘pipeline’ issue. History will also join SALC in
instituting BAME-specific PGT scholarships. History staff will continue to lead the public-
facing activities of SALC's Centre for the Study of Race and Culture, which they helped
establish in 2018.
Section 2. People
a. Staffing Strategy and Development
A dynamic research culture relies on a flow of excellent researchers. Uo28 has seen
considerable, well-managed staff change since REF2014. This results from strategic
recruitment of new staff facilitated by UoM's investment of resources in our subject area,
which has given History greater intellectual leverage. It has also resulted from staff retiring
or leaving for opportunities elsewhere. (Since 2014, Fouracre, Summerfield and Szechi
have retired; Fuller moved to Monash, Manias to KCL, Moore to a chair at Edinburgh,
Spinks to Melbourne, and Strange to a chair at Durham).

Recruitment of new staff has been done on a consultative basis: the job descriptions for ten
new posts approved in 2017 were democratically designed with input from research groups,
and all colleagues at departmental boards and research away days. These posts included
lectureships in migration history (Laycock), Islamic history (Menchinger), and histories of
race (Chairez-Garza). Three UoM Presidential Fellowships (three-year research posts that
convert to permanent lectureships) awarded to History were recruited to map onto emerging
research priorities in economic and environmental history, whilst extending chronological
and geographical scope in these areas (Serra, Smith, and, joining in September 2020,
Ramesh).

i. Equality and diversity
History’s staff profile has diversified considerably since REF2014. Our gender and BAME
diversity profile is now double the national average for the discipline. We have consciously
re-oriented our recruitment and promotions strategies to deliver our commitments to equal
opportunities and better representation of women and minority groups within our ranks. Now
43% of our staff are female (19 of 44) compared to under a third of staff in 2014 (11 of 35).

                                                                                          Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Our professoriate, which in 2014 was less than one quarter female (2 of 9), is now 45%
female with six male, and five female professors, double the national average rate within
History. BAME colleagues make up a larger percentage of the total History staff than in
2014, up from 8% to 13%. BAME colleagues are well represented at the highest levels, now
comprising more than one fifth of our professors. In addition, David Olusoga was appointed
as Professor of Public History in 2019 (0.1 FTE), making him one of very few Black British
Humanities professors in the country.

This diversifying strategy has been conscious and collective. While engaged with SALC’s
Athena Swan applications and the School Equality and Diversity committee’s commitments
(Historians Ghosh, Davey and Moss have all led the latter), History has been conscious of
wider national deficiencies within our discipline, as highlighted in the RHS’s reports, and has
made concerted efforts to embed diversity. This has been done on a consultative basis, as
a focus of several staff away days, staff surveys, and workshops. Though initially teaching-
focused, we recognise our ‘decolonising the curriculum’ initiatives as a route to engaging
more BAME students in research from undergraduate level onwards, and ultimately to
fostering an inclusive research culture.

History has worked hard as a department to reduce barriers to career progression for
particular demographics (e.g. women and BAME historians). In step with SALC’s Athena
Swan and Equality and Diversity committees, all colleagues are encouraged to apply for
promotion (via promotions workshops and annual PREP meetings). They are empowered to
do so through appropriate research support (see 2.a.ii above), and by administration and
leadership opportunities (including training programmes) that institutional promotion criteria
demand. This strategy is beginning to bear fruit, but we are conscious that it needs to be
sustained. We especially recognise that helping our ECR colleagues to progress to mid-
career stage will be one of the major challenges of the next REF cycle.

Inclusivity extends to policies that facilitate the research of colleagues with caring
responsibilities, disabilities and other protected characteristics. Partly in response to staff
consultations in SALC’s Athena Swan process, History colleagues now have access to
several resources: e.g. technological support to manage disabilities; flexible working hours
during the teaching semester, up to 30% additional personal research allowance for those
with caring responsibilities.

The department’s age and career-stage profiles are diverse. About a third of permanent
academic staff are under 40 and another third is over 50. Our Senior Lecturers range from
32 to 52, and our Chairs from 43 to 70. Staff at all career stages have served as research
group convenors, while senior research management roles have been filled by newly-
appointed SLs and by experienced Professors. These opportunities to gain and exchange
leadership expertise consolidate the inclusive research culture described in this document,
ensuring its sustainability.

ii. Mentoring and research support
In recognition that people are the lifeblood of the unit, staff at every career stage are
provided with research mentoring and support.

Early career support
Having recruited several early career colleagues during REF2021, the UoA takes its
responsibilities towards them seriously. New lecturers benefit from reduced teaching and
administration loads (75% in year 1, 80% year 2, 85% year 3) which supports their ability to
publish. ECRs can access seed-corn funds that support preparation for first major grant
applications. All new staff, including postdoctoral researchers and temporary lecturers, have
an experienced colleague as a mentor to help plan their research career and to identify
training and development opportunities from the University's portfolio. Mentorship lasts
throughout the 3-4 year probation period for permanent staff. Research staff on permanent

                                                                                            Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

contracts also receive research training and career planning advice through the Faculty’s
Humanities New Academics Programme, accredited by the Higher Education Academy. A
portfolio covering research, teaching and administrative strategies is drawn up at the end of
the programme in consultation with the mentor.

Support for all staff
All staff receive the following formal and informal research support:
1) Annual allocations of research time through the department's 'workload allocation model'
(WAM). The WAM is also used to manage relief from teaching and administration for those
in receipt of external and (in some cases) internal research funding. All staff are encouraged
to nominate a weekly ‘research day’ which is accommodated within the WAM as protected
research time.

2) A £1,000 p.a. personal research allowance from SALC funds and a generous institutional
research leave policy through which staff can apply for every seventh semester as a
sabbatical. Staff can also apply for ad hoc additional support through SALC's Research
Development Fund.

3) Structures are in place at all career stages for staff to discuss their research needs. At a
formal level this happens through the Faculty’s annual Personal Research Expectations
Plans (PREP) drawn up and agreed in discussion with History colleague mentors, the Head
of History and/or Research Co-ordinator. These meetings are a personal stocktake that help
colleagues prioritise research and impact goals. They also offer a channel for additional
school and departmental research support mechanisms to be enacted. Local, collective
measures can also result from PREP. For example, in response to the 2017 PREP round,
History organised a workshop for all colleagues to explore writing strategies, a cornerstone
of research excellence. We have also hosted bespoke visits from the Wellcome Trust and
AHRC where colleagues discussed grant-bidding and impact strategies.

4) Grant writing support is provided by SALC's dedicated grant-writing and impact support
officers. Staff can access a database of successful applications by colleagues across
SALC, and grant bids over £100,000 go through anonymous peer review before
submission.

5) All staff participate in, and derive valuable feedback from, fortnightly ‘research-in-
progress’ lunchtime seminars attended by History staff and postgraduate students.
Colleagues’ participation in History’s research groups offers another channel of informal
research support. The groups provide a safe environment to discuss and overcome the
challenges of funding applications and publications, which is particularly helpful for ECR
colleagues.

As well as supporting permanent ECR colleagues as described above, History has been a
productive and welcoming home to 14 fixed-term post-doctoral research fellows (PDRFs)
since 2014. These include fellows supported for three-year periods by UoM’s Hallsworth
Political Economy (Talbott, Roddy, Scriven, Doyle, Ewen), and Simon Social Sciences
(Connolly, Dowdall, Houghton) endowments, and external fellowships including ESRC
(Locatelli), Leverhulme (Dutton, Pope), and British Academy (Davey, Faucher, Palabiyik).
Several of these colleagues have since progressed to permanent lectureships: Talbott to
Keele, Roddy to Manchester, Connolly to UCL. In 2020 Ewen secured a permanent role as
Historic Royal Palace's first Curator for Inclusive History.

iii. Career development
History has employed 28 temporary lecturers during REF2021. Our mentoring process
helped several of these valued colleagues to secure funding, fellowships and lectureships:
e.g. Miller as PI and Senior Research Fellow on Leverhulme/AHRC projects at Durham;
Yeandle lectureship at Loughborough; Briggs to a lectureship at QMUL; Hoeckelmann

                                                                                        Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

fellowship at Edinburgh and chair at Erlangen-Nürnberg; Caple fellowship at Copenhagen;
Winchcombe Wellcome Trust fellowship at Leeds; Zajac fellowship at Toronto; Scriven,
Connolly, Dowdall, Faucher to fellowships in Manchester. All fixed-term ECR staff
participate in the same mentoring process as permanent staff; participate in research
groups, present research to staff seminars, can apply for internal funding for workshops,
conferences and other events, can take part in training, and have a personal research
allowance.

iv. Impact and knowledge exchange support
History’s impact support structure is multi-layered and sits within a wider School and Faculty
context (see section 3.iii). At departmental level, impact and outreach activities are a
fundamental part of each colleague’s mentoring conversations, PREP meetings, and
research group activities. Newer research groups are encouraged to begin with public
engagement and outreach activities (e.g. events at Manchester Histories or Being Human
festivals) that we expect, over time, to develop into the sustained relationships that our
more established research groups enjoy with non-academic partners. In recognition that
genuine research impact takes an investment of time over many years, younger colleagues
benefit from the expertise of senior colleagues through these routes. The advanced career
stages of colleagues who have authored our Impact Case Studies: senior lecturer (1),
reader (1) and professor (3), is indicative of this structured approach to impact.

Barker’s AHRC KTP with the National Trust (Framework for engagement, 2017-19, £155k)
offers colleagues a route to impact with the UK's largest heritage organisation. To date, this
has led to Barker’s impact case study, and to the secondment of UoM historians, with
research students and PDRFs undertaking NT placements. Other examples include the
advisory and trustee roles of Taithe and Davey in the NGO sector as outlined in one of our
impact case studies; Carden-Coyne’s advisory role with Culture Forum North, a body
designed to unite the arts and higher education; M. Jones’s work as an accredited lecturer
of the Arts Society, and Gatrell’s digitisation project with UNHCR. A promising example of
newer research groups following this lead is Pimblott and the R3 collective’s developing
relationship with the University’s AIU Centre. The selection, through national competition, of
four of our ECR colleagues (Tunstall-Allcock, Dowdall, E. Jones and Morgan) for the
AHRC’s ‘Engaging with Government’ training scheme in 2019 indicates a future strand of
external policy engagement for the department.

The wider institution supports research impact work in several ways. Manchester has held
an ESRC Impact Accelerator Fund since 2014 (worth £860k between 2014-18), which
supported projects by Barker, Handley, and Wildman. Institutional research leave can be
used for impact projects, as can a supplementary research leave scheme initiated by SALC
in 2017; Handley and Wildman used this scheme to develop their impact and community
work. Training and advice have also been sought from the Faculty’s Business Engagement
and Knowledge Exchange and Impact professional service teams.


b. Research Students
We are committed to recruiting and investing in high-quality postgraduate (PGR) students to
nurture the next generation of research leaders, and to provide them with skills and
opportunities to help them flourish and contribute expertise in non-academic environments.
We are a leading stakeholder in two doctoral training partnerships in the North West (S.
Jones was director of the AHRC DTP, 2014-17 and Associate Dean for Postgraduate
Research in the Faculty of Humanities, 2017-20), and have access to generous internal
PGR funding in SALC, cross-sectoral placements and international exchange opportunities
fostered by the University. PGR ‘fit’ with our overall research strategy is factored into our
recruitment and funding.




                                                                                       Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

i. Recruitment
We continue to attract high numbers of PGR students, 50 are currently active, and 61 have
completed since 2014, a 15% increase since REF2014. In a tough PGR funding landscape,
History has enjoyed considerable success in competitions for internal Manchester funding
(including highly-competitive President’s Doctoral Awards) and externally in the AHRC and
ESRC North-West consortia. We actively pursue other routes to funded doctoral
studentships for excellent candidates, including the UKRI-funded collaborative PhD awards
scheme, in which History has secured two AHRC CDP awards and three ESRC CASE
awards.

In line with our research strategy, we plan for our PGR community to become more
representative of the wider population, to produce a more diverse profile of those who
research and teach history, and to decolonise the subject. We anticipate competing strongly
for SALC’s mooted BAME-specific PGT scholarships when they come on stream, alongside
similar opportunities that may emerge from UKRI and other funders. It is also hoped that
initiatives including the student-led zine ‘InColour’ will further encourage BAME
advancement from undergraduate to postgraduate level within the unit and discipline.

ii. Research culture
PGRs are integrated into History's research culture through attendance and participation in
regular lunchtime seminars (for internal speakers) and evening seminars (for external
speakers) and through attachment to research groups. PhD students are an integral part of
events organised by our research groups. The 2018 workshop 'Where is British History
Now?’ put postgraduate students directly in dialogue with history staff, and research
seminars regularly feature PGRs giving progress reports on their work, or chairing sessions
with external speakers.

Our PhD students are supported to coordinate independent research initiatives. Recent
events organised by our doctoral students include:

      Liam Stowell’s conference ‘History of International Political Thought’ (2019)
      Louise Clare’s on the Falklands War and the media (2019)
      Tom Quigley’s co-organising of a major medieval history conference at the
       University of Birmingham (2019)
      Several student panels at international conferences including Birmingham’s Modern
       British Studies (2017; 2019) and the Leeds International Medieval Congress (2018).

Each year, our PhD students run a ‘work-in-progress’ seminar series for fellow PGRs. In
2019 PGRs launched a web-based student journal, Encounters, edited by Matt Grossbard
and Lucy Allen, with peer-reviewed contributions on topics including Allende’s Chile, Audie
Murphy, and Greek refugees. Our postgraduate medievalists, led by Alex Hurlow, convene
the region-wide M6 Reading Group. Funding for such initiatives is built into departmental,
SALC and faculty support structures: for example, as well as access to personal research
funds, doctoral candidates have access to funding from artsmethods@Manchester and from
the JRRI to run interdisciplinary events within the Faculty (e.g. Anne Stokes’ workshop on
race-related research). Several PGRs secured external funding to support conferences and
workshops, including Doyle and Fennelly (Economic History Society, 2014); Stowell (RHS
and JMCE, 2019); Coull (RHS, 2020).

iii. Monitoring and progression
All PhD students are supported by two supervisors (60-40% split) who they meet fortnightly.
A third panel member reviews progress at twice-yearly meetings where submitted chapters
and completion plans are discussed. Those funded by CASE and CDP studentships have
an additional supervisor from the partner institution. The supervision process is monitored
and supported by the university’s ‘eprog’ online system, which records panel expectations
and results, and the student’s training regime.

                                                                                     Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 iv. Training, career development and employability
In REF2014, the support History gave to PGR students was commended, and we have
since strengthened provision in this area. Through SALC, all students can access £400 p.a.
to support conference attendance, and £3,000 p.a. to support archival and other research
trips. Every student has access to free printing and an interlibrary loan allowance. This is
accompanied by measures to facilitate equal access to all research supports available. For
example, SALC PGRs with caring responsibilities can access extra funds for conference
attendance and research trips, a carers’ network run by the postgraduate office, and due
consideration of timetabling requests as Graduate Teaching Assistants.

History organises regular training days and events, tailored to meet the needs of particular
types of students. Manchester historians have led the delivery of such training events for
the North West funding consortia. Among these have been '‘Quants for Historians’, History
and Quantitative Methods (2017, 2018: Christ, Roessner, Velkar), which provides
research methods training for History PhDs across the ESRC's North West Social Science
Doctoral Training Partnership (NWSSDTP) and a one-day workshop for thirty research
students within the NWCDTP on ‘The Personal Turn in Historical Research’ covering
methodologies using personal narratives (Mort, Summerfield, Moss, Wildman).

Our PhDs are supported to forge national and international links that maximise career
opportunities. History has a well-established exchange programme with the European
University Institute, Florence, where PGRs spend up to six months studying, as part of their
bespoke research-training programme. Recent exchanges include Maclachlan (2018) and
Havercroft (2019). Students are also encouraged to go further afield: e.g. Shew secured a
Fulbright scholarship to Harvard University (2020), and Richardson a Faculty-funded
studentship at Indiana University (2019). Doctoral candidates have access to placements
through the NWCDTP, and Faculty initiatives: e.g. Stowell, recipient of a SALC-funded
studentship, undertook a Faculty-supported placement with the Cabinet Office Open
Innovation Team.

PGRs are encouraged to embed themselves in national and international research cultures.
History PhDs since 2014 have engaged with History Lab (the Institute of Historical
Research's national network for PGRs), served in junior editorial roles (e.g. European
Review of History) and on organising committees for national conferences (e.g. First World
War Network, 2019). Our PGRs have been invited to speak at external workshops and
conferences: Havercroft at Women’s Negotiation of Space 1500-1900 (Hull, 2018); Hannah
Robb at the Social Life of Money workshop (IHR, 2019); Sihong Lin at the HistoryUK annual
plenary conference (IHR, 2018). PGRs also regularly blog for national websites/learned
societies (e.g. Robb for Social History Exchange) and have published their research in high-
quality journals, e.g. Greenhalgh in Gender and History, Irving in History of European Ideas,
Owens in English Historical Review, and Patterson in South Asia.

History’s doctoral candidates benefit from SALC's extensive programme of interdisciplinary
and generic training. Researcher Development and PGR training is dispensed through two
channels: Artsmethods@manchester for theoretical and technical training, and SALC’s
Graduate School for early professionalisation training such as publication strategy, applying
for academic jobs, and generating research impact. Students are further enabled to develop
research impact via NWDTP placements in non-HEI institutions (e.g. Wroblewski at the
British Library) and through project-related studentships with impact built into them (e.g.
Collier at National Trust property Quarry Bank Mill). Our PGRs’ employment destinations
since 2014 include academia, knowledge exchange positions in other sectors, and civil
service roles: academic researcher and lecturing posts include: Greenhalgh to Lincoln,
Freedman to Northwestern, Kefford to Leicester, Kershaw to Warwick, Locatelli and Nowak
to Manchester, Patterson to KCL, Pracy to Exeter, Robb to IHR, Sihong Lin to UCD, Soares
to QMUL, Winchcombe to Leeds); knowledge exchange posts include: Coatesworth at Peak


                                                                                      Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

District National Park, Havercroft at NHS/NICE, Willcock at National Trust North); civil
service roles include: Wroblewski at the Department for Transport.
Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

a. Income

History staff generated over £3.7m in external grants 2014-2020, in line with the strategy
outlined in REF2014 to ‘sustain and enhance’ our research income. This is an increase of
over 50% on funding secured in REF2014 (£1.69m). This resulted from a new grant capture
strategy, where colleagues were more actively matched by History’s Research Co-ordinator
to suitable funding opportunities (based on knowledge acquired through PREP meetings)
and given resources to help prepare applications (seedcorn money, grant-writing support,
research time).

Individual research agendas and research groups have driven the success outlined below,
and several of our submitted publications were generated from the research this funding
supported. For example, completion of Handley’s Sleep in Early Modern England and
Oldfield’s Urban Panegyric, was supported by British Academy mid-career fellowships.
Over 30 staff members at all career stages received external funding, from seed-corn
awards to large national and international collaborative grants. A range of funding bodies
supported our research. The data below reflects the successes of our research group
specialisms, revealing the effectiveness of those groups in securing grant income through
skilled facilitation and research innovation.

Large grants awarded to colleagues include AHRC funding for Barker’s Faith in the Town
(£429k), and Unlocking the Mary Hamilton papers (£505k); Chairez-Garza’s Indian
anthropologies and the birth of a nation (£290k); and Gatrell’s Reckoning with Refugeedom
(£701k). Carden-Coyne’s Laughing through an Emergency received £149k from the
European Research Council. The Leverhulme Trust sponsored Christ’s The Sea-born
State (£50k), and S. Jones via a Major Research Fellowship (£166k). Project funding from
the British Academy went to Dreyfus’s Disclosing post-Holocaust and deportation
exhumations (£21k), Handley’s Sleep in Early Modern England (£83k), and Oldfield’s
Urban Panegyric (£42k).

Early career colleagues had notable external funding success. Roddy’s Money and Irish
Catholicism received £196k under an ESRC ‘Future Research Leaders’ scheme. Yates was
awarded a £199k AHRC Leadership grant for France and the Making of Financial
Modernity. Morgan was co-investigator on Local Governance and Community Resilience:
How Internal Drainage Boards and Communities Managed Flooding in England, which
secured £370k from the AHRC. Seedcorn funding has been sought and won by several
colleagues to kickstart larger projects, including Chakrabarti's Gondwana and Antipodal
Histories (AHRC £45k), Hanß’s Microscopic Records (BA £15k), Smith’s Living on the
Edge (BA Global Challenges £49k), Wildman’s The Home as a Site of Criminality (BA
£10k) and Moss and Wildman’s Challenging domesticity in Britain (AHRC £16k).

This external and University funding has helped produce many of our monographs and
other published outputs submitted for REF2021. It will also generate more world-leading
publications and high-quality impact activities post-2021.

Impact
We have had significant success in securing research funding with non-academic partners,
notably Barker’s AHRC KTP (£155k); Handley's AHRC Follow-On Funding for Impact and
Engagement award (£81k); Carden-Coyne’s Art in Conflict (Australian Research Council
£11k); and Barker’s Quarry Bank Project (ESRC £19k). On a smaller scale are numerous
examples of externally-funded public engagement and knowledge transfer events, including

                                                                                       Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Handley’s and Ghosh’s Being Human awards (£1.6k, 2017; £1.5k, 2019) and Yates’s
ESRC Festival of Social Science grant (£1k).

b. Scholarly Infrastructure
The university and the city provide an internationally excellent environment for historical
research. Facilities available to staff and students through the University include The
University Library, the John Rylands Library's special collections, Manchester Museum and
the Whitworth Art Gallery. Other major collections in Manchester that are not part of the
University but which colleagues use extensively include Chetham's Library, Manchester
Central Library, Working-Class Movement Library, Museum of Science and Industry, and
Manchester Art Gallery.

The John Rylands Library houses the University’s special collections, and is widely
considered to be the UK's fourth most important archive (by collections size), after the
British Library, Bodleian and Cambridge University Library. It has extensive holdings in all
arts and humanities disciplines including over 250,000 printed volumes and over a million
manuscripts and incunabula. Since 2013 SALC has led the University’s John Rylands
Research Institute (directed by Barker since 2016), which serves as a focal point for
capturing externally generated humanities research income and philanthropic donations,
and promotes innovative multidisciplinary research engaging with the special collections.
Several History colleagues have received JRRI seed-corn funding to use its collections in
developing external grant applications (e.g. S. Jones leading to his Leverhulme fellowship,
Yates leading to her AHRC grant). JRRI fellowships bring world-leading academics to
Manchester. Since REF2014, JRRI has created research partnerships (comprising staff and
student fellowships) with world-leading institutions including the Library of Congress
(Washington D.C.), Newberry Library (Chicago) and Huntington Library (Pasadena). Since
its inception in 2013 JRRI has received over £2.4m in University funding, and £291,000 for
a Digital Humanities initiative to train researchers and promote new project methodologies
in Humanities. JRRI has responded to the 'data turn' by sponsoring and developing
research projects in Digital Humanities, and will prove a vital resource as History develops
its research capacity in this direction, with Scholz, Smith, Yates and the Economic
Cultures group already using this infrastructure.

The University Library, one of only five national research libraries in the UK, has the largest
collection of electronic resources of any European university library: currently over 43,500
e-journals, 500,000 e-books and a complete range of research databases (Section 4.2
Institutional Statement)

c. Open Access
The University enables our commitment to Open Access. The University repository (PURE)
allows researchers to deposit and disseminate research outputs. A generous institutional
budget managed by the University Library also ensures that, where publishers can facilitate
it, our research can be made freely available in digital formats (Section 2.5 Institutional
Statement).


d. Organisational and operational infrastructure

History’s research structures operate at departmental, School and Faculty levels, enabling a
balance to be struck between individuals’, research groups’ and the UoA’s research
strategies, and the university's mission. Research groups drive local research policy, with
guidance from the Head of Department and Research Co-ordinator, who review the
activities and future plans of all groups annually. History's Research Co-ordinator is
responsible for day-to-day management of staff research. This includes encouraging and
advising on research grant bids, arranging peer review of applications, annually reviewing


                                                                                         Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

staff research and publication, and overseeing the research groups’ operation and
development.

Research policy within SALC is determined by a Research Committee, which meets five
times a year, reports to SALC's Policy and Resources Committee, and is led by SALC's
Research Director in cooperation with the Research Support Manager. History colleagues
on this committee include the UoA's Research Co-ordinator, the JRRI Director (Barker),
and SALC's Deputy Director for Research (Wildman). The Research Committee
implements SALC's strategic plan for research including targets for research income
generation, research output quality and academic impact, and is responsible for allocating
SALC's research budget. SALC's Research Support Office, led by the Research Support
Manager, supports the implementation of strategy and facilitates research collaborations,
communicates funding opportunities, assists in developing grant applications, manages
grant budgets, and monitors progress of funded projects.

At Faculty level, strategic decisions taken since 2014 have facilitated some of History’s
improved grant capture: new investment in a grant-writing team targeted at supporting ECR
colleagues has led directly to positive funding outcomes (e.g. Yates’s AHRC grant). Faculty
also facilitates international collaborations and exchanges for staff and PGR students. This
is primarily achieved through the Humanities Strategic Investment Fund, which drives the
Faculty’s internationalisation agenda and nurtures world-leading research projects, impact
and publications (e.g. Carden-Coyne's Australian Research Council award with
Melbourne).

History colleagues have access to a well-developed impact support infrastructure that
operates across departmental (see section 2.iv), School and Faculty levels. SALC has a
Knowledge Exchange and Impact Support Officer as part of the Faculty team established
during REF2014 and appoints, in three-yearly cycles, an academic lead for Impact as
SALC’s Deputy Research Director, (since 2018, an historian, Wildman). They offer advice
to colleagues, both one-to-one and in regularly-organised workshops, on maximising
research impact, on approaching, and working with external partners, and on designing
impact activity for external research grant bids. SALC's Business Engagement Support
Team helped broker Barker's AHRC KTP.

Throughout this REF period colleagues have had access to impact support funds that offer
grants to support research engagement beyond the academy. As part of the University’s
Social Responsibility strategic goal dedicated SR funds have supported, for example,
Pimblott’s ongoing work with students and the public at the AIU, Serra’s event
commemorating the 50th anniversary of the Biafran War (Manchester Central Library, 2020),
and Ghosh’s work with local south Asian communities. History has had considerable
success with the University’s ESRC Impact Accelerator Account. Barker, Handley and
Wildman all received grants under this scheme, and used them to facilitate relationships
with the National Trust (Barker and Handley), and with local community groups in South
Manchester (Wildman).


Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

UoM History complements its strategic commitment to social responsibility with a
community-minded approach that encourages and facilitates colleagues’ contributions to
activities outside the department.

i. Local, national and international collaborations
In line with our REF2014 vision, we collaborate widely with academics in networks, projects
and publications at regional, national and global levels, and are encouraged to do so by
internal funding incentives. Current regional academic cooperative endeavours include the

                                                                                     Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

Northern Cluster for Global and Transcultural Studies (Ewen, Hanß, Smith) in collaboration
with Leeds, Liverpool and Sheffield universities; Yates’s Association for the Study of
Modern and Contemporary France network grant with interdisciplinary colleagues in Leeds
and Sheffield. National collaborations include Tunstall-Allcock’s UK Historians of
American Foreign Relations network with Nottingham, UEA, LSE, KCL, Sussex, and
Cambridge; Pimblott’s Global Black Freedom Movements network with Sussex,
Canterbury Christchurch, Manchester Metropolitan, De Monfort and UCL; and the
Humanitarian Working Histories network (Gatrell, Humbert, Laycock, Taithe) with
colleagues in Birmingham, Durham, Huddersfield, Hull, Newcastle, Leeds, Liverpool, and
Sheffield.

We collaborate internationally in projects and research networks across more than 40
different countries, from Australia to the United States, via China, India, Japan, Myanmar,
Nigeria, and Singapore. Major international projects with which colleagues are involved
include the European Cooperation in Science and Technology (COST)-sponsored People in
Motion project on displacement, with partners in 30 European countries (Handley and
Hanß as advisors); the Global Urban History Project, comprising 400+ scholars (Ghosh on
International Advisory Council), and the ERC-funded GHOST (Geographies and Histories of
the Ottoman Supernatural Tradition) project (Menchinger a named collaborator). Hanß is a
member of the Swiss National Science Foundation-funded research group Materialized
Identities: Objects, Effects and Affects in Early Modern Europe. Scholz is co-I on Early
Modern Mobility: Knowledge, Communication, and Transportation with colleagues at
Stanford, and an advisor to the “Datascribe” project, funded by the National Endowment for
the Humanities at George Mason University. Colleagues lead and contribute to networks on,
e.g., Memories of War in post-Socialist space (Ochman with Lviv, Potsdam, Melbourne);
Languages of Charters (Insley with Leeds, El Pais Vasco); Global Sexual Revolutions
(Mort with Harvard, Sydney); Law and social differences (Pierce with Columbia, Rice);
History of Universities (S. Jones with Leiden, Utrecht, Munich, Sydney); and Securitization
in historical perspective (Mossman with Gießen).

Collaboration beyond academia is encouraged (see sections 2.iv and 3.iii), and aside from
our four impact case studies, has incorporated work with diverse partners. This includes
multiple UK and international museums (e.g. Smith and Ewen with the National Maritime
Museum; Dowdall with the Army Museum, Paris; Roessner with the Teyler Museum,
Netherlands; Carden-Coyne with the National War Memorial Museum, Canberra; Handley
with the Victoria and Albert Museum and the Museum of London; Humbert and Faucher
with the Musée de l'Ordre de la Libération, Paris).

We work frequently with arts venues and organisations to develop exhibitions, shows and
workshops: e.g. Moss (William Morris Gallery, London); Carden-Coyne (Whitworth Art
Gallery). Manchester historians working with arts and humanities festivals include Dreyfus
(Jewish Film Festival at HOME, Manchester), Handley (British Academy Summer
Showcase), Handley and Zheng (Bradford Literature Festival), Dowdall, Gatrell and
Nowak (Journeys Festival International), Wood (Chengdu, Hay, BBC Hist Fest). The
department’s connections with Manchester Histories Festival also continue; in 2019,
colleagues including Olusoga, Wood and Barker took part in public-facing festival events
across the city.

We have collaborated with policy partners in their areas of historical expertise, e.g.
Laycock with the London Armenian Centre and Chatham House; Morgan with the
Environment Agency and Association of Drainage Boards; Ochman with the Polish
Consulate and Israeli Information Center. A broad sweep of commercial consultation work
has also been undertaken: e.g. Mossman for Les Eluminures art dealership, Chicago-New
York-Paris, Christ for the Swiss military, Wildman for film production company Focus
Features.


                                                                                    Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

ii. Membership of national and international committees
The unit’s contribution to disciplinary vitality is exemplified by staff involvement, from early
career stage onward, in committees of learned societies, research bodies and major project
advisory boards. Ghosh chairs the British Association for South Asian Studies. Handley
sits on the Wellcome Trust’s Medical Humanities Interview Committee. Oldfield and
Wildman sit on the AHRC Peer Review College. Insley serves on HistoryUK's steering
committee and the Leeds International Medieval Congress programming committee. Yates
is a trustee of the US Business History Conference; Roddy is secretary of the British
Association for Irish Studies; Goeschel is a board member of the Association for the Study
of Modern Italy; Handley is a member of the Social History Society's Book Prize committee;
Hanß is treasurer of the German History Society; Humbert is a committee member of the
Society for the Study of French History; Tunstall-Allcock is secretary of the Historians of
the Twentieth-Century United States.

iii. Editorial positions
Since 2014, Manchester historians have served in editorial positions on over 30 journals
and book series. Gatrell is co-editor of 1914-1918 Online; Taithe is editor of European
Review of History; Strange was editor of the Journal of Victorian Culture (2014-16); both
Handley (2013-17) and Mossman (2017-present) have served as editor of the Bulletin of
the John Rylands Library. Colleagues serve on the editorial boards of journals including
Book History (Ghosh), Caucasus Survey (Laycock), Cultural and Social History (Mort, M.
Jones), European History Quarterly (Goeschel), German History (Mossman), Journal of
African History (Pierce), Journal of Cultural Economy (Mort), Journal of the Economic and
Social History of the Orient (Zheng) Journal of Global Slavery (Hanß), Kritika (Gatrell),
Scottish Historical Review (Roessner), Twentieth Century British History (Mort), War and
Culture Studies (Faucher), and Women’s History Review (Wildman).

The unit has strong links with Manchester University Press, where Barker, Taithe and
Mossman are on the main editorial board. Carden-Coyne, Taithe, Gatrell, M. Jones and
Summerfield serve as editors of the Cultural History of Modern War series, and Dreyfus
edits the open-access MUP journal Human Remains and Violence. Zheng is series editor
for MUP’s Alternative Sinology series. Colleagues sit on editorial boards for book series
published elsewhere: Handley with the Social History Society’s New Directions in Social
and Cultural History series (Bloomsbury), Roessner with the Studies in Economic and
Social History series (Franz Steiner Verlag), and Hanß with the Hilal: studi turchi e ottoman
series (Edizioni Ca’Foscari). In addition, colleagues have been invited to edit special issues
of journals including French History (Yates), and European Review of History (Faucher and
Humbert).

iv. Peer review of publications and funding applications
Every colleague serves the scholarly community through peer review. We have refereed
articles for over 100 academic journals, including the American Historical Review, Economic
History Review, Comparative Studies in History and Society, Contemporary European
History, Cultural and Social History, English Historical Review, French Historical Studies,
German History, the Historical Journal, Journal of African History, Journal of British Studies,
Journal of Contemporary History, Modern Asian Studies and Nations and Nationalism.

Colleagues have reviewed manuscript book proposals for over 30 international academic
publishers, including Oxford, Cambridge, Manchester, Yale, Princeton, Chicago, Cornell,
Toronto, Illinois, Indiana, Duke, and UCL university presses, as well Ashgate, Berg,
Berghahn, Bloomsbury, Boydell and Brewer, Brill, and Routledge. Staff have reviewed
funding bids for over 25 national and international funding bodies, including AHRC, ESRC,
Leverhulme Trust, Wellcome Trust, British Academy, European Research Council, (US)
National Endowment for the Humanities, and the Wolfson Foundation, as well as national
research bodies in Austria, Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Poland and Switzerland.

                                                                                         Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


v. Conference organisation and invited keynotes and lectures
Manchester historians are in high demand as external speakers, and since 2014 have given
over 350 invited keynote lectures, seminar papers and public talks, at institutions and
conferences in the UK, and around the world. Examples include Gatrell at the American
University of Beirut (2019); Ghosh at Royal Asiatic Society, London (2018); Goeschel at
the National Museum of Ethnology, Osaka (2018); Handley at the University of Adelaide
(2020); Humbert at the Sorbonne (2018). Colleagues have organised over 70 conferences
and workshops with external speakers, as well as many more internal workshops. As noted
in section 1.b, research groups take a lead in organising events, both academic and public-
facing, related to their thematic agendas.

vi. Examination of doctorates
Staff regularly serve as external examiners of doctoral theses in UK and international
universities. Among more than 35 institutions which have invited Manchester historians
since REF2014 are Australian National University, Birkbeck, Birmingham, Cambridge,
Edinburgh, Essex, EUI Florence, Fribourg, Geneva, KCL, Keele, Lancaster, Leeds,
Leicester, Liverpool, LSE, Lyon, NUI Galway, Oxford, Paris-Nanterre, QMUL, Royal
Holloway, St. Andrews, Strasbourg, Tasmania, Toronto, Trinity College Dublin, Warwick,
West Bengal State, York and Zululand.

vii. Prizes
Reflecting the high national and international esteem in which our research is regarded,
colleagues have been nominated for and won several prestigious prizes. Strange (2015),
Handley (2017) and E. Jones (2018) were each nominated for the Longman-History Today
Book Prize, Jones winning with Edmund Burke and the Invention of Modern Conservatism.
Handley’s Sleep in Early Modern England was also nominated for the Wolfson History
Prize (2017), and won the inaugural Social History Society Book Prize (2018). Barker’s
Family and Business during the Industrial Revolution won the same prize in 2019. Yates
won the Canadian Historical Association’s Wallace K. Ferguson Prize for Best Book in Non-
Canadian History (2016), and Davey won the International Studies Association Ethics Book
Award in 2017. Gatrell’s Unsettling of Europe was nominated for the Lionel Gelber Prize
(2020) and Houghton won the Society for Army Historical Research’s first book prize
(2020) and was nominated for the RHS’s Whitfield Prize (2020). Velkar won the Philip
Scranton Best Article Prize from the US Business History Conference (2018), Rembold
won the Prince Consort & Thirwall Prize and Seeley Medal (2016) for her doctoral thesis,
Humbert received the British International History Group thesis prize in 2014, and Faucher
was awarded a Scouloudi prize in 2017. Menchinger received a Research Scholarship
from the Gerda Henkel Stiftung (2018).

viii. Fellowships
Colleagues have been recognised through election to fellowships of prestigious scholarly
societies. Gatrell is Fellow of the British Academy. Roessner is an elected fellow of the
Saxon Academy of Sciences. Barker, E. Jones, S. Jones, Gatrell, Goeschel, Handley,
Insley, Mort, Oldfield, and Pierce are fellows of the Royal Historical Society. Colleagues
have also been awarded competitive visiting and other fellowships, nationally and
internationally. Dreyfus’s visiting fellowships include the University of Southern California
(2018-19), the US Holocaust Memorial Museum (2019-20), and the Netherlands Institute for
Advanced Studies (2020). Mossman was awarded an Alexander von Humboldt-Stiftung
fellowship at Berlin-Brandenburgische Akademie der Wissenschaften (2020). Moss was
Shirley Greenberg Visiting Fellow at the University of Ottawa (2018). Hanß was visiting
fellow at Brown University (2019); Goeschel at the EUI, Florence (2017); S. Jones at the
Humanities Research Center of Australian National University (2020); Handley at Yale’s
Lewis Walpole Library (2015-16), Galway’s Moore Institute (2017), and Washington's Folger
Shakespeare Library (2019).


                                                                                      Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

In sum, History at the University of Manchester is an intellectually vital and exciting unit that
makes a significant, sustained and sustainable contribution to the discipline and the wider
community through the work of individual colleagues and the strategic collaboration of our
research groups.




                                                                                          Page 20
