Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Newcastle University

 Unit of Assessment: 8

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 a. Overview
       Chemistry at Newcastle University (NU) is a thriving discipline of 36 academics, a positive
 trajectory and ambitious vision for the future. It delivers meaningful impact, from new medicines
 that revolutionise the treatment of ovarian cancer to pioneering the ability to perform remote
 access crystallography experiments, and from new technologies for energy capture and storage
 to enzymes which promote deep cleaning. Its progress is underpinned by fundamental chemical
 research including, new synthetic approaches and methodologies for understanding chemical
 reactivity, which catalyses the applied research across our research themes. Research is
 strongly aligned with UOA8 but extends beyond this through interdisciplinary expertise and
 collaborations into the life sciences, materials science, engineering and physics. This has been
 supported by the 2017 realignment of the Faculty of Science, Agriculture and Engineering
 leading to the creation of the School of Natural and Environmental Sciences (SNES). Bringing
 Chemistry into closer collaboration with Agriculture, Biology, Environmental Sciences,
 Geoscience and Marine Science providing further opportunities to develop research applied to
 high priority societal goals.
       In Chemistry, we push the boundaries of understanding by building from our underpinning
 research themes. This is translated to achieve broad impact by our integration with other
 academic disciplines and links to external stakeholders (See Figure 1). In line with NU’s
 research strategy, we aim to be internationally leading in our key strengths that contribute to
 Health and Ageing, through Medicinal Chemistry and Chemical Biology, and in Sustainability
 and Energy through our Advanced Materials Expertise. In both, we strongly contribute to and
 enhance research areas across the University to achieve real impact by the translation of basic
 research through to the market.

                                                                         Figure 1 The research
                                                                         structure of Chemistry at
                                                                         NU including academic
                                                                         groups which are
                                                                         responsible for
                                                                         concurrently managing
                                                                         research and teaching, our
                                                                         core research themes and
                                                                         collaborations with
                                                                         institutional, and external
                                                                         partners. NUCore:
                                                                         Newcastle University
                                                                         Centre of Research
                                                                         Excellence, CRUK: Cancer
                                                                         Research UK, MoSMed
                                                                         CDT: Molecular Sciences
                                                                         for Medicine CDT,
                                                                         inPOMs: International
                                                                         Network on
                                                                         Polyoxometalate Science,
                                                                         NECEM: North East
                                                                         Centre for Energy
                                                                         Materials, ReNU CDT:
                                                                         Renewable Energy
                                                                         Northern Universities CDT,
                                                                         DNASURF: Molecular
                                                                         diagnostics through DNA
                                                                         modification and interfacial
                                                                         engineering.


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Chemistry consists of a research community of 7 Professors, 8 Readers, 12 Senior
 Lecturers, 3 Lecturers, 4 University Research Fellows and 2 Emeritus Professors. This is a >10
 FTE increase compared to REF2014 and results from strategic investment in new academic
 staff and development of existing researchers in our areas of established strength.
       To support our objective of research-led teaching and its innovative delivery, Chemistry has
 4 Teaching and Scholarship Lecturers. NU holds a TEF gold award and teaching within
 Chemistry is coordinated through inorganic, organic, physical and medicinal sections. We teach
 >500 undergraduates, across 10 chemistry courses, with 47% of these students on Masters
 level courses. We develop our undergraduates’ awareness of research and impact through our
 research-led teaching programmes, school- and university-level entrepreneurship programmes.
 This includes undergraduate-led research seminars, skills training integrated into core modules
 and entrepreneurship activities embedded within our degree programmes. The effectiveness of
 this is evidenced at institutional level by NU being in the top 3 for UK graduate start-ups.
        Chemistry is based within the Bedson building on the main city university campus and is
 co-located with complementary research groups in Biology, Engineering and Physics. The
 building is shared with industrial partners, including NewChem Technologies, Indicatrix
 Crystallography Ltd, NunaBio Ltd and QuantumDX. The estate has received £2.5M investment
 during the REF2021 period reflecting the growth of Chemistry at NU since REF2014 and a
 priority to support world-class infrastructure. In a broader setting, Chemistry benefits from:
• Helix venture, NU’s £350 million flagship project bringing together academia, public sector,
    local communities, business and industry.
• £58 million Urban Sciences building, which considers energy research in an urban setting.
    The development also includes a low carbon energy centre and unique £2 million grid-
    connected energy storage testbed well aligned with our energy material research.
• £2 million Drummond Building OnePlanet facility including shared earth sciences resources
    for geology, geosciences, archaeology, chemistry and biology.
• The International Centre for Life, a joint venture with the NHS, which includes the Biosphere
    (90,000 sq. ft of state-of-the-art laboratories) on the Helix site, home to two spin outs from
    chemistry, NewChem Technologies and BiBerChem.

 b. Research Strategy
 Overview
 Our research strategy is based upon our vision and objectives for Chemistry and significantly
 extends those laid out in REF2014. It is implemented coherently through our underlying research
 structure which supports progress in our research culture, objectives and vision (see
 subsections below). Our objectives during the REF2021 period have been to establish a positive
 trajectory in research and impact, develop distinct research strengths and ensure a critical mass
 in these areas and nurture newly appointed staff. This has resulted in an improvement of over 60
 places in the QS subject World Rankings, built primarily on improvements in academic
 reputation. Our success is also highlighted by:
 • A significant increase in research intensity as shown by £8.5M of funding being awarded
     between March 2020- February 2021 (£236K per FTE), a total of £23.3M awarded over the
     present REF2021 period, 70% increase in the size of postgraduate cohort and 140% increase
     in PDRA cohort since 2014, an annual increase in research expenditure including an overall
     11% increase in total research expenditure compared to REF2014.
 • Expanded our internationally leading research strength in Medicinal Chemistry,
     including renewal of the Cancer Research UK Newcastle Drug Discovery Unit, the successful
     translation of our core academic research in this area to the clinic (see impact section and
     case studies) and the establishment of a Centre for Doctoral Training. This is enhanced by full
     integration with the NU Centre for Cancer.
 • Developed a research strength in Energy Materials supported by the North East Centre for
     Energy Materials (NECEM, EP/R021503/1), the International Network on Polyoxometalate
     Science for Advanced Functional Materials (EP/S031170/1) and Centre for Doctoral Training
     (EP/S023836/1) which works alongside the NU Centre of Research Excellence in Energy
     facilitating a multi-scale and interdisciplinary research across the university.
 • Significant growth of our research profile in Chemical Biology, enhancing links between
      core chemistry and Medicinal Chemistry research with the appointment of 2 Chairs (Sargent

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     and Kawamura), and the construction of state-of-the-art Chemical Biology laboratories and
     facilities. Recent successes include an ERC Consolidator Award (Kawamura, 2020, £1.8M).
 •   Establishing two EPSRC Centres for Doctoral Training in Molecular Sciences for Medicine
     (MoSMed, EP/S022791/1) and Renewable Energy North East Universities (ReNU,
     EP/S023836/1).
 •   Development of Computational Chemistry expertise through the recruitment of 5
     computational and theoretical staff (Hofer, Penfold, Bronowska, Cole and Dawson),
     responsible for >£3M external research funding and a number of high-quality research
     outputs.
 •   Recruitment and promotion of new academic staff (see section 2) with a 10 FTE increase
     compared to REF2014, including ECRs transitioning to independence, mid-career staff
     developing leadership and the appointment of established career academic leaders.

 Research Structure
 Research is coordinated through 3 interdisciplinary academic groupings, Medicinal Chemistry
 and Chemical Biology, Functional Molecules and Materials and Synthesis, Structure and
 Reactivity. These ensure the coherent and transparent management of research and teaching.
 Every member of academic staff is associated as a primary member of a group. Many staff have
 secondary group affiliations reflecting the inter-disciplinarity of the research. The academic
 groups develop 5 main research themes: Medicinal Chemistry, Chemical Biology, Bioinspired
 Materials, Energy Materials and Catalysis and Structure and Dynamics (see below). These
 groupings interact strongly with each other, other departments, research centres within NU and
 external institutions nationally and internationally (Figure 1).
       Research themes and activities are supported by the Chemistry research committee
 composed of the Head of Chemistry (Penfold), three academic group leads, and the School’s
 Research and Impact manager. Broader strategy including multi- and inter-disciplinary
 opportunities are assessed at the SNES research committee. This feeds into the School
 Executive Board and the Faculty Research Committee, all of which have representation from
 Chemistry.

 Medicinal Chemistry (Waring, Cano, Hardcastle, Cole, Bronowska, Golding, Carroll, Knight,
 Madden) is a recognised and long-standing strength at NU. It has a strong track record of drug
 discovery and has progressed three projects to clinical candidates including the marketed PARP
 inhibitor Rucaparib and inhibitors of DNA-PK and MDM2-p53 which are progressing in clinical
 trials. This represents an unrivalled level of success for an academic drug discovery group of
 this size. The central research focus is cancer drug discovery, centred on the CRUK Drug
 Discovery Unit, but in line with the objectives of REF2014 this has been expanded to include
 infectious diseases, new approaches to drug discovery, computational modelling, radiochemistry
 and imaging. In the next five years this will be expanded to other disease areas with the
 recruitment of new research fellows (i3 grant from Research England). Radiochemistry and
 imaging will be further developed to establish new disease application for diagnostics and
 therapies.
         This expansion of Medicinal Chemistry will be driven in close collaboration with Chemical
 Biology (Kawamura, Sargent, Hall, Higham, Stach). Chemistry has invested significantly in this
 area during the REF2021 period with the appointment of 2 Chairs in Chemical Biology and the
 development of state-of-the-art Chemical Biology facilities (described below). Research focuses
 on understanding the molecular mechanisms of epigenetic processes, development of cyclic
 peptide discovery platform, chemical probes development, bacterial bioenergetics, biologically
 active natural products, bioimaging and sensing. The aim in the next 5 years is to establish this
 as a core strength within Chemistry and a focal point for providing strong interdisciplinary links
 throughout Chemistry, SNES and the Faculty of Medical Science.
         Collaborations with established academics groupings within Chemistry will be initiated
 through the Bio-inspired Materials (Fulton, Houlton, Horrocks, Pike, Tuite) theme. This theme
 focuses upon the application and control of DNA- and protein-based materials for a wide variety
 of potential applications, such as sensors for aberrant genes associated with diseases such as
 cancer. Future work will focus on the development of protein-based gels for use in cartilage and
 bone regeneration. Collaborations across chemistry are enhanced through work focusing upon

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the fundamental understanding of DNA-templating to introduce long-range electrical conduction
 forming nanowires. These are used to assemble electrical circuits and fabricate sensing devices.
 This approach is complemented by our innovation that allows the integration of well-defined
 coordination polymer motifs into DNA. An objective during the next 5 years is to integrate and
 manipulate novel opto-electronic properties into these materials as a bottom up device assembly
 methodology, which will strongly complement our research in Energy Materials and Catalysis
 (Stimming, Cucinotta, Gibson, Freitag, Dawson, Errington, Doherty, Benniston).
        Energy research is a rapidly emerging strength at NU and in Chemistry. Research in this
 theme focuses upon the development, understanding and application of novel materials to
 enable the low-carbon transition both in the UK and internationally to become reality. It includes
 expertise in electrochemistry, photochemistry/physics and catalysis and also incorporates strong
 applied perspectives, underpinned by fundamental research. In a functional context our
 materials have been used in photovoltaics, photocatalysts, batteries and organic light emitting
 diodes (OLEDs). Collaborations across disciplines including physics and engineering enable a
 molecule-to-system perspective. Fundamental understanding of functional materials will remain
 a key focus of the group, but our aim in the next 5 years is to expand our interaction with
 industry and the translations of this research into practical applications supported by the
 experience of the Medicinal Chemistry theme.
        Energy research is complemented by expertise in spectroscopy, computational analysis
 and the bespoke synthesis of exotic materials within the Structure and Dynamics theme
 (Probert, Clegg, Walker, Izod, Knight, Carruthers, Lu, Penfold, Hofer). The challenges
 addressed focus upon understanding atomic scale structure, bonding and reactivity. Research
 involves the development and use of sophisticated and globally unique instruments (e.g.
 microwave spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction facilities, see section 3) to enable the
 measurement of matter to an increased level of detail. It also includes a broad range of
 computational and theoretical research and bespoke synthesis of unique chemical compounds
 stretching the boundaries of chemical knowledge and understanding. Our aim in the next 5 years
 is to enhance the connection between detailed fundamental studies into structure and dynamics
 with more applied research fields, e.g. Medicinal Chemistry and Energy Materials.

 Research Objectives and Vision
 Our vision for the next 5-10 years is to build upon the strong foundation by expanding excellence
 across each of the research themes while enhancing a strong and supportive research culture.
 Specific goals and actions for the next 5-10 years to achieve this include:

 •   Nurturing excellence in research and innovation that is based upon expanding the
     boundaries of fundamental knowledge that can be applied to address societal and global
     needs, support sustainability and promote health and well-being. Targeted actions will:
      • Strengthen our core underpinning expertise in innovative synthesis of organic and
        inorganic materials through the appointment of new staff and development of the present
        infrastructure providing the solid foundation for applied research.
      • Consolidate and expand research expertise in energy materials, with a particular aim of
        addressing the climate action development goals, achieved by an increased focus upon
        integration of emerging technologies into energy systems by strengthening links with
        Engineering, NU Helix site and external partners such as Net Zero Teesside.
      • Enhance interactions with national institutes, e.g. the Turing, Diamond Light Source,
        Rosalind Franklin and Francis Crick Institutes and engagement with NU’s Global
        Challenges Academy aligned with UN sustainable development goals.
      • Nurture and grow the emerging strength in computational and theoretical chemistry by
        supporting recently appointed early career academics and developing strong
        collaborations with regional, national and international institutions.
      • Consolidate and continue to develop our strengths in Medicinal Chemistry and Chemical
        Biology, to deliver innovation, translational discovery and impact in biology and medicine.
      • Design and deliver a flexible and world-leading infrastructure for physical sciences with
        co-location with industrial stakeholders and complementary research groups across the
        sciences, engineering and social sciences to encourage inter-disciplinary research
        excellence.

                                                                                             Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     • Capitalise on opportunities arising through alignment with NU strategic goals including
       Healthcare, Aging and Data.

 •   Supporting staff and students at all career stages to develop skills enabling them to
     achieve their objective for research in the academic, commercial and public sectors. Specific
     targeted actions include:
      • Development of our research-led teaching to provide enhanced training for
         undergraduate students to prepare them for research careers in both academia and
         industry.
      • Expand and develop our successful model of industry-academia doctoral training and
         student cohorts through initiatives with industry, RCUK and EU funders. Ensure a
         bespoke, personalised and supportive training programme is provided to all PGRs.
      • Transition to independence: The REF2021 period has seen the appointment of many
         ECRs and an increase in Postdoctoral Research Associates. Through tailored individual
         development plans, we will support the progress of all of these appointments to enable
         their careers to meet personal objectives.
      • From mid-career to leadership: Through bespoke training and mentorship, in
         collaborations with the NU Academies (Policy, Global Challenges, Enterprise and Skills),
         develop and deliver enhanced training for staff seeking to transition career stage.

 •   Fostering inter-disciplinary approaches and partnerships with businesses and external
     stakeholders that extend our reach and impact. Specific targeted actions will include:
      • Developing international partnerships, and increase the number of undergraduates,
         postgraduates and postdoctoral researchers who have an international research stay of
         1 month or greater during their studies. This will be achieved by exploiting the strategic
         academic partnerships of the university including Monash University; Xiamen University;
         the RENKEI Network; University of Groningen; National University of Singapore; Cornell
         University; Indian Institute of Technology Delhi.
      • Maintain and expand key partnerships across academia and industry through our
         industrial advisory board and strategic research investments (e.g. CDTs).

 Research Culture and Integrity
 Our research culture is focused upon four main pillars; openness, multi-disciplinarity,
 collaboration and creativity. We follow the Researcher Development Concordat, of which NU
 became a signatory in 2019. We actively encourage the use of responsible metrics and have
 implemented a school wide workload contribution model (WCM), which is used as one
 component to inform management decisions. We focus upon the collective performance rather
 than individual, through the process of annual group performance development reviews (PDR)
 which seek to optimise the performance of the group across all relevant areas (teaching,
 research and impact and administration). Research culture is supported by an active seminar
 series within the school attracting >30 external speakers each year. We manage internal funding
 in an open and transparent manner, with an objective of promoting multi-disciplinarity and
 creativity. We encourage openness in research by celebrating success through regular
 newsletters and staff meetings, but also encouraging an open discussion of challenges and
 continually work to remove all barriers to collaboration.

 Open Research Environment
 We strongly support and enact the institution-level policy of encouraging all staff and students to
 discuss their work with other researchers and the wider public. 86% of all papers published
 within the REF2021 period meet the open access criteria. Where research is deemed
 confidential, we act to define this as narrowly as practicable. We promote the open access
 of all published work via an on-line publications management system (MyImpact) in which the
 author’s accepted manuscript in its final submitted is openly accessible. In addition, an
 institutional open access team manages UKRI and COAF block grants to support Gold Access
 for original, peer-reviewed research and where green open access is not offered by the
 publisher. Open-access software is also strongly encouraged within our computational groups.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We also encourage data sharing to enhance our research impact and visibility, using an
 institution-level open data repository for documenting, archiving and publishing datasets. The
 repository enables creating data management plans for project grants and adopts the philosophy
 that archived data are FAIR (Findable, Accessible, Interoperable and Re-useable).

 Research Integrity
 Training in the context of research integrity is begun at undergraduate level, especially during
 the research projects in 4th year. All research proposals (externally and internally funded) are
 subject to initial ethics screening via an on-line ethics form that helps identify whether a proposal
 is 'high risk' and requires formal ethical review by a Research Ethics Committee. All researchers
 are made aware of the University Code of Good Practice in Research, which in addition to ethics
 and openness, clarifies expectations relating to integrity and honesty, research misconduct,
 leadership and cooperation, and professional standards and advice. An example of leadership in
 research integrity is provided by Probert’s contribution to the author’s development of the
 CheckCIF program (See page 7).

 c. Impact Strategy
 Overview
        Chemistry has a strong history of research which is translated into products, tools or policy
 that impact society. This is aligned with an institutional strength illustrated by the University
 being ranked in the world’s top 25 in the Times Higher Education impact rankings. Our
 engagement and alignment with the goals of industry, at undergraduate, postgraduate and
 research levels are supported by our industrial advisory board containing representatives from
 local, national and international business, which meets quarterly. Progress in this area is
 managed through the Chemistry research committee supported by dedicated impact and
 business development manager, and research and impact manager. We seek to facilitate the
 achievement of impact through four main channels:

     • Knowledge generation: Underpinning all impact is the generation of new knowledge
 through research excellence. Increasingly multi- and interdisciplinary work has been
 encouraged, e.g. through the formation of SNES and the co-location of research facilities.
 Funding for interdisciplinary projects has been provided by the university, e.g. through the
 Research Excellence Academy (£14.6M, 2014-19) and Research Investment Fund (£30M,
 2014-21). A key focus has been placed upon supporting fundamental work such as the
 pioneering of remote access use of beamline I19 at Diamond Light Source (Probert and Clegg,
 Crystals 2017, 7:360). This mode of operation has now been rolled out nationally and our staff
 have been running remote access workshops to increase user uptake. In addition, Waring has
 established a national collaboration with Diamond Light Source, Astex Pharmaceuticals and
 York to progress FragLites, an approach to fragment-based lead generation. This work was
 recently used to identify a potential therapeutic approach to COVID-19 (Nature Comm. 11:5047
 (2020)). The translation of knowledge generation to other forms of impact, such as Economical
 is supported by EPSRC Impact acceleration accounts, CASE studentships and knowledge
 transfer partnerships. This is managed through the School’s Business Partnerships Manager.
 Mentorship for academics with less experience in this area is provided.

    • Economy: Chemistry’s largest contribution to the economy through the REF2021 period
 has been through the delivery of PARP inhibitor rucaparib to treat ovarian cancer. Medicinal
 chemistry research at Newcastle discovered the first potent inhibitors of the DNA repair enzyme
 poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase 1 (PARP-1). During the REF2021 period, Rucaparib has received
 approval for clinical use in ovarian cancer in the USA, Europe and the UK. Net product
 revenue totalled >£217M for 2019. Sustained delivery of impact through drug discovery is
 demonstrated by two candidates, MDM2-p53 inhibitor (with Astex Pharmaceuticals) and DNA-
 PK inhibitor (with AstraZeneca) progressing to clinical trials during the REF2021 period. Our
 continued contribution to economic impact is secured by our staff generating 22 patents during
 the REF2021 period. At a local level, interaction is supported by engagement with North East
 Local Enterprise Partnership (NELEP). Additional examples include research in chemistry
 (Golding) that initiated two spin-out companies, NewChem (founded 2002) and BiBerChem

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (founded 2017), which provide molecular design, synthetic and analytical services for the
 pharma/chemical industry and academia worldwide. During the REF2021 period, NewChem has
 employed > 100 FTEs and achieved sales exceeding £3M. Both companies are based in the
 Biosphere, which provides state-of-the-art laboratories within the newly built NU Helix site. Tuite
 and Pike patent on an enhanced DNA-sensing platform technology (P246026GB) has led to
 £310k of funding to develop a company, NunaBio Ltd, that will apply this technology in many
 market sectors that require increased confidence in the sensitive detection of target DNA
 sequences. Stimming in collaboration with Siemens has 6 patents (WO2019025190A1,
 WO2019020351A1, WO2018206593A1, EP3439092A1, EP3432402A1, EP3446351A1) on the
 redox flow batteries, which are currently being developed into a spin-out company. Probert and
 Hall have a patent (GB1908349.2) on approaches to robotic crystallisation, which has been
 developed into a spin-out company, Indicatrix Crystallography Ltd and was shortlisted for RSC
 Emerging Technologies Prize 2020.

     • People: Besides employment, the impact on people arises primarily from the training and
 career development we provide to all staff. This begins at undergraduate level with research
 challenges and skills developments achieved through dedicated course modules and ‘Skills
 Week’ where local and national companies set research challenges for our students. Dedicated
 training is provided for early and mid-career staff, while leadership training is given by NU for
 experienced staff with potential and interest in this direction. Broader training is provided at
 institutional level through Policy Academy-fostered engagement with policymakers, Enterprise
 Academy, Skills Academy, and the Global Challenges Academy. Staff are all encourage to
 broaden their skills and enhance reach through contributions to the community, including
 activities such as professional bodies, e.g. Faraday Council, RSC Chemistry Degree Programme
 Accreditor (Higham) and journal editorial boards. Our transparent workload contribution model is
 used to support colleagues with significant research time committed through grants, but also
 optimise teaching and administrative loads to maximise time for research activities.

      • Society: Chemistry has a strong outreach programme, delivering a wide range of quality
 outreach activities including laboratory sessions, spectroscopy visits, presentations, revision
 workshops and science showcases (See Page 16-17). This is focused upon National STEM
 learning and the local area. Strong engagement with learned societies, such as the Royal
 Society of Chemistry and the Royal Society, as well as local museums such as the Great North
 Museum and the Centre for Life, help provide access to a wider audience. Internationally, this is
 achieved through engagement with the Global Challenges Research Fund (e.g. Gibson with
 Peru and India) and the British Council (e.g. Walker-India). An example of a significant
 contribution to the research society is provided by Probert who led a report to the International
 Union of Crystallography about the ease of mechanisms to create believable fraudulent
 diffraction data. He also proposed solutions to identify malpractice automatically and the result of
 these reports are routines which are now implemented into the checkCIF program and used
 globally to validate all crystallographic refinements that enter the public domain through
 publication in peer reviewed journals. Golding contributed to the Parliamentary Office of
 Science and Technology rapid response to COVID-19 report.

 Impact Objectives and Vision
        Our objective for the next 5-10 years is to build upon the impact of our work. It will be
 supported by the School’s dedicated impact manager, who provides training and support in
 identifying, maximising and conveying the impact of our research to a wider range of audiences.
 This will also be driven by ensuring that all colleagues have the opportunity and support to
 explore higher-risk impact opportunities when they arise. Targeted actions to achieve our goals
 will include:
 • Through emphasis upon the collective rather than individual achievement, support
      academics seeking high-risk high-reward opportunities. This will be achieved through the
      Group Progress Development Review (PDR) process and will help provide the time for our
      academics to explore high-risk routes for exploiting research and generating impact.
 • Building upon the high-quality outreach provided by Chemistry, with a particular focus upon
      the local areas aligned with the ethos of a civic university. Targeted actions include

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     extending our successful Partner School summer events and increasing and supporting
     larger scale coordinated outreach events.
 •   To support the sustainability of the discipline, we will also encourage increased interaction
     with learned societies, e.g. Royal Society of Chemistry and the Royal Society. Walker sits on
     the Council of the RSC Faraday division and RSC local section (North East) committee.
 •   By enhancing interaction with our industrial advisory board, increase industry funding and the
     connection between basic research and industrial impact.
 •   Develop training at all levels, i.e. undergraduate to established career level to support and
     encourage open research data.
 •   Expand our work in supporting the development of a strong, sustainable and supportive
     research culture, and integrity in the development of impact.
 •   Catalyse impact by increased engagement with cross-cutting Centres of Research
     Excellence (NUCoREs, see Ref5a 2.2.1), including those focused on Energy and Cancer
     (Figure 1).

 2. People
 a. Staffing strategy and staff development
        Our staffing and support strategy develops and extends that laid out in REF2014, which
 was to invest in our areas of strength and free-up staff to perform research. An important
 development has been the strategic appointment of teaching and scholarship staff who focus
 upon laboratory teaching and pedagogical research making a significant contribution to
 undergraduate teaching. During REF2021 we have also made appointments to develop and
 grow new areas of expertise (Computational and Theoretical Chemistry, Chemical Biology and
 Energy Materials). We are focused upon retaining, developing and rewarding our staff to ensure
 all reach their potential.
        In line with the university strategy we intend to increase our research power by 20%
 between 2021-25 through strategic T&R appointments. We will maintain a balanced
 demographic of leadership and early career researchers. Proleptic appointments will be made at
 a junior level when staff retire. Senior members of staff will be replaced by internal promotions
 where appropriate, reflecting our positive mentorship. Strategic senior appointments will be
 made if required. Staff recruitment will be supplemented through external fellowships and
 Newcastle University’s Academic Track (NuACT) scheme (see Ref5a 3.2.4). The only Category
 A staff in Chemistry on fixed-term contracts are the NuACT fellows, but importantly the university
 has guaranteed an open-ended contract for every fellow in the scheme, activated upon
 successful completion of the fellowship which is based upon criteria co-created between the
 fellow, line manager and NuACT director at the start of the fellowship.

 Academic Leadership: Through the REF2021 period, Chemistry has invested in the
 development of academic leadership in key strategic areas: Medicinal Chemistry and Chemical
 Biology, Energy Materials and Computational Chemistry. 5 Professors aligned with these areas
 namely, Waring, Kawamura, Sargent, Stimming and Hofer have been appointed, leading to a
 total investment in leadership during the REF2021 period, of £3.7M. In addition, investment in
 the Chemistry estate, to boost facilities and infrastructure accessible to all staff has been £2.5M.

 Academic Appointments: As part of our growth strategy and to develop the key strategic areas,
 16 new academic positions have been appointed. Progressive Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 (EDI) recruitment strategies has also increased the diversity in our staff.
 • Energy Materials: 7 (6 ECRs, 1 Prof.) academic staff have been appointed: Stimming (Prof.,
   2014), Gibson (2014), Cucinotta (2014), Penfold (2015), Lu (2019), Dawson (2020) and
   Freitag (2020). Gibson has been awarded an ERC starting grant and promoted to Reader,
   Lu, Dawson and Freitag received a highly competitive NuACT fellowship. Freitag has also
   been awarded a Royal Society University Research Fellowship. Dawson, Penfold and
   Cucinotta have been awarded EPSRC First grants.
 • Medicinal Chemistry: 4 (3 ECRs, 1 Prof.) The appointments in this area are: Waring (Prof.,
   2015), Knight (2018), Cole (2016), Bronowska (2016), Madden (2020). Cole has been
   awarded his EPSRC First Grant and a UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship.


                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Chemical Biology: 3 (1 ECR, 2 Profs) appointments have been made to bridge Medicinal
   Chemistry and Chemistry research: Sargent (Prof, 2018) and Kawamura (Prof, 2019) and
   Stach (2016).
 • Computational and Theoretical Chemistry: 5 (4 ECRs, 1 Prof.) members of staff have been
   appointed in this area: Hofer (Prof., 2014), Penfold (2015), Cole (2016), Bronowska (2016)
   and Dawson (2020). 3 of the ECRs have been promoted (Penfold, Bronowska, Cole). This
   research grouping has achieved >£3M research funding during the REF2021 period.

 Staff Development: During the REF2021 period, 9 members of staff have been promoted: Cano,
 Horrocks, Penfold and Gibson to Reader, and Pike, Cole, Hall, Probert and Bronowska to
 Senior Lecturer. Support for staff progression is achieved by identifying challenging but realistic
 targets to enable staff to achieve their full potential. All newly appointed members of staff are
 appointed a mentor to ensure smooth transition into their new role, provided with a PhD
 studentship, a start-up budget to purchase equipment or travel and given one year of no
 teaching or administration. In addition, all staff receive an annual budget that can be used for
 equipment or travel. NuACT Fellows (Dawson, Freitag, Lu, Madden) are provided a
 personalised bespoke training and support programme, including research leadership skills,
 workshops and bespoke activities tailored to fellows’ needs. These are developed through one-
 to-one meetings with dedicated research funding managers. As this is a new programme, we are
 in the process of developing similar approaches to development for all staff. All staff are offered
 the opportunity to take part in teaching awards (CASAP) which enable them to become fellows
 of the Higher Education Academy. All members of academic staff participate in a supportive
 internal peer review policy prior to the submission of proposals. A sabbatical policy has been
 developed in line with our objective of REF2014. To date, 3 members of staff have taken
 sabbatical and increasing this is a major goal of the next 5 years.

 Postdoctoral Researchers: Chemistry recognises the unique challenges that exists for
 postdoctoral researchers and the need for mentorship and time to focus on research before
 assuming the broader responsibilities of an independent academic post. A PDR process,
 analogous to that for academic members of staff is implemented for postdoctoral researchers,
 with a strong focus upon career development. NU is committed to the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and was one of the first to be awarded a HR Excellence in
 Research Award by Vitae in 2010 (renewed twice during this REF cycle). Peer-peer mentorship
 is facilitated by a postdoctoral society organised at faculty level and an annual postdoctoral
 conference. A postdoctoral network has also been established within SNES and which contains
 chemistry representation. Workshops such as grant-writing, teaching and science
 communications training are also available. This support has led to successful future
 employment of our PDRAs, with >90% of our PDRAs progressing to high value roles in industry
 and academia.

 Technical Support and Workshop Staff: Research is supported by a senior chemical and biology
 laboratory technician and dedicated staff in mechanical (3), and electronics (3) workshops. A
 further 5 members of our technical team provide support in purchasing, safety, waste-disposal
 and building management. During the present REF period £1.5M has been invested to improve
 all workshop facilities. A dedicated member of technical staff manages and runs the NMR
 facility. We have separated Technical Management from Health and Safety Management with
 School Safety Officers forming a pragmatic conduit to the University’s Safety Office and
 providing a proactive approach to health and safety whilst allowing the technical team to focus
 on directly supporting research, teaching and engagement. Their excellence and vital support for
 the research environment is highlighted by their presence on >50 research papers published
 during this REF period. To support career development, technical staff are encouraged to learn
 new skill sets and undertake apprenticeship programmes at various levels, covering scientific
 and management training. During the REF period 8 technical colleagues have undertaken
 apprenticeships. Technical colleagues also regularly undertake university development
 programmes (‘Chameleon’ and the Professional Services Development Programme)), as well as
 many of the workshops offered through Organisational Development.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 b. Research students
 The total number of postgraduate students enrolled on doctoral (PhD) programmes in Chemistry
 has increased from 60 in September 2014 to >110 in September 2020. This will continue to rise
 with the development of the two CDT programs. The CDTs, alongside CASE studentships, DTP
 awards, EU funding and Industry represent the main source of studentships.

 Postgraduate Recruitment
 Postgraduate positions within Chemistry are in demand from in-house and external graduates
 and international students illustrated by average PGR applications of >200 per annum. Adverts,
 checked for unconscious bias, are provided on the faculties PG website and advertised at PG
 Open Days. We have a high completion rate of >95%, illustrating the supportive environment
 within the cohort. Our objective in the next 5-10 years is to recruit 30-40 postgraduate students a
 year ensuring a cohort of approximately 150 PGR students, while creating a supportive and
 stimulating environment whereby all our students can achieve their potential.

 Postgraduate Experience
 Upon starting all students are given a comprehensive induction by SNES and Chemistry. This
 includes research ethics and health and safety. Each student is also responsible for their own
 consumables budget throughout their research to ensure that they develop research
 management skills. Our PhD students are in high demand after completing their studies.
 Destinations of Leavers from Higher Education (DLHE) shows >93% of our postgraduates are in
 employment within 6 months of graduating, many of these in postdoctoral and academic
 positions at universities around the world.
        We also strongly encourage and support our postgraduates to achieve beyond the
 immediate objectives of their thesis. This is highlighted by the many awards won by our PhDs
 (e.g. conference poster and talk prizes), a specific example includes the prestigious STEM for
 Britain award at the Houses of Parliament by Dr Yvonne Choo. Other examples include
 participation in the Brilliant Club (teaching secondary school and sixth form pupils with university
 style tutorials), science communication blogs and active engagement of PGRs in the research
 culture of the group through student organised events such as the Women’s Global Breakfast,
 Cancer Research UK funding events.

 Training and Support, and Academic and Personal Progress
 The training within the PGR programme offers a diverse range of subject-focused lectures on
 research skills, ethics and safety, augmented with interdisciplinary programme of seminars. All
 students are allocated an independent progression panel who monitor and approve their
 progression through their PhD. The progression panel consists of a subject specialist and a
 pastoral member, also usually a subject specialist. This panel monitors progress annually
 throughout their studies and also provides impartial academic and pastoral support. Progress
 monitoring includes the preparation of an annual report which is discussed during a meeting with
 the student. All PhD students must undertake an additional 100 credits of formal PhD training
 during their first 2 years of study. In total ~120 courses are available to students and each
 research students are encouraged to undertake a training programme tailored to their needs.

 c. Research Culture

 Career progression for part-time and fixed-term staff
 Chemistry supports staff on fixed term contracts in line with the Concordat Action plan. We
 perform an annual PDR process for all research staff, provide mentorship and inductions,
 include research staff on Chemistry Committees, hold researcher forums (e.g. Wynne Jones
 Research Day) and use redeployment register for all staff within six months of redundancy giving
 them priority access to job vacancies at the University. Chemistry supports staff who wish to
 work part-time, adjusting workloads and expectations accordingly. All meetings and seminars
 are held within core hours of 10am-4pm and for important meetings the days for which part-time
 staff are least likely to work is taken into account before organising them.



                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Health and Safety (H&S)
 This is managed through the Chemistry H&S committee which reports into the H&S committee
 of SNES. Chemistry is represented by Benniston who Chairs the Chemistry H&S group and
 SNES. Both meet monthly. The Chemistry group includes representation from all academic
 groups, technical, PGR and postdoctoral researchers. All research laboratories perform weekly
 inspections, and this is supplemented by quarterly inspections by research technicians and the
 school health and safety manager. To support the integration of H&S as a core element across
 all activities within Chemistry it is a standing item on meeting agendas.

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 Chemistry has a strong commitment to ED&I and holds Athena Swan Bronze award. The
 university has staff groups for disabled, LGBT+ and minority ethnic staff, which are promoted to
 staff at induction and via the intranet. Chemistry has increased the number of female staff during
 this REF period with 5 Teaching and Research academic appointments being female (Gibson,
 Bronowska, Kawamura, Freitag, Madden) leading to 21% representation, similar to the
 national average and significantly larger than REF2014 (10%). 50% of Teaching and
 Scholarship appointments have been female. All of these provide academic leadership and are
 visible role models. Throughout the REF2021 period, the average number of funding
 applications (2.5 vs. 2.2) and success rates (37% vs. 37%) per FTE has been slightly higher or
 equivalent for female staff. Throughout the REF2021 period, parity of gender representation has
 been observed at UG, PG and PDRA levels. BAME and International representation of staff is
 3% and 20%, respectively both of which are slightly below the national average. Support for
 diversity of socio-economic background is focused at UG levels especially through extensive
 outreach activities with Partner Schools. Equality in learning is also supported by providing each
 UG with a Tablet for learning and each PG with a laptop. Throughout the REF2021 period, the
 School alongside the local RSC has organised a range of Women in Science events, and in 2019
 Golding organised a BAME researchers day.
        Support for submission of funding applications, access to internal funds, research-related
 promotion and reward procedures, recruitment for research-related leadership roles, conference
 attendance, sabbaticals and training can be provided on an individual basis taking into account
 all professional and personal circumstance. This is managed through the head of Chemistry
 (Penfold), the academic group leads (Probert, Houlton and Cano) and ratified by the
 Chemistry Research Committee.
        Through conference attendance (RSC, Joliot-Curie), network meetings (e.g. Celebrating
 Diversity in Chemistry Meeting 2019, Global Women’s Breakfast), ED&I seminars, e.g. Rt. Hon.
 Chi Onwurah (MP for Newcastle Central), and training (e.g. unconscious bias), Chemistry has
 supported and highlighted the importance of ED&I. Chemistry have implemented a number of
 core policies to support this, including a transparent workload contribution model for all staff, a
 detailed return to work policy for all long-term absentees including sick, parental and adoption
 leave and a childcare fund to support academics who incur additional costs when travelling to
 conferences with children.
        In evaluating individual research performance, Chemistry follows the institution lead (see
 Ref5a 3.2.7) as signatories of the San Francisco Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA),
 including not considering any internal or external output quality assessments carried out for
 REF.

 Key achievements through the REF2021 period include:
   • Implementation of a return to work policy for long term absence (e.g. parental and
      adoption leave, ill health, managing long-term illness, or with caring responsibilities), within
      the SNES. This includes the management of workloads and support to maintain research.
   • We provide support for all staff and students with protected characteristics making
      changes in infrastructure and procedures to enable all staff and students to reach their
      potential.
   • Development of a fund to support additional expenses incurred for those with caring
      responsibilities to travel to conferences.
   • Implementation of a sabbatical policy in line with our objective from REF2014.


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    • To support flexible working all key events, including research seminars are held between
      core-hours of 10am-4pm. All staff are able to work off site when required.

       Chemistry at NU continues to recognise the work required to ensure an equal and diverse
 workforce which is optimum for a strong research community. It will form a major role of the
 development in chemistry in next 5-10 years and will focus upon the support for all staff to
 ensure each can reach their potential. Key objectives include:
    • Visibility of diverse role models and mentorship: Beginning from undergraduate students
        we will ensure that we will promote visible role models and leadership from diverse
        backgrounds.
    • Deliver enhanced reporting mechanisms to ensure a supportive research community
        throughout chemistry.
    • Enhanced support and awareness of mental health: Train mental health first aiders
        throughout Chemistry to work alongside first aiders.
    • Encourage virtual conferences: To support staff unable to travel to conferences,
        Chemistry will encourage and support the delivery of virtual conference.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Grant Expenditure: The focus of the REF2021 period has been to increase and
 diversify research expenditure, which declined through the REF2014 period. This trend has been
 reversed in REF2021, supported by the award of a number of major grants including: Cancer
 Research UK Drug Discovery Programme ( £5M), Astex Drug Discovery Alliance (£3M), ERC
 Starting Grant (Gibson, £1.3M), UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship (Cole, £1.3M) ERC
 Consolidator (Kawamura, £1.8M), North East Centre for Energy Materials (£1.8M) and the
 International Network on Polyoxometalate Science for Advanced Functional Materials (£0.9M).
 Our increasing research spend has been accompanied by a diversification of this income, which
 in the previous REF period was dominated by Research Councils and Charites. In particular the
 total income from industry (£2.0M) is an increase of 230% from the previous REF period. Early
 career staff joining Chemistry in the REF window have also been particularly successful, with
 Penfold, Dawson, Cucinotta and Cole winning EPSRC First Grants. Freitag has been
 awarded a Royal Society University Research Fellowship. Errington has led an EU COST
 Action CM1203 Polyoxometalate Chemistry for Molecular Nanoscience (PoCheMoN), which has
 since developed into the International Network on Polyoxometalate Science for Advanced
 Functional Materials with collaborations across the EU and Japan.

 Doctoral Training Centres: In 2019 Chemistry were awarded two Centres for Doctoral Training
 (CDT). The Centre for Doctoral Training in Molecular Sciences for Medicine (£7.2M), led from
 Chemistry by Waring (PI and Director) and partnered with Durham University. All projects are
 based in both molecular and medical sciences and will focus on unmet medical needs, such as
 understanding of disease biology, identification of new therapeutic targets, and novel
 approaches to discovery and development of therapies. The Centre for Doctoral Training in
 Renewable Energy Northeast Universities (£5.4M), led by Northumbria University and partnered
 with Chemistry (Gibson, Co-Director) and Durham University. It is driven by the industry and
 market needs for an unprecedented growth in renewable and distributed energy to 2050.

 Research Facility Awards: Chemistry staff have also made extensive use of national and
 international facilities for X-rays (Diamond Light Source, SACLA Free Electron Laser, European
 X-ray Free Electron Laser), Lasers (Laserlabs Europe and Central Laser Facility). Access has
 been obtained through competitive peer review systems. A total of >100 days have been
 awarded throughout the present REF period. Additional access to High performance computing
 (ARCHER HPC, JADE HPC, EPSRC tier-2 facilities and HPC-Europa) facilities have been
 awarded.

 Infrastructure and facilities: NU and Chemistry has invested significantly in research facilities.
 The total investment in the Chemistry estate amounts to £2.5M. This includes extensive


                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 refurbishment of the underpinning facilities, but also investment in new research laboratories
 associated with emerging themes in Energy Materials and Chemical Biology. Chemistry
 collaborates with the NEXUS X-ray photoelectron facility that contains a comprehensive range of
 XPS instruments and the Photon Science Laboratory (Psi-Lab) which represents a £1M
 investment to produce a world class laser facility and which incorporate techniques well aligned
 for the Energy Materials. Chemistry also benefits from strong collaboration with Engineering and
 the Medical Faculty – as illustrated by collaboration on DNA-templated nanowires which led to
 the successful cross-Faculty bid to BBSRC for (>£1M) CryoTEM (Horrocks) and work closely
 with partners in the N8 research intensive universities to develop and implement best-practice
 for infrastructure sharing. Within Chemistry highlighted facilities include:
        NMR facilities: These received a £1.3M refurbishment, delivering one of our infrastructural
 objectives of REF2014. It now hosts four state-of-the-art instruments ranging from 300 MHz to
 700 MHz. The 700 MHz spectrometer is equipped with a nitrogen-cooled cryoprobe to give very
 high sensitivity and is especially suited to biological samples and samples of low concentration.
 Solid state NMR facilities and a triplet resonance probe are also available.
         Single crystal (SXRD) and powder diffraction (PXRD) facilities: These received over £0.5M
 investment and include two unique single-crystal X-ray diffractometer, one optimised for ultra-
 low temperature (2-290 K) and the other optimized for pressure (0.5 to >200kbar). All
 experiments can be performed with in-situ sample irradiation with laser light of various
 wavelengths (400 – 660 nm).
         HPC facilities have been transformed by investment in Rocket (more than 5000 cores, 112
 nodes, InfiniBand connection, 500TB of storage). This represents a £2.0M investment by the
 university to foster a pervasive HPC-culture and boost modelling and simulation. This investment
 has been crucial to support the emerging strength of computational chemistry.
         Mass Spectrometry in Chemistry has received £0.5M investment and is comprised of three
 machines each offering high sensitivity and sub ppm mass accuracy, with flexibility to study
 biomarker discovery, oligonucleotides, small molecules and polymers.
         Microwave Spectroscopy: The unique microwave instrumentation is used to determine
 high precision molecular structures and intra-molecular interactions. Unique capabilities include
 the ability to probe non-volatile molecules and the chemistry of plasmas, with direct implications
 for astrochemistry, and distinguish molecular chirality. The capabilities of this setup have led to 6
 academic visitors from around the world with research stays >1 month.
         Chemical Biology and Radiochemistry: These facilities have received £1.0M investment in
 infrastructural improvements and £1.1M in equipment committed to underpin one of our primary
 objectives of growing this area of research. The labs are well equipped for all aspects of
 chemical biology, including molecular biology, protein production, biochemical and biophysical
 analysis, facilities for synthesis and preclinical in vivo evaluation of radiopharmaceuticals,
 peptide synthesis as well as a dedicated cell culture facility.

 Infrastructure and facilities strategy: The chemistry estate has witnessed a significant
 expansion and improvement during REF2021 period as outlined above. Our objectives over the
 next five years are to:
 • Expand capabilities in materials characterisation and ensure the long-term sustainability for
     all equipment.
 • Consolidate existing equipment and promote equipment sharing to maximise the
     investments.
 • Ensure high quality training and career progression prospects for technical staff who maintain
     and manage equipment.
 • Continue to improve core laboratory facilities in conjunction with an increase in flexibility of
     shared space to facilitate most efficient use with fluctuation sizes of research groups.
 • Extend strategic co-habitation of Chemistry with other disciplines related to our core research
     strengths to enhance transdisciplinary research.
 • Develop stronger links with industry including shared services to increase interactions and
     the collaborations leading to impact.




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
        Throughout the REF2021 period Chemistry has had over 150 international visitors. Our
 staff also make substantial contributions across a wide range of areas and work extensively
 across different disciplines both within NU, regionally, nationally and internationally. The
 following is illustrative rather than exhaustive:

 Academic Collaborations
 • NU: Chemistry has long standing and hugely successful interdisciplinary collaborations with
 the Faculty of Medical Science (FMS) through the Cancer Research UK Drug Discovery Unit,
 which forms a fully integrated, cross-faculty research group and is a full member of the national
 CRUK Drug Discovery Network. Research in the group has led to an internationally recognized
 reputation for medicinal chemistry and drug discovery with a track record of successful delivery
 including two marketed cancer treatments (rucaparib and erdaftinib). Chemistry also interacts
 with Chemical and Mechanical Engineering through projects such as the North East Centre for
 Energy Materials (NECEM). Collaborations between the electrical power group in Engineering
 and Chemistry are contributing to a Faraday Challenge project on the battery degradation.
 Freitag and Stimming collaborate with the School of Computing Science with an objective of
 linking advanced materials for sensors with the internet of things and data science.

 • Regional: Newcastle Chemistry interacts strongly with neighbouring institutions (especially
 Durham and Northumbria) as highlighted through collaboration in key strategic funding including
 North East Centre for Energy Materials and two CDTs. This is also supported by over 35 papers
 published with either Durham or Northumbria University in this REF period. We strongly interact
 with the N8 partnership; for example, Houlton, through the METRC scheme, has established
 collaborations with AkzoNobel’s Marine and Coating Business. Penfold with Monkman
 (Durham) have collaborated extensively on thermally activated delayed fluorescence leading to
 3 EPSRC grants (EP/P012388/1, EP/N025811/1, EP/T022442/1) and 1 REF output.

 • UK: Collaborations include the NECEM project led by Stimming which interacts strongly with
 5 other centres (St Andrew, Edinburgh, Cambridge, UCL, Oxford) across the UK to establish a
 UK Network for Advanced Materials. Stimming also participates in a Faraday Challenge
 consortium entitled “Towards a Comprehensive Understanding of Degradation Processes in EV
 Batteries” which involves Cambridge, University College London, Sheffield, Warwick,
 Southampton, Manchester and Liverpool. Kawamura has strong collaborations with Oxford
 University including acting as co-director for a CRUK programme grant. Other examples include:
 Penfold and Probert with Diamond Light source resulting in EPSRC funding (EP/S022058/1),
 Probert and Brechin (Edinburgh) on molecular magnetism leading to EPSRC funding
 (EP/N01331X/1) and 1 REF output. Penfold with Brechin and Johannson (Edinburgh) on
 molecular photomagnets leading to EPSRC funding (EP/V010573/1) and 1 REF output.
 Houlton with Turberfield (Oxford) on DNA-based coordination polymers resulting in EPSRC
 Funding (EP/S015310/1).

 • International: Errington led the European COST Action “Polyoxometalate Chemistry for
 Molecular Nanoscience” (PoCheMoN) which coordinated research across 22 European
 countries and Russia and Australia. This has been developed into the International Network on
 Polyoxometalate Science for Advanced Functional Energy Materials (EP/S031170/1) led by
 Newcastle Chemistry, which is a collaboration between over 50 researchers across UK-Japan-
 Germany and France. Kawamura was a management committee member on the COST action
 on Epigenetics (EPICHEMBIO). Additional International collaborations supported by EU
 Horizon2020 Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions include the £0.5M RISE project DNASURF led by
 Tuite which includes partners across the EU, Israel, USA, Australia, Singapore, and Japan. The
 £7.5M EU funded industry-led international SEAFRONT project involving Fulton, Horrocks and
 Houlton to develop next-generation anti-biofouling coatings industry-led international
 collaboration, involving 19 academic and industrial partners.
       Additional collaborations include Cole with Jorgensen (Yale) and the OpenFF initiative
 on the development of first-principles high accuracy force-fields for classical molecular
 dynamics leading to 1 REF output. Walker with Arunan (Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore)
                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on the nature of hydrogen bonding in H2O and H2S leading to 1 REF output. Lu and Hofer with
 the Chinese academy of Sciences. Kawamura with Suga (University of Tokyo) on screening of
 cyclic peptide libraries resulting the award of a visiting fellowship to Japan.

 Non-Academic Collaborations
 Waring, Cano and Hardcastle have longstanding and fruitful collaborations with Cancer
 Research UK (C2115/A21421, £5M) and Astex Drug Discovery Alliance (£3M). Probert and
 Clegg also have a >10 years partnership with GlaxoSmithKline. Stimming with Siemens
 (£0.6M) are developing new high performing redox flow batteries. Penfold with Cynora (£0.3M)
 have investigated the molecular properties required to deliver high-performing molecules in
 Organic Light Emitting Diodes. Chemistry has received >20 industry funded PhD students during
 the REF2021 period. Non-Academic collaboration within Chemistry are increasing linked to
 CDTs and strategic research grants held. While many of these are early stages, support from
 within the school will be provided to help support and grow these. Chemistry staff also maintain
 9 consultancy contracts including: Glythera, Genentech, InTray Ltd, Astex Pharmaceuticals,
 Janssen, Citadel, GlaxoSmithKlein and NovoNordisk.

 Leadership, Awards and Esteem
 Awards for contributions to the discipline include:
 • UK: Golding (Robert Robertson Prize, 2019), Waring (Malcolm Campbell Medal, 2017)
 • International: Waring (ACS Heroes of Chemistry, 2018)
 • Named Lectureships and Visiting Professorships: Hofer (Distinguished Visiting Professorship
   of Physics at University of Chinese Academy of Sciences), Stimming (Shanghai Jiao Tong
   University, Shanghai, China and Technical University Munich, Visiting Professor at the
   University of Porto), Waring (inaugural RSC Biological and Medicinal Chemistry Lectureship,
   2014-2015), Clegg (Lonsdale Lecture, British Crystallographic Association, 2018).

 Chemistry Community Contributions
 • Plenary and Keynote Conference Lectures: All staff returned have presented their research at
 international conferences during the REF period. In total >150 invited keynote and plenary
 lectures have been given at major conferences world-wide. These activities have been
 supplemented with a large number of contributions to national and regional meetings.

 • Conference Organisation: Chemistry staff have been involved in organizing >50 conferences
 during the REF2021 period. The annual Chemical Nanoscience Symposium conference is now in
 its 10th year and attracted high quality national and international speakers each year. Additional
 examples include: the European Federation for Medicinal Chemistry young medicinal Chemistry
 symposium (2016, Manchester UK, organised and chaired by Waring, Mastering Medicinal
 Chemistry (2020, hosted by Newcastle), the International Conference for Energy Materials
 (2019), The 2017 Biannual RSC Photophysics and Photochemistry Special interest group
 meeting (Cucinotta, Tuite) CARISMA (2017), CECAM Workshop: Nonadiabatic Quantum
 Dynamics: From Theory to Experiment (2018), CONEXS International Conference on X-ray
 Spectroscopy (2020), UK Energy Storage (2019), Annual Northern Universities Meeting on
 Chemical Physics (2018), Annual Northern Universities Meeting on Chemical Physics (2017),
 Droplets (2019), ChemBiox (2019) a student-led chemical biology conference and RSC
 Scientific Discussions Meeting on ‘Frontiers in Epigenetics Chemical Biology’ (2017), RSC Prize
 Symposium (2019) to celebrate the International Year of the Periodic Table, featuring 3 RSC
 prize winners namely, Prof. Polly Arnold, Prof. Jose Goicoechea and Prof. Debbie Kay,
 CCPBioSim 2020.
     We have also organised numerous PhD+ training events including two (2018, 2019) summer
 schools on X-ray science for materials characterisation and another one (2019) on NMR and
 EPR spectroscopy. These summer school also include specialist wider academic training
 including Equality, Diversity and Inclusion, publishing, patents, interacting with parliament. We
 have also taught international PhD+ level training schools in Powder Diffraction and Rietveld
 refinement and single crystal diffraction methods every year during the REF period; these have
 trained ~500 students from around the world.


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 • Editorships/International Advisory Boards/Panels: Many academics are members of the
 EPSRC peer review college and have served on panels. Stimming is Editor-in-chief of the
 scientific journal “Fuel Cells-From Fundamentals to Systems”, Hofer is Editor of the Elsevier
 journal Surfaces and Interfaces and Associate Editor-in-Chief of Frontiers of Physics. Our
 academics are also assistant editors or advisory board members on a number of journals
 including; RSC Medicinal Chemistry (Waring), Journal of Materials Chemistry C and Materials
 Horizon (Penfold), Crystals (Probert), Sustainable Energy & Fuels and Chemical Science
 (Gibson) and Communications Chemistry (Kawamura) and Organometallics (Izod). Gibson is
 an invited Advisory Board Member of the UK Solar Fuels Research Network. Sargent has been
 senior editor of Microbiology and an editor for the Biochemical Journal.
        We contribute to many external panels. Examples include the Royal Society Newton
 Fellowship (Houlton, Fulton), Royal Society Fellowship Research Grants Award Panel
 (Sargent) and the Daphne Jackson Trust Fellowship (Kawamura), Chair of Panel 7 (Probert) at
 Diamond Light Source, Cancer Therapeutics CRUK (Waring) and the Association of British
 Spectroscopists (Walker). Tuite and Stimming sit on evaluation panels of the European
 Research Council (ERC) and Stimming is a Member of the Visiting Committee for CEA
 - Alternative Energies and Atomic Energy Commission. Benniston serves on the funding panel
 for the National funding body of Finland. Bronowska sits on the Irish research council panel.
 Walker sits on the Council member of the RSC Faraday division and RSC local section (North
 East) committee, Kawamura is an RSC Chemistry Biology Interface Division Council member.
 Sargent has been panel member of the Norway Research Council FRIMEDBIO Panel.

 Outreach and Science Communication
         Outreach and engagement are vital components for a continued pipeline of STEM
 students. A dedicated member of staff, Dr Peter Hoare, delivers an extensive outreach
 programme with an extensive network of 30+ regional Schools with a focus upon increasing
 engagement from low participation neighbourhoods. Chemistry runs an annual Partners summer
 school, welcoming over 50 16-18 years olds per annum from low participation areas.
         In addition, Chemistry has been represented at a large number of public events promoting
 our research and subject in general. These include the Royal Society Summer Exhibition Events
 (2018), “Light for Life” exhibit at the Great North Museum (Gibson, Cucuinotta and Benniston),
 and a permanent exhibit of our Energy Materials research and climate change at the Great North
 Museum during Dippy the Dinosaur exhibition seen by over 10,000 visitors. Gibson also acts as
 UK STEM ambassador (STEMNET), which includes giving lectures on her research to local
 schools (e.g. Discovery School, Newcastle College). Carruthers, Bronowska, Tuite and
 Gibson all regularly present at the Soapbox Science events at NU aimed at increasing the
 visibility of female scientists in STEM subjects. In collaboration with the Royal Society of
 Chemistry, Walker promoted the Lighting up Chemistry Week for the international year of the
 periodic table 2019 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c0DI2YcAneQ). The medicinal chemistry
 group regularly engages with the cancer community including patients, survivors and fundraisers
 through events including the NU Centre for Cancer open days, talks at Race for Life and public
 lectures at the Great Exhibition of the North (Waring).




                                                                                         Page 16
