Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution:
 Edinburgh Napier University

 Unit of Assessment:
 Unit of Assessment 17 – Business and Management Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Strategy 2014-2021
 Staff submitted by Edinburgh Napier University (ENU) to UoA 17 form part of, and benefit from,
 the Business School’s (BS) research environment. Since 2014, the BS has undergone
 substantial reorganisation of its research and research support mechanisms, focussing on
 strengthening existing areas of employment, management and leadership research while
 developing new researchers and a balanced portfolio of research degrees. As part of the
 School’s continuous improvement strategy, many of the support processes identified in 2014
 underpin the School’s Research and Innovation Strategy 2018-2021, including focussed
 mentorship, investment in research time, allocation of research funding, increase in research
 degree numbers and international research collaborations.

 Since REF2014, the School has grown to support the highest number of doctoral students
 across the University, while maintaining high quality support and outputs. The post of research
 degrees lead was created in 2014 to help ensure a supportive structure for DBAs and PhDs.
 This post (McMillan) supported delivery on the 2012 initiative to internationalise and develop the
 School’s doctoral provision with overseas institutions. Partnerships have been built with the
 Strascheg Centre for Entrepreneurship (Munich), Hamburg School of Business Administration,
 Hochschule Furtwangen University, Hochschule fur Technik Stuttgart (Germany), Lucerne
 University of Applied Sciences and Arts (Switzerland) and UTECH (Jamaica), and have seen
 DBA students jointly supervised by BS academics and attending units in Edinburgh.
 Simultaneously, overseas delivery of DBAs to students from North America, the Caribbean and
 Singapore occurred through partnerships between the Business School and Southport
 Education International in Miami (USA) and PSB Academy (Singapore). PhD partnerships were
 developed with King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (Saudi Arabia).

 From 2016, the focus became the wider research environment and culture within the School
 following new appointments to the post of director of research. This three-year post was held
 jointly by a level 10 professor (McCleery) and by an associate professor (Matthews-Smith),
 with the aim of combining long-standing experience with drive and enthusiasm, and providing
 development opportunities for the less senior academic. The success of this initial partnership
 has seen the model continued, with the subsequent appointment of Backhaus and Grant.
 The 2016 Research and Innovation Strategy was developed in consultation with all staff and
 particularly early career researchers (ECRs). However, immediate steps were also taken to
 encourage and support research and impact, building on the mechanisms identified in 2014.
 These initiatives were later formalised and incorporated within the strategy mission statement:

 To be recognised as a Business School that is professional, ambitious, innovative and inclusive,
 known for the quality of our programmes and applied research, the employability of our
 graduates and for adding value to the social, cultural and economic capital of the communities
 we serve. Moreover, to recruit, develop and retain staff who can undertake applied research,
 consultancy and scholarly activity that demonstrates a proficiency with current management
 practice, which in turn supports a growing academic reputation for excellence in learning,
 research, teaching and scholarship. Achieved through establishment of a robust internal
 research culture based upon a sustainable, nurturing and supportive environment in which all
 ECRs can thrive and develop, and which supports all academic staff to be research active.

 The strategy was underpinned and supported by 4 key objectives:

  1. Increasing external research income

                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       •   One afternoon a week is set aside for proposal writing clinics for staff to attend, with
           support staff on hand from the University’s central Research, Innovation and Enterprise
           Office (RIE).
       •   A mentoring scheme was established for senior professors to support ECRs on grant
           proposals, with opportunities for joint proposals encouraged.
       •   Internal resources were made available to support new research areas, as detailed
           below.
       •   Support was offered from RIE through school contacts for the development of external
           research proposals.
       •   Protected research time (minimum 0.2FTE) is provided to all research staff to develop
           proposals and for the completion of research outputs.
       •   Cross-school sandpit events have been conducted to support cross-disciplinary research
           activity.
       •   New research clusters including military and employment research groups have been
           developed.

  2.     Allocation of internal resources to support research.
       • Five grants of up to £5,000 each year were created to pump-prime new research, with
          the aim of broadening the School’s research portfolio and creating new opportunities for
          further funding bids. The panel assessing applications was made up of ECRs, professors
          and both directors of research.
       • Funding was made available to allow all research staff to attend a minimum of one
          conference each year, related to or supportive of their research. Where funds remained,
          further applications for a second conference were encouraged.
       • Two fully funded PhDs and two fee-only PhDs were created, to increase the number of
          PhDs in proportion to DBAs within the School.
       • A clear process to apply for research sabbaticals was put in place, working with RIE.
       • A post-graduate research conference for PhDs and DBAs is run each year (see Section
          2).

  3. Improving outcomes and the quality of outputs
    • All staff members on the University’s ‘Research Pathway’ are allocated 260 hours
       research time a year to publish from their research. Key performance indicators are
       linked to University, School and individual research aims and measured through the ‘My
       Contribution’ staff appraisal system.
    • Annually from 2016-2020, regular four-day writing workshops are conducted for the ECR
       group and all active research staff. Highly published externals including Professor
       Jonathan Liu from Regents University facilitated these.
    • Five-day writing retreats have fun for PhDs and DBAs. The first ran in 2019 with 20
       students, and another scheduled in 2020 was postponed due to COVID-19.
    • ‘Meet the editor’ sessions are led by two ECRs (Patrick and Osowska). Invited editors
       from highly ranked journals are invited to provide guidance on how to prepare
       manuscripts for submission.
    • Professor Helen Francis and Norma D’Annunzio-Green launched a series of reflective
       learning papers on leadership and people practice. Published by the Business School
       and designed as a collaborative process between academics and practitioners, these
       cover contemporary human resource management (HRM) issues and what this means in
       practice. They include a case study and set of reflective questions to encourage and
       enable the successful application of practice-based learning to business contexts. There
       are currently four papers in the series, co-written by ENU academics and HRM
       practitioners. For each paper a blog is created to stimulate wider discussion and debate
       in the HRM academic, practitioner and student community
       (https://www.napier.ac.uk/about-us/our-schools/the-business-school/our-industry-
       links/reflective-learning-paper).
    • International Centre for Management and Governance Research co-directors (Sheehan
       and Minhat) organised seminars on qualitative and quantitative research methods for

                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        staff and students. Minhat and Ibanez provide guidance on formal and informal basis to
        ECRs wanting to apply econometrics to produce research outputs.

  4. Increasing research impact
    • The post of public engagement lead for the School was created, to which Todd (UOA24)
       was appointed in 2017.
    • A £20,000 annual budget is allocated to this role to run a competitive process for five
       grants of up to £4,000 to support public engagement activity linked to research, open to
       staff and doctoral students. Staff are now encouraged to apply for central grants to
       support public engagement.
    • Lunchtime meetings have been set up by ECRs (Patrick and Osowska) with the public
       engagement lead, for staff and students to explore the support on offer. These are also
       attended by the directors of research and representatives of RIE.
    • REF champions have been appointed and given dedicated time to support academics in
       achieving impact from their research, as well as accumulating the data required for the
       REF.
    • The increase in DBA students has enhanced practice focussed research impact where
       candidates are working on real world company issues. The outcomes of this strategy are
       evident in the wide range of awards granted to our students by their employers for
       research findings implemented following their DBA (see section 2).

 Some other positive results from these initiatives are indicated below and in the impact case
 studies submitted for this Unit.

    •   Tjandra benefited from a 2017 public engagement grant from the Business School to
        disseminate research on the ethics of tobacco marketing in Indonesia conducted during
        2014-17. Stakeholders in policy implementation subsequently used her research which
        also became the focus of one of the impact case studies.
    •   Patrick and Ellis, along with colleagues at Dundee and York St John Universities,
        benefitted from pump-prime funding and public engagement funding in running a two-day
        international symposium bringing together practitioners and academic working in the craft
        beer sector. The conference subsequently led to further research relationships, an edited
        academic book, and two book chapters.
    •   The lunchtime meetings organised by Patrick and Osowska assisted members of the
        School (most of whom were ECRs) in publishing 11 articles, 1 edited book, and 1 book
        chapter, achieving a best paper award, applying for external funding and authoring 2 new
        research-based modules to be taught in the BS.

 Unit Structure
 In 2014, the research within the School was organised within one Research College, with
 significant clusters of activity in Tourism (UoA24), Management and Leadership. In 2015, this
 structure was changed to create five departments, staff from three of which are submitted within
 this Unit; Accounting & Finance, Entrepreneurship, and Management. Several research groups
 replaced the Research College and institutes. Those relevant to this Unit are Human Resource
 Management (HRM), Finance and Accounting, Entrepreneurship, and Marketing. Each group
 has a representative on the Research and Innovation Committee, to feedback on activity.

 HRM is the largest research group. Led by McMillan, it covers research into HR and industrial
 relations (McMillan, D’Annunzio-Green, Francis, Heidl, Sheehan, Ellis), employability,
 employee engagement and skills (Bushfield, Dutton, Francis, McFadden-Young, Patrick),
 performance and leadership (D’Annunzio-Green, Francis, Grant, Heidl, Howieson,
 McFadden-Young, MacKerron, Patrick, Sheehan, Pierron), health and social care
 (Bushfield, Howieson, Matthews-Smith), workplace diversity (Grant, McFadden-Young,
 Heidl), and strategy and operations (Bushfield, Pierron, Sheehan, Weaver, Plant-O’Toole).

 Since September 2020 the Marketing group, now led by Backhaus (head of group) and
 Tjandra (co-head), has focused on three research themes: (1) Society and Well-Being (Osei,

                                                                                            Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Tjandra), comprising social and ethical approaches to marketing, (2) Innovation, Digital and
 Technology (Kincaid, and Backhaus), and (3) Sustainability (Tjandra, Backhaus), comprising
 corporate social responsibility, sustainable marketing and branding. The department runs bi-
 weekly research seminars where staff and external speakers present their work. Research is
 undertaken in collaboration with national and international practitioner organisations and
 researchers in a variety of countries.

 Dzolkarnaini leads the Finance group, which includes Gao, Khaleel and Minhat. Research
 covers cooperate finance, government and ethics. International work in these groups comes
 together within the International Centre for Management and Governance Research (ICMGR),

 The Entrepreneurship and Innovation group includes Osowska and Mora. Research covers
 entrepreneurial behaviour, small businesses and innovation.

 Interdisciplinarity
 Much of the research within the Unit is cross-discipline and international in nature.

 Matthews-Smith was the research lead in two EU-funded studies. The first, CAREMAN 2013-
 16 (£196,000), brought ENU together with Lahti University of Applied Sciences (UAS) in Finland,
 HAMK UAS (FI), Charles University (Czechia), and University of Évora (Portugal). Publications
 included a monograph and two journal articles. DOCMAN 2017-20 (£109,000) brought together
 ENU with other universities in Finland, Czechia and Germany to look at the management and
 competency skills needs of health and social care managers in the light of new challenges within
 those systems. This has led to two publications in review.

 Matthews-Smith is leading a new Military Transitions Centre for Education, Research and
 Public Engagement, which brings together research undertaken in this area across all ENU
 schools. Coordinated by the Business School it covers post-traumatic stress disorder (Health &
 Social Care), cybersecurity (Computing), military history (Arts & Creative Industries), military
 families, military populations in prisons and veterans (Applied Sciences). The Centre has
 successfully won a £300K grant from Forces in Mind Trust (FiMT) in partnership with Edinburgh
 University.

 Grant (Business School) and Robertson (School of Applied Sciences) co-convene a cross-
 university Work and Equalities in Society (WEiS) Research Group, with the aim of facilitating
 collaborative and interdisciplinary work regarding carers and employment-related research.

 Khaleel, Osowska and Sheehan are members of the Migration Mobilities Research Network
 that brings together researchers from different disciplines both from ENU and other institutions in
 Scotland.

 Sheehan led an EU work package on youth self-employment as part of an €5 million EU- funded
 project ‘Strategic Transitions for Youth Labour in Europe’ (STYLE) (2014-2017). The findings
 were presented at ILO Work4Youth programme, funded by The MasterCard Foundation,
 EurActive and the Chamber of Commerce, Krakow, Poland.

 Research Governance and Integrity
 The School’s Research and Innovation Strategy is co-ordinated by the School Research and
 Innovation Committee, convened by the director of research. The Committee comprises leads
 and representatives of staff at all levels (senior researchers, ECRs, research administrators) and
 research students. Mandatory GDPR training events (annual) for all researchers ensure
 understanding and compliance with legislation. All research projects undergo ethical review by
 academics from a range of disciplines (School Research Integrity Committee) in addition to
 professional body review. All research studies present a formal data management plan prior to
 approval/submission.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The School Research Integrity Committee reviews research applications from staff and students
 ensuring compliance with the University Code of Practice on Research Integrity. The Committee
 draws its membership from all subject areas in the School. Committee members are pro-active
 in teaching research ethics to strengthen ethical, legal and professional standards. The chair of
 the Committee also sits on the University Research Integrity Committee. In 2019, the University
 became a signatory of the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers.

 Open Access
 All published School research is deposited in the University’s repository before the mandatory
 deadline of 3 months after acceptance. The School promotes adherence to the University’s ‘Act
 on Acceptance’ and Open Access policy by ensuring that annual promotion rounds only consider
 outputs recorded in the University Research Management System, linked to its repository. In
 addition, the School supports the central mandatory view to incorporate data management plans
 into the internal funding peer review process. Training events facilitate compliance with the
 University’s open access policy. Staff are encouraged by the School, and through regular
 updates to communicate links to ENU’s repository when presenting to the wider community at
 public lectures or at stakeholder meetings.

 Research Strategy 2021-2027
 The School and Unit are committed to the University’s overarching research strategy as outlined
 in the REF5a. Future school strategies are informed by the institutions five-year focus on staff
 development, increasing innovation, and developing international research partnerships, and
 aim to feed into the broad strategic aims of the University. Future interdisciplinary opportunities
 will be guided by the new University themes.

 The new research strategy to take the BS from 2021-2027 envisions it as a known leader in the
 field for rigorous research that addresses important societal, economic and business-related
 challenges. This is operationalised by research-led recruiting, a consistent and inclusive
 framework for development and support for research, building connections with other
 researchers, including across Schools at ENU to build inter-disciplinary research, by
 engagement with practitioners and research users and by focusing activities and support around
 the core research themes.

 2. People

 The Unit has grown over the REF period, with 27 Category A staff at 26.2 FTE (5 professors; 9
 associate professors; 13 senior lecturers/ lecturers) submitted in REF 2021, compared to 12 at
 10.4 FTE in REF2014 (three of whom are now in UoA24). Of staff submitted to REF2021, 12 are
 women and 15 are men. This equates to 44% women and 55% men, as compares to 39%
 women and 61% men for the University as a whole.

 Staffing Strategy
 Our approach to recruitment and staff development has grown the quality, impact and volume of
 our research and deepened the research culture within the School. In 2014, we focussed on
 increasing capacity in existing strengths through the recruitment of both experienced
 researchers and junior staff with research potential, as well as developing our own staff. This
 approach was refined early in the REF period to create the following objectives; to increase
 satisfaction, aspiration and achievement of existing staff, to increase the number of early career
 researchers and staff on a REF2021 trajectory, to grow the number of PhD students and the
 quality of their education, and finally, to grow the number of postdoctoral fellows and research
 associates.

 New appointments on permanent contracts since 2014 consolidated areas of research within the
 School and brought additional leadership. Most notable are the appointment of professors,
 Howieson (2018) as Head of Management, Backhaus (2020) School Research Director and
 Head of the Marketing Research Group; and Sheehan (2017), lead for the International Centre
 for Management and Governance Research. Associate professors (AP) and lecturers (L) were in

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the fields of human resource management and leadership (McFadden (L), Heidl (L)),
 international marketing (Osei (L)), logistics and supply chain research (Plant-O’Toole, (AP)),
 corporate finance and Islamic finance (Dzolkarnaini (AP)), organisational studies, health and
 social care integration (Bushfield (AP)) and strategy and circular economy (Pierron (L)). Two of
 these (Osei and Heidl) were recruited following completion of their PhD with the School.

 Support provided to increase aspiration and achievement and to set staff on a strong research
 trajectory has seen several lecturers, senior lecturers and readers promoted to, or awarded the
 title of, associate professor during the period (Matthews-Smith, McMillian, Grant, Mora,
 Weaver and Tjandra). Of these, Grant, Mora, Weaver and Tjandra were ECRs in 2014
 (Tjandra gained her PhD at ENU in 2013/14), and Weaver and Tjandra are PIs for two
 submitted impact case studies. Dutton moved from research fellow to lecturer during this period
 and is the PI for our third impact case study.

 Staff Development and Support for Impact
 Most newly appointed academic staff hold a doctoral qualification. However, since 2014, we
 have supported both academic (A) and professional services (PS) staff from across the
 University to complete either a DBA or PhD. Since 2018, all staff studying for a DBA or PhD at
 the University were fully funded. Staff who have gained their doctorate since 2014 include: 2014
 Armati (A); 2015, Steen and Logie (PS); 2016 McIntosh and Smith (A) 2017, Cook (PS); 2018
 Telford, (PS); 2019, McCrossan, (A); 2020 Waterstone and Miller Judd, (A).

 New academic appointees are awarded protected time to establish a research programme in
 their first year (0.2FTE). Staff research time allocation is managed via agreed objectives and
 KPI’s (e.g., funding applications and outputs), ensuring fit to workload (minimum 0.2 FTE). We
 pursue person development through formalised progress reviews (‘My Contribution’) to inform
 strategic planning, running parallel to promotions framework, ensuring consistency between
 individual development plans and unit level objectives.

 New staff appointments are informed by strategic requirement in research capacity. In line with
 our objective to increase satisfaction, achievement and aspiration of existing staff, we have
 provided dedicated funding for personal development courses. We have allocated on a
 competitive basis, five internal grants of up to £5,000 each year to pump-prime new research.
 Additionally, we have awarded two competitive internally funded postgraduate studentships to
 promote the growth of doctoral students in specific research areas.

 In 2017, five grants of up to £4,000 were awarded on a competitive basis to support public
 engagement activity linked to research. These grants were open to both staff and doctoral
 students. Since 2017, staff are supported to apply for central funding.

 Weaver et al were granted £5,000 from School funds (and £3,000 from the Scottish
 Government) to support the launch of the ‘Responsible Business Forum’ opened by the Deputy
 First Minister of Scotland. This led to a publication in the European Journal of Research in 2018
 (Section 4) and an Impact Case Study.

 Under the leadership of ICMGR’s Co-Director (Minhat), two forums and three international
 conferences were hosted and organised during 2016-2019 period to position ICMGR as a
 leading centre for Ethical Finance research. Participation was from external stakeholders locally
 and abroad including the ICAEW in Scotland, Research Centre for Sustainable Hong Kong
 (CSHK), Shandong University of Finance and Economics, Universität Hohenheim, University of
 Bolton and Al-Maktoum College, China-Britain Business Council (CBBC). The Ethical Finance
 and Community Development Forum was organised by ICMGR’s key members (Minhat and
 Dzolkarnaini) and was officiated by Co-Chair of All-Party Parliamentary Group of the House of
 Lords (UK Parliament). Faith leaders Iqra’ Academy, South Leith Parish Church, and The
 Church of Scotland attended. He also introduced ENU as a supporting partner of the Global
 Ethical Finance Forum in 2017. This led to a published chapter in ‘Islamic Finance’ in 2019,
 which has sold over 5,100 copies.

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 In collaboration with Bright Red Triangle (BRT) (Wu), ICMGR’s forums on Social Enterprise
 Financing featured panels from social enterprises (e.g., Ansar Finance Group, Social Investment
 Scotland, Big Issue Invest, Grassmarket Community Project, Assist Social Capital, Social
 Enterprise Scotland, Invisible Cities, The Growth Partnership, Castle Community Bank
 Edinburgh, Positive Money Edinburgh, Strategy and Fundraising consultant).

 Early Career Researchers (ECR)
 We invest considerable time and resources in developing our early career researchers (ECRs).
 All ECRs are paired with a mentor at associate professor or professor level, to help strengthen
 their methodological expertise and develop longer-term research plans that focus on sustainable
 research topics within the School’s overall research strategy. ECRs are supported to prepare
 papers from their PhDs or DBAs, targeting submission to the highest quality journal possible.
 This process aims to build the confidence of ECRs in preparing manuscripts and responding
 effectively to editor and reviewer feedback.

 We provide opportunities for ECRs to take responsibility within the School both for their own
 personal development and to ensure their representation in the School’s decision-making
 structure. ECRs are appointed as director of studies for PhDs and DBAs alongside experienced
 co-supervisors (minimum 2 supervisions and subject experts), to allow them to add completions
 to their CV. They also have access to central supervisory training to build their skills in
 supervision. McFadden-Young was appointed as equality and diversity lead for the School
 following support that enabled him to gain two Carnegie grants for research linked to equality
 and diversity. An ECR group also exists, which sends a representative to sit on the Research
 and Innovation Committee

 We also actively support initiatives by ECRs, which include:
   • Meet the editor sessions. This initiative, led by two ECRs (Patrick and Osowska)
       involved inviting editors from highly ranked journals to provide guidance on how to
       prepare manuscripts that would be targeted at their respective journals.
   • Lunchtime meetings set up by ECRs (Patrick and Osowska) with the public
       engagement lead, for staff and students to find out more about the support on offer.

 Our financial and mentoring support for ECRs has made substantial progress over the REF
 period. Weaver was awarded £5,000 by the School to link young professionals as trustees with
 third sector organisations. The partnerships created through this led to further research funded
 by Innovate UK and through the QAA Enhancement Themes, creating impacts on organisation
 strategy. McFadden was mentored in his application to Carnegie for two grants which were
 successful. Patrick, in collaboration with Ellis, was awarded a School public engagement grant
 to run a sandpit event with academics from other disciplines and representatives from the
 brewing industry, which led to two further grants for research into the craft beer movement. She
 was awarded a grant from central funds in 2018 for public engagement around this work.
 Tjandra was funded by the School to run a public engagement event in Indonesia to
 disseminate her work on tobacco marketing, which led to policy impacts and a REF impact case
 study. Tjandra has progressed from a PhD student to associate professor during the period.

 Postgraduate Research Students
 The Unit continues to significantly expand its number of doctoral students and increase
 completion rates, particularly our DBA numbers. There are currently 96 doctoral students in the
 Unit, 34 PhD students and 62 DBA students. Overall, there have been 72 completions for home
 students in the REF period, which contrasts with 38 for the previous REF (31 PhD and 7 DBA).
 The annual breakdown is shown in the table below.




                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  Year       2013-14    2014-15    2015-16    2016-17    2017-18    2018-19    2019-      Total
                                                                               20
  DBA        5          4          7          6          7          3          6          38
  PhD        4          7          4          7          3          4          5          34
  Total      9          11         11         13         10         7          11         72

 The increase in DBA students has helped the BS to grow as an institution, and has
 internationalised our work, strengthening our links to external organisations around the world.
 Our doctoral students come from a wide range of organisations and different countries, providing
 a rich, vibrant and engaging environment, which is of benefit to the whole School as well as to
 the students themselves. We collaborate with overseas institutions in Germany, Switzerland and
 Saudi Arabia to provide joint supervision of ENU DBA students from those countries.

 In addition, we have had 18 DBA completions for overseas students during the period, who
 follow units for their doctorate in either Miami or Singapore. Although these students do not
 attend the Business School for these units, some of our other DBA students (particularly those
 based overseas) have chosen to complete certain units in Miami or Singapore. As such, all
 cohorts do mix, increasing the diversity and international nature of the programme.

 The DBA students carry out research in their own organisations and countries, which
 strengthens our relationship with external organisations and ensures impact on practice. Our
 students have come from private sector companies such as IBM and VW, public sector
 organisations such as the Ministry of Defence and Police Scotland, and third sector
 organisations such as the Association of Chief Officers of Scottish Voluntary Organisation
 (ACOSVO).

 PGR student recruitment for DBA tends to come from online platforms (e.g., FindAPhD.com),
 with a bi-annual intake to expedite our induction process and create cohort-identity to foster
 collaborative researcher culture. Panels consisting of proposed director of studies and relevant
 academic staff interview all PhD/DBA candidates, (interview panels have undergone equality,
 diversity, inclusivity and unconscious bias training).

 Our doctoral students regularly attend research seminars and workshops. We host an annual
 postgraduate research conference, which is organised by students and provides them with the
 opportunity to present their work. University staff and external delegates attend, and a high-
 profile external keynote speaker is invited. Prizes are awarded for the best presentations, funded
 through our oldest doctoral student who completed his PhD aged 80. The winning students go
 forward to represent the School at the university-wide student research conference. Monthly
 postgraduate research seminars are conducted where students present their research to peers.
 All doctoral students, PhD and DBA, receive internal funding to present at one international
 conference during their project lifetime, supported either directly through the School or through
 grant income generated by themselves or their supervisory team.

 Our PhD students can take a Postgraduate Certificate in Research Methods, launched in 2017,
 and are actively encouraged to do so. Students are also supported to take a PG certificate in
 teaching and can teach for up to 6 hours a week on undergraduate courses to build experience.
 Other training and support include writing retreats and peer mentorship schemes by other PhD
 students outside their own research field. Students are provided with strong support in preparing
 for their viva, including having the opportunity to complete at least one mock viva.

 We operate a compulsory course to train supervisors and ensure compliance with our Research
 Degrees Framework. A supervisor–student agreement exists to ensure expectations are upheld.
 This is noticeably effective with our PRES outcome of 95% and 88% student satisfaction
 regarding understanding personal and supervisory responsibilities respectively, and 97% PRES
 satisfaction rate for supervisor skills. Independent panel chairs (staff members outside of

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supervisory teams) support students throughout their studies (PRES satisfaction 94%) and often
 act as the independent panel chair in the viva.

 The DBA structure ensures that students form part of an annual cohort, which spends regular
 time together at the School during the 3-4 years of their study, facilitating networking and
 collaborative support as they move through the programme together. Students testify to the
 “inspiring”, “rich” and ‘engaging’ learning environment that this creates for their research. The
 supportive environment provided for our doctoral students is evidenced in our completion rate of
 98%.

 Many DBA students find it very difficult to carry out a full-time job alongside the demands of
 delivering their research, and appreciate the support provided by the School. As examples,
 students credit their supervisors’ “excellent skills and experience” (Macleod, Scottish
 Government, 2015), “intelligent scrutiny”, “advice and unparalleled encouragement” (Ojesina,
 Unity Bank Nigeria, 2020) as critical to their successful completions. The nature of the DBA, in
 enabling a student to carry out relevant research to their current employment, also supports their
 career progression.

 Examples in the REF period include: Klotz (completion 2018) a consultant at IBM now a
 Professor at HDM University Stuttgart; Macleod, Deputy Director, Finance and Location Director
 for the Outer Hebrides, Scottish Government (completion 2014) who was awarded the Scottish
 Public Service Award for Project and Programme Management in 2015 and UK Government
 Finance Innovation Award in 2016, for work which used the practice knowledge gained from his
 research; Cook (completion 2017), an internal candidate who was Director of HR for the
 University, now Principal of Perth College; Jekosh (completion 2020) who was named as one of
 the worldwide manager champions 2018 within her organisation for ideas and leadership
 behaviour, based on the practice knowledge gained from her research; Knuth (completion 2020)
 was awarded the Dr Heinz Sebiger prize from the DATEV foundation in Germany for the quality
 of his research and thesis; Lum (completion 2021) has used the knowledge from his DBA to
 ‘successfully acquire and deliver significant multi-million IT programmes’ as Director of Business
 Technology for REVEZ Motion, Singapore; Zeigler (Program Director - Worldwide Training &
 Skills at IBM) who is due to complete next year has already presented his research at the 27th
 European Conference for Software Process Improvement (Euro SPI 2020), the proceedings of
 which were published by Springer

 Equality and Diversity
 In terms of gender balance, 45% of submitted staff identify as female and 55% as male, which is
 a more balanced ratio than ENU’s institutional average. In terms of career stage, 41% of staff
 submitted are at lecturer level, 60% are associate professors and 15% are professors. Among
 the senior researchers, there are two female and two male professors in the HRM group, there is
 one male professor in the Finance group, and there is one male professor in the Marketing
 group.

 Concerning ethnicity, 47% of submitted staff identify as white. BAME representation among staff
 in the Unit is 63% Asian, 17% black, and 10% mixed. At present there is a small under
 representation of BAME staff on the team in both groups

 Staff are supported via the University’s occupational health policy. 85% of submitted staff within
 the Unit identified as having no known disability, 8% declared disability and 7% were unknown.
 Where disability has been declared, detailed assessment of occupational health has taken place
 and necessary adjustments to the workspace have been made.

 In terms of age profile, 57% are in the 25-34 age bracket, 62% in the 35-44 age bracket, 50% in
 the 45-54 age bracket, 30% in the 55-64 and 41% are in the 65-74 group. The Unit’s age profile
 is younger when compared against the ENU institutional average. This is in part an outcome of
 the recruitment drive to attract experienced researchers to deliver on strategy aims to increase
 capacity. Recent recruitment has sought to rebalance this profile and increase the Unit’s long-

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 term sustainability through the appointment of several early career researchers who are
 projected to form the main body of SRRs in the next assessment period.

 In addition, the Unit adopts the University’s maternity and paternity leave policies. Staff returning
 from periods of maternity leave are supported through keep in touch days, staged return, and
 flexible working patterns, where appropriate. During the REF period, both of the two members of
 staff that took maternity leave returned as significantly responsible for research in the Unit.

 98% of eligible and submitted staff are on permanent contracts, while 2% are on fixed term
 contracts. This offers greater security to staff and can ensure continuous access to institutional
 support mechanisms. A proportion of the submitted staff are working on part-time basis, which
 evidences that there is flexibility in working patterns which does not preclude from being
 successful, impactful researchers. One members of the Unit now leads on equality and diversity
 across the school.

 We recognise that PGR students hail from a diverse community. To this end, we considered the
 impact of illness, and maternity/paternity of PGR student’s ability to complete their studies in
 terms of financial viability where a stipend from the University would normally suspend with
 suspension of study period. We have therefore instituted the full maternity/paternity and sickness
 payments as described by RUK PhD studentships, now applied to in-house studentships to
 ensure that we do not disadvantage anyone who requires a period of suspended study.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income
 The total grant funding for research during the current REF period was £1.3million from a range
 of sources: 33% from EU government bodies; 10% from non-EU sources; 26% from
 government, government bodies health trusts and local authorities; 2% from Research Councils
 and Innovate UK; 3% in tax credits; 22% came from business and industry and the remainder
 (4%) from UK charities and other sources.

 Key funders include the Scottish Government, Skills Development Scotland, City of Edinburgh
 Council, the European Commission, Equality and Human Rights Commission, Forces in Mind
 Trust (FiMT) and EPSRC.

 Although this is a slight fall on our overall income during the last REF, the measures set in place
 over the last few years to increase grant income are now having an effect, with £600,000 already
 secured for the next period.

 The variety of funding sources indicates the Unit can engage with a range of stakeholders,
 including the private sector and policymakers, to secure grant funding. We have secured 4 KTPs
 with industrial and third sector partners since 2014, generating £265,111. We have also been
 active in ERASMUS and ERASMUS plus activities.

 Since 2014 we have also seen a substantial increase in income related to our DBAs, thanks to
 an overall increase in both and international student numbers.

 Infrastructure and Facilities
 There has been significant investment in infrastructure in this period. Overall it has covered;
 technical and support staff, estate and facilities, advanced equipment, and IT resources and
 significant archives and collections.

 Doctoral students have a large office fully refurbished and equipped during this REF period, with
 individual desk spaces and computers. This is situated alongside staff office accommodation. A
 subject specialist librarian supports them in conducting literature reviews, searches, and
 accessing relevant papers. These specialists also teach on our DBA. Students have access to
 specialist IT support. PhD students are provided with guidance on their CVs and preparation for
                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 an academic job interview, including the opportunity for mock interviews. Participation in central
 training, education and writing workshops are encouraged.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The Unit is part of a national and international network of research through both the
 collaborations of our staff and our DBA cohorts. Our contribution to research and impact on
 practice is felt in Scotland, the UK and around the world. Examples of international research
 partnerships are outlined below.

 Francis’ collaboration with Amsterdam Business School on workforce engagement has led to a
 joint paper in the Journal of Business Ethics and a joint conference paper at the European
 Group for Organisational Studies.

 Gao’s collaborates with scholars from National Dong Hwa University (Taiwan), RMIT University
 (Australia), Hubei University of Finance and Economics (China), Jilin University (China),
 Shandong University of Finance and Economics (China), and Shanghai University of
 International Business and Economics (China). This has led to six publications including in
 Business Strategy and the Environment, International Journal of Accounting and Information
 Management, and Journal of Accounting, Auditing & Finance.

 Khaleel’s collaborations with researchers at the University of Sarajevo (Bosnia and
 Herzegovina) and Qassim University (Saudi Arabia) have led to several book chapters on the
 history of economic thoughts hidden within the archives of Abrahamic religions.

 Matthews-Smith CAREMAN and DOCMAN Erasmus studies have led to research collaboration
 with Lahti University of Applied Sciences (UAS) in Finland; HAMK UAS (Finland), Charles
 University (Czechia), and University of Évora (Portugal). Publications included a monograph and
 two journal articles. DOCMAN 2017-20 produced two evidence-based articles.

 McFadden-Young’s collaboration with Maynooth University Ireland, led to a three-star
 publication in the International Journal of Human Resource Management.

 Mendonca is a member of Changing Employment, an international comparative European FP7
 Marie Curie Initial Training Network (ITN) of Early-Stage Researchers (ESRs) and Experienced
 Researchers (ERs), led by Strathclyde University, and involving London Met University,
 Goteborg University (Sweden), Evry-Paris University (France), Wroclaw University (Poland),
 Central European University (Hungary), European Trade Union Institute, and International
 Labour Organisation. This has led to co-authoring two chapters in Job Quality in the Era of
 Flexibility, Routledge, and a paper in Work, Employment and Society. He has also worked with
 the EU Agency for the improvement of living and working conditions, EUROFOUND, which led
 to paper in Transfer: European Review of Labour and Research.

 Minhat and Dzolkarnaini have worked on studies in Malaysia. They have collaborated on a
 research project with Consumer Association of Penang (CAP) since 2018. They published a
 book on governance issues relating to government-linked entities in Malaysia, which was
 promoted by the Institute for Democracy and Economic Affairs (IDEAS) in Malaysia in 2020.
 Subsequently, both were invited by BERSIH 2.0 (fights for fair and clean elections) to provide a
 consultation on research relating to political appointments at government-linked entities.
 Collaboration with the University of Malaya (Malaysia) resulted in three publications in Journal of
 Financial Stability, Journal of Human Rights and Applied Economics, three other co-authored
 journal papers and a book chapter. Further collaboration with Al al-Bayt University (Jordan) led
 to a publication in Journal of International Financial Markets, Institutions and Money. Moreover,
 collaboration with Twente University (Netherlands) led to a publication in Research in
 International Business and Finance.

 Osowska’s collaboration with Krakow University of the economics of returnee entrepreneurs led

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to a joint paper in the International Journal of Entrepreneurial Behaviour & Research and a joint
 conference paper at RENT 2018 conference.

 Tjandra has joint research projects with researchers at the University of Gadjah Mada,
 University of Bakrie and BINUS University (Indonesia), University of Ruhuna (Sri Lanka),
 University of Minnesota Duluth (USA) and Kristiania College University Oslo (Norway). Our own
 School grants supported these collaborations, which in turn led to funding from the Carnegie
 Trust, the Indonesian Ministry of Education and Culture and British Council. The outputs are four
 co-authored journal papers. Tjandra and Backhaus are part of a collaborative project led by
 Aston Business School (ABS) in partnership with Centre for Responsible Business (CRB) in
 India.

 Sheehan has worked with University of Cambridge to construct a database to assist UK
 nationals living in the EU post-Brexit, funded by the ESRC (£10,000) and headed by Dr Brendan
 Burchill), and with University of Oxford co-editing two special issues of the International Journal
 of Applied Economics on impacts of COVID-19.

 Our researchers also work with other institutions around the UK. For example: (Francis)
 examining human resources transformation at a large hospitality venue; Aston University
 (Francis, with MRA Associates) exploring e-human resources with a leading oilfield services
 provider; University of Southampton (Patrick) reviewing creative freelancers; Dundee and York
 St John (Patrick and Ellis) exploring the craft beer sector; University of East Anglia (Tjandra);
 Exeter (Tjandra) exploring communication strategies during Covid-19; Glasgow Caledonian
 University (Grant), study of responsible and precarious work of commercial airline pilots, leading
 to a three-star publication in International Journal of Human Resource Management; University
 of the West of Scotland (Grant), study of talent management in the public sector, leading to a
 three star publication in European Management Review.

 Practice Relationships
 Our research always involves practice and during this REF period our academics have built
 strong relationships with policymakers and practitioners. Examples are outlined below.

 Dutton partnered with Skills Development Scotland and the Scottish Government to conduct
 research into skills policies, the PACE employment scheme, gender equality in the construction
 workforce and workforce resilience.

 Francis delivered seminars in 2014 for Law at Work, a consultancy focused on employment law
 and HR. She also delivered a seminar in 2015 for training consultancy, Edinburgh Coaching
 Academy.

 Grant and Sheehan worked with the Workforce Development Trust on the design, analysis and
 reporting of the National (UK) Workforce Development Survey in 2017-18, with the report
 launched at the UK Parliament. Grant was also a speaker at and co-chair of executive-level
 knowledge exchange event on talent management aimed at senior public service managers
 (funded by the Improvement Service) (2017). This project led to a three-star publication in
 European Management Review (2020).

 Khaleel was chairperson from 2017-20 for the social enterprise, MhScot Workplace Wellbeing,
 which focuses on stress prevention and early mental health intervention in the workplace. This
 led to consultancy work with the Public and Commercial Services Union.

 Matthews-Smith sits on the Military Education Committee (MEC), Scottish Parliament Cross
 Party Group on the Armed Forces and Veterans Community and Edinburgh Armed Forces
 Covenant Group. This has supported successful working relationships and funding applications
 including £300,000 FiMT grant with the University of Edinburgh.

 Patrick convened craft beer practitioners in an international symposium and outreach event in

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 2019, as part of dissemination of her research into the sector. In collaboration with colleagues at
 the Universities of Sheffield and Edinburgh. She has provided analysis and advice to Excluded
 UK, a campaign group supporting those not protected by the UK Governments COVID-19
 financial relief measures.

 Plant-O’Toole has strong working links in Ireland. He chairs the Policy Committee of the
 Chartered Institute for Logistics and Transport (Ireland), and has led the development of institute
 policy on transport sustainability via several submissions to government public consultations on
 transportation and logistics. He is also a member of CILT (Ireland) governing council. He was on
 the board of the Logistics and Supply Chain Skills Engagement Group, Department of Business,
 Enterprise and Innovation (Ireland), and has been a member of key steering committees with the
 Departments of Business Enterprise and Innovation and the Environment Protection Agency in
 Ireland.

 Governance Roles
 Osowska is the UK Vice President of ECSB (European Council for Small Business and
 Entrepreneurship). Khaleel is an Advisory Board Member for Ibn Rushd Centre of Excellence for
 Islamic Research, UK. Weaver was a General Council member for the Operational Research
 Society 2012-2019 and is a member of the Board of the Association of Corporate Governance
 Practitioners since 2015. Dzolkarnaini and Minhat are the Governance and Technical Advisers
 for Ansar Finance Group, Manchester, UK, since August 2019.

 Journal Editorship
 Garavan is Joint Editor in Chief of the European Journal of Training and Development and
 Associate Editor of Personnel Review. He is a member of the Editorial Board for: Journal of
 Organizational Effectiveness: People and Performance; International Journal of Training and
 Development; Human Resource Management Journal; Advances of Developing Human
 Resources; Human Resource Development International; Human Resource Development
 Review; Human Resource Development Quarterly; European Journal of Training and
 Development; New Journal Talents.

 Sheehan is Senior Associate Editor of Journal of Organisational Effectiveness: People and
 Performance, she is an associate editor for The Journal of Management Development and
 International Review of Applied Economics and served as an associate editor for Human
 Resource Development Quarterly (2012-2018). She is a member of the editorial board for
 European Journal of Training and Development, Journal of Human Resource Management
 (Warsaw) Human Resource Development Quarterly, Human Resource Development
 International and International Journal of Small Business Research.

 Heidl joined the editorial board of Industrial and Commercial Training in Jan 2020.

 Gao was Associate Editor for Studies in Economics and Finance between 2012-2015 and,
 Emerging Markets, Finance and Trade between 2019-2020. He is the Accounting Editor for Afro-
 Asian Journal of Finance and Accounting since 2011, the Associate Editor for Global Review of
 Accounting and Finance since 2014, and is Consulting Editor for International Journal of Auditing
 and Accounting Studies since 2019.

 Tjandra is on the editorial review board for the Transnational Marketing Journal.

 Ellis is a longstanding member of the editorial board of New Technology, Work and
 Employment.

 Dzolkarnaini is an editorial board member for International Journal of Emerging Markets,
 Sustainability, European Journal of Islamic Finance, Asian Journal of Accounting Perspectives,
 and International Journal of Excellence in Islamic Banking and Finance.

 Minhat is an international advisory board member for Asian Journal of Accounting Perspectives.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Fellowships
 All our staff are either fellows, senior fellows or principal fellows of the Higher Education
 Academy. In addition:

 Khaleel, Osowska and Patrick are Fellows of the Royal Society of Arts and Manufacture (RSA)
 Ellis was awarded Fellowship of the Educational Institute of Scotland in 2018 for services to
 education and the Institute.

 Sheehan is Visiting Professor, University of Graz, Austria, University of Krakow, Poland (2020-
 2025). Backhaus is Research Fellow at Vlerick Business School, Ghent University (2019-2021).

 Prizes
 Osowska won best paper awards at Research in Entrepreneurship and Small Business (RENT)
 2016, 2017, and best reviewer award at RENT 2018. Garavan has won research excellence
 awards from the Academy of Human Resource Development, awarded for the outstanding
 article in annual volumes of the journals; The Human Resource Development Quarterly (2014
 and 2019), Human Resource Development Review (2020) and Human Resource Development
 International (2018).

 Matthews-Smith (2018) won outstanding article in Human Resource Development International.
 Sheehan won the Advances in Human Resource Development (AHRD) journal’s ‘Best Issue’
 research excellence award for an issue that she co-edited of the journal in 2015, and the
 University Forum for Human Resource Development’s Annual ‘Best Paper’ award, sponsored by
 Emerald in 2014 and 2016. Tjandra was awarded the Academy of Marketing Best Papers in
 Brand, Identity and Corporate Reputation track (2014), Ethics and Marketing track (2015),
 Events, and Sports Marketing track (2015).

 McFadden-Young won best paper at the Equality, Diversity & Inclusion Conference, Rotterdam
 in 2019. Gao won best paper at the International Business Research Conference in 2016, co-
 authored with Jinling Li from Hubei University of Economics, China. Heidl won the 2020 Emerald
 Literati Award as Outstanding Reviewer for the European Journal of Training and Development.

 Keynotes and Conference Chair Roles.
 Gao regularly contributes keynotes at conferences across Asia, including at the International
 Symposium on Big Data Management, Decision and Information Resource Management,
 Kunming 2017, at the International Symposium on Risk Governance and Risk Management,
 Wuhan 2017, and at the International Conference in Accounting, Finance and Business,
 Industrial University of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam 2019.

 Osowska was Sessions chair at Research in Entrepreneurship and Small Business (RENT) in
 2018 and 2020 and at Entrepreneurship, Culture, Finance and Economic Development (ECFED)
 2018. Khaleel was Session chair at Sarajevo Islamic Finance and Economics Conference
 SIFEC 2019. Sheehan was keynote speaker at the 'Employee Benefits Live’ Conference in
 London, Autumn 2017, keynote at a British Academy of Management (BAM) funded event,
 Autumn 2017, delivered expert testimony on measures to prevent and resolve workplace
 bullying in Irish hospitals, January 2016, (the Irish Nurses and Midwifery trade union), and was
 keynote to the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD).

 Minhat was an invited panel speaker at international conferences held by Confucius Institute of
 Scotland during 2017-2019. Minhat and Dzolkarnaini were invited to speak on Ethical Finance
 at events hosted by Treasury Markets Association, Hong Kong Monetary Authority (HKMA),
 Research Centre for Sustainable Hong Kong (CSHK), City University of Hong Kong, BERSIH
 2.0 (fights for fair and clean elections) and Bank Rakyat Malaysia.

 All staff act as referees for academic journals. Some examples include: Academy of
 Management: Learning and Education Accounting and Business Research British Journal of

                                                                                                 Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Industrial Relations; British Journal of Management; Business Strategy and the Environment;
 Cambridge Journal of Economics; European Management Review; European Management
 Journal; European Journal of Marketing; Human Resource Management; Human Resource
 Management Review; International Journal of Human Resource Management International
 Journal of Management Reviews; International Migration; International Journal of Small
 Business Research; International Small Business Journal; Journal of Business Ethics; Journal of
 Business ; Research; Journal of International Financial Markets Institutions and Money; Journal
 of Managerial Psychology; Journal of Vocational Behaviour; Journal of World Business; New
 Technology Work and Employment; Organization Studies; Personnel Review; Psychology &
 Marketing; Public Administration; Public Management Review; Small Business Economics
 Journal; Work Employment and Society.

 Our researchers also review for the following conferences: Academy of Human Research
 Development conference; British Academy of Management conference; Research in
 Entrepreneurship and Small Business (RENT); Academy of Management (US); University
 Forum for Human Resource Development (UFHRD); International Human Resource
 Management Conference (2015; 2017; 2019). Accounting and Business Research: Journal of
 Accounting in Emerging Economies; Applied Economics; European Marketing Academy.




                                                                                         Page 15
