Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

 Unit of Assessment: 22 Anthropology

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Goldsmiths Anthropology Department continues to play a pioneering role in reshaping anthropology
by producing world leading public-facing research that expands the discipline’s reach, relevance and
impact. It does this through critical engagement with contemporary issues and cutting-edge research
that combines experimentation with a wide variety of media, formats and spaces, and extensive
collaboration with NGOs, policy makers, artists, filmmakers, theatres and museums locally,
nationally and internationally. We strive to make anthropology matter and this goal both informs
and drives a lively departmental research culture. Whether organising participatory workshops on
hair with local primary school children in London (Tarlo), advising the Labour Party and Green Party
on strategies for poverty elimination and climate change (Hickel), advising the House of Lords on
gambling (Cassidy) and on the EU’s External Action Service (Shore), collaborating with theatre,
artists, film makers and photographers (Day, Dattatreyan, Marrero-Guillamón), curating exhibitions
(Donner, Tarlo, Johnson, Nicolescu, McGuirk, Zetterstrom-Sharp) or facilitating south-south
collaborative research amongst arts organisations in Bangladesh, South Africa, Brazil and the
Philippines (M. Johnson) and with NGOS in India and Caribbean (Webb, Donner, Philogene Heron),
Goldsmiths anthropologist have been active in producing and promoting a public anthropology
which strives to operate without borders. The impact of this can be seen across multiple sectors
including education, health, arts, museums, politics, religious law, creative writing and development.
This outward-facing approach to anthropology is matched by world-class research that stretches the
boundaries of the discipline in terms of its methodology, content, inter-disciplinary engagement and
reach.

The Anthropology Department at a Glance

We are a dynamic department with members at all stages of an academic career. In 2019-20 this
included 21 Teaching and Research (T&R) 19 full time and 2 part-time (0.5), 4 full time members on
Teaching and Scholarship (T&S) contracts, 1 Senior Research Fellow (SRF), 3 Post-doctoral
Research Fellows (PDRs) linked to research grants, 15 part-time Associate Lecturers (ALs) who
contribute to the teaching and research environment and 6 Visiting Research Fellows (VRF). The
student body consists of 420 undergraduates, 106 students on taught MA programmes and 35 PhD
students. All students participate in the research culture of the department, which strives to promote
inclusivity.

The department values and supports different scales of research project from bespoke individual
projects such as Marrero-Guillamón’s Tindaya and Dattatreyan’s Desiring Bollywood (both funded
by British Academy small research grants), to large-scale collaborative projects involving multiple
partners including Day’s Wellcome-funded People Like You project and M. Johnson’s AHRC GCRF-
funded GlobalGRACE Project. Both of these required complex interdisciplinary collaborative
arrangements and the management of considerable budgets (£612,204 and £3,287,887
respectively). All of our researchers are encouraged to develop research projects and networks,
participate in national and international seminars, organise conferences, conference panels and
workshops and publish in peer-reviewed journals as well as working on long term monographs. In
addition, staff are actively encouraged to find ways of disseminating their research to different publics

                                                                                                 Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
through other media (including film, radio, digital outputs, exhibitions, expert reports, anthropological
non-fiction). This forms a vital part of our research strategy, which aims to achieve a combination of
world leading internationally recognised research that is relevant to diverse publics and has impact
locally and globally.

During this REF period and in recognition of their extensive contributions within and beyond
anthropology, 8 of our staff have won esteemed international prizes for their research (see Section
4). The fact that over half of staff members have been invited to deliver major keynote lectures is
further testimony to the high quality and international standing of our research.

Research Organisation and Structure

Our commitment to a critical, engaged and outward-facing public anthropology is sustained through
six interdisciplinary research clusters that build on historic strengths in political economy and visual
anthropology whilst expanding into new areas of expertise in digital technologies, multi modal
ethnography, ecology and policy.

1: Visual Anthropology, Material Culture, Multimodal Anthropology. (Dattatreyan, Marrero-
Guillamón, Day, Von Hellermann, Tarlo, Zetterstrom-Sharp, Johnson, Donner, Weston, Wright)

This cluster expands the scope of the department’s visual anthropology research through
increased focus on collaborative practice-based research including the development of multi-modal
methods that incorporate sound, image, theatre and film. Dattatreyan and Marrero-Guillamón’s work
exemplifies these methods in practice whilst their writing on multi modal methodologies published in
the flagship journal, American Anthropologist, charts new theoretical ground, further sustained by
Wright’s co-edited volume Beyond Text. These methods inform the new Anthropology and Visual
Practice degree introduced in 2015 which encourages UG students to develop research skills in
photography, sound, film and digital editing and curating their own degree show.

In developing further critical approaches to photography and film making, Day’s People Like
You (Wellcome) project explored ideas of recognition in relation to visual representations of
individuals and collectives; Dattatreyan’s research interrogated the role of lantern slides in post-
colonial diasporic family histories and the importance of mobile phone technologies in the social and
imaginary landscapes of African migrants in Delhi; Von Hellermann used historic images of place for
exploring ecological change in East Africa; Weston has examined the representation of
anthropologists in film, and Tarlo has compiled extensive visual documentation of the human hair
trade, highlighting the materiality of hair and hidden labour conditions in the trade. Together, these
approaches explore the documentary and imaginative potential of image making as well as the social
life of images in relation to memory making and imagined futures.

The cluster also enhances research collaborations in the field of material culture through
engagement with policies that shape museums and curating practices. Joy and Zetterstrom-Sharp’s
research on heritage management, justice and decolonisation is exemplary in this regard. Joy is
advisor to the GCRF project, Rising from the Depths (University of Roehampton) and collaborates
with the Museum of Black Civilisations and University of Anta Diop on the future of art collections in
Senegal. In addition to organising panels at the RAI conference 2018 and the Museum
Ethnographer’s Group 2019, she is a member of the Critical Heritage Group at UCL and the
Cambridge Research Centre. In 2020 Zetterstrom-Sharp was appointed Chair of the Museum

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Ethnographers Group, thereby extending Goldsmiths’ role in shaping future museum priorities and
agendas.

2: Political Economy, Ecology and Sustainability in Global Perspectives. (Von Hellerman;
Hickel; Mollona; Shore, Cassidy)

The critique of contemporary capitalism, which has been a trademark of Goldsmiths anthropology
for many years, has reached new levels and new audiences during the current REF period. Mollona’s
extensive fieldwork on economic institutions in Italy, UK, Norway and Brazil, has allowed him to
explore relationships between economic development and political identity through participatory and
experimental film projects that focus on the intersection of pedagogy, art and activism. Mollona
continues to develop his links with the arts through leadership roles that include the Director of the
Athens Biennale (2015-16) and Director of the Bergen Assembly Art Biennial. He has also reached
a range of audiences through both his visual work and partnership with the Political Economy
Research Centre at Goldsmiths. Hickel uses historical anthropology and political economy to expose
the dangers of society’s addiction to economic growth and to forge more equitable alternatives that
are gaining traction in multiple international policy settings. Cassidy uses critical anthropology to
explain the unnatural histories of the international gambling industries, their extractive properties and
elective affinity with capitalism. Shore uses anthropological methodologies to examine how auditing
is impacting everyday social life and the role of international accountancy firms in re-shaping
contemporary societies. His work on higher education reform has critically analysed the effects of
academic capitalism on knowledge production, social relations and subjectivities in higher education.
Working in multiple sites and observing the global political economy through the circulation of
materials and people, Von Hellermann (Red Gold, Leverhulme funded project on palm oil production)
and Hickel are at the vanguard of a new political ecology that combines history and anthropology to
create new terms for a sustainable, post-growth approach to the environment.

3: Human – digital interfaces. (Gonzalez-Polledo, Day, M. Johnson, Wright, Dattatreyan, Goddard,
Philogene Heron)

Recognising the expanding role of the digital in people’s lives and the need for anthropological
methods to address these developments at micro and macro levels, the department has successfully
developed a new research theme devoted to critically exploring the multiple affordances, ethical
challenges and potential hazards of digital media. Gonzalez-Polledo’s Wellcome Trust project, Data
Worlds and Futures: Archives, Bioinformation and Evidence explores how the nature of forensic
investigations is radically altered in disturbing ways through the substitution of material data by digital
data and investigates the ethical terrain surrounding what happens to people’s digital data after they
die. Day’s Wellcome project, People Like You, explores the ambiguity of our relationship to digital
data and interrogates how personalisation is understood in medicine and other domains of life. M.
Johnson also develops a critical approach to uses of digital data in his British Academy project Big
Data, live methods and surveillance subjectivities among transnational migrants in Hong Kong, which
has exposed how surveillance technologies are used to spy on migrant domestic workers within
home settings.

The multiple possibilities of digital media are examined in other research projects. Wright’s
Leverhulme project, A Life more photographic: mediated presence and photography’s possible
futures asks how the proliferation of digital images changes how we see the world and what images
accumulated and exchanged through Instagram, Snapchat and other social media represent to

                                                                                                   Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
young people in diverse locations from London to Ladakh. Dattatreyan’s research explores how a
new ‘global familiar’ emerges through digital media circuits whilst Goddard’s British Academy project
Art, digital and audio-visual practices as research for building togetherness, uses digital methods to
develop ways of encouraging social inclusion amongst marginalised youth in Argentinian schools.
Philogene Heron’s GCRF project, Caribbean Cyclone Cartography, extends the inclusive and
emancipatory potential of digital media by developing an online digital hub of cyclone resilience and
resources built with and for islanders in Dominica.

In rethinking what digital media mean for anthropology the department has been keen to explore
its potential for encouraging open access to research. For example, elements of Tarlo’s research on
hair loss have been disseminated through a short, animated film which now features on the Alopecia
Society website and is designed to reduce stigma and encourage discussion of a taboo subject.
Marrero-Guillamón, Tarlo and Goddard have all developed websites designed to document their
research and promote collaborative possibilities. Particularly notable is McGuirk’s on-going work
(with M. Johnson, Clisby and Goldsmiths sociologist, Puwar) in developing a digital Global Museum
of Equality (to be launched in Cape Town in 2021). The museum uses collaborative digital methods
to explore issues of gender, diversity and decolonisation. Together, these projects demonstrate our
goal to bring anthropology to new audiences. Researchers involved in these projects have been
agile at adapting to the challenges posed by Covid-19 owing to their existing engagement with digital
methods and solutions to problem solving.

4: Mobilities of people, objects and substances. (Elliot, Tarlo, Von Hellermann, Pine, Dattatreyan,
Joy, Zetterstrom Sharp)

The department has cultivated new expertise in the movements of people, objects and
substances, which is reflected in several recent world leading outputs, grants and collaborations.
This culminated in the creation of a new MA in Migration and Mobilities in 2018 and the establishment
of the Migration Research Network at Goldsmiths, which hosts regular screenings and discussions.
This research theme is extended in the prominent work of Emeritus Professor Pine on migration and
mobility, uncertainty and future making in times of rupture. Through her fieldwork in Morocco,
Tunisia, and Italy Elliot highlights the social and intimate dimensions of migration, exploring how it
shapes not only the lives of those who move but also those left behind, suspended in a state of
permanent uncertainty. In 2019 Elliot was invited to deliver the prestigious Evans Pritchard lecture
series at All Souls Oxford where she expanded upon her distinctive approach to migration as a way
of life that permeates thoughts, actions and routines. Dattatreyan contributes to these debates by
engaging with the ways that digital media consumption, production, and circulation shape
understandings of migration, gender, race, and urban space, including among Delhi and London’s
young working class and migrant men. His focus on south-south migration networks between Africa
and India has helped move the study of migration beyond the common focus on Europe and its
borders. Focusing on objects, people and their connections, Tarlo and Von Hellermann explore the
international circulation of material substances (palm oil and hair, respectively), including their
transformative possibilities in different sites, while Joy and Zetterstrom Sharp focus on the
problematic futures of objects in museum collections, exploring difficult histories, and charting new
possibilities of heritage justice through objects in motion. This research adds new directions to the
department’s expertise in the politics of culture, which we will further develop in future research
projects.




                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
5: Public Policy, Rights and Legality - including bureaucracy, gambling regulation, heritage
management – (Shore, Cassidy, Webb, Joy, Sauma, Wemyss)

Concern with public policy and human rights and direct engagement with the critique and building
of public policy have long been strengths of Goldsmiths Anthropology. Engaging at both micro and
macro levels, Shore, Cassidy, Webb, Wemyss and Joy all examine the production of public
knowledge and how policy makers use, ignore, reinterpret or devalue this knowledge. Shore’s work
on the anthropology of policy and organisations spans several fields including EU institutions and
policies, the state, nationalism, elites, corruption, higher education reform and the rise of ‘audit
culture’. Cassidy has demonstrated that while policy makers often ignore qualitative data,
ethnography and critical anthropology can directly impact policy. Her fieldwork cataloguing the
everyday violence experienced by staff and punters in betting shops in London produced a new
Labour Party policy to ban ‘single manning’. Webb’s long-term fieldwork on the organisation of Right
to Information (RTI) activism in Delhi segued into an investigation of engagements between new
movements for ethical politics in India and the Indian Diaspora in the UK. Webb’s work on active
citizenship, ethical politics, transparency and accountability, urban governance and access to public
goods (such as clean air and water) emerges from wide-reaching international collaborations with
colleagues at IIIT-Delhi and NIT Silchar. His GCRF- funded research extends the reach of
anthropology to working with local communities in Delhi that are finding concrete and sustainable
solutions to endemic problems.

Working in metropolitan and frontier contexts in Brazil with street children and educators, and with
Amazonian quilombolas (maroons) on issues of race and ethnicity, political cosmology and ecology,
myth and memory, kinship, gender and the body, Sauma’s research offers nuanced insights into
lives maintained within and against violent legal-political and relational structures. Wemyss’s
research investigates the relationship between law and time, the aesthetics of justice and the
material lives of norms and political imaginaries. His fieldwork in the Bolivian Altiplano examines the
tensions between official law and the 'indigenous' laws of the villages. In a joint venture, Joy and
Wemyss investigated the International Criminal Court in The Hague as a site of negotiation and
conflict, building on Joy’s study of the trail of Ahmad al‐Faqi al‐Mahdi, the first individual to be
prosecuted for the destruction of cultural sites as a war crime. Joy’s book, Heritage Justice, lays out
pathways through which museums might address their problematic heritage in the interests of justice
and reparation. The anthropology of law, rights and policy are all themes that the department aims
to develop in the future.

6: Race, Gender, Class and Systems of Privilege. (Dattatreyan, Gonzalez-Polledo, Sauma,
Johnson, Philogene Heron, McGuirk).

The department has a long history of analysing multiple forms of inequality through tracking the ever-
morphing intersections of race, class and gender and through critical public interventions. This work
is expanded in the current REF cycle by combining theoretical analysis with renewed commitment
to tackling social and racial justice in practice. At a theoretical level it involves interrogating and
anatomizing the categories through which inequality is experienced. Sauma recounts quilombo
families’ corporeal and conceptual efforts to maintain a vital collective life in the face of and against
anti-Black ideologies and State-endorsed environmental destruction in the Brazilian Amazon.
Gonzalez-Polledo’s ground-breaking work on transmen’s’ experiences of transitioning challenges
the very materialities and epistemologies of gender, whilst Philogene Heron’s research on



                                                                                                 Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
masculinities in the Caribbean unearths the secret acts of care and intimacy that remain concealed
behind the stereotypes of masculinity attached to Caribbean fathers.

The department’s work on race and gender intersects with its research strand on migration and
mobilities in important ways, with Johnson exploring the relationship between race, criminal justice
and migration in relation to domestic workers in Saudi Arabia, Dattatreyan exploring the dynamics
of racialisation as experienced by African migrants in Delhi, and McGuirk tracking the multiple forces
shaping forced migration amongst LGBT people fleeing persecution only to encounter new forms of
heteronormative surveillance under the US asylum system where they find themselves expected to
perform overt signs of LGBTness to legitimate their claims.

Research and Impact Strategy

Fostering public anthropology is crucial to the research and impact strategies of the department and
this ethos is reflected our research clusters which build upon priorities highlighted in REF 2014
(especially developing London-based research which illuminates global processes and
strengthening trans-national research on mobility and justice). Our strategy in this REF period has
been to support our researchers in contributing to issues of urgent contemporary relevance through
a wide range of collaborations at a local, national and international level, examples of our success
in this area includes:

•   Increasing our involvement in collaborative exhibition making. Johnson and Nicolescu’s
    Exhibition Beyond Myself focussed on migrant domestic workers and their remittances and itself
    travelled from London to Manila and Hong Kong where it received highly favourable media
    attention; Donner’s exhibition Austerity Bites and Johnson’s exhibition were both show-cased at
    Goldsmiths. Tarlo’s photographic exhibition, co-curated with Jefferies (Computing), Material
    Representations in Cloth and Hair was shown at the Constance Howard Gallery in Deptford
    Town Hall whilst her multi-media collaborative exhibition, Hair! Human Stories (featuring 350
    objects) was curated in The Library Space in Battersea and involved intensive collaborations
    with artists and hairdressers. Through such multimedia projects, including Day’s advisory role in
    relation to theatrical projects developed by the Young Vic and Royal Court Theatre companies,
    Goldsmiths anthropologists express their commitment to experimenting with practice-based
    research and promoting an outward-facing anthropology without borders.
•   Forging links with local institutions and communities. The department has established a
    highly successful new Goldsmiths/Horniman MA in Anthropology and Museum Practice,
    providing a unique combination of theoretical and practical training to a new generation of
    students. These collaborative initiatives form part of a new Memorandum of Understanding
    (MOU) between Goldsmiths and the Horniman. The department played a major role in building
    these ties through organising the ‘Horniman Lates’ event (Joy), establishing ‘object-in focus’
    loans (Zetterstrom-Sharp) and collaborations for the exhibition, Hair: Untold Stories, co-curated
    by Tarlo and Horniman curator Sarah Byrne. This exhibition, scheduled to open in October 2021,
    is funded through the HEIF knowledge exchange framework. Tarlo is also expert advisor to the
    Troppen Museum in Rotterdam and to the Leicester Museum for its collection of Islamic textiles.
    Her work engages with multiple audiences through public lectures and participation in public-
    facing roundtable discussions at the Musée de Quai Branley (Paris), the Museum Centraal
    (Utrecht), Somerset House, the V&A (London), the Pitt Rivers Museum (Oxford), MOMA (New
    York) and the Lenbachhaus Museum (Munich).
•   Boosting our commitment to exploring creative convergences between contemporary art
    and anthropology (exemplified in Wright and Sansi-Roca’s pioneering work), several staff
                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   members (Wright, Mollona, Tarlo, Day) continue to collaborate with artists and promote
   interdisciplinary engagement. The CVA regularly invites artists and filmmakers to present, screen
   and discuss their work and attracts post-doctoral students working on experimental film. In
   addition, Mollona was appointed as Programme and Artistic Director of the Athens Biennale
   (2015-16) and Director of the Bergen Assembly Art Biennial (2016-17), extending the
   department’s experimental approaches to ethnography into the international art scene.

The department nurtures impact development and research vitality through funding, mentoring
and workshop training under the leadership of Hickel, the department’s Impact Champion and Public
Engagement Officer. To facilitate impact all our research clusters include pathways to public
engagement and feed into post-graduate training and research-led teaching modules. These are
constantly adapted to support staff research interests. The impact case studies presented in our
REF 2021 submission demonstrate the range of different media through which our impact is
expressed, from public reports, advocacy work, health service provision, exhibitions, theatre,
educational guidelines, workshops with school children and extensive engagement with public forms
of dissemination (online, print, radio and television). Focussed on gambling legislation (Cassidy),
health provision for sex workers (Day) and social and religious literacy in relation to hair (Tarlo),
these case studies chart the impact of research in relation to government policy, ethical guidelines,
health provision, religious legal rulings and the provision of expert evidence.

Research clusters in relation to interdisciplinary research

Our six research clusters are closely linked to one of more of the college’s four multidisciplinary
research themes including the Economic and Social Justice theme (led by Cassidy from 2016-17),
the Migration research network (led by Dattatreyan with Elliot and Johnson as active participants),
the Bodies, Minds and Societies theme (in which Day and Johnson participate) and the Critical
Ecologies network (Hickel, Von-Hellermann, Cassidy). Department members actively contribute to
college-wide research centres including the Centre of the Study of the Body (Day, Tarlo), the Centre
for Invention and Social Process (Cassidy), the Unit for Global Justice, the Political Economy
Research Centre (Mollona), the Sociology Methods Lab (Tarlo), the Centre for Urban and
Community Research (Dattatreyan), the Centre for Post-colonial studies (Marrero-Guillamón),
Britain in Europe (Shore) and the Talking Textiles forum (Tarlo).

Open research environment

Our goal of fostering public anthropology is reflected in our research seminars, book launch events
and annual Gold Lectures, which are open to the public, as well as in our commitment to encouraging
open access publications. While virtually all our published work is Green Open Access, in the period
1 January 2014 and 31 December 2020 the department also produced 51 Gold Open Access
publications. Of these, 43 were journal articles, 3 book chapters, 1 edited book, 2 edited journals,
and 2 reports. This work is freely available via Goldsmiths Research Online (GRO). Members of the
department also sit on editorial boards for multiple publishers and journals include; Goldsmiths Press
(Cassidy and Dattatryan), the Routledge series Ethnography and Theory (Donner, Gonzalez-
Polledo), The Bloomsbury Dress and Fashion Research Series (Tarlo) and the journals, Third World
Quarterly (Hickel), Third Text (Marrero-Guillamón), Fashion Studies (Tarlo), the Journal of the
Costume Society (Tarlo), Focaal (Mollona) and The Journal of the Royal Anthropology Institute
(JRAI), Anthropology Today, Anthropological Journal of European Cultures and Learning and
Teaching in the Social Sciences (Shore), American Ethnologist, South East Asia Research and
Sociological Review (Johnson) and Addiction (Cassidy).
                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Supporting a culture of research integrity

The department has developed robust procedures for promoting and enhancing research integrity
at all stages in the research process. Ethics training is embedded in the department’s research and
teaching culture at every level, including in MRes and PhD methods courses. Our Research Ethics
Officer (Day) supported by the Director of Research and Post-Graduate Convenor, reviews all staff
and Post Graduate Research (PGR) student research ethics proposals and provides expert advice
on issues pertaining to ethnographic fieldwork and researching across cultural boundaries. A
College-wide Research Ethics and Integrity Sub-Committee must also approve staff research ethics
forms before any research project begins. Ethical considerations include ensuring the safety of
participants, transparency and culturally appropriate conduct when conducting research, consent to
research and use of data, respect for privacy, confidentiality and anonymity and the management of
research staff and research data.

 2. People

The department’s staffing strategy and development programme are underpinned by our strong
commitment to promoting equality and diversity and sustaining an inclusive and supportive research
culture that enables all staff to pursue research activities, impact and dissemination.

Staff Development strategy

The department deploys a raft of measures to support staff development, including offering annual
performance development reviews, allocating reduced teaching loads to Early Career Researchers
(ECRs) and supporting new staff to apply for research funding. The value of this strategy of actively
nurturing new recruits to develop their research and publication profiles is evidenced in the fact that
three new lecturers were promoted to Senior Lecturer within two years of their appointment
(Dattatreyan, Hickel and Gonzalez-Polledo). Staff are granted one day a week for research and are
encouraged to apply for Dedicated Research Time (DRT) on a rotational basis. They receive an
allowance of £650 per annum which can be used for conference attendance, networking and small
research trips. For larger projects the Director of Research and Research Administrator provide
bespoke advice about specific funding calls. The promotion of Von Hellermann to Senior Lecturer,
Donner to Reader and M Johnson to Professor during the period testifies to the dynamism of
research trajectories at all levels in the department.

ECR researchers on fixed-term contracts are integrated into the department through participation in
the research seminar series and research exchanges. To sustain our vibrant research culture, we
run events for all staff to attend, including:
1. Weekly Research Seminars – where anthropologists from the UK, Europe and the global south
    - present on-going research. This is open to all staff and students and members of the public.
2. The Centre for Visual Anthropology (CVA) which hosts events from film screenings to
    workshops with artists, curators and filmmakers. The centre provides a creative hub for students
    and staff to experiment with visual theory and ethnographic form. Under the leadership of
    Marrero-Guillamón, Dattatreyan and Leizoala, it encourages creative, practice-based research
    and pioneering experimentation with multi modal outputs (often combining photography, film,
    music, sound, online platforms and exhibitions). It plays a key role in fulfilling the department’s
    commitment to stretching the boundaries and reach of anthropology and to supporting early

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   career researchers (See Section 2). The CVA also supports students through the award of grants
   for visual and multi-modal projects.
3. Anthropology Matters Annual Conference – this event showcases the latest research of staff
   and students, providing an opportunity for postgraduate and undergraduate students to present
   research alongside staff. It plays an important role in building an inclusive research environment
   in which students play a vital part.
4. The Gold Lecture - an annual event at which an invited speaker presents a public lecture on a
   topic of pressing contemporary relevance.
5. Student-Staff collaborative research is promoted through team research projects involving UG
   and PG students (such as projects on gambling, the Antiques Road Show and the anthropology
   book project, all co-ordinated by Weston), and through research-based work placements co-
   ordinated by Philogene Heron and Tarlo under the Goldsmiths Internship (GRIP) scheme.

Recruitment strategy

Our recruitment strategy has revolved around hiring and nurturing new talent at a junior level,
encouraging applicants from diverse backgrounds and with a commitment to promoting equity and
diversity, whilst ensuring continuity in relation to thematic research expertise and regional
knowledge. The appointments of Wemyss, Sauma and Philogene Heron have renewed historic
areas of expertise relating to Latin America and the Caribbean. Hickel’s appointment and the arrival
of Cucu has consolidated our long-term engagement with political economy, while the appointment
of Gonzalez-Polledo, Dattatreyan, Elliot and Walton expands our growing strengths in migration and
digital and multimodal anthropology and our last three appointments have all been BAME ECRs.

In addition to early career appointments, the department recruited a Chair at the Senior level (Shore)
in the light of successful research bids of other senior staff (Day, Johnson, Von Hellermann and
Wright) which limited their availability to take on senior management roles in the department. Shore’s
role as a world-leading expert in the anthropology of policy, knowledge and audit cultures and his
historic research connections with Goldsmiths made him an ideal recruit. He became Head of
Department in January 2019 and was succeeded by Gonzalez-Polledo at the start of the 2020 term.

Our strategy to promote equality, diversity and inclusivity is evident in our staffing. The submitted
unit is balanced in terms of gender profile (46% male 54% female) and the balance in terms of
ethnicity is 66% white / 21% BAME (with 13% unclassified). Whilst Day, Cassidy and Tarlo have
developed substantial impacts in this REF period, more junior colleagues including Hickel, Joy, M.
Johnson, Philogene Heron, Sauma, Donner and Webb have also been able to develop distinctive
impact profiles that will stretch well beyond the current REF period and reflect the department’s
commitment to impact, inclusivity and public engagement.

The research culture is further enriched by the contributions of PDRs, some of whom are attached
to major research projects led by senior staff, others of whom are affiliated to the department or the
Centre of Visual Anthropology. Over the past two years we have hosted a visiting doctoral student
in anthropology from CEU and post-doctoral visiting fellows from Canada, Egypt, Poland, Romania,
Spain and Saudi Arabia. Other examples include Nicolescu’s convening of the Wellcome funded
seminar series, Economies of Care and Social Reproduction and curation of the exhibition Beyond
Myself and McGuirk’s curation of the exhibition Exchanging Cultures of Equality which accompanied
the launch of Johnson’s GCRF GlobalGRACE project.



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research students

Central to our research culture is our vibrant body of PGRs. The department receives annually 40
applications to study on one of our research degrees (MRes/MPhil/PhD in Anthropology or Visual
Anthropology) and we admit between 8 and 10 new students onto our programmes each year. The
total number of PGR students is currently 42 of which 14.3% (6 students) are international and 21.4%
(9 students) completed their undergraduate degrees at Goldsmiths. This is testimony to the
international appeal of our programmes as well as to the department’s dedication in supporting
and mentoring our own students who have the capacity and desire to pursue an MRes or PhD in
Social Anthropology.

Since its commencement in 2016, the department has been successful in the open competition and
has been awarded 5 ESRC studentships. Through CHASE (Consortium of Humanities and Arts
South East) we have been awarded 8 studentships. 2 doctoral students from Ethiopia and Nepal
were funded through V. Johnson’s ESRC-DfID funded YOUR world research project between 2017
and 2019, while other doctoral students have received funding from the Emslie Horniman Fund,
Wellcome Trust and the Onassis Foundation.

The Department runs research methods training courses for each of its MRes/MPhil programmes
(two term-long modules per programme), which first year students must pass as a condition of their
upgrade from MPhil to PhD. Doctoral training is integrated with that provided by Goldsmiths through
the ESRC’s SenSS DTP (South East Network of Social Sciences). Department research overheads
have also been used to fund bursaries to support first year research students, writing-up students,
travel to conferences, specialised language training and costs associated with thesis completion.
Students who undertake undergraduate teaching as Associate Lecturers are encouraged to take the
Postgraduate Training Certificate offered through Goldsmiths Learning Enhancement Unit and
receive mentoring from course convenors. In addition to the weekly writing-up seminar, both the
Graduate School and the Department provide specialist Professional Development Workshops.
During the current REF period 34 PhDs have been awarded.

Equality and Diversity

The identification and commitment to tackling and eliminating forms of structural racism in all
its forms represents a growing field of concern for our staff and students alike and is priority for
strategic development in the future. The establishment of an Anti-racism committee within the
department, the participation of students and staff in the wider GARA (Goldsmiths Anti-Racist
Action), the commitment to racial justice through exhibitions and museum work and the
establishment of a student-led decolonising anthropology reading group represent part of a growing
commitment to this agenda.

In 2019 Goldsmiths anthropology students and staff were lead convenors of the Anthropology in
London conference held at UCL on the theme of Turbulence and in 2020 they organised the
department research seminar series on ‘Anthropology and Double Consciousness: Moving Between
Worlds?’ Further responses include:

•   Two student placements awarded in 2018 through the GRIP placement scheme which put race
    at the centre of research agendas.
•   The creation of a decolonising anthropology website. This has been further expanded by a
    collective of staff and students focussed on unsettling anthropology.
                                                                                           Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•     A student-staff collaborative exhibition on Black hair and Racial Politics.
•     Close involvement of graduate students and Associate Lecturers in organising the Decolonising
      Anthropology Reading Group and decolonising the curriculum initiatives.

In 2020 the department introduced a new competitive BAME Pipeline bursary aimed at promoting
racial equality and recognising the barriers faced by Black PhD students in the competition for
Research Council funding. Our commitment to racial justice is further extended through the
preparation of a bid for an ESRC Centre for Race Critical Studies (led by Dattatreyan), which will
extend the department’s commitment to race critical research and action into the future.

Departmental support mechanisms are open are available to all staff and include:
• Departmental policy to encourage all T&R staff to apply for study leave (Dedicated Research
   Leave) after nine terms of service.
• Support for flexible and/or remote working (e.g. around paternity and maternity leave);
• Bespoke services provided to staff and research students with caring responsibilities and
   ill health by the Director of Research.
• Help with preparing and submitting funding applications, access to internal funds, research-
   related promotion procedures, recruitment for research-related leadership roles, conference
   attendance, sabbaticals and training that is diversity and inclusion sensitive; (in 2019-2020 two
   BAME ECRs were successful in applying for external research funding).
• Additional support for staff and research students returning from periods of leave (including
   parental leave) or ill health, managing long-term illness, or with caring responsibilities (one-to-
   one meetings with the Director of Research and a Return to Work package where necessary).
• All completed PGR students can apply for a one-year Honorary Research Fellowship which
   provides additional support including library access and mentoring as they develop their post-
   doctoral careers.
• Close collaboration between our two Departmental Senior Tutors and the College’s Wellbeing
   team.

Equality and Diversity in relation to our REF submission

We appointed an experienced external academic to review our outputs and selections were made
by an internal committee in consultation with external advisors. In selecting final outputs for
submission to REF 2021, consistent with the Goldsmiths Code of Practice, we prioritized quality, but
also sought to reflect the broad scope of our research and were attentive to issues of inclusivity
including early career researchers, BAME representation and gender. Approximate to representation
across the department as a whole, 23% of our REF research outputs are from BAME staff and 55%
are from female staff, with BAME and female colleagues marginally more likely to be submitted with
multiple outputs.

    3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The changing nature of UKRI priorities and the Industrial Strategy have radically altered the funding
landscape and the department has been proactive in developing strategies that encourage both
large-scale grant capture for major collaborative projects as well as funding smaller-scale grants for
bespoke individual research projects.




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The department’s longstanding focus on public anthropology makes it well placed to respond to
targeted calls from research councils such as the ESRC Global Challenges Research Fund. Staff
seeking to apply for funding regularly attend College training initiatives to prepare for the
administrative challenges that large collaborative projects entail. Senior staff with experience of
running large-scale projects play an important role in mentoring junior staff through these processes.

As a result, the Department has been extremely successful at attracting external research funding,
securing over £5 million in this REF period, and reporting a £3 million spend to HESA. An additional
£105,000 was won through internal competitions for GCRF funding allocated through Goldsmiths
(Donner, Webb, Joy). This research grant income is testimony both to the sustained department-
level support and mentoring for staff wishing to submit grant applications and the success of the six
multidisciplinary research clusters detailed in Section 1.

The department strategy is to support all staff to apply for funding from as wide a range of sources
as possible and to develop imaginative responses to specific calls from funding councils. We
continue to make productive use of British Academy small grants for discreet projects (Dattatreyan,
Marrero-Guillamón, Johnson, Gonzalez-Polledo, Weston) and staff have had notable success at
obtaining prestigious Leverhulme Major Research Fellowships (Tarlo 2013-2016, Wright 2016-2019,
Von Hellermann 2018-2021, Cassidy 2020-2023) which have enabled the pursuit of highly original
research. Other funding sources include the ESRC (V Johnson), Wellcome Trust (Day, Gonzalez-
Polledo, Nicolescu), British Council (Goddard), INTEL (Day) and AHRC (Donner, M. Johnson) and
The Foundation for Arts Initiatives (Mollona). M Johnson responded imaginatively to the RCUK
Global Challenges Research Fund with the multi-sited collaborative project GlobalGRACE, obtaining
a grant of over £3.2 million, while ECR Philogene Heron was awarded a £525,292 grant from the
UKRI GCRF Equitable Resilience Fund for his project, Caribbean Cyclone Cartography. These
projects assist the department in fulfilling its goal of promoting public anthropology through sustained
collaborative research and training initiatives in the global South. They also demonstrate our success
in supporting research staff at all stages of their careers.

Infrastructure and facilities

Since REF 2014 the department has consolidated its research infrastructure by developing the role
of Director of Research (Tarlo, 2016-2020, Shore from 2020) and appointing a department research
administrator (Abbas, since 2018). This has enabled provision of proactive, targeted support for staff
developing and administering projects and mentorship in relation to applications for funding.

Department staff, including ECRs, are encouraged to make use of internal sources of funding such
as the Research and Enterprise Committee (REC) development fund (Joy and Wemyss,
Dattatreyan, Philogene Heron), the Goldsmiths Community Engagement Fund (Donner), TALiC and
the Goldsmiths Student Union funds (Weston), and the School’s impact development funds
(Cassidy, Tarlo). These smaller sources of income play a crucial role as seed funding for developing
larger funding applications and for enabling an imaginative range of impact generating initiatives.
Since 2017 the department has also held open competitions for internally funding public engagement
activities with several staff members obtaining small grants (Hickel, Marrero-Guillamón, Dattatreyan,
Donner, Gonzalez Polledo, Weston, Cassidy, Tarlo). This is part of a strategy for encouraging staff
to see impact not as an external imposition but as an extension of their commitment to public
engagement.



                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Within the CVA, Post-Doctoral Researchers (PDRs) Loussouarn and Norouzi have contributed to
the development of experimental filmmaking and actively promoted work produced at Goldsmiths in
international film festivals. Small competitive grants awarded through the CVA assist recent
graduates with the postproduction and dissemination of their research at film festivals. Several
students from our MA Visual Anthropology have won awards including the News and Factual Award
2017 (Shakerifar), the Japanese Cinema best Picture Award 2017 (Toda) and the Learning on
Screen Award 2019 (Burcak).

The department has consolidated and expanded its research infrastructure and facilities particularly
with regard to resources for research and postgraduate students in our visual anthropology
programmes. This includes two dedicated labs consisting of 14 hi spec computers with a full range
of Adobe Suite editing tools. In addition to four academic staff with expertise in visual anthropology
and multimodal methods, we have two part-time technicians who support students on their projects.

As noted in Section 1, our strategy to sign an MOU and extend research collaborations with the
Horniman Museum has provided a valuable set of resources, including archival data and curatorial
expertise, for developing research interests that staff members (Zetterstrom-Sharp and Joy) and
postgraduate researchers have successfully utilised. Tarlo’s collaboration with the Horniman
Museum for the forthcoming ‘Hair, Untold Stories’ exhibition (horniman.ac.uk/project/hair-untold-
stories/) is further evidence of the value of this strategy.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Encouraging and facilitating local, national and international collaborations, research networks and
partnerships has been a cornerstone of our research strategy in this REF period.

Research collaborations, networks and partnerships

The Department of Anthropology is home to the Centre of Visual Anthropology (CVA) which hosts
local and international artists, anthropologists, curators and filmmakers throughout the year. Through
workshops, public talks, screenings, and exhibitions, the CVA has expanded and strengthened
networks of practitioners and researchers in the UK and beyond to think through the potentials of
practice-based research.

Our research clusters, funding and conference attendance have enabled international collaborations
and research networks with scholars, NGOs and leading universities around the world. For example:
• Marrero-Guillamón is a member of a research network on art and tourism based at the University
   of La Laguna (Spain).
• Dattatreyan is part of the M-Pol: Digital Media Research Group in India.
• Elliot is a member of several major international projects including the ERC’s Comparative
   Anthropologies of Revolutionary Politics (involving researchers from UCL, Cambridge,
   Copenhagen, Bergen and Rio de Janeiro) and the Cultural Mobilities Research Hub at the
   University of Leuven, Belgium.
• Shore is Co-President and founding member of the Association for the Anthropology of Policy, a
   section of the American Anthropological Association and Visiting Fellow at the Centre for Higher
   Education Futures, DPU, Aarhus University.
• M. Johnson’s AHRC funded Curating Development Project involved collaboration with academic
   and non-academic partners in Hong Kong, London and the Philippines.

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   Cassidy has collaborated with colleagues in Australia and New Zealand on an interdisciplinary
    study supported by the Australian Research Council on the normalisation of gambling, and with
    colleagues in Canada on a project supported by the Alberta Gambling Research Institute on
    gambling and video gaming in the lives of Indigenous youth from Northern Ontario.

These collaborations are sustained through our involvement in learned societies, and our staff are
active members of over 18 research networks including the European Association of Social
Anthropologists, American Anthropological Association, Royal Anthropological Institute, Association
of Social Anthropologists New Zealand, Society for Caribbean Studies, African Studies Association
UK, Association for Anthropology of Policy, Society for the Anthropology of Work, Society of
Humanist Anthropologists, Association of Africanist Anthropology, Association for Feminist
Anthropology, African Studies Association and the Southern African Historical Society, with Joy
serving as a Council member of the Royal Anthropological Institute and Hickel serving as a Fellow
of the Royal Society of Arts. In 2020 Shore was elected as a fellow of the UK’s Academy of Social
Sciences.

Research networks within and beyond academia

Our researchers take part in international collaborations that extend beyond academia to include
NGOs, policy makers, charities, medical and arts organisations as direct beneficiaries. For example,
M Johnson’s GlobalGRACE project, co-directed with Clisby, brings together a large consortium of
academic co-investigators and non-academic partners from Bangladesh, Brazil, Mexico, the
Philippines, South Africa, Europe and the USA with the ambitious aim of promoting cultures of
equality through facilitating south-south collaborations and through learning from grass roots
organisations dedicated to combatting stigma and marginalisation at a local level, through the arts.
Webb’s GCRF funded project, Jaankar, involves collaboration with researchers at IIT in Delhi who
work alongside grass roots activists to find new ways of using digital technology to promote better
governance and accountability for the urban poor in Delhi. Similarly, Donner’s GCRF funded project
addresses the housing needs of poor and marginalised women in Calcutta through collaboration with
local feminist organisations, social workers and NGOs. The project is designed to raise public
awareness and inform policy on gender and age equality in relation to women’s access to housing.
Similarly, V. Johnson’s project, YOUR, (Youth Uncertainty Rights), funded by the ESRC-DIFID
Poverty Fund, worked to train local research teams to work with vulnerable children across eight
sites in Ethiopia and Nepal to design youth-centred policy recommendations and demands, put to
Governments through national youth seminars. Two NGOs in Ethiopia committed to developing
these policies as a result and in Nepal elected Government representatives have expressed interest
in developing policies based on youth-based findings emerging from the research.

Contribution to policy and society

Outside academia, Goldsmiths anthropologists are actively involved in political lobbying, consultancy
and advisory work with industries, charities and public bodies. Particularly noteworthy in this regard
is the extraordinary and multifaceted impact of Cassidy’s research on gambling. This includes the
development of an ethical code for gambling researchers, lobbying at high profile international
gambling conventions around the world and her appointment in 2019 as Specialist Adviser to the
House of Lords Special Inquiry Committee on the Social and Economic Impact of the Gambling
Industry. Hickel has also played an exceptionally active external advisory role, writing 10 policy
papers for diverse audiences including the Shadow Secretary of State for International Development,

                                                                                             Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer, the President of Iceland, and the Government of the
Kingdom of Swaziland. He has also delivered 21 talks to policymakers and NGOs relating to poverty
alleviation, sustainable development and ecological concerns, including the Vatican, EU Parliament,
Westminster, the Hague, Office of the Special Advisor to the President of Nigeria, the Office of the
US Special Envoy to Sudan, Save the Children, ODI, Oxfam and the United Nations Association.
Amongst his UK-based advisory roles, Hickel is Advisor to the Labour Party Task force on Climate
Change and Ecological Economics and Advisor on Economic Policy for the Green Party. In this way
he puts his historic and anthropological research on poverty and climate change to immediate
practical use.

Engaging with diverse communities

Human Rights are another major concern for Goldsmiths Anthropologists. Accordingly Joy has acted
as advisor to the International Criminal Court Trust Funds for Victims (Al Mahdi reparations); Elliot
is an active participant in Grenfell United and sits on Occhio ai media (a collective active in monitoring
racism in the Italian Press) and Tarlo’s work advising orthodox rabbis on the ritual status of Indian
hair, leading to a religious legal ruling with profound economic impacts on the lives of orthodox wig
wearers and wig makers, represents one of the less anticipated impacts of anthropological research
taking place in the department. Public Health is another area where staff research has had a
significant impact on people’s lives. Most notable is Day’s long-term engagement with health
provision, training and policy guidelines in relation to sex workers in London (see her impact case
study) and her ongoing work with cancer patients.

Contribution to the sustainability of the discipline

In recognition of the Department’s ongoing contribution to the discipline, 8 staff members have been
awarded international prizes for their research, including the:
• Victor Turner Prize for Ethnographic Writing, (Tarlo, 2017).
• Ruth Benedict Prize for scholarship on lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans issues (Gonzalez-
    Polledo, 2020).
• Royal Society of New Zealand’s Mason Durie Medal for outstanding contributions to the social
    sciences (Shore, 2017).
• President’s Achievement Award for Excellence in Social Engagement at Imperial College London
    (Day, 2018).
• Society for Medical Anthropology Graduate essay prize (Philogene Heron).
• Hewitt book prize for outstanding publications on the political economy of Russia, Eurasia and
    Eastern Europe (Cucu, 2020).

Staff have also participated widely in national and international radio and print media (Tarlo, Joy,
Hickel, Cassidy) and television (Hickel) in an endeavour to reach out to wider publics and through
their extensive engagement in film making, exhibition making, multi-modal digital outputs and
engagements with the museum and the contemporary art worlds, several members of the
department are extending the reach of anthropology into the public domain, stimulating and diffusing
critical reflections and insights based on anthropological findings.

In response to national and international priorities and initiatives, Cassidy’s ethnographic work has
been used to reframe gambling as a public health issue in the UK and New Zealand. Her
collaboration with staff including Weston and Wemyss and students in the department (widely

                                                                                                 Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
reported in the mainstream press, including The Daily Mail) contributed to the ‘whistle to whistle’ ban
of advertisements for betting during live sporting events. She is a member of the expert reference
group for Public Health England’s review of evidence on gambling harm, advisor to the National
Institute of Health Research’s review of the evidence on interventions designed to reduce gambling
harm, advising NHS England on the gambling prevalence survey and needs assessment, and
working with the Labour Party on gambling as a public health issue. Also worthy of note is Gonzalez-
Polledo’s pioneering critical research into issues of ethics and justice in relation to digital bio -
information.

Editorial commitments: Staff are active in shaping anthropological publishing through their
extensive editorial commitments particularly in new and emerging areas of the discipline. This is
exemplified by Gonzalez-Polledo, who edits the Routledge Series, Theorising Ethnography, Shore
who co-edits (with Susan Wright, Aarhus University) the Anthropology of Policy Series for Stanford
University Press, and Cassidy who co-edits with Garry Marvin (Roehampton) the Routledge Series
Multispecies Anthropology: New Ethnographies.

Appointment Committees, Grant Awarding Bodies and Judging Panels: Staff commitment to
the discipline is also evident in their service to external appointment committees. Notable highlights
include senior appointments at King’s College London and the University of Oslo (Day), Edinburg
University, Washington State University, Emory University Atlanta and Parsons School of Design
and the New School, New York (Tarlo); and the University of New South Wales and Aarhus
University (Shore).

Staff also sit on numerous international review panels for grant awarding bodies. Among the most
prestigious are the European Research Council, National Science Foundation (USA), Deutsche
Forschungsgemeinschaft (Germany), Australian Research council, Social Sciences and humanities
Research Council (Canada) and Norwegian Research Council. They also regularly serve on UK-
based panels, including for the British Academy, Leverhulme Trust, AHRC, Medical Research
Council, Wellcome Trust and Nuffield Foundation.

Keynotes: During the current REF period over half of the department’s members, including junior
scholars, were invited to present keynote lectures covering a wide range of research issues and
themes including:
• Heritage justice (Joy delivered the Colgate Lecture at the IIC, Zetterstrom-Sharp gave keynotes
   at the FIHRM Anthropology and Museums conference in Gothenburg and the International
   Slavery Museum, Liverpool in 2020).
• Poverty, inequality and climate change (Hickel has delivered a wide range of policy oriented
   public lectures including for the Institute of Public Policy London, The Houses of Parliament, the
   EU Parliament, the United National Association UK and the Open Society Initiative,
   Johannesburg, as well as keynotes at the University of Bergen, Oxfam Barcelona, Institute of the
   North Alaska, Friends of Europe, Tallinn and delivered the Letten Prize Lecture Oslo in 2018).
• Migration (Elliot delivered the prestigious Evans Pritchard Lectures at the University of Oxford in
   2019; Emeritus Professor Pine delivered keynotes at the Central European University, Budapest,
   SEES (UCL) and at the Universities of Cologne and Bern.
• Gambling regulation and ethics (Cassidy delivered the Munro Lecture at the University of
   Edinburgh along with keynotes at the Senedd Cymru (Welsh Parliament), the UK Public Policy
   Exchange and at Gambling conventions in Auckland, Helsinki and Alberta).



                                                                                              Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
•   The knowledge economy and organisations (Shore delivered the Score Lecture on Organisation
    in Stockholm and the Gold Lecture at Goldsmiths in 2018, as well as keynotes at major
    conferences in Adelaide in 2017, Deakin in 2017, Minnesota and Goethe University Frankfurt in
    2016 and Ljubljana in 2015).
•   The dressed body (Tarlo delivered keynotes at the New School for Design, New York in 2015,
    the Morphamata Institute, Cologne in 2017, the BSA Race and Ethnic Studies Group Conference
    at the University of Kent in 2018).
•   Big data (M. Johnson’s keynote at Khon Kaen University in Thailand in 2017 and address on Big
    Data and Live methods to Fellows of the British Academy in 2018).
•   Health (Day’s keynote to the UCL Symposium on Cancer Care in the UK in 2018 and Gonzalez
    Polledo’s keynote on digital health at Manchester Metropolitan University).
•   Political art (Mollona’s opening speech at the Athens Biennale, and Marrero-Guillamón’s
    keynotes at the EASST/4S conference in Barcelona in 2016 and The Convention of Alternative
    Visual methods at the University of the Basque Country).

Department members reviewed book manuscripts for most of the leading disciplinary presses
including Duke University and Stanford University Press, Routledge, Oxford University Press,
Bloomsbury, Berghahn, Manchester University Press, and Palgrave Macmillan. They also reviewed
submissions for over 80 journals, including flagship anthropology journals, covering a range of
anthropological and related disciplines spanning the arts, medicine, fashion, health, urban policy and
a variety of regional and theoretical interests. This testifies to the wide-ranging research interests
and expertise of department members.

Department members have also been invited to sit on numerous prestigious judging panels: Cassidy
is a Jury member at the Falling Walls Laboratory Berlin, Day sat on the RAI medical anthropology
panel for the Wellcome Prize 2019, Tarlo sat on the Victor Turner Ethnographic Writing Prize Panel
2019, Dattatreyan was one of the judges for the Werbner prize at the RAI Film Festival 2019, Wright
was one of the judges at the Ethnocineca film festival, Vienna 2016, and Joy is one of the judges for
the RAI Hocart and RAI Student Essay prizes.

Taken together, our collective endeavours reveal meaningful and extensive progress towards
fulfilling our goal to create an anthropology without borders and enhance the department’s reputation
as a leading and internationally renowned centre for critical, cutting-edge, innovative and outwardly
facing public anthropology. This is an objective that the department will continue to pursue beyond
the current REF cycle.




                                                                                             Page 17
