Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Dundee

 Unit of Assessment: UoA12 Engineering

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

1.1      Unit context and structure
UoA12 at the University of Dundee (UoD) comprises 48 Category-A staff with a diverse range of
backgrounds delivering solutions to major global challenges including: demographic changes
(population growth, urbanisation, ageing society), healthcare, challenges in the use of science in
fair justice decisions, climate change, natural disasters, resource depletion and environmental
change.

Research within UoA12 is undertaken principally within the School of Science and Engineering
(SSEN), one of ten academic Schools within UoD. SSEN supports research across UoA10,
UoA11 and UoA12 and its research strategy aligns with the University’s mission of transforming
lives locally and globally in terms of societal and economic impact. Fundamental to this is the
strategic aim of embedding interdisciplinarity, leading to impact across four institutional themes
(IT):

   IT1: Understanding and improving health and wellbeing;
   IT2: Life-enhancing creativity and design;
   IT3: Innovating technological solutions to tomorrow's problems;
   IT4: Promoting social change to enhance diversity, justice and socio-economic prosperity.

The institutional strategy prioritises excellence and research at disciplinary interfaces. To focus
research activity on priority areas of strength, SSEN has created four Themes, within each of
which there are multiple Research Clusters. Clusters provide critical mass in areas of excellence
while nurturing innovative interdisciplinary research. Each cluster has a lead academic and every
researcher is a member of at least one cluster; some join multiple clusters facilitating inter-cluster
working and staff from other Schools are drawn-in for interdisciplinary research. This has
facilitated long-term sustainable collaborations with the Schools of Life Sciences, Medicine, Social
Sciences and the Duncan of Jordanstone College of Art & Design (DJCAD). 52% of outputs
submitted for UoA12 have been flagged as interdisciplinary. Staff returned in UoA12 contribute to
the following clusters (*indicates a member of multiple clusters):

   •   Biomedical Imaging & Technology (BIT) [IT1, IT3] – This cluster works closely with the
       Schools of Life Sciences and Medicine to develop medical devices and optical, ultrasonic
       and elastographic imaging techniques utilising approaches ranging from fundamental
       physics investigations to translational application in clinical medical practice. Led by
       MacDonald, it comprises 15 Category-A members from two Schools (Campbell,
       Cuschieri, Homaeigohar*, Huang, Joseph, Krstajic, MacDonald, Murphy, Manfredi,
       Melzer, Nabi, Nylk, Vettenburg, Vorstius*, Zolotovskaya*) including biomedical
       engineers, physicists and clinical practitioners based at the UoD teaching hospital
       (Ninewells).

   •   Materials Science & Engineering (MSE) [IT1, IT3] – This cluster invents, produces and
       exploits advanced materials with improved functional properties for applications ranging
       from (small to industrial scale) coating and manufacturing processes to highly specialist


                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       materials for high-energy physics research at the European Organisation for Nuclear
       Research (CERN). Led by Abdolvand, it comprises 13 Category-A members principally
       drawn from the disciplines of Mechanical & Electrical Engineering and Physics
       (Abdolvand, Cochard, Homaeigohar*, TJones, Keatch, Keeble, Menard*, McKenzie*,
       Mohammadi, Vorstius*, Wilcox, Zhao, Zolotovskaya*).

   •   Concrete Technology & Structural Engineering (CTSE) [IT3, IT2] – This cluster
       develops more sustainable and functionally-improved cementitious materials for use in the
       design and rehabilitation of infrastructure. This includes the re-use of waste products (e.g.
       fly ash, demolition waste) and optimisation of structural forms through innovations in
       reinforcement, formwork design and digital technology to produce a durable, resilient, low-
       cost, low-carbon, future built environment. Led by RJones, it comprises eight Category-A
       members (Chernin, Dyer, Knappett*, McCarthy, Newlands, RJones, Spadea, Zheng)
       including civil engineers and material scientists and collaborates with the School of Social
       Sciences (Architecture and Urban Planning).

   •   Geotechnical Engineering & Fluid Mechanics (GEFM) [IT3, IT2] – This cluster focusses
       on understanding the influence of natural and anthropomorphic processes on the terrestrial
       and marine environment and development of sustainable and resilient methods to adapt
       these environments to anthropogenic activities. Led by Cuthbertson, it comprises ten
       Category-A members (Bengough, Brennan, Brown, Ciantia, Cuthbertson, Davies,
       Eaves, Guha, Hayatdavoodi, Knappett*) including civil engineers and applied
       mathematicians; it collaborates with the School of Social Sciences (Geography and
       Environmental Science) and with the James Hutton Institute for land, crop and natural-
       resource management (e.g. through the shared appointment of Bengough).

   •   Science and Justice (SJ) [IT4, IT3] – This grouping overarches work in Forensic Science,
       Science Communication & Policy and Anatomy & Anthropology. Led by NicDaeid, SJ
       develops robust scientific solutions to the current vulnerabilities associated with forensic
       evidence used in the criminal, civil and family courts, both nationally and internationally.
       This has involved an interdisciplinary approach, leveraging assets across SSEN and UoD –
       e.g. development of novel nanoparticle detectors for drugs (SJ; Adegoke, NicDaeid / MSE;
       Zolotovskaya, Abdolvand). It comprises eight Category-A researchers (Adegoke, Cole,
       Garcia-Donas, Gray, Hackman, McKenzie*, Menard*, NicDaeid) including material
       scientists, forensic scientists, chemists and data scientists and collaborates with the
       Schools of Life Sciences, Medicine, Dentistry, Social Sciences, Humanities, Social Work &
       Education and DJCAD.

UoA12 incorporates a cross-institutional centre, the Leverhulme Research Centre for Forensic
Science (LRCFS) which supports work in SJ. Led by NicDaeid, LRCFS was established in 2016
and is a £10M, ten-year research centre, one of seven disruptive centres across the UK funded by
the Leverhulme Trust. LRCFS brings together stakeholders from across the forensic science and
justice ecosystems to collaboratively articulate operational challenges and co-create research-led
solutions, enabling the Unit to lead change within the UK forensic science community.

1.2     Implementation of REF2014 strategy
UoA12 brings together researchers submitted across UoA14 and UoA15 of REF2014. Over the
current period the Themes and Clusters approach of SSEN enhanced cohesion and integrated
strategies under the following priorities:


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(i) Deepen integration between engineering, physical science & biomedicine

In BIT, the €3.7M European Training Network PHOQUS contributed to establishing the PaLS
(Physics and Life Sciences) Laboratory, bringing technology developers in UoA12 and life
scientists together, enabling benchmarking of developing technologies against the currently
available gold standard and translation from engineering concept to imaging solutions available to
facility users. MacDonald and Zhao are members of the Centre for Antimicrobial Resistance at
UoD, which enables integration with biomedicine. The Dundee Institute for Healthcare
Simulation, established within the School of Medicine, provides a custom-built facility at Ninewells
Hospital incorporating the Cuschieri Surgical Skills Centre and the Image Guided Therapy
Research Facility. UoA12 researchers have utilised this facility to clinically evaluate new surgical
technologies as part of the Unit’s ISO13485 certification, allowing CE marking for devices
developed in-house. The surgical technology group under Cuschieri has developed 16 CE
marked products in a collaboration with Karl Storz GMBH, including 5 patent families developed
during the period (e.g. EP-3-527-150-B1 (UK); DE-60-2015-048-431.2 (Germany); US-8882799-B2
(USA)).

(ii) Establish internationally competitive computational modelling and analysis

Expertise in computational modelling and simulation has been embedded within clusters to
complement the physical and experimental expertise and infrastructure that were a hallmark of the
2014 submissions. This has provided computational modellers with high-quality data for calibration
and validation, with subsequent validated approaches providing a development pipeline of higher
capacity towards greater impact. Recruitment in GEFM and CTSE has focussed on staff with
expertise in modelling of particulate materials (Ciantia) and fluids (Guha), and optimisation
techniques (Spadea). Within SJ, expertise in data analytics (Cole) and data-management
systems (NicDaeid) has enabled the development of deep-learning solutions for pattern matching
in biological/chemical (DNA, drugs, toxicology) and physical (fingerprints/footwear/ballistics) data.
To support this growth, SSEN has invested in High-Performance Computing resources across
UoA12, UoA11 & UoA10 (see Section 3).

(iii) Grow materials science and engineering research

Materials-based research is embedded within all clusters. In MSE, novel metal alloys have been
developed through continuous casting technology, alongside laser surface and in-volume
processing to create materials with optimal properties for specific applications. The latter has
expanded by the Unit joining the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) Collaboration at CERN, including
a student-exchange programme. This has resulted in the development of an automated laser-
treatment technique for eliminating residual electron clouds in the Large Hadron Collider (LHC) that
will result in considerable future financial savings for CERN and its member states (Abdolvand).

The Unit’s strong track record in electronic engineering, with historical achievements recognised in
2018 by a milestone plaque from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers
commemorating the invention of the thin film transistor, has continued in the Unit's work in novel
materials for Memristors (Cochard) and satellite data communications (Parkes) (see Impact Case
Study).

CTSE and GEFM have created low-carbon composite materials for sustainable infrastructure
incorporating re-use of waste materials. This includes high-performance concretes using recycled
aggregates from demolition waste as part of a $7M international consortium (RJones), and

                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
innovative processing of stockpile fly ash to reduce cement use (McCarthy, RJones). Demolition
waste and vegetation have been used to develop engineered cover soil for the protection of
embankments and retaining structures within the EPSRC-funded CACTUS project (Bengough,
Knappett), alongside a suite of validated modelling tools across multiple projects facilitating the
practical implementation of green infrastructure solutions.

SJ is addressing the fundamental principles of the transfer of traces of materials (fibres, glass,
DNA, firearms discharge residue) and their persistence once transferred. This is building an open-
source database for use by forensic practitioners worldwide (Menard, Gray, Cole, NicDaeid).
Developments in functionalised nanoparticles and quantum dots for specific drugs, explosives and
body fluids (SJ; Adegoke, NicDaeid and MSE; Zolotovskaya, Abdolvand) have demonstrated
potential for low-cost, selective and sensitive field-deployable testing kits that can deliver point-of-
response confirmatory testing beyond the current state-of-the-art.

(iv) Make a difference in global-challenge-based interdisciplinary research

UoA12 has increased impact generation towards achieving the UN Sustainable Development
Goals (UNSDG); examples include:

   •   UNSDG#3 Good Health and Wellbeing: Development of datasets characterising Novel
       Psychoactive Substances, street benzodiazepines and synthetic cannabinoids in
       collaboration with Police Scotland and the Scottish Prison Service, providing early warning
       information to the United Nations and World Health Organisation (see Impact Case Study –
       SJ; McKenzie, NicDaeid, Cole).

   •   UNSDG#7 Affordable and Clean Energy: Development of low-cost screw-pile foundation
       technology for solar/wind energy that is resilient to natural hazards for deployment in India
       as a SPARC-funded collaboration with Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar (GEFM;
       Brown, Knappett).

   •   UNSDG#9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure: Use of wastepaper sludge within the
       manufacture of cementitious products in Africa (CTSE; Spadea, Dyer, Ciantia, McCarthy).

(v) Link engineering with social sciences and the arts to increase societal and cultural impact

In CTSE, synergies between engineering performance and architectural appearance of the built
environment are being realised. Examples include: (i) the addition of hydrophobic waste printer
toner to colour concrete and improve durability (Newlands) in conjunction with Architecture and
Urban Planning – winning the Scottish Knowledge Exchange Award 2018 (Social and
Environmental Impact Category); and (ii) the evaluation of historic cementitious materials for
conservancy, rehabilitation, repair, and therefore protection of culturally significant structures,
funded by AHRC in collaboration with Historic Scotland (Dyer). In SJ, the production of comics for
the effective communication of science and the use of virtual and augmented reality for crime-
scene investigation and hypothesis scenario testing has been advanced with the School of
Humanities and DJCAD (NicDaeid).




                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(vi) Increase impact and translation of research outside academia

To deliver this, the Unit has:

      Increased industrial collaboration: A Knowledge Transfer Partnership with Rautomead (see
      Impact Case Study; Abdolvand) has developed continuous casting processes and materials
      for specialist applications in the aerospace, marine, automobile and energy sectors. Unit
      involvement in the Transforming Construction Network Plus programme has developed
      benchmarks to drive improved performance in construction projects in conjunction with the
      Department of Transport and Whole Life Consultants Ltd. (CTSE; Newlands, RJones) and
      resulted in the Unit’s involvement in the InnovateUK-funded Transport Infrastructure
      Efficiency Strategy Living Lab with 22 industry partners.

      Built on existing relationships with national and international sectoral bodies: work in cement
      replacement using fly ash has directly influenced industry guidance on the specification of
      sustainable concretes using BS8500 (CTSE; McCarthy). Work in ultrasound elastography
      has directly influenced international guidelines for clinical use within both World and
      European Federations for Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology and is in use for breast and
      prostate cancer screening in NHS-Tayside (BIT; Nabi, Huang).

      Engaged with the SFC Innovation Centres: work to improve the health of farmed salmon in
      aquaculture, particularly related to sea-lice infestation, has been funded by the Scottish
      Aquaculture Innovation Centre (SAIC) and industry. This has included the development of
      ultrasonic based treatments (BIT; Campbell) for inshore use and resilient anchoring
      solutions to enable siting further offshore where lice do not thrive (GEFM; Brown,
      Knappett).

1.3     Future research and impact strategy
The creation of research clusters and substantial investment in facilities (Section 3) and people
(Section 2) have provided a platform to enable the Unit to tackle complex interdisciplinary problems
in areas including energy, the environment, healthcare, infrastructure and the justice system. The
Unit’s strategic aims for the next 5 years (linked to institutional themes [IT1–IT4]) are:

(i) Establish hubs for innovation and translation of medical technologies [IT1]

The BioDundee partnership between UoD, NHS-Tayside and regional partners is poised to
undergo a step change in harnessing the Unit’s research innovation and become the medical-
technologies innovation driver for the local region with global impact, enabled by a direct
contribution through the Tay Cities Deal (Section 3). A proposed MedTech Pipeline Hub (£5M)
will augment existing facilities to create an innovative space for the Unit (alongside clinicians) to
develop, test and drive the adoption of emerging medical technologies proximal to ongoing clinical
care. This will be supported by a proposed £0.9M-extension to the Unit’s Thiel-cadaver facility to
increase capacity and by recent appointments within the Unit (Homaeigohar, Joseph, Krstajic,
Manfredi, Murphy, Nylk, Vettenburg, Zolotovskaya). Solutions developed by the Unit will feed a
proposed translational Innovation Hub (£20M) providing estate and business support to attract
investment to grow successful spin-out and spin-in companies and drive the regional economy.
This will increase the number of strategic partnerships between the Unit, healthcare and industry
and strengthen the articulation of BIT with the School of Medicine, Ninewells Hospital Medical
Physics, Photobiology (Dermatology) and the Clinical Research Centre. The Unit will use these
strategic developments to support establishment of an industrial collaboration with Neusoft (China)

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
focussed on diagnostic imaging systems as part of a £25M 10-year Joint Educational Programme
(JEP) with Northeastern University, China (led by Huang). This will provide new pathways to
impact for new medical devices developed within UoA12 for personalised healthcare.

(ii) Establish JustTech – Institute for Innovation in Forensic Science [IT4]

The Unit aims to establish the World’s first Institute for Innovation for Forensic Science
(JustTech; £15M), supported by Tay Cities Deal investment, enabling a step-change in global
leadership in forensic science to generate, transform and translate existing and future research
within UoA12 into bespoke tools that address the challenges faced by current and future forensic
practitioners serving justice in countries across the World. This investment will be supported by
recent appointments (e.g. in novel sensing technologies), including Baxter-Fellow Adegoke.

(iii) Grow materials science and engineering research [IT3]

The Unit will continue to develop robust research streams, focussing both on advanced
manufacturing and harnessing fundamental physical science to develop novel functionally
enhanced and composite materials, processes and instruments that will translate into the industrial
sphere. Technologies will be supported for which the Unit possess the required depth of research
expertise and entrepreneurial capability to develop and exploit, specifically focussed on materials
that will have new or improved structural/functional properties with applications across a wide
range of sectors, including photonics, electronics, pharmaceuticals, aerospace, automotive,
security, energy and infrastructure. This aligns to the UK’s Industrial Strategy priorities of
advanced technologies in processing and engineering of functional materials, improved standards
and low-cost production methods. This will be enabled by redefining the Unit’s research
infrastructure in this area, with CERN and Rautomead partnerships providing new living
laboratories for research at an industrial scale. This will be supported by recent appointments
specialised in manufacturing processes, materials physics and materials for energy (TJones,
Cochard, Mohammadi). The Unit will seek collaborative opportunities through the recently
established strategic partnership between UoD and the Michelin Scotland Innovation Parc
(MSIP), co-led by Newlands, providing access to the MSIP Skills Academy and Accelerator
Programme to accelerate the translation of new technologies to industry.

(iv) Innovate and translate solutions to societal grand challenges [IT2]

Recent investment in physical infrastructure (see Section 3) and expertise within UoA12 have
aligned the Unit with the Future Mobility, Clean Growth and Ageing Society Grand Challenges
of the UK Industrial Strategy, providing future industry collaboration opportunities. To deliver
against these the Unit will:

   •   Develop enabling technologies for commercially-viable deep-water marine renewable
       energy (MRE) and aquaculture, with opportunities around the development of innovative
       construction techniques and composite materials, substructures and anchoring
       technologies. These will unlock the full potential of the UK and further afield (beyond
       existing shallow-water developments) allowing the Unit to take a global lead towards
       meeting 2050 Climate-Change targets and facilitate growth of global aquaculture to provide
       low-carbon protein for an expanding World population. The Unit will modify the operational
       model for the Scottish Marine and Renewables Test (SMART) Centre to increase the Unit’s
       agility in responding to industry demands and support increased activity with a focus on
       translation and impact generation (see Section 3).

                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


    •   Advance environmentally-sustainable construction, repair and rehabilitation
        technologies for the built and natural environments through growth in developing low
        carbon materials and design approaches towards a net-zero future. Opportunities include
        (i) increasing re-use of waste products for engineering purposes; (ii) translating sustainable
        ‘green’ infrastructure solutions (which sequester carbon) into industry; and (iii) developing
        solutions for the environmentally-responsible decommissioning of fossil fuel infrastructure.
        New interdisciplinary links will be forged within UoD (e.g. the UNESCO Centre for Water
        Law, Policy & Science) and externally (e.g. the UK Collaboratorium for Research in
        Infrastructure), where the Unit’s unique combination of facilities and expertise is
        complementary.

    •   Develop minimally-invasive diagnostic and interventional medical techniques
        including image-guided therapies building on existing work with the Unit’s dedicated
        Insightec Exablate system and expanding into neurological treatments with a new Magnetic
        Resonance Guided Focussed Ultrasound (MRgFUS) system. Research will aim to improve
        the complete patient journey – diagnostics, prognostics, treatment planning, novel
        minimally-invasive therapies, robotic surgeries and infection control – using ultrasonic,
        optical and materials-based approaches. In parallel, at-home and point-of-care healthcare
        technology will be advanced, particularly for ageing populations. These will be
        operationalised through the MedTech Pipeline and Innovation Hubs (Section 1.3(i)).

(v) Maximising impact

The Unit will increase its impact generation activities across all of its activities, capitalising on
recent investments in infrastructure (Section 3) and investment secured through the Tay Cities
Deal. The operation of key research facilities will be restructured to facilitate greater interaction
with industry, alongside raising the profile of the Unit’s activities and building strategic industrial-
academic partnerships.

1.4     Fostering an open-research environment
Significant progress towards an open-research environment has been made, leveraging the
University’s Library and Learning Centre (LLC) and Discovery Portal to ensure compliance with the
Concordat for Open Research Data. Standard practice for all staff and research students in
UoA12 is to deposit all research outputs, datasets and theses in Discovery as open access and to
maintain this as the definitive record of their research output. The institution is a member of the
Datacite scheme to assign Digital Object Identifiers (DOIs) to research outputs. LLC advises on
data-management planning and compliance with funders’ open-data policies. Datasets and
programme code arising from UoA12 research have been published with DOIs as open data using
CC-BY licenses, facilitating re-use (including Abdolvand, Brennan, Brown, Bengough,
Knappett, MacDonald (first UoD minted DOI: 10.15132.10000100), Nabi, NicDaeid). Publication
in open access publications is encouraged and Unit staff serve on the editorial boards of 28
journals, of which 7 (25%) are open access (see Section 4.2).

1.5    Research Integrity
UoA12 staff provide leadership in this area School-wide, with the Research Integrity Lead (Wilcox)
and Deputy Lead (Abdolvand) providing: (i) an independent point of contact for staff and research
students outside their immediate research environment; (ii) impartial advice on responsible conduct
of research; and (iii) advice on making misconduct allegations. Research staff and students are
provided with online video-based training in Responsible and Ethical Practice in Research and

                                                                                                   Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Publication. The Director of Postgraduate Research Studies (DRPS; Wilcox) oversees rigorous
procedures that ensure all postgraduate research students benefit from the appropriate research
integrity training and all data created for PhD theses and publications are archived in an
appropriate form.

 2. People

2.1     Staffing strategy and staff development
The REF 2014 strategy aimed to grow research excellence in areas of strength while increasing
opportunities for interdisciplinary research through the creation of research themes and clusters.
To achieve this, the Unit’s staffing strategy aims to attract outstanding researchers with established
track records of independent post-doctoral research achievement. The Unit’s guiding principles in
the present context are:

   (i)       to recruit individuals internationally with track records of excellence, achievement and
             potential to become leading researchers, to continually reinvigorate the Unit’s activities;
   (ii)      to appoint in coherent research areas of existing strength, critical mass and long-term
             potential to underpin technologies of the future (particularly in interdisciplinary areas)
             and fully exploit the investment the Unit has made in physical and digital infrastructure
             (Section 3);
   (iii)     to recruit staff with expertise that optimises complementarity within and between
             clusters to ensure that clusters remain agile and responsive;
   (iv)      to maintain a balance between Early Career Researchers (ECRs) and established
             researchers to ensure a rich pool of future Unit leaders while maintaining sufficient
             mentoring support and established research income streams (29% of Category A staff
             are ECRs);
   (v)       to foster the ambition of all staff by appointing to permanent contracts wherever
             possible, and providing targeted resources, access to professional development and
             networking opportunities, enabling them to become leaders in their field.

The School’s Associate Dean Research is a member of all shortlisting and appointment panels for
roles that include significant research responsibilities. The appointment process usually runs over
two days to ensure that candidates interact with relevant cluster staff and become familiar with the
Unit’s research structure before interview. Success of this recruitment strategy at early-career
level, and for the new cluster-level peer support for applications, has been demonstrated through
the award of a £1.4M UKRI Future Leaders Fellowship to Vettenburg (2019; appointed 2018).

In 2013, UoD introduced Dundee Fellowships across the Institution with the long-term aim of
attracting research leaders of the future while providing a catalyst for strategic growth within the
current period. These staff were given protected research time over a five-year period (through
limited teaching and administrative duties). The Unit benefitted from three Fellows out of eight
appointments, including Wilcox, who held an EPSRC Early Career Fellowship during the period
and provides leadership in research within the Unit as the current Director of Research
Postgraduate Studies. The programme was renewed in 2019, with four Baxter Fellows being
appointed in UoA12 (Homaeigohar, tissue engineering and biomechanics, BIT/MSE interface;
TJones, casting technology for renewables, MSE; Adegoke, analytical chemistry and sensors, SJ;
Manfredi, surgical technology, BIT). Their appointment was made by a cross-cluster panel to
maximise impact in key strategic research areas.



                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The creation of LRCFS in 2016 attracted Category A appointments with new expertise to the Unit
including data analytics and science communication (Cole, NicDaeid). Additional Category A
appointments across all clusters included: Ciantia, Cochard, Cuthbertson, Hayatdavoodi,
Joseph, Krstajic, Guha, Murphy, Mohammadi, Nylk, Spadea, Vettenburg, Eaves, in addition to
appointments at cluster interfaces to strengthen interdisciplinary research – Zolotovskaya
(BIT/MSE), Menard (SJ/MSE) and McKenzie (SJ/MSE). Across all new appointments in the
period, 20% were Baxter Fellows, 60% were non-Baxter ECRs and 20% were established
researchers. This approach resulted in an age demographic across Category A staff at census of
27% under 40 years of age, 40% between 40-49, 21% between 50-59 and 12% over 60, ensuring
that the Unit has an age profile that can ensure long-term sustainability with a strong pipeline of
new talent.

International appointments and recruitment

Recruitment within the period has seen 27% of new appointees from overseas institutions, 8%
internal and the remainder from UK institutions. Overseas appointments were: Eaves (University
of British Columbia, Canada), Hayatdavoodi (Texas A&M University, USA), Homaeighar (Aalto
University, Finland), Guha (IIT Kanpur, India), Menard (Sasol – industry, South Africa),
Mohammadi (University of Waterloo, Canada). Appointments from UK institutions included:
Ciantia (Imperial College), Cochard (Queen’s University Belfast), Joseph (University of
Cambridge), Krstajic (University of Edinburgh), Nylk (University of St Andrews), Spadea
(University of Bath), Vettenburg (University of Exeter) and Zolotovskaya (Lancaster University).

Career development

A supportive environment is provided, aligned with the institution’s strategic aims to enable staff to
flourish and maintain a high-performance community and with the Concordat to Support the
Career Development of Early Career Researchers. All staff benefit from annual individual reviews
of their research progress at Unit level by their line manager, as part of the institutional Objective-
Setting and Review (OSaR) process, which supports a culture of continual improvement. This is
complemented by an institutional Workload Allocation Model (WAM), managed at Unit level, and
an Annual Research Review (ARR) conducted across all clusters to identify interdisciplinary
opportunities. The Cluster Lead role, supervision of research students, external research projects,
impact-generation (e.g. consultancy/service work) and public engagement activities are recognised
in the WAM in addition to a protected research-time allocation to all research-active staff. The
ARR provides peer feed-forward to maximise the impact and visibility of research, guidance in
developing future plans for securing resources and career-development support using discipline-
specific benchmarks in line with the Declaration on Research Assessment (DORA).

All newly appointed staff are guided by a mentor (a senior colleague within the cluster) to formulate
and achieve personal performance goals and deliver the Unit’s objectives. Additional support is
provided through a cross-institutional Teaching, Research and Academic Mentoring scheme (see
Institutional Statement), which is open to all staff, including ECRs and postdoctoral research
associates (PDRAs). Newly appointed staff enjoy reduced teaching load to provide time to
establish sustainable research activities and access to start-up funding from the School to support
network establishment, dissemination activities and establishment of specialist equipment. ECRs
are preferentially allocated PhD studentships (at Unit and Institutional level) to assist in
establishing their research profile. Academic staff can transition between Teaching & Scholarship
and Teaching & Research contracts (and vice-versa) to support career development, a process
which has been utilised by the Unit within the period.

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Cross-cluster capital investment (£125k) was obtained from EPSRC to enhance integration of
newly appointed ECRs into the existing laboratory ecosystem. Further support was obtained
through the Northern and Scottish Research Partnerships in Engineering through the PEER (Pool
Engagement in European Research) & PECRE (Postgraduate and Early Career Researcher
Awards) schemes to facilitate European and International networking and research visits (six
awards within the period).

Clusters run active seminar programmes (either individually or cross-cluster) with external and
internal speakers. The former promote interaction with visiting speakers who are leaders in their
area, exposing Unit staff to current and new (inter)national research developments, increasing the
visibility of the Unit’s work and establishing new external collaborations. The latter provides
academic staff, PDRAs and research students with critical input to their research, promotes new
interdisciplinary activities and develops communication skills. The Unit encourages industry-
academia interactions in either direction, an example being the visit of Mr H. Matsui (Taisei
Corporation, Japan) working on installation of undersea cables aligned with the Unit’s work on
enabling technologies for marine renewable energy which has strategic future importance as
outlined in Section 1.3(iv) (12 month visit; GEFM, hosted by Brown).

Excellence in research is recognised through the institutional Annual Review and Promotions
Procedure, informed by ARR via OSaR, where research, impact generation and public
engagement can all be used as supporting evidence across all academic levels. The effectiveness
of Unit-level support outlined above is reflected in the promotion of three members of staff to
Lecturer-8 grade, eight to Senior Lecturer, six to Reader and six to Professor within the period.

2.2      Research students
The Unit has graduated 132.8 FTE PhD students within the period with 93 current research
students at census, showing a healthy and growing community. Research students are supported
at institutional level by the Doctoral Academy, providing specialist support and research
development training for students, bespoke training for supervisors and embedding an
interdisciplinary research ethos. At Unit level, the DRPS coordinates student support and
development activities including quality assurance and mentoring of research staff in supervision
(particularly for ECRs). Students have a minimum of two supervisors to provide resilience in
provision and enhance mentoring. A Thesis Monitoring Committee (TMC) meets biannually,
individual TMC meetings being held with two non-supervisory research-active staff (assigned for
the duration of study to ensure continuity of oversight) to which both student and supervisor
provide independent progress reports and can identify any issues confidentially; the TMC feed-
forward suggestions and guidance to the supervisory team and DRPS. A small cohort of students
are located in Ninewells Hospital, supervised by Unit staff and NHS-Tayside Medical Physics; their
TMC is administered by the UoD Medical School and committee membership includes Unit staff
(MacDonald, Huang, Zhao, Melzer).

Research students are provided with full access to the Unit’s physical, digital and human
infrastructure and can access the full academic and transferrable skills training programme offered
by UoD Organisational and Professional Development. Funding support is available for all
students to attend international conferences to disseminate their research. An annual
Postgraduate Research Symposium provides opportunities for dissemination across all SSEN
clusters, facilitating identification of interdisciplinary opportunities and complementing the Unit’s
seminar programmes. A student from CTSE working at the interface of civil engineering and
marine biology was a semi-finalist in the national Three-Minute Thesis competition and a finalist in

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
the national FameLab competition, highlighting the importance of the initiative. Students (and
PDRAs) have access to external training in advanced and applied physics provided by the Scottish
Universities Physics Alliance (SUPA) Graduate School. Students studying within LRCFS have the
option of undertaking a Postgraduate Certificate in Researcher Development encompassing
modules in research development, statistics and programming, leadership, public engagement and
science communication. Roll-out of this pilot initiative Unit-wide is currently under development.

Future growth in the Unit’s activities (see Section 1.3) will require significant growth in research
students and this underpins the Unit’s future strategy in this area. UoA12 is already engaging with
institutional initiatives to increase its visibility for postgraduate research (e.g. 100 Projects
initiative). Increased capacity will be provided by pursuing Doctoral Training Centre opportunities
in strategic areas, increased direct industrial funding of research through the impact strategy
(Section 1.3(v)), and growing new international collaborations e.g. through the JEP identified in
Section 1.3(i).

2.3     Equality, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
The Unit is committed to maintaining an inclusive culture and collegiate working practices and its
composition includes academic staff, PDRAs and Research students across a diverse range of
nationalities and ethnic groups. All staff (including PDRAs) undertake training on EDI, including
modules on Diversity in the Workplace, Disability, Diversity in Learning and Teaching, Stress in the
Workplace and A Manager's Guide to Stress. A module on Recruitment and Selection is
additionally taken by staff with such a role. Completion is monitored centrally, and its importance is
emphasised to staff by all levels of leadership within the Unit. SSEN has an EDI standing
committee, including representation from UoA12 (Spadea, Zolotovskaya), facilitating sharing of
best practice across Units. Hackman and NicDaeid are both trained as investigators in
discrimination, harassment and bullying cases.

In addition to the institution’s Athena SWAN Bronze award, SSEN holds a departmental Bronze
Award and is developing a Silver Award submission for 2022. The Unit appoints staff on merit
alone and is committed to equality and diversity. All staff appointment panels are gender
balanced. Of the 22 new appointments within the period, 18% were female and the proportion of
female staff being promoted was at or above the underlying gender balance at census of 87.5%
male, 12.5% female, at all levels. 25% of promotions to Reader or Professor were female.

It is part of the University strategy to minimise the number of fixed-term contracts. All of the 22
new appointments were made on permanent contracts, with 89% of Category A staff in the Unit
being on permanent contracts at census.

UoA12 is supported by a range of institutional flexible-working practices covering changed
circumstances, compassionate leave, parental leave, adoption/fostering leave, carer's leave and
fertility treatment leave. These include mechanisms for short periods of special leave that can be
locally implemented by the Dean of School in emergency situations. Discussions related to return
to work, including requests for reductions in FTE, are held prior to return in line with UoD’s Flexible
Working Policy. The Unit can be flexible in transitioning staff to/from part-time working; job sharing
and flexible/phased retirement are also supported. Flexible-working considerations are embedded
at Unit level within the ARR and OSaR processes when reviewing performance and establishing
individualised development plans. Voluntary declaration of any mitigating circumstances is part of
the Annual Review and Promotions Procedure.



                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4     Construction of REF submission
Outputs have been selected and attributed to individual staff by the Unit’s Planning Group following
rigorous internal and external review aiming to maximise the overall quality profile for the
submission, consistent with the UoD REF Code of Practice. All Unit Planning Group members
completed unconscious bias training prior to output selection in addition to EDI and information
security awareness training undertaken by all staff. Of the outputs submitted, 89% are attributed to
male staff and 11% to female staff, consistent with the UoA12 gender balance at census and the
proportion attributed to staff from different ethnic groups is consistent with the proportion of staff
identifying with those groups. The proportion of outputs attributable to each cluster is also
approximately proportional to cluster size.

All staff were invited to submit Impact Case Studies and the four submitted case studies reflected
the strongest impacts arising over the REF period, with authorship which is 75% male and 25%
female.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

The REF 2014 strategy aimed to grow income and activity across the Unit’s activities and invest in
physical and human infrastructure to provide a sustainable foundation for its activities moving
forward.

3.1    Income
The Unit’s portfolio encompasses Research Grants and Contract (RGC) income from UKRI, EU,
charitable and industrial sources, totalling £21.3M. This has increased by 10% compared to
£19.3M in REF 2014 (General and Civil Engineering submissions combined). Additional major
external-capital and operational investment has been secured including:

   •   £10M over 10 years from the Leverhulme Trust to establish the Leverhulme Research
       Centre for Forensic Science (in 2016), enabling the development of the SJ cluster, £2.7M
       of which has been invested within the period.

   •   £2M to establish the SMART Laboratory (in 2014), a cross-cluster initiative between CTSE
       and GEFM. This was funded through the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF)
       with matched University funding and was facilitated by the Offshore Renewables Institute
       (ORI), a collaborative alliance established in 2013 funded for a five-year period by UoD,
       University of Aberdeen and Robert Gordon University.

   •   £1.25M capital investment in BIT (in 2019) through the JEP with Northeastern University
       and Neusoft, China, enabling significant expansion of BIT facilities.

The majority of RGC funding supports a critical mass of continuous activity. Examples include:

   •   Biofouling – from fundamental understanding of formation and structure in conjunction with
       the School of Life Sciences (BBSRC, £2.04M; Campbell) to applications in developing anti-
       fouling nanocomposite biomaterials for urinary catheters (EPSRC £501k; Zhao, Keatch
       Nabi, Campbell, Vorstius, Wilcox) and engineering concrete marine structures to limit
       biofouling by invasive species (Leverhulme Trust £60K; Dyer).




                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   Engineering with light through the application of photonics and nanotechnology, including
       development of: (i) novel imaging devices for quantitative multi-scale investigation of
       biological processes through the PHOQUS project coordinated by the Unit (EU €3.28M;
       MacDonald, Cuschieri); (ii) optical and ultrasonic micromanipulation devices for bio-
       processing (EPSRC £165k; MacDonald), leading to a Breakthrough-of-the-Year Award
       from the Institute of Physics (2014); and (iii) a robotic device for mitigating electron clouds
       through laser surface processing for the LHC (STFC £535k, match-funded by CERN at
       CHF680k and a further £1.07M STFC funding through the High Luminosity LHC (HL-LHC)
       second phase; Abdolvand).

   •   Development of bio-mediated techniques to adapt infrastructure to the effects of climate
       change while effecting climate improvement. Funding totalling £1.24M has included the use
       of vegetation within embankments led by the Unit (EPSRC £1.23M, £640k to Dundee;
       Bengough, Knappett), and identification of breeding strategies to select for root traits that
       engineer soil (BBSRC, £79k; Bengough). Global Challenge applications included
       fieldwork in Thailand (Royal Society, £71k; Knappett, Bengough) and protecting
       infrastructure in seismic zones (Leverhulme Trust £168k; Brennan, Knappett, Bengough).
       This platform was leveraged in ongoing work developing engineered vegetated capillary-
       breaks layers to protect linear infrastructure (EPSRC £1.76M, £280k to Dundee;
       Bengough, Knappett).

   •   Development of enabling technology for the expansion of marine renewable energy.
       Funding totalling £1.67m included work led by the Unit on screw piling for fixed platforms at
       deep-water locations (EPSRC £1.0M; Brown, Brennan, Knappett). Subsequent work (EU
       £170k; Knappett, Brown) extended this as a next-generation anchor for floating systems.
       In parallel, other work has improved installation techniques for buried offshore cables
       (EPSRC £470k, £180k to Dundee; Brown, Brennan), and developed new approaches to
       wave energy generation (Energy Technology Partnership (ETP)/Industry £322k;
       Hayatdavoodi). The Unit is also part of the Blade Access System and Working
       Environment project (InnovateUK; Chernin).

Supporting income generation

Clusters support research-income generation through the open discussion of ideas, sharing of
information and best practice, and providing expert peer-review of grant funding applications.
Additional cross-cluster review is actively encouraged. PhD studentship support is provided for
staff winning external funding, who are encouraged to use this to leverage co-funding from industry
or other bodies such as the Scottish cross-HEI research pools, including the Scottish Research
Partnership in Engineering (SRPe) and ETP. The Research Administrative Lead (Section 3.2)
continually reviews available funding opportunities and the Unit is also supported by a dedicated
Technology Transfer Manager to assist in establishing new links with industry. These
complement institutional awareness raising and network-building activities (see Human
infrastructure, below).

3.2     Infrastructure & facilities
Physical infrastructure is grouped by the areas of excellence and critical mass represented by
clusters; in addition to developing these within the period, additional interdisciplinary infrastructure
has been established which integrates and complements cluster facilities. Digital and human
infrastructure are shared across SSEN.


                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Specialist physical infrastructure

In addition to access to the Dundee Institute for Healthcare Simulation mentioned in Section 1.2(i),
BIT research laboratories include the Clinical Research Imaging Facility, housing a 1.5T
research MRI machine (part of the GE European Centre of Excellence for MRI-guided
Interventions and Surgery) with an adjoining interventional suite incorporating an ExAblate
focussed ultrasound surgery device (all located on the Dundee MediPark), plus a PET/CT scanner
with its own interventional suite at Ninewells Hospital. An Ultrasound Development Suite is
available for equipment fabrication, testing and characterisation. All laboratories are equipped to
handle cadavers prepared in the UK-leading Thiel-Cadaver Facility within SSEN, allowing new
techniques to be evaluated on tissue that is as realistic as currently possible. The Cell and Tissue
Culture Laboratory provides a facility to grow, maintain and engineer live tissues under controlled
physiochemical conditions. A TRI-SPIM Fluorescence Light-sheet Microscope (unique as a
commercial platform) was established within the PaLS Laboratory using £0.6M from BBSRC
(MacDonald) in partnership with 3i Intelligent Imaging.

The research laboratories for MSE contain state-of-the-art photonics infrastructure, and associated
measurement and characterisation equipment. The Laser Technology Laboratory provides high-
power pulsed laser systems for surface and in-volume structuring of materials (metals, glass and
polymers) and has facilitated impact generation through the work at CERN outlined in Section
1.2(iii). The Materials Testing Laboratory provides advanced characterisation via scanning and
transmission electron microscopes with in-built chemical analysis, atomic force microscopy,
scanning capacitance devices, digital microscopy, optical spectroscopy and nanomaterials
printing/analysis and has underpinned advanced materials characterisation work with Rautomead
(see Impact Case Study) A cleanroom suite provides wet chemistry infrastructure.

GEFM maintains the Centrifuge Laboratory which was refitted within the period through ERDF
funding to add in-flight robotic actuation, high-speed imaging, and a new flight-control system.
Together with earthquake and fault-rupture simulators, the facility provides a unique combination of
capabilities in Europe, particularly for modelling natural hazards, and contributed to the award of
eight EPSRC/EU grants worth £2.5M to UoD and £5.5M to the wider project consortia; it has been
utilised by international academic partners including the Institute of Rock and Soil Mechanics,
Chinese Academy of Sciences, National Technical University of Athens and University of
Auckland, and in partnerships with industry that have generated impact (see Section 4.3). The
Geotechnical Laboratory provides advanced element-test facilities supporting the capabilities of
the centrifuge. The Fluid Mechanics Laboratory has been recently refurbished and contains five
bespoke facilities for studying environmental flows at reduced scale, including a 14m long wave-
flume for fluid-structure interaction analyses, a multipurpose channel-basin for estuarine flow
dynamics, and a tsunami simulator. The Unit also has access to the Ocean Basin at Harbin
University of Science and Technology (Hayatdavoodi).

CTSE has invested heavily in specialised equipment for multi-scale microstructural and chemical
analysis (including x-ray diffraction/fluorescence, thermo-gravimetric analysis, laser-diffraction
particle-size analysis) alongside facilities for environmental exposure simulation within the
Concrete Technology Unit (CTU). This has generated impact by facilitating bespoke testing for
the next generation of UK nuclear power stations as outlined in Section 4.3 and complements
facilities within the Materials Testing and Geotechnical Laboratories. The Structures Laboratory
has recently been enhanced by bespoke multi-axis servo-controlled static/cyclic test equipment
that has been integrated with the reconfigurable 150m2 strong floor, and non-contact image-based
measurement systems (£96k; Spadea); this provides a unique facility for multiscale testing from

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1:1 structural elements to reduced-scale modelling of structural systems through recent
advancements made by the Unit in reduced-scale modelling of reinforced concrete (Knappett).

SJ benefits from a bespoke analytical-chemistry facility housed in the Fleming Laboratory,
providing access to separation techniques including spectroscopic methods and chromatography
as well as PCR- and DNA-quantification capabilities. Advanced spectrometers are accessible
through collaboration with the School of Life Sciences. Specialist equipment within LRCFS
includes cyanoacrylate fuming for fingerprint enhancement, Video Spectral Comparison,
Electrostatic document deposition analysis, alternative light sources, comparison microscopy, a
muffle furnace for time-temperature studies, virtual and augmented reality capability, 360-degree
Matterport photography, and LIDAR.

Cross-cluster physical infrastructure

New investment within the period has established new physical infrastructure which enables
interdisciplinary working either directly or by linking specialist cluster facilities:

   •   At the interface between Physics and Life Sciences, the PaLS laboratory (Section 1.2(i))
       was funded though institutional investment and SUPA and sits adjacent to the Dundee
       Imaging Facility (DIF). The DIF provides facilities and support including state-of-the-art
       commercial microscopy and expertise in imaging software and analysis; BIT (MacDonald)
       and MSE (Keeble) are represented on DIF’s steering group. Equipment investment in the
       PaLS Laboratory of approximately £850k, leveraging additional external funding of £250k,
       principally supported ECRs to build bespoke research instruments, including: a super-
       resolution 3D-stimulated emission-depletion (STED) microscope, tissue-specific optical
       tweezer systems, and a Raman spectrometer. This also facilitated installation of a
       femtosecond laser, and a Dektak surface-characterisation system. In collaboration with the
       School of Medicine, point-of-care diagnostic platforms and endoscopic microscopy have
       and are being developed including:

           -   Generation of ligand-free metallic nanoparticles fluorescence and surface-enhanced
               Raman-spectroscopy platforms for sensitive diagnostic assays;

           -   Generation of molecularly imprinted polymers (plastic antibodies) for cheap
               manufacture of antibody-like labels for a wide range of biological and non-biological
               targets.

   •   The SMART Laboratory was established to support decarbonisation of the UK’s energy
       infrastructure (including decommissioning and environmental restoration) and provide
       access for industry to advanced facilities including the centrifuge and CTU (see Section
       4.3). An x-ray micro-CT imaging facility for non-destructive material evaluation is
       incorporated (RJones/Newlands) that complements the DIF. SMART Laboratory facilities
       form a component part of the Scottish Energy Laboratory (Scottish Enterprise) providing
       access for industry and other HEIs. The combination of accessible facilities makes it a
       nationally unique facility for the delivery of subsea engineering, complementary to other
       national facilities (e.g. ORE Catapult). An example of interdisciplinary working is the non-
       destructive forensic evaluation of friable evidence from fires and characterisation of the
       thermal capabilities of representative concrete mixes in fire (see Impact Case Study).



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Digital infrastructure

High-Performance Computing requirements across UoA12 are supported via scalable
infrastructure. SSEN has established (since 2014) a local cluster with 640 cores that is principally
used by UoA12 and UoA10. A larger institutional cluster is based in the School of Life Sciences
and is comprised of 186 nodes (3780 CPU cores; 206720 GPU cores; 21 TB RAM), which includes
a dedicated UoA12 resource consisting of 38 nodes (1152 CPU cores; 150720 GPU cores; 4.6 TB
RAM). This dedicated Unit capability is larger than the institutional capacity in 2014 and has more
than doubled in the period using UoA12 resources. These facilities support the genesis,
development and up-scaling of large numerical simulations prior to accessing shared national
resources (e.g. ARCHER).

Human infrastructure

The majority of senior research leadership roles within SSEN are held by UoA12 staff. The
Associate Dean Research (ADR; Abdolvand) provides strategic leadership and chairs the
School Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC) comprising cluster leads, and the
Director of Research Postgraduate Studies (DRPS; Wilcox). RKEC allocates funding
supporting staff development, networking and other expenses (e.g. pump-priming activities), with
priority given to ECRs and maintaining research continuity (e.g. retaining key PDRA expertise).
The Associate Dean Industrial Engagement (ADIE; Newlands) provides additional leadership
around engagement with industrial partners and external organisations. This includes creating and
nurturing partnerships with regional enterprises, developing opportunities for industry-led research
and supporting knowledge exchange (KE), impact and commercialisation. The ADR, ADIE and
DRPS are supported by the Research Integrity Lead (Section 1.5) and a Research Administrative
Lead (RAL) in sustaining a research-driven culture. The RAL collates and analyses data relevant
to research reviews and other Unit activity, supporting staff in developing a culture of Open Access
and Open Data (see also Section 1.4), disseminating funding opportunities from Research Connect
and liaising with institutional support services – Research Finance Services (RFS), providing pre-
and post-award management of non-commercial grant applications and awards; and Research
and Innovation Services (RIS), providing support for collaborative bid development, intellectual
property, licensing, contracts and KE. A recently-appointed Director of Public Engagement
(DPE) supports the translation of research to non-academic audiences.

The ADIE, alongside the DPE, supports KE and public engagement (PE) activities at project,
cluster and Unit level and researcher development in these areas (for all staff, including PDRAs).
All clusters include senior staff who are experienced in KE and impact generation, providing
mentoring to staff with less experience. Unit-level support complements institutional resources
available through Organisational and Professional Development (OPD) and the Centre for
Entrepreneurship – one of three hubs of Elevator UK – for support in commercialisation. Recent
successful KE examples include the spin-outs ActiveNeedle – for use in ultrasound-guided
anaesthesia and biopsy – and Softech – for developing a low-cost soft robot for colorectal cancer
screening and treatment (Scottish Enterprise High Growth Spin-out Programme £80k; Manfredi).
SSEN established a Graduate Apprenticeship Programme in 2017, which has increased the
School’s industrial network by over 100 local, national and international organisations, and funded
two dedicated Industrial Liaison Officers.

Significant regular opportunities for PE are provided via the Café Science programme at the
Dundee Science Centre and Bright Club Dundee; all clusters have access to a PE lead who is part
of the SSEN Public Engagement Committee. Researchers from the Unit have appeared on The

                                                                                           Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
One Show (BBC One; Knappett), Inside Science and The Today Programme (BBC Radio 4;
NicDaeid) and local, national and international radio. Since its establishment, LRCFS has
developed significant international PE collaborations, including with the Alan Alda Centre for
Communicating Science at Stony Brook (USA) and the Winton Centre for Risk and Evidence
Communication at Cambridge (UK). LRCFS enjoys a high media profile through participation at
science, arts and book festivals and a unique ‘Crime Café’ developed in Dundee.

Opportunities for cross-cluster working are actively encouraged where these can form a stronger
team for addressing challenging problems. The institutional Dundee Interdisciplinary and
Innovation Forum (DIIF) facilitates challenge-led events bringing together researchers from
UoA12 with those from across the institution and industrial stakeholders. Examples of cross-
cluster working include:

   •   Solving infrastructural challenges related to the operation of the CMS detector at CERN,
       one of four detectors of the LHC. This includes new technical solutions for aligning the
       detector to critical tolerances during maintenance cycles (GEFM; Knappett / MSE;
       Abdolvand).

   •   Addressing increased morbidity and mortality relating to catheter-associated urinary tract
       infection (EPSRC-funded) through the development of anti-infective Ag-PTFE coated
       catheters which can extend the mean life of a silicone catheter by a factor of six (MSE;
       Zhao, Keatch / BIT; Nabi, Campbell, Vorstius).

3.3    Future income, infrastructure and impact strategy
Tay Cities Deal investment will provide focussed investment in infrastructure of £20.2M
supporting Unit activities, principally in BIT and SJ clusters, to support delivery of the strategy
items outlined in Section 1.3(i) and 1.3(ii), with Heads of terms signed in 2018 for investment within
the next REF period.

Growth in income and opportunities supporting strategic items in Sections 1.3(iii) and 1.3(iv) will be
achieved through:

   •   Restructuring the operation of key research facilities, including new business models
       and a professional services review with the aim of providing dedicated technical and
       research staff to increase capacity to undertake industrially funded work alongside support
       for core research activities. This will enable strategic relationship-building with industry
       partners and increase opportunities to accelerate innovative research to market. Initial pilot
       studies (Section 4.3) indicate that this can be an effective and sustainable model long-term.

   •   Establishing a series of targeted industrial ‘Discovery Days’ for specific sectors aligned
       to raise awareness of the Unit’s unique facilities and expertise.

   •   Supporting staff in increasing industrially funded PhD research to assist in growing the
       cohort of research students within the Unit. This will be supported through additional
       resources generated from increased industrial work and increased engagement with
       funding schemes operating on a cost-sharing model between funder and industry.

To support delivery of increased impact (Section 1.3(v)) the ADIE will establish and lead an
Industrial Engagement Committee with Impact Champions from each cluster to provide a network


                                                                                             Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for sharing, across the Unit, best practice from clusters with the strongest track records of
generating impact (see Impact Case Studies) and develop metrics for measuring impact and KE.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

4.1    Research Collaborations, networks and partnerships
The Unit has been involved with more than thirty research collaborations, three international
networks and two partnerships. Exemplars of successful international collaborations are:

   •   Partnership with CERN, whereby research students are embedded within CMS to conduct
       translational work in advanced materials and infrastructure asset management (MSE,
       CTSE; Abdolvand, Knappett). This has produced deliverables which will generate impact
       in the next period (Section 1.2(iii)) and resulted in the Unit being invited to join the HL-LHC
       Collaboration Board alongside other international laboratories, expanding international links
       and laying a platform for future growth (Section 1.3(iii)).

   •   A series of collaborative EU projects around advanced surgical and non-invasive medical
       technologies, including the development of surgical robots for minimally invasive
       procedures (SARAS project, Huang, Nabi, Melzer; and CARPE project, Cuschieri,
       Manfredi) and for non-invasive use of focussed ultrasound (FUTURA project, Huang,
       Nabi, Melzer). The success of these collaborations contributed to the Unit’s track record,
       supporting the attraction of Tay Cities Deal investment to establish medical technology
       hubs in the next period (Section 1.3(i)).

   •   Collaborative working on EU-Hydralab projects for pan-European facilities access, most
       recently on morphodynamics of estuaries and sea straights as part of Hydralab+
       (Cuthbertson). These collaborations have expanded Unit links that will support growth in
       the environmentally-responsible use of marine resources for energy and aquaculture
       (Section 1.3(iv)).

   •   EU-funding to develop profiling methods for ignitable liquids led by the Netherlands
       Forensic Institute with eighteen other partners (NicDaeid) and a Churchill Fellowship
       (Hackman), fostering collaboration between LRCFS and the Australian and Canadian
       Judiciary. Networks built through these collaborations will be exploited by JustTech moving
       forward (Section 1.3(ii)).

The Unit is highly collaborative with other UK Universities, research institutes and industry,
examples being:

   •   EPSRC-funded Automating Concrete Construction consortium (£1.24M) collaborating with
       the Universities of Bath and Cambridge and multiple industrial partners, including the
       Building Research Establishment (Spadea), contributing to work outlined in Section 1.2(iii).

   •   EPSRC-funded Screw piles for wind energy foundation systems consortium (£1M) led by
       the Unit, collaborating with the Universities of Southampton and Durham and industrial
       partners including Soil Machine Dynamics UK and Roger Bullivant Ltd (Brown, Knappett,
       Brennan). This has provided a foundation for supporting future strategy outlined in Section
       1.3(iv).



                                                                                                 Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   EU-funded H-Unique project, developing robust hand biometrics for combatting child sexual
       abuse (€2.5M), in collaboration with the University of Lancaster (Hackman). This built
       networks supporting future development of JustTech (Section 1.3(ii)).

SFC-funded research pools have contributed to Unit growth across multiple clusters as outlined in
examples in Sections 1-3, including though SUPA, the National Telford Institute, SRPe and ETP.
These embed collaboration with other Scottish universities and industry at their core. Within the
SFC Innovation Centre (IC) programme the Unit has received project funding from the
Construction Scotland IC (Newlands), Datalab (Cole), Oil and Gas IC (Brennan), Sensor and
Detection IC (CENSIS; NicDaeid), and Scottish Aquaculture IC (Campbell, Brown).

The Unit has hosted external academic and industrial visitors, including:

   •   Professor G N Ivey (University of Western Australia) on a Distinguished Visiting Fellow
       Award from the Royal Academy of Engineering, working on internal solitary waves (two
       months; GEFM, hosted by Davies);

   •   Professors Bo Zhao and Bingbing Wang (Northeast Electric Power University, China) and
       Professor Yongwei Cai (Chongqing University of Technology), each on Visiting Scholar
       Awards from the China Scholarship Council, working on anti-biofouling materials (each for
       12 months; BIT, hosted by Zhao);

The Unit also hosted the EuroCoalAsh2019 International Conference, co-organised with the
European Coal Combustion Products Association (McCarthy, Newlands). This provided Unit
visibility and industrial network-building around work in sustainable construction materials
(Sections 1.2(iii) and 1.3(iii)).

4.2    Contribution to the research base
Editorships of international journals include:

   •   Surgical Technology & Other Interventional Techniques (Cuschieri, 2014-2018)
   •   Int. J. Physical Modelling in Geotechnics (Knappett, 2014-2018)
   •   Proceedings of the ICE: Engineering & Computational Mechanics (Davies, 2014-2018)
   •   Proceedings of the ICE: Geotechnical Engineering (Brown, to end of 2014)

Unit staff serving on editorial boards include (OA = open access journal):

Géotechnique (Brown, Brennan); Soils & Foundations – Japanese Geotechnical Society
(Brown); Proc. ICE: Geotechnical Engineering (Ciantia); Surgical Innovation, Intl J. of Medical
Robotics and Computer-assisted Surgery (Cuschieri); Proc. ICE: Water Management
(Cuthbertson); Environmental Fluid Mechanics, J. Marine Science & Engineering (OA), J.
Hydraulics Research (Davies); J. Waterway, Port, Coastal & Ocean Engineering, J. Offshore
Mechanics & Arctic Engineering, J. Ocean Engineering & Marine Energy (Hayatdavoodi); Int. J.
of Sustainable Built Environment (OA), Coal Combustion & Gasification Products (OA) (TJones);
Frontiers in Bioengineering and Biotechnology (OA), Frontiers in Robotics and AI (OA), Actuator
(Manfredi); Minimally Invasive Therapies and Allied Technologies (Melzer); J. Composites for
Construction, Frontiers in Built Environment (OA) (Spadea); Wiley Wires Forensic Science,
Forensic Chemistry (NicDaeid); Surface Innovations, Frontiers in Microbiology (OA) (Zhao).



                                                                                          Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Keynote lectures given include:

8th Int. Conf. on Plant Biomechanics, 2015 (Bengough); 1st Indian Symp. on Offshore
Geotechnics, 2019 (Brown); Int. Congress on Ultrasonics, 2019 (Campbell); 8th Int. Symp. on
Environmental Hydraulics, 2018 (Davies); 9th Int. Conf. on Physical Modelling in Geotechnics,
2018, 7th Int. Conf. on Earthquake Geotechnical Engineering 2019 (Knappett); 17th European
Conf. on Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering 2019 (Ciantia); 3rd Int. Ashtrans Conf,
2015 (McCarthy); World Science Festival 2019, Gordon Research Conference USA 2018, Daniel
Lecture 2018, European Academy of Forensic Science 2015 (Nic Daeid).

Fellowships of Learned and Professional Societies include:

Royal Society of Edinburgh (Cuschieri, Davies, NicDaeid); Royal Statistical Society (NicDaeid,
Cole); Royal Anthropological Institute (Hackman); Royal Society of Chemistry (NicDaeid); Royal
College of Surgeons (Cuschieri); Institution of Civil Engineers (RJones); Institute of Materials,
Minerals & Mining (RJones); Institution of Engineering & Technology (Huang); Institute of
Physics (Abdolvand, Campbell, Keeble); Optical Society (Abdolvand); Chartered Society for
Forensic Science (NicDaeid); UK Association of Fire Investigators (NicDaeid); Institute of
Chemistry of Ireland (NicDaeid); Norwegian Academy of Science & Letters (Davies); International
Society for Medical Innovation and Technology iSMIT (General Secretary Melzer); European
Society for Focused Ultrasound (Melzer); German Society for Biomedical Engineering (Melzer);
American College of Surgeons (Cuschieri).

Brown is a member of the EPSRC Supergen Offshore Renewable Energy Research Alignment
Group and the ETP Oil & Gas Theme Steering Group. Staff elected to the EPSRC Peer Review
College include Abdolvand, Brennan, Campbell, Cuthbertson, Wilcox, Zhao, Davies, RJones,
NicDaeid.

Notable national and international awards include:

   •   Telford Premium Prize, ICE Publishing Awards (Chernin, 2020)
   •   International Society of Soil Mechanics & Geotechnical Engineering (ISSMGE) Bright Spark
       Award (Ciantia, 2019)
   •   ISSMGE TC203 Young Researcher Award (Knappett, 2018)
   •   Distinguished Forensic Scientist Award, European Network of Forensic Science Institutes
       (NicDaeid, 2018)
   •   Young Thousand Talents Plan of China Award (Hayatdavoodi, 2018)
   •   Best Research Paper Award, Japanese Geotechnical Society (Brown, 2018)
   •   British Geotechnical Association 13th Géotechnique Lecture (Knappett, 2017)
   •   Thanyarak Award for Research, Thailand (NicDaeid, 2017)
   •   Damehood (Black – Category B staff, 2016)
   •   National Research Council of Thailand Innovation award (NicDaeid, 2016 and 2017)
   •   Geneva Inventions Silver Medal (NicDaeid, 2016)
   •   SAGES Emerging Technology Award (runner-up; Manfredi, 2016)
   •   Pete Ganci Award 2016, UK Assoc. Fire Investigators (NicDaeid, 2016)
   •   PW Allen Award (NicDaeid, 2015)




                                                                                         Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


Overseas appointments of Unit staff:

In BIT, Melzer was appointed as Visiting Professor in Image-guided Therapy at the Korean
National Cancer Centre, Seoul (2018-2022), Visiting Professor in Interventional MRI at the
Children’s National Medical Centre, Washington DC (2014-) and Visiting Professor at the Brigham
& Women’s Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston MA (2014-). In GEFM, Knappett and
Brown were appointed as Visiting Professors in Foundation Design at IIT Bhubaneshwar, India
(2019-2021).

4.3    Contributions to economy and society
Consultancy and professional services

Consultancy and service work is actively promoted as a means for generating industrial linkages to
support both generation and exploitation of larger-scale grant-funded research.

CTSE provides service testing for major infrastructural projects, including creep testing of High-
Performance Concrete for the BYLOR Joint Venture delivering the £2.8B Hinkley Point C nuclear
power station (Phase 1 £127k and Phase 2 £50k; Newlands, RJones). In GEFM, EPSRC-funded
work on offshore screw piles generated follow-on service work (£93k) with Heerema Marine
Contractors (Netherlands) underpinning first stage statements of compliance (Det Norske Veritas)
and the development of commercially-viable offshore silent piling (Brown). Separate EPSRC-
funded work on seabed pipeline installation generated service work (£80k) with Oceaneering Intl.
Services Ltd. to optimise a new commercial plough design (Brown). All of these projects have
been enabled by the SMART laboratory.

SJ undertakes forensic casework for the defence and Crown in criminal and civil proceedings
across the UK and internationally; Hackman and NicDaeid are registered experts with the
National Crime Agency, resulting in a yearly income of £60k-£80k. An example of such work is
contribution to the Grenfell Tower Public Inquiry. Members also provide bespoke rapid response to
police forces in distinguishing between human and non-human bones (Virtual Anthropology
Consultancy Service), contribute to the identification of perpetrators from digital images (leading
to convictions for paedophilic activities resulting in more than 300 years in prison and over 30 life
sentences (Hackman, Black), and are involved in the rapid chemical analysis and identification of
drugs in prisons (Impact Case Study; McKenzie, NicDaeid).

Wider contribution

The Unit has significantly contributed to society in a wider professional capacity, including:

   •   In BIT, Cuschieri is an advisor to the International Federation of Surgical Endoscopic
       Societies. MacDonald is a member of the Light Microscopy group of the Royal Microscopy
       Society, promoting microscopy in both academia and industry and providing educational
       kits to primary schools. MacDonald and Krstajic have sat on the steering committee of
       BioDundee, a partnership between public, private, academic and third-sector organisations
       in Tayside.

   •   GEFM provides UK representation across multiple Technical Committees of the ISSMGE,
       including: TC104 – Physical Modelling (Knappett); TC105 – Geomechanics (Ciantia);
       TC203 – Earthquake Engineering (Knappett); TC211 – Ground Improvement (Ciantia);

                                                                                                 Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       TC212 – Deep Foundations (Brown). Brown is also a member of the Society for
       Underwater Technology Offshore Site Investigation and Geotechnics Committee and the
       International Press-in Association (TC4). Cuthbertson is a member of the Leadership
       Team of the International Association for Hydro-Environment Engineering and Research.
       Davies was appointed to the Scottish Ministerial Advisory Sub-group on Containment in
       Aquaculture, leading to formulation of a Technical Standard for Scottish Finfish Aquaculture
       (2015) that is now enshrined in legislation. Knappett currently serves on the Improved
       Containment Working Group, a body with governmental, industrial and academic
       representation, that oversees development and maintenance of this standard. In 2014,
       Davies, Knappett and Brennan served on the Scottish Government Ministerial Group for
       Sustainable Aquaculture (MGSA) Research Working Group, producing a comprehensive
       research strategy supporting sustainable growth of Scotland’s aquaculture industry.

   •   In SJ, NicDaeid is vice-chair of the International Criminal Court Scientific Advisory Board,
       and a forensic expert for the United Nations Office of Drugs and Crime. She was an
       appointed commissioner for the Dundee Drugs Death Commission, provided expert
       evidence to the House of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee’s inquiry on
       Forensic Science, was appointed as an expert witness for the Grenfell Tower Public
       Enquiry and developed the UK Judicial Primers in collaboration with the Royal Society and
       Royal Society of Edinburgh. Hackman chairs the Forensic Anthropology Committee of the
       Royal Anthropological Institute and is the highest certified forensic anthropology practitioner
       in Scotland. McKenzie sits on the Advisory Council for the Misuse of Drugs Working
       Group for Novel Psychoactive Substances, Scotland. Menard, McKenzie and NicDaeid
       are members of the European Network of Forensic Science Paint & Glass, Drugs, and Fire
       & Explosion Working Groups, respectively.

   •   The Unit has influenced national and international codes and standards. Newlands is
       Secretary and RJones a UK representative on CEN TC 51 (CEN TC 104)/WG 12/TG5 –
       Corrosion of Concrete Reinforcement (CTSE). Brown convenes CEN TC 341/WG 7 –
       Non-static Tests on Piles and is a corresponding member of BSi B/526/03 – Site
       Investigation and Ground Testing, providing UK input to Eurocode 7 and testing standards
       including ISO/TC 182/SC 1 (GEFM). Keeble is a member of the ISO/TC 229/JWG 2 –
       Measurement and Characterization eCommittee and directly involved with ISO/PWI 23878
       Nanotechnologies – Positron Annihilation Lifetime Measurement for Nanopore Evaluation in
       Materials (MSE). NicDaeid led and Hackman contributed to the development of the
       European Best Practice Manual for Fire Investigation (SJ).

   •   LRCFS has collaborative relationships with production and theatre companies resulting in
       the development of a new crime series shown on the BBC (Traces, Red production
       company; NicDaeid, Hackman) and a new participatory play supported by Arts Council
       England (The Evidence Chamber, Fast Familiar; NicDaeid) where research outputs are
       generated through citizen science-based activities. Public engagement with science has
       been a key mission of LRCFS since its inception, leading to the first award of a Gold
       Watermark to a research centre by the National Co-ordinating Centre for Public
       Engagement (2019). Research into the failure of smoke alarms to wake children (SJ;
       NicDaeid), supported by EI electronics and utilising large-scale citizen science, was widely
       reported in the National media.

These activities provide pathways to impact for the Unit’s activities and increase its visibility
nationally and internationally.

                                                                                                Page 22
