Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment 17: Business and Management

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

Overview
Our research vision is encapsulated in our strategic goals to nurture and achieve the highest quality
of impactful, internationally excellent, and world leading research. Central to this vision are our
national and international collaborative partnerships. Our research ethos is inclusive,
interdisciplinary, and international. We engage with global challenges in equality, wellbeing, security,
sustainability, digitalisation, and responsible business. The upward trajectory of our research
achievements provides an ambitious and collegial community where researchers at different stages
of their career can thrive.
Since 2014 our research strategy has aimed to:

   ●   increase the number of our research active staff;
   ●   increase the quality of our research outputs;
   ●   place research-driven impact at the core of our vision and;
   ●   continue to build our doctoral programme.

We enact these strategic goals through our research centres: Centre for Diversity Policy Research
and Practice, the International Centre for Coaching and Mentoring Studies, and the Centre for
Business, Society and Global Challenges. All three Centres take a cross-disciplinary approach that
focuses on our established and emerging areas of research strength. They build on the richness and
diversity of our research base to facilitate opportunities for cross-disciplinary research in our UoA
and the wider university, whilst also informing the (inter)national research agenda focusing on global
challenges and the UK’s Industrial Strategy.

Reflecting on our strategic goals and vision, we have included more staff and impact case studies
(ICS) in our submission to REF 2021 (50 Headcount/46.35 FTEs, four ICS), compared to REF 2014
(24 /23.5 FTEs, three ICS, all rated at 3*/4*) and RAE 2008 (18 FTEs). We have invested the whole
of our QR funding, over £1m allocated to the Oxford Brookes Business School (OBBS) where this
UoA is located, to strengthen and further develop research capability within our Research Centres.
We have also focused on our international collaborations to drive forward excellent research and we
continue to grow our successful Doctoral Programmes (from 17 PhD completions in REF2014 to 47
in REF2021).

Section one: Unit context and structure, research and impact
In 2015 the UoA adopted a new research strategy to implement the future goals identified in REF
2014 ‘future strategy’. The vision informing this strategy is “to address strategically important
questions faced by society, businesses, organisations and individuals, and to deliver research with
impact”. It has been underpinned by three key strategic objectives:

1) to pursue and support research in the unit that is of the highest quality recognised as
internationally excellent or world leading;




                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2) to promote and support collaborations and partnership across the UoA, institution and with
external partners, nationally and globally to enhance research excellence and facilitate knowledge
exchange;
3) to enhance the impact of our research in its broadest terms and to widen dissemination of our
research to benefit local, regional and global stakeholders including our staff and students.
 .
What follows outlines our UoA context and infrastructure, provides evidence of our research strategy
implementation, and what has been achieved in pursuit of the above objectives.

    1.1The role of the Research Centres in delivering high quality impactful research
Centre for Diversity Policy Research and Practice (CDPRP): (Researchers : Clayton-Hathway,
Dilnot, Handley, Humbert [Centre Director], Manfredi [Centre Founding Director], Rumens and
Tzanakou).

The Centre’s research spans gender and diversity issues in the workplace, work-life balance, age
discrimination and extending working lives, LGBT rights in the workplace, and social mobility and
human rights. Since its inception in 2004, the Centre has strongly focused on bringing together
academics, professionals, and policy-makers to identify equality challenges, frame these within a
research agenda, and advance knowledge in this area to underpin innovative policy and practice.
Manfredi’s research outputs and ICS were returned to REF2014. Since then the Centre’s work has
expanded in the number of staff and breadth of research and has produced 64 research outputs,
including journal articles, book chapters, an edited collection, a monograph, and an ICS returned to
REF2021.

The expansion of the Centre has led to a significant rise in research grant income from a range of
national and European funders. It has secured grants from the Engineering and Physical Sciences
Research Council (EPSRC), European Union (EU) programmes such as Horizon 2020, and other
(inter)national funders such as the Swedish Research Council, Advance-HE, the Royal College of
Nursing, the Nuffield Foundation, and the Racing Foundation (see section three for further details).
Further income has been gained from the translation of research into consultancy and training.
These externally funded projects have enabled researchers to develop national and international
collaborations with other academic institutions, as well as with policy makers and other stakeholders
beyond the academy. Staff of the Centre are regularly engaged in high-level global collaborations,
such as taking part in activities and training for organisations including the European Commission,
the International Labour Organization, and UNWomen. They are also often invited to provide expert
opinion by policy-makers at national and international level which includes Parliamentary Inquiries
and the European Commission (see section four for detailed examples).

Centre for Business, Society and Global Challenges (CBSGC) (Researchers: Adesola, Altinay,
Asteriou, Bernardi, Bowen, Brookes [retired], Ciuk, Clarke, Dermody, Dimitrakopoulos (left),
Ehrlich, Einig, Ferdinand, Ghasemitangalolya (left), Ge, Goethals (left) Himaz, Huber, Jackson,
Ji, Kapuscinski, Karmowska, Knights, Koning [Centre Director], Lapworth, Le Roux, Lugosi
[Deputy Director], Miles, Millar, Mitchell, Nagase, Occhiocupo, Osman, Quinton, Ringham, Su,
Trachanas, Van der Veen, Vijaygopal, Wang, Zhang, Zwiegelaar.

The CBSGC was established in 2018 to: 1) support interdisciplinary research and integrate areas of
expertise from the previous clusters i.e. accounting, economics, marketing, work and employment,
organisational studies, and hospitality and tourism; and 2) capitalise on the business and


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
management research that addresses global challenges such as: the wellbeing of communities
(migrants, refugees and the elderly); sustainability behaviour change (sustainable consumption in
emerging economies, consumer adoption of driverless vehicles, sustainable tourism); organising for
security, inequality and poverty reduction; and the changing world of work. The Centre is well
equipped to address these various challenges due to the diversity of disciplinary foundations of its
members, including sociology, anthropology, psychology, economics, geography and law. It has
produced 366 research outputs to include journal articles, books and book chapters since January
2014.

The Centre draws on established networks with national and international academic institutions and
non-academic research beneficiaries to address such complex issues. This has led to internationally
excellent and world leading research outputs, and successful funding applications. Examples
include: 1) the integration of refugees into the labour market in collaboration with international
partners in Turkey and Brazil, and supported by British Academy Newton; 2) modern disasters risk
finances (Indonesian Tsunami), funded by the Lloyds Register Foundation-Future; 3) combating
human trafficking and modern slavery in the hospitality industry funded by the Prevention of and
Fight against Crime Programme of the European Union in partnership with national and European
institutions, NGOs and industry sector leaders; and 4) future security threats with UK and Dutch law
enforcement organisations funded by CREST, the Centre for Research and Evidence on Security
Threats, and maritime security in Indonesia with the International Organisation for Migration, funded
by the ESRC’s Trans-National Organised Crime Cross-disciplinary Innovation Grants. Close
collaborations with businesses through Knowledge Transfer Partnerships have led to new empirical
insights, helping them innovate and grow, for example with Blenheim Palace on the application of
artificial intelligence to visitor management (see section three for funding details of these grants).

International Centre for Coaching and Mentoring Studies (ICCaMS) (Researchers: Bachkirova,
Gannon, Iordanou (returned to UoA 28) and Myers); the Centre also comprises other staff who
focus on teaching and knowledge exchange activities.

This Centre was established in 2014. Prior to 2014 the focus of academics in this disciplinary group
was on teaching, knowledge exchange and applied research. The Centre status has provided a
catalyst to focus on the development of high-quality research to inform practice and underpin its
postgraduate and doctoral teaching provisions. Since January 2014 it has produced 39 research
outputs, to include journal articles, books and book chapters, and its research has made significant
contributions to the development of theoretically robust and ethical practices. These have informed
various professional bodies including the European Mentoring and Coaching Council,the Association
of Coaching, and they have influenced the funding of research projects through participation in
scientific advisory councils. The Centre hosts the open-access journal The International Journal of
Evidence-based Coaching and Mentoring, with its members playing key leadership roles on the
editorial boards of this and other major academic journals in the coaching and mentoring field.

At present, ICCaMS is one of the leading producers of evidence-based coaching and mentoring
research in the world. This is evidenced, for example, by several invitations as keynote speaker
received by the Centre’s Director (Bachkirova) to international conferences in Australia, Canada,
United States, Finland, as well as other countries and awards received by Bachkirova and Gannon,
(see section four for details). In addition to its core members, it has twelve collaborating academics
across the University, five visiting scholars, three associate consultants, and thirteen coaching
supervisors for students completing postgraduate studies. It runs a successful Doctor in Coaching
and Mentoring (DCM) programme (see section two research students for more information). The

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Centre also supports ten PhD students within the specialisms of coaching and mentoring. It regularly
runs research events such as an Annual Coaching and Mentoring Research Conference, a specialist
doctoral symposium as well as biennial Coaching Supervision Conferences and Symposia.
Researchers of ICCaMS have led the development of many significant edited collections in the field,
and collaborative projects, with academics and practitioners in the UK and abroad. Their partners,
among others, include: University of Sydney (Australia) Coaching Psychology Unit, Columbia
University (New York, USA) School of Education, University of Copenhagen (Denmark) Coaching
Psychology Unit, Institute of Coaching (Harvard, USA), University of Stellenbosch (South Africa)
Business School. The Centre provides a locus of academic and research support for coaching and
mentoring initiatives across the University, reflecting the interdisciplinarity of coaching and
mentoring.

1.2 Promotion of collaborations across the UoA, institution and with external partners
Our strategy has involved effective use of QR funding, development of national and international
partnerships through collaborative externally funded projects and proactive engagement with cross-
faculty research networks and the establishment of a research hub.

QR Investments: We have invested QR funding through internal small grants (ISG) and university-
wide Research Excellence and Impact Awards from the Central Research Fund (CRF) to provide
seed funding for research projects, support outreach activities to disseminate research, engage with
stakeholders beyond academia and facilitate research impact. Since January 2014 we have
supported over 30 ISG (c.£150,000). For example, in the CBSGC an ISG has supported the
development of cross-faculty, multi-disciplinary collaboration between law, social sciences and
hospitality to undertake a pilot study on refugees’ settlement, transition and labour market
integration. This led to a successful small British Academy Newton award that enabled the
internationalisation of this work by developing a collaboration with three Brazilian institutions to
identify employment pathways for refugees in the hospitality industry (Lugosi). This research has
underpinned collaborative work with the Oxfordshire Refugee Pathways Group and partners from
the City Council, multiple charities (Asylum Welcome, Refugee Resource, Crisis and the Red Cross),
NGOs such as the International Organization for Migration, various social enterprises, and the
Department for Work and Pensions, including designing joint intervention projects. Another example
is an ISG that supported the organisation and hosting of COSINUS (an international Conference on
Systems of Innovation and the New role of Universities) in 2018 (Adesola). This has led to an edited
collection and a special journal issue with contributions from international scholars and experts in
the field of innovation and university-industry relations.

These are just two examples which show how QR and CRF investments have been used to support
Centres to extend their research base, develop cross-disciplinary collaborations, engage with non-
academic research users, and attract external funding. Further details and more examples are
provided in section four.

Building collaborations through externally funded projects: Several national and international
collaborations have also been developed through externally funded projects. CBSGC research has
focused on tourism congestion and place management. This was initially funded through a small
ESRC Impact Accelerator Account, in conjunction with the University of Oxford (UoO), and which
has been expanded through a further British Academy grant to study these challenges
internationally, and in collaboration with researchers from Sun-Yat Sen University, China (Ji). Larger
International collaborations, include a project funded by Horizon 2020 that brings together academics

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
and industry professionals from 10 European countries (Humbert), and research funded by Lloyd's
Register Foundation-Future (FITTER) on Tsunami End-to-End Risk Quantification, together with
partners from UCL, Brunel, Indonesia Insurance Development Forum, and the World Bank (Himaz).

Cross-faculty collaborations: Researchers from all three research Centres take leading and
supporting roles in university-wide cross-disciplinary research, innovation and knowledge exchange
(RIKE) networks that have recently been developed on: Migration and Refugees (Altinay and
Lugosi [Steering Group]); Inclusion, Diversity and Gender (with a leading role for the CDPRP and
chaired by Manfredi); Healthy Ageing & Care (Quinton [Steering Group]); and Children and Young
People (Koning [Chair], and Himaz [Steering Group]). Jackson (CBSGC) has been seconded to
work a day a week in the newly established Institute for Ethical AI in the Faculty of Technology,
Design and the Environment (UoA11). The CDPRP has a long established collaboration with
colleagues in the Law School (UoA18) and there are also other collaborations between the CBSGC
and the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, ICCaMS and the School of Education (UoA23)
and Oxford School of Nursing and Midwifery (UoA3).

Research hub: This provides a physical space where Research Centres have been co-located to
develop a strong cross-disciplinary collaborative ethos among our research community and facilitate
a nurturing culture for early career researchers. This space also provides accommodation for visiting
scholars to encourage cross pollination of ideas and national and international collaborations.

1.3 External engagement and research impact
Delivering research with impact is key to our vision and strategy. We have built on the outstanding
and very considerable impact of our unit’s research impact cases returned to REF2014, and
appointed an academic as research impact coordinator (Gannon). This role involves organising
high-level training, facilitating communication and dissemination of research through a range of
media, and engaging with non-academic research users. Researchers are supported from UoA QR
and CRF funds to develop research ICSs, and receive administrative support with the gathering and
categorisation of evidence of research impact within the university Impact Tracker.

High level training: this is ongoing and includes workshops delivered by Professor Alis Oncea from
the UoO, attendance at British Academy of Management REF2021 Research Director events
(Liverpool and London) as well as workshops designed and delivered by our Impact Coordinator.
Additional training initiatives are available to our colleagues through the university Public
Engagement network that also promotes exchange of good practice across faculties. This training is
central to the UoA vision of delivering research with impact. It aims to encourage researchers to see
impact as an integral part of their research process and think proactively about potential benefits and
beneficiaries of their research and identify most relevant pathways to engage with non-academic
research users. It is open to all researchers, including doctoral students, and offers different types
of training sessions for researchers at the beginning of their research impact journey as well as those
who are instead developing their ICSs.

Communication and dissemination: QR funding has been used to provide media training to
researchers by a former BBC journalist, to communicate research findings through television and
national press. Research in the unit has received significant media coverage from international
media such as CNBC Africa (on gender statistics in Africa by Humbert) and mainstream national
media such as BBC TV (on women in racing by Clayton-Hathway and Manfredi; on security threats
by Koning) and radio (Woman’s Hour featured Humbert’s research on gender and pay in nursing),

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
The Guardian (Dilnot on social mobility issues, Manfredi on under-representation of women
scientists in spinout companies), and The Financial Times (Le Roux and Van der Veen on Blenheim
Estate’s economic impact on the local Oxfordshire economy). Research on FTSE100 sustainability
reporting by Miles has been covered by Board Agenda. Our research is also disseminated to
potential beneficiaries through practitioner-oriented publications including the regular ‘Research
Matters’ column in Coaching@Work (ICCaMS team).

All three Centres have dedicated research pages, make use of Twitter, podcasts and short-videos
and feature in the OBBS special magazine Research Reporter, published every year both in hard
copy and on-line.

Use of CRF funding to support the development of research ICSs: this has been provided in the
form of teaching buy-out and/or research assistant support to gather and categorise evidence to
demonstrate research impact. It has also been used to organise events such as the International
Anti-Slavery Day in 2018, open to the general public, on the theme of combating modern slavery in
the supply chain. This was intended to facilitate the impact of research undertaken within the CBSGC
(Goethals and Brookes) and it used the media of theatre to raise awareness about this issue. It
was followed by a high-level panel discussion with senior representatives from businesses including
John Lewis, Next, the Police, local authorities and NGOs.

1.4 Research integrity and ethics and open research
Research integrity and ethics: unit-level support is provided for research integrity and the
embedding of good practice in research through both formal and informal pathways. Research
integrity and compliance with both internal policies and external requirements is taught through new
staff researcher ethics seminars delivered centrally by the university. Seminars for existing staff and
individual one-to-one support for specific research projects, including funded research, is delivered
by a specialist research ethics officer for the Business School (Handley). The specialist ethics
officer, who is also an academic researcher, is a member of the University Research Ethics
Committee, and annual training and knowledge development is offered to the committee
(www.brookes.ac.uk/research/research-ethics/). At the census date, the post of Chair of the
University Research Ethics Committee was held by Quinton, a Reader within this unit. Her
background in digital media has been instrumental in leading the development of best practice to
address ethical issues relating to research through the use of digital media.

Open research: we comply with Open Access Requirements and UoA17’s research outputs are
available on the Oxford Brookes institutional digital repository RADAR. Our research data is also
openly available, and examples include le Roux’s raw data for the project “Climate Change
Catastrophes and Insuring Decisions: A Study in the Presence of Ambiguity” published in Journal of
Economic                          Behaviour                      &                  Organization
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0167268118302051?via%3Dihub), and Himaz
(2015) Fiscal Squeeze: UK Public Finance and Political Variables Data 1900-2015 UK Data Service,
Reshare. We also pro-actively encourage initiatives to promote research open access. An example
of this is the International Journal of Evidence Based Coaching and Mentoring, established by the
International Centre for Coaching and Mentoring, hosted by RADAR.




                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.5 Future Research Strategy
Our current strategy has helped the UoA to progress on an upward trajectory and develop a robust
research culture and community. This strategy is now well embedded in the UoA; however, there
are a number of areas that we intend to develop further.

Academic staff recruitment and retention: we aim to recruit more Early Career Researchers (ECRs)
and draw from our pool of doctoral students by creating systematic pathways to Post-doctoral
research assistant (PDRA) and independent Research Fellow (RF) positions. These research-
focused posts will be located in our research centres and help ECRs to develop strong research
profiles before moving into lecturing posts. The UoA will continue to nurture existing talent and make
greater use of our own expertise from ICCaMs to devise a more structured and effective mentoring
scheme and coaching support. We continue to focus on the development of research leadership by
rotating roles such as Research Leads, Grant Panel Chair, Research Ethics Officer, and Research
Impact Coordinator. In addition we have identified other specific tasks to help develop research
leadership skills such as leading research teams, organisation of symposia and conferences. We
intend to raise the number of staff to be returned to the next REF from 41% (2021) to at least 60%
of total academic staff employed within OBBS/UoA 17.

Research infrastructure. In line with our university's new research strategy, research centres will
continue to provide our core research infrastructure for the unit and build on areas of research
strengths. We will develop a fourth specialist research centre of excellence focusing on enterprise,
entrepreneurship, innovation and economic development to engage with the local and national
Industrial Strategy. This will link intellectually-led questions and practice based-solutions to
contribute to the post-Covid economic recovery. It will build on the expertise in this area and
significant track record of research funding of Vorley (PVC Dean who joined OBBS in June 2020)
that will include the development of a data access platform to standardise client data and examine
how the platform will transform the business models of professional services firms, total value
£1,778,862 [£115,646, Brookes share]. It will involve other colleagues with a track record on
entrepreneurship, strategy, SME and applied economics (Altinay, Karmoska, Le Roux and
Zwiegelaar). We will also strengthen collaborative research between centres within the unit and
across the University. This includes project-based collaborations with the Institute for Ethical AI
located in UoA11. This is being facilitated by the one day a week secondment of Jackson to the
institute to develop synergies and identify opportunities for research collaborations.

International collaborations. We will seek to develop further international collaborations by increasing
the number of institutional research partnerships, in addition to those established by individual
academics and keep the focus on addressing global challenges.

External funding. We aim to set ambitious targets to continue to raise the unit research income from
a range of founders and sources.

External engagement and impact. Engagement with end-users and research impact remains at the
core of our research culture and vision. To this end we aim to develop stronger generative links
between research and the Business School External Engagement Unit to maximise impact through
knowledge exchange opportunities and diversify income. We also intend to proactively seek more
sponsorship from industry and other organisations for research projects and PhD studentships.




                                                                                                Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Contribution to building new institutional research capacity. Researchers in the unit will continue to
play a key role in strengthening institutional research capacity. As mentioned earlier, they are
leading new university-wide research networks aimed at bringing together researchers from different
disciplines in areas of research excellence.

 2. People

2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development
At the census date OBBS employed 156 eligible academics (113 FTEs) with 50 (46.35 FTEs; 41%)
having significant responsibility for research (SRR) and returned to REF2021 (with an additional 3
FTEs returned to different UoAs). This is a significant increase compared to the 23.5 FTEs returned
to REF2014 and 18 FTEs returned to RAE2008 demonstrating a sustained upward research
trajectory. Overall we aim to achieve a balanced demographic of researchers at different stages of
their career and develop sustainability and critical mass in areas of research strength.

We have appointed ECR RFs to support their career development (Clayton-Hathway,
Dimitrakopoulos [left], Goethals [left], Ghasemitangalolya [left], Van der Veen, and a Senior RF
(Tzanakou). RF posts have been funded by a mix of CRF and UoA QR funding, save for Van Der
Veen and Clayton-Hathway who are funded directly by OBBS. They have all been located in one
of the Research Centres to support different areas of research strengths, mentored by senior
researchers, and received considerable support in terms of training, opportunities to give guest
lectures and join doctoral supervisory teams. They have also been provided with a personal research
allowance of £3,000 funded by QR to be spent over a period of three years on conferences and
other research-related activities. The nurturing environment provided by the Centres has enabled
them all to develop their research profile and this enabled some to move into permanent lecturing
posts in other UK (Universities of Leeds and Sheffield) and European institutions (SKEMA Business
School France). To enhance research leadership, we also recruited new Professors (Dermody,
Knight, Rumens and Vorley) and one Reader (Humbert).

We focus on nurturing existing talent and there is a clear career path for researchers through
Readership leading to Professorship. A number of colleagues (Ciuk, Quinton, Myers, Dilnot,
Lapworth, and Ringham) have previously been financially supported by OBBS to undertake their
doctoral studies and they have all been returned to this REF cycle. Quinton has also been promoted
to Reader together with Asteriou and Iordanou (the latter returned to UoA 28). Bachkirova, Koning
and Lugosi have been promoted to Professor and Manfredi (already a Professor in 2014) has been
appointed Associate Dean for Research and Knowledge Exchange (ADRKE) in 2016.

We also support and provide development opportunities for post-graduate research assistants
(PGRA). For example, Clayton-Hathway was employed as a part-time PGRA in the CDPRP,
completed her part-time doctorate in 2018 and was appointed as RF in 2019. We keep fixed-term
contracts to the minimum and, subject to availability of resources, make staff permanent: e.g. Van
der Veen has been moved from a fixed-term to a permanent contract.

All new academic staff receive, in addition to the general School and University induction, a research-
specific induction from the School’s Research Manager. This includes understanding support that
can be provided by the Research Office with regard to preparing applications for funding,
understanding open access requirements, helping with the organisation of research-related
activities, and dissemination of research findings, including through social media. Research Leads

                                                                                               Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
(RLs) mentor new staff and ECRs and there is a university-wide mentoring scheme for ECR and
mid-career colleagues. Through the annual Professional Development Review and research plans,
colleagues who are within two years from promotion are identified and offered mentoring and
focused guidance on preparing applications.

All staff with SRR are allocated a research workload planning allowance of 20%, 30% or 40% of
workloads commensurate to their level of research performance, outputs, successful grant awards
and other research-related responsibilities. These research allowances are reviewed and agreed
annually with the ADRKE, RLs and Centre Directors and they are based on three-year staff
Personal Research Plans (PRPs). One-to-one meetings are held between individual researchers
and RALs to provide guidance and advice prior to submission of these plans. The UoA offers a
sabbatical scheme that enables staff to have a full semester free of teaching and administration to
focus entirely on their research to achieve agreed outputs. Sabbaticals or significant teaching buy-
outs are also available through the CRF Research Excellence and Impact Awards that can be
applied for on a competitive annual basis. During this REF cycle a total of 12 researchers benefitted
from sabbaticals or substantial teaching buy-out. Other support includes funding to attend academic
conferences, research methods training. This support is available to all researchers regardless of
their employment status (i.e. includes fractional, fixed-term).

High-level external research leadership training is also funded and provided to colleagues at
appropriate stages of their careers. For example, Asteriou and Koning attended the Chartered
Association of Business Schools training for Research Directors and Manfredi attended a modular
course on leadership by the Leadership Foundation for Higher Education.

2.2 Equality
The UoA takes very seriously its obligations under the Public Sector Equality Duty to have ‘due
regard’ to equality considerations by placing equality and inclusion at the core of all its policies and
practices. Overall, the School employs 156 (113 FTE) eligible academics: by headcount 56% are
women and 24% are from a BAME background. From our Equality Impact Assessment (EIA), it
shows that staff with SRR and returned to REF2021 represent 32% of the total number of eligible
academics (by headcount): 34% of eligible women, 29% of men, 29% of White and 35% of BAME
staff. The overall profile of UoA17 comprises: 60% women and 24% from a BAME background. Our
selection of outputs has been guided by our university Code of Practice EIA to ensure that the output
selection is carried out fairly and free from bias (women 2, men 2.5, White 2.0, BAME 2.2). This does
not show any statistically significant difference of average outputs by gender or ethnicity at UoA
level, nor by disability, LGBT and contractual status (i.e. full-time/part-time and permanent/fixed
term).

Women represent 75% of Readers and 50% of Professors. The School’s Senior Executive has 50%
representation of women. Several staff returned have young families and/or caring responsibilities
for elderly parents or adult dependents. Staff’s equality-related personal circumstances (e.g.
maternity/paternity/parental leave, caring responsibilities, illness, disability etc.) are taken into
account when reviewing research allowances, and additional support is put in place where
appropriate. We support flexible working which benefits all staff, especially those with caring
responsibilities, long-term conditions, disabilities, or who wish to start phased retirement.

The OBBS supports requests from colleagues who wish to reduce their working hours for any reason
and equally tries to accommodate, in so far as practicable, requests to increase working hours. The

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
university has a career break policy which is open to all staff, not just those with caring
responsibilities. Over the assessment period we have supported two requests for career breaks and
supported staff to successfully re-engage with their research when they resumed their jobs. All
colleagues who took maternity leave during the relevant period have returned to work.

Researchers enjoy a significant level of autonomy in the way they manage their workload and strike
a balance between their presence on campus and home-working. We foster a culture of trust that
focuses on delivery and high performance as opposed to presenteeism. Researchers with young
families have found our annual residential writing retreats especially helpful in being offered a
dedicated space within which to focus on their research. CDPRP has a track record of research that
has influenced policy and practice in the area of equality in HE, both nationally and internationally.
Manfredi has been involved in the development of the University Code of Practice and designed
and delivered equality training for workload planning and REF for the whole university. Humbert,
Director of the Centre, is a member of the OBBS and University Athena SWAN self-assessment
team and of the Equality, Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Group. OBBS/UoA17 is working towards
an application to Athena SWAN Bronze Award. All staff, including programme leads, who are
involved in managing workload planning have received equality training, delivered by Koning, to
ensure that equality considerations are taken into account.

2.3 Research Students
After a period of year-on-year growth the doctoral community has recently stabilised at about 80
candidates, comprising a range of full-time, part-time, funded and self-funded students. There is a
wide range of nationalities and an almost equal split of female/male candidates. The Doctorate in
Coaching and Mentoring (DCM) programme is capped at eight students per year and typically has
24-30 part-time candidates enrolled at any one time. During the assessment period we have invested
in 19 fully-funded (fees plus bursary) doctoral studentships supported by a mix of QR and CRF
funding. We are using these studentships strategically to support areas of research strengths and to
establish collaborative links with international institutions. For example, we funded a studentship on
security initiatives in South Africa based on the work and networks of Koning (Director of Studies).
This is supported by an interdisciplinary supervision team (law, politics and organisational studies).
Another example builds on the work of Karmowska (Director of Studies) on SMEs, and it has been
funded to develop a new collaboration with the Birla Institute in India through joint supervision.
Advanced Oxford, an organisation focusing on knowledge-intense businesses and long-term
regional development, is part-funding (£12,000) a PhD scholarship in the CDPRP. This expands the
work undertaken by Humbert (Director of Studies), Manfredi and Tzanakou on women’s careers
and leadership. All doctoral students are aligned to Research Centres and the CBSGC has the
largest number of students. Some students, depending on their research topic, benefit from cross-
Centre and cross-faculty research supervision. Most UoA researchers are engaged in supervisory
activity. Since REF 2014 the number of PhD completions has increased from 17 to 47 (DCM
completions were not returned then). The table below shows a breakdown of yearly completions for
the doctoral programme and the DCM.

            2013-14    2014-15      2015-     2016-17    2017-18     2018-19    2019-20    Total
                                   16
 PhD        4          8           4          11         3           8          9          47
 DCM        1          7           5          4          5           4          3          29




                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
All doctoral supervision occurs in teams led by a Director of Studies which allows academic staff
without a doctoral completion to develop their supervisory capacity. The use of supervisory teams
also means that students benefit from different academic perspectives. Apart from supervision, the
core of our doctoral activity (PhD) revolves around a Doctoral Training Programme (DTP) that has
been developed iteratively over this REF cycle. All students are expected to attend all the various
elements of the DTP that includes; a Newcomers Workshop (centred on literature reviews and
conceptual development); a Newcomers Progression Workshop based on face-to-face peer
discussion after 12 weeks of study (in which incoming cohorts discuss both the topics and the
challenges of their research); specialist workshops e.g. on pursuing interdisciplinary research
projects and developing impact pathways; four methodology courses (Qualitative Level A/B and
Quantitative Level A/B); an MPhil/PhD Development Workshop (based on writing); a PhD Exit
Workshop and a PhD Exit Progression Workshop.

Another element of the DTP is the popular series of ‘Doctoral 20-20 seminars’, which have run each
semester for the past 15 years. Students present aspects of their work to peers and staff. The
‘Doctoral 20-20s’ are particularly useful as a practical demonstration to students of the synergy
between their seemingly disparate topics and methodological approaches. They have recently been
supplemented by a further seminar series highlighting internal UoA research, also organised on a
semester basis in conjunction with the DTP, by the CBSGC. ICCaMS runs an additional doctoral
symposium for PhD students specialising in coaching and mentoring. The DCM has a taught,
assessed programme prior to the thesis element and thesis workshops. During the thesis component
of the DCM there are monthly cohort meetings of DCM candidates. DCM candidates are also
encouraged to attend appropriate elements from the PhD DTP e.g. ‘Doctoral 20-20 seminars’.

Both PhD and DCM candidates also take a vigorous part in training opportunities and other events
run by the university through the Graduate College (e.g. Graduate College Research Student
Exhibition). The 50th doctorate was conferred in 2008-09, the 100th in 2014-15 and the 150th in 2019-
20. Since 2013, nine doctoral candidates have been appointed to full-time lecturing positions within
the School. Their appointments bring some very clear advantages. For example, appointees have
experience of research and teaching processes within the university. As a result, they bring a
dynamic contribution to the research and the wider UoA community. Other doctoral graduates are
employed in universities, businesses and organisations in the UK and beyond. Many DCM graduates
use their qualification to further develop coaching consultancies. 2017-18 was the first full year of
membership of the European Doctoral Programmes Association in Business and Management
(EDAMBA). Students and staff participate in EDAMBA events in which students have opportunities
to interact with fellow students from across Europe (e.g. EDAMBA Summer Academy). In September
2019 the UoA hosted the EDAMBA Annual Meeting and General Assembly.

Since 2017, our doctoral students have been colocated in one dedicated, flexible learning space
within OBBS, a well-equipped research suite with desks and storage space as well as separate
spaces for meetings. It helps to develop community and allows academic interaction of both full-time
and part-time doctoral candidates outside their more specialist fields.

Overall, the doctoral programmes (PhD/DCM) have a valuable influence on the UoA’s research
environment. The outputs from a range of doctoral topics, often with a social science base, also
make a wider theoretical and practical contribution beyond the UoA in both academic and non-
academic spheres.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

3.1 Research income
In accordance with our research strategy, and in response to the increased competitiveness of
Research Funding Councils, we have focused on diversifying our sources of research income to
include trusts, foundations, contract research, and KTPs. We have returned c.£1,290,000, which is
lower compared to the c.£1,590,000 of external research income returned to REF2014. This
difference is due to a dip in our overall research income in the early stages of the post-2014
assessment cycle. In order to address this we have taken a series of measures which have enabled
the UoA to make significant improvements that are now on a strong upward trajectory, these include:

1) a change from individual research income targets to the adoption of a more collegiate approach,
involving Research Centres developing their own bidding strategies, to contribute to the UoA’s yearly
research income targets;
2) an emphasis on collaborative and cross-disciplinary bidding with colleagues in other OBU faculties
and institutions;
3) alignment of our research with national and international research agenda i.e. Global Challenges,
Industrial Strategy; and proactive engagement with research end users (e.g. policy makers, industry
and other professional organisations) to identify research priorities;
4) strategic use of the Internal Small Grant (funded by QR) and other CRF as seed funding or match
funding of smaller external grants to develop larger applications.

This strategy has led to successful cross-disciplinary collaborative grants with both national and
international institutions to address global challenges. Examples include:

   ●   two British Academy Newton Awards on the integration of refugees in the host societies in
       Turkey £52,461 (Altinay) and in Brazil and UK £9,980 (Lugosi)
   ●   a grant funded by the Prevention of and Fight against Crime Programme of the European
       Union to combat human trafficking in the hospitality industry, total value £294,619 [£60,270
       Brookes share] (Manfredi and Brookes)
   ●   funding from the Centre for Research and Evidence on Security Threats on future security
       threats, total value £90,001 [£16,455 Brookes share] (Koning)
   ●   a grant from the ESRC’s Trans-National Organised Crime Cross-disciplinary Innovation
       Grants on maritime security in Indonesia with the International Organisation for Migration
       total value £79,703.20 [£18,767 Brookes share] (Koning).

We also secured funding that involved working closely with research end-users such as from: the
Royal College of Nursing, to investigate careers and pay structures from a gender perspective in the
nursing profession, £28,625 (Humbert); Advance-HE (formerly Leadership Foundation for Higher
Education), to research gender and leadership in HE (£18,270), the role of Executive Search Firms
in senior appointments (£14,630), and equality issues in research careers (£8,138) (Manfredi); Sir
Halley Stewart Trust, to explore the use of digital media among people over 60s, £4,412 (Quinton);
and The Racing Foundation, to research diversity issues in the horseracing sport, £10,000
(Manfredi). Through our focus on pro-actively engaging with research end-users we have
established a clear link between research income and research impact as most of our externally
funded projects have generated research impact and external engagement as evidenced by our
impact cases and examples listed in section four.



                                                                                            Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
We have secured sponsorships from the corporate sector which involved: £10,000 from KPMG in
2016 (Manfredi) to produce the first report of its kind into the exchange of talent between business
and academia in the UK; £5,000 in 2015 (Manfredi) from the influential 30% Club (female leaders
in FTSE companies) to hold a panel discussion in 2015 with Helena Morissey and Lord Davies, who
led the government review to increase women’s representation on company boards (this event was
included in OBU’s open lectures series and attracted over 200 people); and £4,000 from
GlaxoSmithKline (match-funded by an internal small grant) in 2017, to facilitate knowledge exchange
through the development of a ‘Coaching Knowledge Portal’ (Bachkirova) that provides public
access to organisations involved in the development of original knowledge on coaching practice.
This work facilitated engagement with multiple corporate sectors.

The strategic use of internal small grants (ISG) has also been instrumental in helping colleagues to
provide seed funding for pilot projects and other research activities to attract large grants. For
example, an ISG supported the CDPRP to develop a discussion paper in 2017 and hold a roundtable
with key stakeholders to bring into focus women’s under-representation as founders of university
spinout companies. This initial investment of £5000 has led to a successful application for a large
grant (c.£267,000) from the EPSRC in 2018 to research barriers and enablers for women
researchers to spinout leadership (Manfredi with King UoA5). Through this work the CDPRP has
established both national and international collaborations to include key stakeholders such as the
Royal Academy of Engineering, the Royal Academy, Oxfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership,
Elsevier and the International Labour Organization.

Another example is that of Himaz in the CBSGC who was awarded an ISG of £4,000 in 2017 to fund
a roundtable on ‘Austerity and its Consequences' that brought together leading academic experts in
the area and researchers from UNICEF. In 2018 she won a CRF Research Excellence Award
(£8,300) to develop an TCS study for REF 2021, underpinned by her research to reduce inequality
in Sri Lanka. The development of the ICS helped improve the credibility of the 'pathways to impact'
and 'past evidence of impact' sections in a successful grant application in 2019, 'The Future of
Indonesian Tsunamis: Towards end-to-end Quantification of Risk', to the total value of c.£400,000
[£44,000 Brookes share].

Research income has enabled Centres to extend their research base and nurture new talent. Grant
funding has created opportunities for post-doctoral research assistant posts and for some of our
doctoral students to be employed (on a part-time basis) to work alongside established researchers
on projects and further develop their research skills.

Our strategy has also led to an increase of funding: for example, in 2018-19 and 2019-20 combined,
our research centres secured c.£1,240,000. This funding underpins an upward trajectory and
pipeline of projects which are still in progress, therefore this income has not been fully spent and it
will be returned to a future REF. These projects are:

   ●   EPSRC £267,784 to research the participation of women scientists in spinout leadership
       (Manfredi)
   ●   Horizon 2020 GEARING Roles to improve gender equality in European Higher Education
       institutions. Total value £2,999,962 [£298,864 Brookes share] (Humbert), and the CASPER
       feasibility study for the introduction of a European gender equality classification system.
       Total value £1,499,280 [£163,616 Brookes share] (Humbert)




                                                                                              Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Nuffield Foundation to investigate the relationship between 16-19 year old subject and
       qualification choices and university outcomes. Total value £118,543 [£68,00 Brookes share]
       (Dilnot)
   ●   Lloyd’s Register Foundation on risk finances associated with disasters. Total value
       £400,000 [£42,645 Brookes share] (Himaz)
   ●   KTP with Blenheim Estate £246,149 (Jackson)
   ●   British Academy to research the participation of women in Nigerian University spinouts
       £10,000 (Adesola) and to research the relationship between individual non-profit
       organisations and the collaborations they enter into £5,155 (Mitchell)
   ●   Innovate UK to develop a Digital Wellbeing Coach total value £49,792 [£9,506 Brookes
       share] (Ehrlich)
   ●   Women in Racing to explore challenges facing working mothers in the British horseracing
       industry £15,700 (Clayton-Hathway),

3.2 Research infrastructure and facilities
Our research environment is supported by an effective research infrastructure characterised by a
strong collegiate approach aimed at supporting an agile and dynamic research community
committed to delivering internationally excellent and world leading research with impact. Research
and knowledge exchange is led and managed by the ADRKE working in close collaboration with
senior researchers (e.g. RLs and Research Centres Directors). By and large the research
management structure of the UoA reflects the university-wide structure where research is led and
managed by the Pro Vice-Chancellor for Research and Global Partnerships who chairs the
University Research and Knowledge Exchange Committee (RKEC) and a smaller advisory group
consisting of ADRKEs across the four University Faculties. At School level we have a School-based
RKEC that also includes the Library, the University Research and Business Development Office
(RBDO), as well as students from our Doctoral Programme. We also have a smaller advisory group
to the ADRKE made up of RALs/Centre Directors, the Head of the Doctoral Programme, the Grant
Panel Chair, the Research Manager and the Grant Officer. The role of these committees is to
oversee the implementation of the UoA research strategy, disseminate information about research-
related developments, and provide a forum for sharing good practice, problem-solving and
developing new ideas.

Other infrastructure and facilities
Research Office. This provides support with grant bids, liaises with the RBDO, supports the Doctoral
Programme, and supports conferences and other research-related activities.

On-line tools. The Unit benefits from University-wide on-line tools which include: on-line research
database Converis, to ensure compliance with open access requirements and to record information
about externally funded projects. Impact Tracker provides researchers with a tool to store and
categorise evidence of research impact. The OBBS research office provides individual academics
with training and support to ensure correct and effective use of these tools.

Financial support for research activities. All centres are provided with a £3,000 annual budget to
support research activities such as seminar series, symposia, and to invite high profile speakers.
Examples include: a one day seminar in collaboration with HSBC Business School at the University
of Peking (Oxford Campus) led by Bernardi and supported by CBSGC; and a panel discussion on
Equal Pay with leading academics in this area and a former senior representative from the European
Commission funded by the CDPRP.




                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Internal Small Grants (ISG), conferences and sabbaticals. An annual budget of £30K is provided as
pump-prime in support of pilot research projects leading to applications for external funding, or to
support activities to develop research impact and other research-related events. This support is
available to all staff but priority is given to ECR and newly appointed colleagues. For example,
Clayton-Hathway (RF) hosted the Gender in Business School, a network of women ECRs in
Business Schools, Conference at OBU in 2019. This developmental workshop supported the
evolution of the Network, with 35+ attendees and presentations from PhD students and ECRs as
well as keynote speakers addressing issues of gender, work and organisation. Another example is
that of Lapworth who received an ISG to build on her PhD research on the voluntary sector by
collaborating with a mid-career colleague (Ehrlich).

An annual budget of £80,000 supports attendance to academic conferences. These opportunities
are complemented by university funding that can be applied for on a competitive basis to buy out
time from teaching, or pay for travelling, accommodation, and subsistence to establish/consolidate
international collaborations. Every two years, UoA17 funds a School-based research conference; on
a yearly basis we run a research away-day, writing retreats, reading circles to provide peer review
support with paper writing, and workshops to support bid writing and share good practice, as well as
research impact training. Our senior researchers organise research development events to respond
to different needs: for example, Quinton and Koning organised a sandpit to encourage researchers
to respond to a new research agenda focusing on global challenges and the Industrial strategy in
2018. ISG funding was made available to develop ideas generated at the sandpit and support cross-
disciplinary pilot projects. Gannon (ICCaMS) and Lugosi (CBSGC) organised several cross-
University workshops on ‘Coaching and Mentoring for Research Leadership’ (2019-2020); Quinton
and Koning ran an event on participatory research and impact (2019).


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

Overall the UoA is making a sustained and significant contribution to advancing research and
knowledge in a number of disciplines as highlighted earlier. This contribution is demonstrated by the
high quality of our research outputs, the relevance and impact of our research and its associated
funding. This has been enabled by our strategy, research infrastructure and approaches described
above. Since 2014 our collaborations have increased significantly and about 60% of our research
outputs have been produced jointly with colleagues in other institutions in the UK and across the
globe. Research within the UoA has also made a wider contribution to organisations, the economy
and the society. Colleagues in this UoA have pro-actively engaged with policy makers at
(inter)national organisations such as Oxfordshire Local Enterprise Partnership (OxLEP), and
government departments, and their achievements are outlined below through a number of selected
examples.

4.1 Collaborations and joint research projects
Several collaborations and joint projects have been established in response to global challenges and
these include Altinay’s research exploring the integration of Syrian refugees by developing
‘entrepreneurial capacity’ in the UK and Turkey as host countries, funded under the British
Academy’s Newton Advanced Fellowship. Koning’s research on organising for security has led to
an internal Research Excellence Award on the privatization of security in South Africa which created
a 5-year visiting RF position with the Security Institute for Governance and Leadership in Africa
(SIGLA) at Stellenbosch University, South Africa and an OBU Global Challenges Research


                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Studentship on security in South Africa. She also acted as discussant and facilitator at the workshop
on the United Nations System (ACUNS): The Sustainable Development Goals and Security
organised by SIGLA, Stellenbosch University, South Africa.

Gannon was awarded funding from the ESRC Impact Accelerator Award in collaboration with the
UoO and Reading University to investigate the management of mentoring schemes. This award led
to the development of the STAMINa Mentoring Network supporting mentoring scheme coordinators,
mainly based in the third sector, and to the creation and development of sustainable mentoring
initiatives. Other collaborative projects relate to the UK’s Industrial Strategy, like the work of
Quinton, whose expertise is in digital marketing, and who has an ongoing research collaboration
with Professor Nina Reynolds (Marketing Dept, Management School, University of Wollongong,
Australia) and the Department of Economics and Business, Univesità del Piemonte Orientale, Italy,
which have led to several joint publications. She is also working with Professor Shailey Minocha and
Dr Caroline Holland at the Open University on the use of digital media among people over the age
of 60. This research, funded by the Sir Halley Stewart Trust, is supported by AGE UK and its findings
contribute to healthy ageing, one of the Grand Challenges, identified by the Industrial Strategy.

Karmowska is part of a large international network of academics (SINET), co-ordinated by Professor
John Child at the University of Birmingham, undertaking research conducted in eight countries:
China, Denmark, Egypt, India, Jordan, Poland, UAE and the UK, on the internationalization and
innovation of SMEs. This academic network is also connected with stakeholders such as businesses
and government agencies. Her work has been recognised with a British Academy Rising Star
Engagement Award in 2016-17. Ji’s ESRC funded Impact Accelerator involved Professor Jonathan
Reynolds and Dr Debbie Hopkins (UoO) which was match-funded by an OBBS ISG to undertake a
series of focus groups with local businesses, Experience Oxford, Oxford City Council, and the
OxLEP to design a research project to look at the challenges of tourist congestion. She won a grant
by the British Academy to carry out this research with Professor Jonathan Reynolds (UoO) and
Professor Anthony Wong (Sun Yat-Sen University, China) as co-investigators.

Humbert has developed a Gender Diversity Index (GDI) that can be used either at team or
organizational level. This was created in response to the European Union’s strategy to support
excellent science, industrial leadership and tackle societal challenges, and funded by the EU Horizon
2020 programme (GEDII). She also won a commission by the Royal College of Nursing to undertake
research in collaboration with Clayton-Hathway, and Schutz (UoA3) on gender and pay in the
nursing profession. Humbert is co-investigator (together with Clayton-Hathway and Manfredi) and
leading a work package examining equality issues in research careers in the HE sector with a pan-
European group of academics and industry professionals to improve gender equality in research
institutions across Europe as a partner in a project funded through Horizon 2020 (GEARING-Roles).
She is scientific coordinator and co-investigator (together with Tzanakou and Clayton-Hathway) of
a project designing and assessing the feasibility of a certification system for gender equality in higher
education at European level, in another project funded through Horizon 2020 (CASPER).
Bachkirova developed a methodology to evaluate coach capabilities that was adopted for the
validation of coaches in the Civil Service and Bournemouth University. This research has also
informed changes in coach accreditation by two leading international professional associations, the
European Mentoring and Coaching Council (EMCC) and the International Authority for Professional
Coaching and Mentoring (IAPCM).




                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
4.2 Wider influence on the discipline and recognition by the research base
Several colleagues are, or have been, editors of academic journals. Examples include: Altinay is
Editor-in-Chief of the Service Industries Journal. He has also been ranked as one of the most cited
academics in the world in the area of sport, leisure and tourism by a study undertaken by the
University of Stamford (https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pbio.3000384). He has been appointed as the
Chair of the International Business, Strategy and Entrepreneurship sub-panel of the Business &
Economics Research Assessment Exercise in Hong Kong and invited to serve on Sub-panel 17:
Business and Management Studies in the assessment phase for REF 2021; Koning is Associate
Editor of the journals Human Relations and Business, Culture and Theory; Lugosi is Co-Editor of
Hospitality & Society; Rumens is on the editorial board of Gender, Work & Organization and
Management Learning, and edits the Book Series on Men and Masculinities, Routledge. Humbert
is a member of the Work Employment and Society’s Associate Editors Board.

4.3 Advisory Boards
Several colleagues are members of advisory boards of academic publishers and other scientific
committees, examples include: Routledge Series on Non-State Actors in International Law, Politics
and Governance (Koning); Trustee of the Foundation for European Economic Development, FEED
(Bernardi); ESA (European Sociological Association) member of the Scientific Board of RN17
(Karmowska); member of the Scientific and Organising committee of the European Economics and
Finance Society (Asteriou); Advisor at the Harvard Business Review Advisory Council
(Bachkirova).

4.5 Invited key notes and conference chair roles
Altinay, Co-Chair for RENTRE-1: International Mobility, Migration and Wellbeing Conference,
Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey, 2019, 2018; The Silk Road and the Tourism and Hospitality
Industries, Almaty, Kazakhstan, 2018, 2015; 8th International Conference on Services Management,
Washington, 2015. Asteriou, Keynote speaker at the National and Kapodistrian University of
Athens, 180th anniversary conference on Statistics & Econometrics: Browsing the Past – Facing
Future Challenges, Athens, 2017; Keynote speaker at the Globalization and Growth in Eurozone:
New Challenges Le Studium Conference, Orleans, France, 2017; Bachkirova delivered keynote
presentations at the Evidence-based Coaching Conference at the University of Sydney, Australia,
2020; the Americas Conference in Coaching Supervision, Montreal, Canada, 2019; Graduate School
Alliance for Education in Coaching at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 2019; the
Business Coaching Institute, Helsinki, 2019; Coaching Conference celebrating 10 th jubilee of lecture
series ‘Coaching – research and practice’, University of Copenhagen, 2018; Coaching Psychology
congress at the University of Aalborg, Denmark, 2018. Bernardi, Convener EAEPE (European
Association of Evolutionary Political Economy) of a permanent stream: between 2014 and 2017 a
stream devoted to the ‘Co-operative Economy and Collective Ownership'; from 2018 a new stream
devoted to critical management studies (with Bill Cooke). Ciuk, Co-chair Critical Management
Stream at BAM (British Academy of Management 2019 and 2020, with Professor Ron Kerr, Dr Sarah
Robinson and Professor Martyna Sliwa. Humbert was invited to speak about the use of gender
statistics for high-level governmental institutions in Rwanda by the European Commission’s
representation (2020).

Karmowska, Convenor Standing Working Group on Organization and Time at EGOS (European
Group for Organizational Studies), 2019-2022; Sub-themes at ESA Conference, Research Network
17: ‘Work, Employment and Industrial Relations’; Koning, invited by Oxford Handbook of Law &
Anthropology to speak about ‘Privatisation of Security’ at Max Planck Institute Berlin, 2018; Keynote

                                                                                            Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
speaker on Critical Ethnography of Organisations and the Co-Production of Knowledge, Vrije
Universiteit Amsterdam, the Netherlands, 2018; Keynote speaker at Beyond The National: The
Regional and Transnational Trajectories of Chinese Indonesians, Institute of Southeast Asia Studies,
Singapore, 2016. Lugosi, Chair of Conference Scientific Committee and Coordinator of Critical and
Cultural Studies Streams for the Council for Hospitality Management Education Conferences from
2014 to 2020. He has also given keynote talks in Brazil, France, China, Hungary, Switzerland and
the UK. Manfredi was invited in 2016 by the Oxford Martin School to take part in a panel discussion
on tackling inequality, and in 2020 as a key note speaker by the Innovation Team Cabinet Office on
Promoting Diversity and Inclusion, and the European Academy of Law to talk about age
discrimination; Van der Veen, Keynote speaker: The Power of Caring in Tourism Marketing, 2nd
International Forum of Tourism Communication, Hainan, China 2017; Understanding the Leisure
Traveller: Reliable Data with Practical Relevance, TBEX Europe, Stockholm, Sweden, 2017;
Milestones, Measurements and Misconceptions in Tourism Marketing Research. International
Forum of Tourism Communication, Beijing, China, 2016. He is also a visiting fellow at Edith Cowen
University, Perth, Australia. Zwiegelaar served on the Board for the World Open Innovation
Conference in 2019.

4.6 Awards
Bachkirova received an award from the Institute of Coaching at Harvard University, in Boston in
honour of a decade of inspiring and supporting coaching science as a member of the Scientific
Advisory Council. In 2017 and in 2018, she received an award from the European Mentoring and
Coaching Council (EMCC) for her work on coaching supervision. Gannon was recognised for her
research, shifting the focus onto formal mentoring schemes and their management by the EMCC in
2019. In recognition of his contribution to the discipline, Knights has received an Honorary
Membership Award - European Group for Organization Studies (EGOS) in July 2020.

4.7 Wider contribution to the economy and society
Our projects and research expertise have influenced policy makers and attracted commissions from
a range of organisations. Examples include Brookes’ research on Human Trafficking in the
Hospitality Industry, which influenced the thinking of international policy makers, with the project
being cited in a 2017 European Parliament Motion for Resolution, proposing that training on signs of
human trafficking be a legal requirement for those working in the hospitality sector. It also led to the
development of a Toolkit of free resources for the sector to tackle Human Trafficking which was
identified by the UN World Tourism Organization’s Ethics, Culture and Social Responsibility
Department as a key external resource, and is promoted by EuroCHRIE (the Europe, Middle East
and Africa branch of the Council on Hotel, Restaurant and Institutional Education), which has close
to 200 institutional members. This toolkit has also received an official endorsement from the UK
Institute of Hospitality.

Clayton-Hathway has been commissioned by Women in Racing to undertake contract research,
working with the ‘Racing Home’ initiative which explores the challenges facing working mothers in
the British horseracing industry. This is designed to develop recommendations to help the industry
better support its working mothers and work-life balance for employees more generally. Himaz was
invited by HM Treasury to present the findings from her book ‘A Century of Fiscal Squeeze Politics’,
co-authored with Professor Sir Christopher Hood, published by Oxford University Press, to an
audience of about 100 Treasury staff. Although focusing on the UK, this book has proved to be of
significant interest internationally and it has been translated into Chinese.




                                                                                               Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Dermody was commissioned by Affinion, a leading global provider of customer engagement
solutions, to develop a novel research study that resulted in a new customer engagement
relationship model. Dermody and Van der Veen undertook contract research for Public
Engagement in Clinical Research, Oxfordshire Clinical Research Network. Dilnot is leading a
research project focusing on how differential choices of school qualifications, particularly at ages 16-
19, impact the trajectories of young people into and through university and on into the labour market.
This research, which crosses economics, education and sociology, undertaken in collaboration with
academics at University College London (UCL), is funded by the Nuffield Foundation. It is far
reaching to a range of stakeholders across the UK, including schools careers and subject choice
advisers, the Department for Education (DfE), and universities’ widening participation departments
wishing to design unbiased admissions processes. Findings from this research have been of interest
to the Head of UCAS, the DfE Chief Scientific Adviser and the Deputy Director, Curriculum, at DfE,
as well as former Secretary of State for Education, Justine Greening. Einig acted as paid adviser
to a Project with Europe Economics (Consultancy firm) on Credit Ratings Agencies ‘Study on the
State of the Credit Rating Market’.

Manfredi was invited to submit written evidence to the Older People and Employment Inquiry
undertaken by the Parliamentary Committee on Women and Equalities (2016). She is a member of
the OxLEP Innovation sub-group and her research on Women and Spinouts to increase diversity in
the innovation ecosystem has influenced the 2020 OxLEP Local Industrial Strategy Investment Plan.
This refers to the need for improving access for women and BAME researchers in the regional
innovation ecosystem by “building on empirical research led by Oxford Brookes University”. Le
Roux has been undertaking a series of Economic Studies for the World Heritage Site Blenheim
Estate. Van der Veen has developed a Visitor Satisfaction Index to benchmark and evaluate for
Cape Town Tourism (www.responsiblecapetown.co.za).

4.8 Visiting Fellows/Professors
Altinay is aVisiting Professor at the University of Cagliari, Italy, 2017. Bachkirova holds a visiting
professorship at the National Research University, ‘Higher School of Economics’ (HSE) in Moscow,
Russia. Humbert holds a Visiting Senior Research Fellow position at the Global Institute for
Women’s Leadership, King’s College London and she is an affiliate member of the Centre for
Feminist Social Studies at the Orebro University in Sweden. Knights has been a visiting professor
at University College Dublin Business School in 2019 and at Macquarie University, Sydney Australia,
2015-2016. Koning is Visiting Professor at the Vrije Universiteit Amsterdam (Department of
Organization Sciences) and at the University of Amsterdam (Department of Anthropology). Lugosi
has been a Graduate Faculty Scholar at the University of Central Florida, USA since 2015, Jim
Whyte Visiting Fellow at the University of Queensland, Australia, 2016, visiting associate professor
at Hong Kong Polytechnic University, 2019, and visiting professor at Gustave Eiffel University, Paris,
2020. Manfredi is a Visiting Professor Faculty of Law, University of Brescia, Italy.




                                                                                               Page 19
