Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Reading

 Unit of Assessment: UOA22 – Anthropology and Development Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 The Global Development Research Division at the University of Reading is committed to
 producing socially engaged research to address the multi-scaled and multi-causal development
 challenges that confront contemporary societies in both the Majority and Minority worlds.
 Comprised of an interdisciplinary group of 19 FTE academic staff, post-doctoral researchers and
 doctoral students, the Division has created a vibrant and distinctive environment for addressing
 these challenges by: (1) producing world-leading research that is analytically diverse,
 theoretically novel and empirically grounded and makes evidence-based policy contributions at
 local, national and regional scales; (2) supporting and amplifying stakeholder challenges to
 current development structures and societal conditions through participatory and co-produced
 research; (3) linking theory to development practice through applied interventions and doctoral
 training using analytical approaches rooted in the social sciences and humanities; and (4)
 fostering sustained and open inter- and cross-disciplinarity through internal and external
 collaborations, public engagement and on-the-ground livelihood impacts.

 Strategy and structures
 Following REF2014, the University restructured its research activity around Research Divisions,
 under four broad and interacting Research Themes (see Institutional Environment Statement
 section 2). This restructuring considered the changing contours of an unequal, interconnected
 world, the shifting disciplinary outlines of development studies, and Reading’s long-standing
 international reputation for research, teaching and training in rural development and agricultural
 extension across Africa, Asia and South America. Research on development has long been
 carried out in the International Development Department (IDD, within the School of
 Agriculture, Policy and Development), with allied research on geopolitics and development
 geography in the Department of Geography and Environmental Science (GES, within the
 School of Archaeology, Geography and Environmental Science, SAGES) and research on
 development economics in the Department of Economics (within the School of Politics,
 Economics and International Relations, SPEIR). Human rights law and the governance of
 development through international institutions has recently been strengthened in the School of
 Law. Thus the Division was formed in 2015, drawing together researchers from international
 development, rural development and agriculture, human and development geography,
 development economics and human rights law to build on our strong, existing intellectual roots
 and consolidate multi- and trans-disciplinary research on global development (see Figure 1).

 Since its formation, the Division has been situated at the core of the University’s research
 strategy to support the interdisciplinarity required to solve complex global challenges and to
 strengthen the University’s leadership position in challenge-driven research (IES, section 1).
 Global Development sits alongside other social science Research Divisions in the Prosperity &
 Resilience Research Theme (P&R), although our work spans the other Themes of Environment;
 Agriculture, Food & Health; and Heritage & Creativity. Each Division has a Research Division
 Lead (RDL) and each Theme is led by a Research Dean. These structures facilitate networking,
 demonstrated in our relationships with other academics across a host of disciplines – including
 Meteorology, Politics and International Relations, Literature and Languages, and Henley
 Business School – based on research collaborations, joint degrees and doctoral supervision.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Figure 1. Structure and institutional context of Global Development Research Division




 Over the assessment period, our vision, strategic research aims and supporting structures have
 undergone a reflective evolutionary process, through a series of scoping exercises facilitated by
 the Division Leadership Group, so that our research culture is as inclusive and cohesive as it is
 comprehensive, robust and flexible. This is maintained through a lively seminar series and
 practice-focused workshops and demonstrated in our co-produced research projects and joint
 outputs.

 A rich, creative and open research environment has been developed, enabling cross-disciplinary
 multi-level research and knowledge exchange that aims to deliver enduring solutions to the
 major economic, environmental and social challenges that face marginalised communities
 around the world. The achievements of this research environment are demonstrated in the
 success of the participatory research projects we have co-designed with research partners
 ensuring their voices and priorities underpin our research and drive engagement and
 dissemination. Given this, the Division’s transformative research has produced measurable and
 far-reaching impacts on research praxis, on the grounded practices of development, and in
 improved quality of people’s livelihoods, particularly in relation to climate resilience, food security
 and community empowerment. This interdisciplinary, participatory and collaborative approach is
 reflected in our output profile and is at the core of our two submitted impact case studies
 (Dorward, Freedman).




                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Through our collective actions and guiding vision, we have capitalised and lead on collaborative
 relationships with stakeholders in international institutions, government departments and
 agencies in the UK and throughout the Majority world, charities and the non-profit sector (see
 sections 3 and 4). The University’s investment in the Division, its composition and strategy to
 support vibrant, novel, open research and meaningful impact is evidenced in the number and
 range of funded projects – £4.18m in total (£220k per FTE) over the reporting period – and our
 strong networks of research and engagement partnerships, co-created and co-designed for ‘real
 life’, on-the-ground impacts in stakeholders’ lives and livelihoods.

 Four distinctive and inter-related research strands have coalesced in service of our vision and
 strategic aims.

 1) Politics of environmental governance: This strand builds on our work on climate
 governance in the Majority world to broaden our research into more comprehensive, inclusive
 and global accounting of environmental governance across middle and high-income countries.
 This contributes directly into the overarching institutional priority on sustainability (University
 Strategy, 2020-26).

 Capitalising on his Marie Skłodowska-Curie Individual Fellowship and further funding (Horizon
 2020), Menga has developed the innovative theoretical lens of ‘hydropolitics’ to understand the
 relationships of dams to different forms of power and counter-movements in the control of water
 resources and mega-development in Ethiopia and the post-Soviet states of Central Asia.
 Menga’s leadership was acknowledged through a SCOPUS Early Career Researcher of the
 Year Award in 2018. Water resource governance is also a focus for Osbahr’s NERC-DFID-
 funded research which has enabled smallholder farmers to access groundwater in northern
 Ghana and Burkina Faso through research on gendered vulnerability and opportunities for
 horticultural commercialisation. Engagement was developed through extension service training
 in Ghana and production of a practical manual for the online rainfall platform RAINWATCH.

 One of this strand’s most active areas of research is on the local-scale politics and practices of
 climate change mitigation, resilience and adaptation. Dorward and Osbahr have focused on the
 local level to show how historical climate data used by NGO-intermediaries in Kenya, Tanzania
 and Uganda can inform participatory stakeholder planning and applied development schemes to
 support local communities in adaptations to climate change. Working with the CGIAR’s research
 programme on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS), Fisher developed a
 framework for how issues of social equity and distribution can be analysed within farming
 populations to inform climate risk management initiatives. Arnall has led investigation into
 environmental change, climate dynamics and their impacts on daily life in small-island states,
 with funding from the Research Council of Norway, ESRC-DFID Joint Fund and Australian
 Research Council.

 2) Livelihoods, land and agriculture contributes to critical analysis of the relationships
 between the growing and eating of food, climate and environmental dynamics, and the
 processes of food security across diverse geographical contexts and scales. The development
 of the Participatory Integrated Climate Services for Agriculture (PICSA) approach, led by
 Dorward and Clarkson, provides one of our two impact case studies. PICSA facilitates local,
 evidence-based planning and decision-making by smallholder farmers through co-produced
 analysis of livelihoods, farming systems and climate information and the exploration of
 management options suited to the local climate and farmers’ circumstances, working, for
 example, with the Rwanda Climate Services for Agriculture project which received the Climate
 Smart Agriculture Project of the Year award (2018). Adopted as official extension practice in
 Malawi and Rwanda, PICSA has empowered communities and led to greater agency of farmers
 to address the challenges of climate variability and change. Complimentary research was
 undertaken by Fisher, who has focused on cash transfers as a form of social protection through
 an analysis of the livelihood impacts of these transfers in Sub-Saharan Africa, working with the
 FAO and six African governments.


                                                                                                Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Critical analysis of conflict and contestation over livelihoods at the local, city and national scales
 forms another core theme. Arnall has explored livelihood conflicts arising from large land
 acquisitions in Mozambique; Goodman and Feola used urban political ecology to analyse
 conflicts over peri-urban landscapes in Colombia; Ainslie analysed the politics of indigenous
 knowledge in livestock management in post-Apartheid South Africa; and Lovo has critiqued land
 tenure conflict and its impacts on soil conservation in Malawi. Grisaffi, through ethnographic
 study, investigated local and national conflicts over coca production in Bolivia and the impacts of
 eradication and poverty alleviation schemes on livelihoods and local economies.

 Other research has focused on the interconnectedness of global development and its
 implications for local environmental and social governance (e.g. Goodman, Menga). Fisher’s
 Horizon2020/NORFACE/Belmont Forum research analysed the solidarity networks of fairly
 traded gold in east Africa that reach across continents to the places of gold consumption.
 Working with partners across Africa, South America and Europe, this transdisciplinary research
 deploys a ‘new materialist’, more-than-human lens to develop transformative approaches to the
 livelihood sustainability of artisanal gold miners.

 Ainslie leads work on climate-resilience infrastructures and livelihoods in some of the world’s
 most vulnerable regions, within the Walker Institute (directed by Cornforth, returned to UOA7),
 one of the University’s ten interdisciplinary research centres. The Walker Institute uses
 evidence-synthesis generated through fieldwork and stakeholder engagement to translate
 research into evidence to inform decision-making. As a Co-I on Walker’s DFID/NERC-funded
 HyCRISTAL project, Ainslie has engaged with local and national government in Uganda on
 climate adaptation and local-level water management under conditions of heat stress.

 3) Gender, care and wellbeing examines everyday gender relations, human rights, questions
 of work and how care for others and the environment intersect with global development.
 Freedman’s research has resulted in significant changes to how the UN manages vulnerable
 populations in conflict situations. This research, which underpins our second impact case study,
 has brought about changes across the UN’s theatres of operation through the development of
 new, far-reaching rules of engagement and reporting mechanisms. It was shortlisted for the
 Times Higher Education ‘Research Project of the Year’ award in 2019.

 Division members work on a number of gender-related topics at the household scale. Dubuc
 leads a multidisciplinary ESRC-funded project on son preference and sex-selection in the UK,
 and her work on fertility and educational attainment in British Asian women brings an
 intersectional account of differential family strategies to social mobility. Kambhampati has
 analysed the different cultural factors and gendered attitudes that influence women’s work
 choices in Kenya and the ways that the gendered agency of household decision-makers affects
 educational expenditures. Rawlings has analysed the impacts of gender and race on income in
 malarial areas of Brazil. Gendered and intergenerational household struggles over resources
 and the sustainability of environmental capital feature in Evans’ research on land inheritance
 practices in Senegal. In Ghana, she found that as cashew cash-crop plantations expanded
 men’s control over land, women and young people’s abilities to access land to grow crops for
 household food and income security diminished.

 Other research within this strand focuses on death, grief and care through Evans’ work leading
 a Leverhulme Trust-funded research project on responses to family death and youth wellbeing in
 urban Senegal. Parallel research includes Maddrell’s innovative theorisations of the spatialities
 of grief, mourning and remembrance. She leads a Humanities in the European Research Area
 (HERA) research project on cemeteries and crematoria as diverse public spaces of belonging for
 minorities and migrants in Europe.

 4) Empowerment and participation produces on-the-ground impacts through co-produced
 research processes and methodological innovation. This research is supported by the
 Participation Lab lead by Evans, a networked innovation space dedicated to supporting
 community research participation in the Minority and Majority worlds. Empowering and

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 participatory research is core to our approach (e.g. Ainslie, Arnall, Clarkson, Dorward, Evans,
 Fisher, Geoghegan, Grisaffi, Lloyd-Evans, Maddrell, Osbahr) and the Division is a centre of
 excellence for participatory research theory, practice, innovation and communication.

 The principles of co-production and empowerment drive Dorward and Clarkson’s PICSA
 approach and its bottom-up engagement with small-scale farmers across, to date, 23 countries
 in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Osbahr has extended this focus through Freirean-inspired
 research for Zero Budget Natural Farming co-developed with farmers across Africa and India.
 Through this research, 600,000 farmers in Andhra Pradesh have adopted new soil management
 initiatives. At the same time it has challenged gendered roles and led to empowerment of
 women’s self-help groups through improved nutrition, horticulture sales and knowledge co-
 creation.

 Geoghegan has produced far-reaching research into the theory, practice and application of
 citizen science involving members of the public in all stages of the research process. Developed
 through an ESRC Early Career Fellowship, Geoghegan analysed the motivations and impacts of
 amateur naturalists on the collection and processing of data in the context of the UK’s
 Biodiversity Action Plan. This project received NERC funding for a follow-on project focusing on
 developing a more-than-human approach that ‘entangles’ the relationships of tree and human
 development at the centre of the scientific study of ecological diseases.

 Participatory approaches are widely used by Lloyd-Evans, the University Fellow for Public
 Engagement with Community Research, who is an important ‘opt-in’ Teaching-Intensive member
 of our Global Development community. Lloyd-Evans uses co-developed research to address
 social and economic inequalities in the UK. Working in Whitley, a neighbourhood close to the
 University, she has trained secondary school students and undergraduates as field researchers
 to co-produce research, facilitating community cohesion and empowerment.

 Future strategy
 Our future research strategy builds on our extensive experience of on-the-ground research and
 our desire to solidify existing partnerships and develop new relationships at the international,
 regional, national and local scales. We will continue to develop existing projects and expertise,
 building on grassroots and multi-directional approaches to working with local communities who
 can directly benefit from our work. From this, we will apply our multidisciplinary lens to issues in
 both the Majority and Minority worlds to research the shifting conditions and processes of global
 environmental and social change, focusing in particular on solutions to current and future
 development challenges.

 First, we will use new funding to apply these approaches to new areas of work and new
 locations, in particular around the nexus of climate, food and sustainable livelihoods. Research
 recently funded includes:
     • Interdisciplinary and co-produced research to reduce microplastic pollution in soil and
         water in China, Egypt, India, Sri Lanka and Vietnam to support sustainable farming
         practices and livelihoods (Osbahr, NERC-GCRF funding with Bangor University, £460k
         to Reading)
     • We are partners in new work on food security, gender, poverty and nutritional health in
         Reading and other UK communities through co-designed, empowerment projects as part
         of UKRI Strategic Priorities Fund work across southern England in response to the
         hardships brought by COVID-19 (£3.6m to Reading, PI Wagstaff in Food & Nutritional
         Sciences)
     • Goodman’s involvement in the GCRF/AHRC project on the historical development and
         current impacts of Peru’s food systems (£199k to Reading) and pilot work on the
         potential of plant-based proteins for reducing the climate change impacts of livestock in
         the Australian food system (£11k).

 Second, we will expand our partnership ways of working to create research networks that cross
 multiple scales and are based in community development that involves local research

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 organisations and engages with national and international agencies. Thus we will develop
 solutions that are driven by local knowledge and experience, augmented by wider contextual
 and theoretical analysis. Examples of research already working in this way include Grisaffi’s
 work with coca growers and policy networks in Bolivia, Colombia and Peru; Evans’ work with
 migrant communities in Reading, incorporating learning with Reading Borough Council into
 European networks (ESRC: £420k to Reading); and Arnall’s work with small-island communities
 linking to national policymakers and international agencies.

 Third, recent focus on the implications of COVID-19 and Black Lives Matter has positioned the
 Division at the forefront of methodological innovation and co-produced research to support
 socially just and grounded responses to the wider issues of inequality brought to the fore by
 such global events. Nascent participatory research along these lines includes Goodman and
 Lloyd-Evans on the impacts of the pandemic lockdown on food systems and education in
 Reading, Kambhampati on global supply chains and development, and Maddrell’s focus on the
 impacts of COVID-19 on the processes of burial, grieving and the geographies of migration
 across Europe. This will allow us to build on and extend our Majority and Minority world multi-
 directional learning, research and innovative approaches, in particular new digital methodologies
 and tools for consultation, capacity-building and communication.

 Impact strategy
 Engagement and impact are embedded in our research ethos through our focus on participatory
 methods, co-development and working with networks and community organisations. As
 described in the IES (section 2.2), the Division is supported by a Theme-level Impact
 Development Manager for Prosperity & Resilience.

 Our four research strands described above are united by a common approach, which has
 evolved over many years, and involves (a) working at the local level to bring community
 knowledge and experience to bear on questions of sustainable development; (b) embedding
 participatory approaches to research, communications and outreach; (c) capacity-building of
 research partners and community stakeholders to generate evidence, and of government
 administration and policymakers to use evidence-based approaches to policy formulation; and
 (d) working with networks and alliances to ensure dissemination and uptake of community-led
 approaches. This approach continues to form the core of our impact strategy.

 Our impact capacity will be sustained and further developed through our long-standing projects
 which have developed relationships of trust and influence with key local and global
 organisations. This includes PICSA and its ongoing innovation and intervention work with the
 UN’s food organisations and national extension services; Osbahr’s work on agricultural
 innovation to address climate change in South-East Asia, working with FAO and local
 organisations; and Freedman’s advisory role at the UN Secretariat and its international missions
 and with the FCDO and UK Parliament. Second, we will continue to build our community-
 focused research to extend our partnerships and reach, e.g. Arnall’s work on environmental
 change in small-island states; Grisaffi’s work on coca production in the Andes; Madrell’s and
 Evans’ work on migration and cultural norms; and work by Goodman and Lloyd-Evans on food
 security in the UK.

 Third, we will continue to apply learning from the Majority world to emerging ‘whole-world’
 issues, as part of our commitment to multi-directional learning and impact – e.g. Evans newly
 funded research on how family care practices are negotiated between and within migrant
 families in France, Spain, Sweden and the UK as the COVID-19 crisis unfolds. Knowledge and
 reflexive learning will be harnessed and shared through our wider networks and alliances to
 expand the power and influence of our co-designed research and grounded impacts. For
 example, the University’s Knowledge Transfer Centre is currently working with Lloyd-Evans, in
 her role as University Fellow for Public Engagement with Community Research, to develop ways
 that these participatory approaches can be captured and replicated with other communities,
 extending their reach and impact.


                                                                                            Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Open research
 We strive and work to maintain an open research environment, supported by the University’s
 policies and structures (IES, section 2.2) and those set out by the funding bodies. We make
 extensive use of grant funding, institutional arrangements and internal funding to support Gold
 Open Access publications, with author fees for 19 journal articles paid from internal funds since
 2016. In addition, the University maintains a Research Data Archive, supported by a Research
 Data Manager, to ensure the long-term preservation of and access to data (in cases where
 national data archives cannot be used), transparency and replicability.

 Research ethics and integrity
 The ethics and integrity of our research, especially important given the challenging locations and
 circumstances of our work, is rigorously managed and monitored to conform to University and
 professional and funding body requirements. First, all research proposals are discussed and
 approved by the Research Ethics Committees in each of the Division’s respective Schools, with
 more complex cases referred to the University’s Research Ethics Committee. Ensuring that no
 harm comes to the communities we work with is paramount. The University provides training on
 research ethics, following the stringent guideline of doing no harm. The Division is supported by
 the University’s Research Data Manager who provides training and supports the production of
 data management plans to ensure its security and appropriate ethical use. Second, Schools
 require careful risk assessments and mitigation plans, particularly for overseas travel, that are
 assessed and approved by the respective School Health and Safety Committees following
 guidance from the University’s health and safety codes of practice and from the FCDO.

 2. People

 Staffing
 The Division has undergone important changes to its profile since REF2014. With a current
 composition of Professors (37%), Associate Professors (26%), Lecturers (26%), and Research
 Fellows (11%), the Division has grown substantially through the investment in additional
 permanent staff (Freedman, Grisaffi, Maddrell), and Research Fellows (Clarkson, Hui). These
 changes have been driven by new strategic research initiatives and investment, such as those
 related to human rights, environmental and social movements, and participatory action research.
 This consolidation and expansion has led to a significant rise in research income, the publication
 of high-quality outputs and our investment in collaborations.

 Over the reporting period, four members moved to other institutions (Boyd, Feola, Okereke,
 Siddique) balanced by strategic replacements and early- or mid-career hires (Dubuc, Lovo,
 Menga, Pham), with the majority of these being female. Investment was also made in one new
 female Professorial appointment (Freedman). Since 2014, 12 of the 19 REF-eligible staff have
 been promoted: 7 to Associate Professor (3 female and 4 male) and 5 to Professor (4 female
 and 1 male) as well as one promotion to Grade 8 Research Fellow (male). Such progress within
 the career pipeline is reflected in an increase in grant funding and in the employment of 9 post-
 doctoral researchers over the period (currently Parsons, Poskitt, van Hulst, Walker).

 Staff support structures
 The Division actively follows University-wide inclusive, equitable and transparent policies in
 relation to staffing (IES, section 3). In addition, each School has dedicated HR professionals to
 provide guidance and advice for staff recruitment, management, and support.

 All research-active staff participate in our annual Performance and Development Review (PDR)
 process with their line manager, with mandatory training for reviewers. All staff develop an
 annual Personal Research Plan (PRP), covering research development, research
 communication and impact, engagement with the wider discipline and funding. These plans are
 discussed with the Research Division Lead and Head of Department and feed into Research
 Division Operational Plans which are reviewed and developed annually.



                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Peer mentoring is available to all staff (e.g., at career transition points such as promotion
 planning, preparing for a role change or career-break returnees). There are regular calls for
 mentors who receive appropriate training, and the mentoring pool includes visiting/emeritus staff
 who have often taken diverse career paths.

 All academic staff hold individual Staff Development Accounts (SDAs) that enable discretionary
 spending on conferences, travel, books and short-term staff funding (e.g. for research
 assistants). A set fraction of research overhead income is allocated to SDAs annually; part is
 allocated equally to all academic staff (to reflect that overhead-earning opportunities vary with
 career stage and other commitments); part is allocated in proportion to overheads earned by
 individuals. Non-professorial staff can apply for University Research Travel Grants for support of
 conference attendance, archive visits, and other research-related activities. Further internal
 schemes to support research are available, particularly seed-funding from the Research Deans
 or regular open calls for small project funding (IES, section 4.3).

 All Departments operate similar workload models which are used to monitor research
 commitments, teaching, administration, engagement, mentoring and academic citizenship. Staff
 see their colleagues’ load profiles (in anonymised form) for transparency. Newly appointed
 academics, including ECRs, start with a reduced administrative and teaching load and build up
 gradually over a two- to three-year period.

 All Staff can request flexible working arrangements (including remote working, time for child-
 care) and staff wellbeing is monitored and supported through annual University and School
 surveys (as well as PDRs). In addition, all members of the Division are awarded one term of
 research leave every three years (irrespective of periods of parental or other leave) and can
 apply for special cases of leave based on ongoing and awarded research funding.

 Support to ECRs
 All new research staff participate in a structured induction programme, including orientation and
 policies and procedures (health and safety, finance, etc.). In line with the University policy and
 the Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers, all ECRs are paired with a
 senior academic as mentor, meeting them regularly to provide feedback on progression, draft
 outputs and funding proposals, as well as career planning.

 ECRs are supported by Research and Enterprise Services (RES) which provides training for
 grant-writing and writing retreats, particularly to help with their first or major external funding bids
 as PI or Co-PI. University policy provides ECRs with a 3-year probation period and expectations
 and specific probation targets are discussed and agreed with the Head of Department to ensure
 they can establish themselves as independent researchers. The effectiveness of this support is
 demonstrated throughout the Division’s submission and specifically in the contributions of
 colleagues at the rank of Lecturer and Associate Professor, the promotion of ECR and mid-
 career colleagues, and substantial grant capture by ECRs.

 Equality and diversity (E&D)
 The University promotes, actively invests in, and supports equality and diversity across the
 range of protected characteristics, with respect to staff and student profiles, the working
 environment and reward and promotion (IES, section 3.2). The University’s diversity and
 inclusion consultations and action plans are led by a Dean for Diversity & Inclusion and
 supported through Athena Swan Charter action plans, Race Equality Charter action plans and
 an internal race equality review in 2020, and annual Diversity and Inclusion consultations and
 action plans. Each School has a Wellbeing, Diversity and Inclusion Lead, and all have
 Wellbeing, Equality and Diversity committees that meet to discuss staff concerns, implement
 action plans and collect data on progress.

 The University has an Athena SWAN Award at Silver level, as does SAGES, with SAPD holding
 a Bronze-level award. Female staff (63% of Division staff), are supported through flexible
 working policies, support for return to work after maternity leave, and a transparent and pro-

                                                                                                   Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 active promotions system. Training to facilitate leadership development, particularly for female
 colleagues, has been an important priority and investment in direct response to the Action Plans
 of our Athena Swan awards. This is demonstrated by female Division members in past or
 present leadership roles including Freedman (RDL, 2016-19), Kambhampati (Head of School,
 SPEIR), Osbahr (Head of IDD). Rawlings led on the ESRC-funded South East Network for
 Social Sciences DTC (SeNSS) for the Division (2015-19), while Dubuc is the current lead.
 Lloyd-Evans has taken up a leadership position as the University’s Public Engagement with
 Community Research Fellow. All female staff in the Division have participated in, or had the
 opportunity for, specific leadership training such as Springboard or the Aurora Women’s
 Development Leadership Programme.

 Equality and diversity in REF submission
 Equality and diversity considerations have been at the centre of the crafting of the Division’s
 submission. Unconscious bias training was provided for the UOA Lead and RDL to support the
 initial output selection and the submission was subject to the University’s interim Equality Impact
 Assessment (2021) and bias analysis (2021) to detect any bias and allow us to take action with
 respect to output selection and impact case studies. This analysis, which showed no statistically
 significant differences for staff with protected characteristics, was followed by critical reflection
 by the UOA Lead and RDL.

 Training and supervision of PGR students
 Our vibrant community of PhD students makes important contributions to the intellectual culture
 of the Division. It is a diverse community with 76% non-UK nationals (from 30 countries) in
 2019/20; 86% of our non-UK and 33% of UK students are from a BAME background; 37% of the
 current cohort are mature students and 56% are female. Over the assessment period, we
 supervised 70 students to completion (3.66 per FTE). Financial support came from the
 University (30%), self-funding (30%), overseas (15%), research councils through the SeNSS
 DTC (10%) and other sources (15%).

 Students receive supervision from two academics, including a number of collaborative
 supervisions across Departments in the Division and across the wider University (e.g.
 Leverhulme Trust Doctoral Programme in Climate Justice). Supervisor committees include two
 supervisors and an independent monitor who coordinate progress meetings and reports every
 six months. Students engage in an ‘upgrade’ event at the end of their first year and receive
 feedback from Department and Division members. They are encouraged to present initial
 findings in Departmental and Division seminars and events. PhD students are provided funding
 to present their work at conferences and to hold Reading-based workshops. Given these
 structures of support, a number of current and past PGR students (e.g. Imburgia, Nolan, Otu,
 Poskitt, Singh) have published papers in top disciplinary and interdisciplinary journals during
 their enrolment at Reading.

 The University’s Graduate School coordinates a comprehensive Researcher Development
 Programme covering study skills, communication and public engagement, publication strategies,
 preparing to teach, funding and grant applications and careers advice. The Graduate School
 offers study space, social and networking events and organises an Annual Doctoral Conference.
 Students are offered opportunities to teach, many leading seminars on first-year undergraduate
 modules, and receive mentoring on teaching and seminar practice as well as assessment from
 module convenors and the University’s Preparing to Teach programme. Others contribute as
 research assistants or act as mentors for undergraduate classwork and assessments.

 Doctoral students are supported to take leadership roles, for example organising and leading
 Departmental seminars, attending funding-body training events and workshops, or on Staff-
 Student committees. Examples of PGR-led workshops include a symposium focusing on land
 struggles of the twenty-first century (2017, organised by Talhada, Nkobou and De Maria). In two
 notable examples, Nkobou serves on the University-wide committee on Diversity and Inclusion
 and a group of PGR students have led on efforts to ‘decolonise’ the curriculum and been at the


                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 forefront of extending the Division’s engagements with post- and de-colonial theory and
 methodologies. These opportunities are an essential part of the PhD training.

 Another feature of our research culture is the involvement of students in staff research projects
 through the Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme (UROP). During funded
 summer placements, students have worked on, for example, the mapping of foodscapes and
 educational opportunities in the local neighbourhood of Whitley, or on loneliness and social
 isolation in Reading for the Borough Council.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 We have received over £4.18m in funding over the assessment period (£220k per FTE). While a
 substantial proportion of funding comes from UKRI (AHRC, ESRC, MRC, NERC), we also
 receive funding from the UN (FAO, IFAD, UNDP, WFP), collaborative grants with CGIAR
 institutions and programmes (CCAFS, CIAT, CIMMYT, ICRISAT, ILRI), international and
 national NGOs, EU and other national governments, trusts and industry-related or professional
 bodies. Other sources of funding include UK national and local government (DFID, Reading
 Borough Council), UK-based charities and professional bodies such as the Arts Council, British
 Council, Landscape Research Group, Leverhulme, Nuffield, and Royal Geographical Society as
 well as not-for-profits (Bees for Development, Send a Cow). We have also captured significant
 funding through the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT Food).

 Figure 2. Income growth and sources of funding




 Figure 2 shows the steady rise in income and increasing diversification of sources. CGIAR and
 UN funding shows the desire and ability to work with international development institutions to
 realise real-world, grounded change. Smaller-scale funding through charitable bodies and NGOs
 demonstrate our commitment to working with stakeholders to challenge ‘business as usual’
 development in global, national, regional and local contexts. Funding through UKRI and GCRF
 demonstrates not just research excellence but our focus on research tailored to UK aid priorities.




                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Key projects during the assessment period include:
    • PICSA which has brought in a total of c.£870k from UKRI, UN and other funding streams
        (Dorward, Clarkson)
    • The NERC Community for Engaging Environments platform (PI Geoghegan, £1.3m
        total; £456k to Reading)
    • ESRC-funded research on son preference and sex selection in the UK (Dubuc, £440k)
    • Leverhulme-funded work on bereavement, care and families in Senegal (Evans, £130k)
    • AHRC-funded research on deathscapes and diversity (Madrell, £262k)
    • NERC-funded research on enthusiasm, citizen science and ecosystem health
        (Geoghegan, £120k).

 Staff have also been involved as Co-Investigators on projects led by colleagues in other
 Departments and Divisions and as part of external partnerships. For example:
    • Ainslie is Co-I on HyCRISTAL, a DFID-NERC-funded project led by the Walker Institute
         (£635k)
    • Fisher is Co-I on a GCRF/ESRC project on green growth in Africa (£146k)
    • Arnall is PI on a DFID-ESRC-funded partnership on environmental change in the
         Maldives (total £98k; £67k to Reading), follow-up to an earlier DFID-ESRC-funded
         project led by Manchester (£276k; with £55k to Reading)
    • Fisher is PI of an international consortium on fairly traded gold (Horizon 2020/Belmont
         Forum/NORFACE award of £1.3m, with £280k from ESRC to Reading)
    • Maddrell is Co-I on the £1m HERA project (£168k to Reading).

 We have also secured smaller grants with potentially large societal impacts, e.g.:
   • Osbahr’s funding from NERC (£39k, £37k and £33k) and DFID (£36k) to support small
       African farmers’ soil and water management in the face of climate change
   • Freedman’s funding from AHRC (£40k) and British Academy (£36k) for work on
       safeguarding children and vulnerable populations across the UN’s theatre of operations
   • Lloyd-Evans’ awards from the Arts Council UK (£60k) and Oxford Brookes University
       (£50k) to support projects on mobility, financial exclusion, youth aspiration and school-
       family relationships in Reading.

 Internal funding is available from the University’s Global Development Steering Group which
 oversees the GCRF (QR) allocation received from Research England since 2017. The funding of
 £1.9m over 3 years has been prioritised for rapid response projects and partnership-building,
 with £320k to members of the Division, including awards to Clarkson (£28k for development of a
 PICSA extension toolkit); Freedman (£82k for a UN safeguarding toolkit) and Grisaffi (£160k for
 a partnership on crop control in the Andes).

 Support for research proposals
 Backed by strong support from Research Development Managers in RES, including specialist
 support for EU and GCRF funding streams (IES, section 4.1 and 4.2), staff are regularly alerted
 to funding opportunities and are provided with proactive support in developing proposals
 including financing, outreach and collaborative arrangements. Specialist finance and research
 contracts staff support the disbursement of successful funding and development of external
 research contracts and financial arrangements.

 Other support available (IES, section 4.3) includes funds from the University’s Research
 Endowment Trust Fund (RETF) via the Research Dean for Prosperity & Resilience who has
 provided over £14,300 in seed-funding and pump-priming for grant development and other
 collaboration activities. The P&R Theme runs writing workshops and has a Grants Development
 College, which peer reviews all major bids in development. Colleagues in the Division have also
 received pump-priming support from the Deans of other research themes, e.g. Goodman’s
 project on digital food influencers funded by the Food research theme (£2k). Dubuc was
 awarded £32k from the RETF Open Fund for work on prenatal sex-selection and son preference
 in India and China.

                                                                                          Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Departments and Schools provide pump-priming and review proposals through the School
 Management Board, chaired by the Head of School, which meet termly and involves Heads of
 Department, Research Division Leads and post-doctoral representatives as well as the
 Research Development Manager and Impact Development Manager from RES.

 Other professional services support
 The Division benefits from involvement in the University’s Impact Support Programme (BOISP,
 see IES, section 2.3), which provides a structured approach for identifying the potential impact of
 research as well as pump-priming for impact activity (small-scale activities, workshops,
 meetings, and short-term funding of staff). Seven projects received funding, totalling £55k since
 2018. BOISP includes a formal mechanism for reviewing progress and suggesting ways to
 broaden impact. It is coordinated by the Impact Team in RES, working with the Research
 Communications Team and Knowledge Transfer Centre.

 The normative convictions of the Division ensure we have positioned communication at the
 centre of our research process and the core of our identity. Supported by the Research
 Communications and Press teams, we have developed a range of communication outputs
 including reports and summaries for different audiences, a Division website and several project
 websites, themed public lectures and other public-facing events. Our work is regularly
 recognised in the University’s annual Research Engagement and Impact Awards (Lloyd-Evans
 2017, 2018; Freedman, 2019; Geoghegan 2019; Arnall 2020; PDRA Walker 2020). In her new
 role as the University’s Public Engagement with Community Research Fellow, Lloyd-Evans
 works closely with the University’s Community Relations Manager and Research
 Communications team to deepen and strengthen local engagement, particularly via participatory
 research on themes of inequality and inclusion.

 Infrastructure and facilities
 The newly renovated and refurbished University Library (IES, section 4.3) supports our research
 with a dedicated Librarian, access to thousands of physical and electronic books, journals and
 other research materials as well as databases, video libraries and archives. University
 investment in technological infrastructure includes cloud and locally secure data storage and file
 transfer, plus ‘Apps anywhere’ which provides data analysis, video editing and transcription
 software. Recent investment has been made in fieldwork equipment for the behavioural and
 social sciences (the BESS Lab) in the form of a suite of bookable laptops, digital voice
 recorders, video cameras, whiteboards and other equipment required for co-produced and
 participatory research.

 Recent investment in Microsoft Teams has been critical during the pandemic lock-down period
 to support leadership meetings and our regular research workshops, teaching provision and, in
 many cases, our existing and current research with communities and partners we have been
 unable to meet face-to-face. COVID-19 has impacted on the work related to almost all current
 projects. International research travel has been postponed, shifted to include more digital forms
 of data collection by reallocating of resources and increasing capacity to support the greater role
 of in-country research partners. For example, Maddrell’s HERA project on cemeteries and
 crematoria has moved some of the primary data collection online, while Dorward and Clarkson
 adapted PICSA resources to online activities and training to build capacity and expand partners’
 role in data collection, analysis and output production. University support at all scales has sought
 to facilitate the continuation of research through the careful disbursement of strategic funding,
 resources to free up staff research time through teaching support, and a recognition of the
 difficult circumstances staff find themselves in to conduct research during a global pandemic.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Pursuing the strategic aims of the Division requires transdisciplinary and trans-sectoral
 collaborations that extend research beyond the academy.


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Government and intergovernmental agencies
 We engage widely with government officials and agencies, intergovernmental organisations and
 multiple UN agencies to facilitate change in institutional governance, practices and policy.
    • Fisher has acted as a specialist advisor to the FAO and the governments of Malawi and
         Kenya to improve social protection for the chronically poor.
    • Grisaffi has worked with the governments of Peru and Bolivia, the UK’s National Audit
         Office and the UN’s Commission on Narcotic Drugs on coca production, the cocaine
         trade, democracy and small farmers’ livelihoods.
    • Menga was co-author on two policy papers commissioned by the Swiss Agency for
         Development and Cooperation for a regional consultation about sustainable solutions for
         managing water and reducing disaster risks in Central Asia and Caucasus.
    • Lloyd-Evans gave evidence to the Education Select Committee in Parliament on
         methodologies and research designed to support social mobility through educational
         attainment in deprived areas in the UK.
    • Dorward and Clarkson, through PICSA, have directly engaged with multiple UN
         organisations. UNDP and WFP have adopted the PICSA approach and continue to
         develop individual and multi-country programmes using PICSA in Ethiopia, Malawi,
         Mozambique, Sri Lanka, Tajikistan, Uganda, Zimbabwe.
    • Freedman has served as a specialist adviser to the UK Government’s International
         Development Select Committee since the international safeguarding crisis in 2018 and
         has helped enhance DFID policies on delivering aid in ways that protect the most
         vulnerable.
    • Both Lloyd-Evans and Evans have worked with Reading Borough Council to,
         respectively, support community development in Whitley and conduct research on
         loneliness and social isolation among vulnerable groups.

 Non-governmental and community organisations
 We have cultivated strong relationships with numerous NGOs, third-sector organisations and
 community groups across global, national and local scales. These include:
    • Lovo’s partnership with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) on food systems transformation.
    • Evans’ consultancy with the Consortium for Street Children and Oak Foundation on
       street children at risk of sexual abuse in Ecuador, Nepal and Uganda.
    • Lloyd-Evans’ close work with the education charity Study Higher and the housing charity
       Affinity on educational attainment in Reading.
    • Grisaffi’s collaboration with the Andean Information Network and the Pontifical Catholic
       University of Peru to develop regional solutions to small-scale coca growing and
       livelihood improvements.

 Interdisciplinary collaboration and co-design
 Another aspect of our approach is our co-design of research with academics from other fields of
 study (e.g. ecology, meteorology, climate science, agricultural science, linguistics, urban
 planning, sociology, media and cultural studies) as seen through:
     • Dorward and Clarkson’s PICSA-related collaborations with meteorologists, statisticians
        and participatory development social scientists.
     • Fisher’s research work with mining engineers, anthropologists and artists.
     • Geoghegan’s citizen science projects collaborating with ecological and environmental
        scientists.
     • Ainslie’s work with HyCRISTAL which brought together an interdisciplinary grouping
        from the Walker Institute and scholars from African institutions, NGOs and government
        organisations to analyse the future impacts of climate change on water supplies in rural
        and urban settings.
     • Arnall’s research, designed to give a distinctive voice to justice-based claims ‘from
        below’ in the context of climate displacement and resettlement, which brought together
        collaborators from agriculture, law and politics and international relations.



                                                                                         Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Contribution to the discipline
 Division members have taken leadership roles in organising conferences, workshops and other
 events at both Reading and other national and international institutions:
     • Goodman organised an academic and practitioner workshop at Reading on questions of
         global food justice, led an international event on the communication of climate justice at
         Reading and collaborated with the Universities of Brighton and Bournemouth on the
         practice of everyday climate cultures.
     • Evans, along with Geoghegan, Lloyd-Evans and supported by the Participation Lab,
         held an international workshop on the development of participatory research methods for
         achieving the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development.
     • In conjunction with scholars from Meteorology, Museum Studies and Agriculture,
         Freedman has led workshops supported by the Development Studies Association on
         research in conflict zones.
     • Rawlings has organised international events on domestic violence in the Majority world.

 Division members have organised national and international workshops bringing together
 scholars, practitioners, NGOs and policymakers:
     • Fisher and collaborators have held workshops in Ghana and Uganda on mineral sector
         development, social equity and inclusion in Africa. She has also held workshops in
         Nigeria, Ethiopia, Kenya and the UK with stakeholders on green growth in Africa.
     • With the Overseas Development Institute, Evans led a global policy workshop and
         livestreamed public event on young people's psychosocial wellbeing.
     • Freedman organised three workshops for the UN’s Gender Network at Durham, LSE
         and the FCDO.
     • Geoghegan, in collaboration with and supported by the BBSRC, NERC and the British
         Ecological Society, has led on numerous interdisciplinary events on ecological health and
         citizen science across Epping Forest and Birmingham.

 Public engagement and outreach
 Innovative forms of public outreach are at the core of our collaborations and contributions:
    • Fisher has worked with artists and miners to realise a community ‘pop-up’ photography
        exhibition and participatory art work in northern Ghana.
    • Fisher and Osbahr have led on training to build capacity for interdisciplinary research at
        Crops for the Future in Malaysia bringing together ECRs from the UK and Malaysia.
    • Arnall and the Maldivian NGO ENDEVOR curated an exhibition of islanders’ images of
        everyday life and environmental change at the National Art Gallery in Malé and in
        Manchester.
    • Ainslie produced an Open Online Course, Engaging With Controversies in the Food
        System, funded by EIT-Food and Our Hungry Planet on agriculture and development as
        part of the University partnership with FutureLearn.
    • Division members have led on contributions to EFSET (European Food Systems
        Education and Training), a diverse community of students studying food issues in
        universities across Europe (Arnall) and have worked closely with media organisations
        such as the BBC (Dubuc) to produce educational programming.

 Journal editorships
 Scholarly leadership by members of the Division is demonstrated through our roles as editors
 and members of editorial boards of prestigious, international journals across a number of
 disciplinary and interdisciplinary fields of study:
     • African Journal of Range and Forage Science (Ainslie, associate editor)
     • Area (Geoghegan, editor)
     • Climatic Change (Goodman, associate editor)
     • Gender, Place and Culture (Madrell, editor 2013-17)
     • Journal of Rural Studies (Fisher, associate editor)
     • People and Nature (Geoghegan, associate editor)


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •   Political Geography (Menga, associate editor)
    •   Social and Cultural Geography (Madrell, editor).

 Editorial board memberships include European Journal of Development Studies, Ecology and
 Society, Environmental Communication, Feminist Economics, Gender, Place and Culture,
 Geoforum, Geography Compass, Journal of Rural Studies, Social and Cultural Geography, and
 Future Earth’s 10 New Insights in Climate Science.

 Over the reporting period, ten special issue and themed sections of leading journals have been
 successfully published or are in process by members of the Division. These include issues on
 everyday climate cultures (Goodman), family, care and wellbeing (Evans), and transforming
 conflicts over natural resources in the Global South (Fisher). Fisher produced an issue for the
 Future Earth & Earth League series 10 New Insights in Climate Science to support the UN
 Framework Convention on Climate Change and inform policymakers at COP26 and beyond.
 Goodman co-edits two high-profile book series, one on critical food studies with Routledge and
 a second with Bloomsbury on contemporary food issues with 48 books (39 during the reporting
 period) currently under contract, in press or published across the two series.

 Conferences and keynotes
 Division members have been active in delivering invited keynotes and plenary addresses at
 national and international institutions and conferences. Evans gave a keynote on caring for the
 dead in Senegal at a workshop in Brussels and Geoghegan has delivered keynotes on
 enthusiasm for citizen science in Austria. Menga delivered a plenary talk at the Water Talk
 series held in Switzerland and public lectures at the University of Wageningen Water Week.
 Goodman has given four high-profile keynotes with two in Australia on the development of
 alternative food networks and technology and two in the USA on the celebrity-isation of climate
 change media and humanitarianism.

 Division members have held prestigious visiting scholar positions. Examples include Lovo’s
 visiting professorship at the University of Nanterre, Paris, Grisaffi’s visiting research associate
 positions at LSE and UCL, Menga visiting professorship at the University of Trento and the
 University of Genoa, Osbahr’s visiting associate professorship at Hokkaido University, Japan,
 and at Mbarara University of Science and Technology in Uganda, where Fisher is a visiting
 professor. Goodman was a visiting professor at the Centre for Research in Spatial,
 Environmental and Cultural Politics at the University of Brighton and, in 2019, a funded visiting
 professor at the Centre for Space, Place and Society at Wageningen University.

 Advisory bodies and review panels
 Division members help shape global development research agendas through contributions to
 national and international grant advisory bodies and funding review panels. For example,
 members serve on several UKRI grant panels (e.g. ESRC), those of charities (Leverhulme,
 Wellcome Trust) and other funding agencies and organisations (British Council, DEFRA,
 DFID/FCDO, GCRF, MRC, and the Environmental Observation Framework UKEOF), and
 international review boards, such as the Australian Research Council, Austrian Climate and
 Energy Fund, European Commission, Finnish Academy of Science, International Science
 Council, Humanities Research Council of Canada, National Belgium Research Council,
 Netherlands Institute for Advanced Study, Netherlands Organisation for Scientific Research,
 Polish National Science Centre Social Science, Swiss Programme of Research on Global Issues
 for Development, and the US National Science Foundation. Others have leading and agenda-
 setting positions across a number of academic and disciplinary bodies. These include Fisher’s
 role on the ESRC’s Strategic Advisor Network, Maddrell’s position on the RGS-IBG’s Research
 and Higher Education Committee and Kambhampati’s position as secretary and Council
 Member of the DSA.




                                                                                              Page 15
