Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Chichester

 Unit of Assessment: 31: Theology and Religious Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Research in Theology and Religious Studies at the University of Chichester (UoC) is located in
 the Department of Humanities, which in turn is located within the Institute of Arts and
 Humanities. The Unit consists of three full-time staff with a significant responsibility for research,
 Professor Graeme Smith, Dr Tommy Lynch and Dr Hannah Strømmen. Prior to this
 submission the Department of Theology, Philosophy and Religious Studies was first integrated
 into the Department of Humanities (2018), with the Departments of History and English and
 Creative Writing, and then integrated into the Institute of Arts and Humanities, with the
 Department of Theatre (2019). The new collective structure is organised to recognise and
 develop research collaborations across the Humanities and Arts. In 2019 a new Institute
 Research Coordinator was appointed who supports and advises this Unit. Research strategy for
 the Unit is coordinated by the Director of Institute of Arts and Humanities and Head of
 Humanities, alongside the Research Coordinator for the Institute. This is carried out in
 consultation with Unit staff through departmental meetings. Unit strategy is then integrated with
 the University-wide strategy through the Research Office, directed by Dr Antonina Pereira with
 the support of the Senior Research Assistant, Dr Charles Green. This is then directed by the
 Deputy Vice-Chancellor Professor Simeon Keates, who reports to the University’s Vice-
 Chancellor’s Group. Research strategy is coordinated by the Research and Innovation
 Committee and Research Degrees Group, both of which are University-wide structure. Our focus
 is on developing strategy through dialogue and inclusion at all levels.


 Research and Impact Strategy
 The Unit’s research strategy is designed to support and develop curiosity-driven research and
 impact that is interdisciplinary, outward facing, inclusive, and sensitive to addressing the social
 implications of the humanities. The Unit did not submit to the 2014 REF. However, with the
 appointment of Smith as Head of the then Department in 2014, there was a new emphasis on
 developing research work, which has borne fruit across the REF2021 assessment period. The
 Unit identified future strategic priorities as the ongoing development of research work in the field
 of public theology, working with local partners, the development of early career researchers, and
 integration with the University of Chichester Research strategy. These strategic aims have been
 addressed in the new context of the Institute of Arts and Humanities, especially its overarching
 emphasis on interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research.

 Our strategy in relation to developing the research impact work in relation to public theology has
 been particularly productive. Smith has published significant articles in the field, challenging
 methodologies and developing new approaches. As Public Theology Coordinator for the British
 and Irish Association of Practical Theology, Smith has also been instrumental in arranging
 national conferences in the areas of lay ministry and public theology, as well as bringing together
 scholars in public theology.

 The strategy of working with local partner institutions has also been successful. Smith has
 collaborated with Portsmouth Cathedral to establish the Portsmouth Cathedral Institute (as is
 detailed in REF3). Smith also sits on the West Sussex SACRE and the Unit has collaborated
 closely with local schools to promote the study of Religious Education across the REF2021
 assessment period. The second REF3 impact case study details this work, together with the
 work with Chichester Cathedral in its annual Schools Day. Smith works closely with the
 Chichester diocese in developing their ministerial provision through postgraduate awards based
 on his research in the field of public and practical theology.

 The Unit’s work in developing early career scholars has been successful. Lynch and Strommen
 have been supported in the production of their first monographs, and supported in developing

                                                                                                Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 contacts and networks through speaking at subject conferences. Smith led the Department’s
 bids for University funds to enable Lynch to become part of a doctoral supervision team, and a
 similar opportunity was theb afforded to Strømmen. Strømmen was granted a sabbatical for one
 semester to study at the Centre for Theological Inquiry at Princeton University. Both Lynch and
 Strømmen were further supported in organizing a conference in 2017 to which leading
 theological scholars were invited. The structural advantages of the new Institute of Arts and
 Humanities offer opportunities for all researchers in the Unit to enhance their interdisciplinary
 work.


 Future strategic aims
 Our new integration within the Institute of Arts and Humanities offers fresh scope for
 interdisciplinary and transdisciplinary research and impact. Research strategy will retain an
 emphasis on curiosity-driven research while also encouraging opportunities for research and
 research bidding with members of the Institute of Arts and Humanities in collaborative projects.
 The Unit will also integrate with other partners across the University for potential projects
 developing around new university-wide research themes, such as health and well-being. The
 discrete strengths of subject areas within the Institute for Arts and Humanities will be retained,
 whilst, at the same time, support will be offered for cross-fertilisation.

 The Unit will develop and plan future impact work. While one of our REF2021 case studies is
 finite within this period, the other is at its early stages, and has enormous scope for
 development. We will also work hard to sustain and further develop our inclusive ethos,
 especially by providing routes to development for our researchers (at staff and PGR level).
 Internal structures, Institute of Arts and Humanities structures, and integration with University-
 wide strategies and support are aimed at sustaining and developing our inclusive and curiosity-
 driven research culture.


 2. People

 In 2014, Smith took over responsibility for leadership of the Unit. Under his guidance Lynch and
 Strommen were both individually awarded Research Development Awards (amounting to
 GBP8,000) which have allowed them to kickstart their academic development at a key moment
 in their careers. As mentioned above, the area of public theology was identified in 2014 as a key
 focus for research and teaching within the Unit.

 Individual staff profiles and successes within the REF2021 assessment period are outlined
 below:

 An expert in public theology, Smith has been invited to contribute to the forthcoming Oxford
 Handbook on Reinhold Niebuhr, and the T&T Clark Handbook of Public Theology. He also co-
 edited a book, Religion in the European Refugee Crisis, as a result of which he was interviewed
 on Australian national radio as part of their Easter special, writing an article for the Church
 Times. Smith has also led the Unit’s public engagements within the local area, especially in the
 dioceses of Chichester and Portsmouth. In recognition of this work, Smith was appointed a
 Canon of Honour of Portsmouth Cathedral.

 The Unit’s two ECR appointments have energised and refreshed the vitality and sustainability of
 its research profile. Lynch was appointed first, in 2017, as a philosopher of religion with a
 particular interest in public and political issues; Strommen was appointed as a biblical scholar
 with an interest in popular political movements in 2018. Both Lynch and Strømmen had reduced
 teaching loads for the first four years of their appointments. Strømmen was awarded a
 sabbatical which she was able to spend at the Centre for Theological Inquiry, Princeton. The
 department supported Lynch and Strommen in the organisation of an academic conference. Dr
 Stephen Roberts was appointed during the period under review but has subsequently left to a
 new job. During his time with the Unit he contributed through two research articles in the area of

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practical theology in the areas of chaplaincy and popular culture. He was also appointed book
 reviews editor for the journal Practical Theology. Professor Smith was awarded a sabbatical in
 2018, at the end of his period as Head of Department.


 Support mechanisms for PGR students
 The Research Degrees Coordinator for the Institute for Arts and Humanities monitors all PGR
 admissions and progress. All PGR students have access to internal University training sessions
 (delivered through the Research Office), free access to all Institute events, associated Research
 Centre activities, conferences and symposia, and all courses on our MAs to audit (free of
 charge). In addition, all PGRs have access to the University-wide PG Certificate in Learning and
 Teaching. There is also research funding support for conference attendance available via the
 Research Office. The annual University Research Conference integrates PGR involvement,
 training, and workshops (including sessions delivered by Unit staff). We offer an online ‘Moodle’
 platform page for our PGR students.

 The Unit recommitted itself to doctoral work when Smith became Head of Department, and this
 commitment continues now the subject area is part of the Institute. This policy has borne
 significant fruit for a Unit of our size, with five completions within the REF2021 assessment
 period: one in 2013/14, one in 2015/16, and three in 2019/20.

 University of Chichester bursaries and fee waivers were awarded to two PhD students within the
 Unit. A further two fee bursaries were awarded to PhD students.

 Smith worked with one doctoral student to organise a conference funded by the Bible society
 which led to a published collection of papers.

 Equality and diversity
 The Unit is integrated into the University’s Equality and Diversity strategy, which is implemented
 through the Equality and Diversity officers. The Unit regularly reviews equality issues
 surrounding appointments, access to research opportunities, career development, and research
 expectations. Department of Humanities meetings are a regular forum to address and raise
 equality and diversity issues, including in relation to research. The Unit is also integrated into the
 Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee. Staff involved in decision making for REF have
 undertaken unconscious bias training and been constantly advised on equality issues by the
 Equality and Diversity Sub-Committee.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Staff within the Unit have attracted internal and external funds to support research and
 associated activities.

 Smith has received University Research and Innovation funding (GBP2,500); a Bible Society
 grant (GBP3,000) and been part of successful bids with the Church of England, ‘Mustard Seed
 Grant Evaluations’, (GBP4,200) and then the ESRC Grant ‘Religion in multi-ethnic contexts: A
 Multi-disciplinary Case Study of Global Seafaring’, which has attracted in total of c. GBP560,000
 – of which GBP6,000 (2017/18), GBP5,000 (2018/19) and GBP6,000 (2019/20) has come to
 Chichester (GBP17,000 in all).

 Lynch was part of an AAR Collaborative International Research Grant, American Academy of
 Religion for ‘Liberalism’s Islams and Islam’s Liberalisms’ project (USD4,280). He has also
 received travel grants and a substantial Research Development Grant (GBP8,000) awarded
 internally, in support of his research.

 Like Lynch, Strømmen was also part of an AAR Collaborative International Research Grant,
 American Academy of Religion for ‘Liberalism’s Islams and Islam’s Liberalisms’ project

                                                                                                 Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (USD4,280). She has also received travel grants and a Research Development Grant
 (GBP8,000) awarded internally.

 The Unit has hosted regular research seminars, attracting a range of scholars within the
 discipline – often in association with the Chichester Theological Society, which Smith founded. It
 has also run regular film and discussion evenings. Between September 2015 and May 2019, the
 Unit was involved in the organisation of over 40 research and discussion events. Speakers have
 included leading scholars such as Prof. Martyn Percy, Prof Elaine Graham and Prof. Graham
 Ward, as well as significant church figures such as Dr Paula Gooder, who was able to attract an
 audience of c. 200 people.

 Facilities
 Research within the Unit is supported by the University’s Bishop Otter Campus Learning
 Resource Centre, which has extensive holdings and online resources, including Project Muse
 and JSTOR. The Unit is also supported by a dedicated subject librarian. The University has
 constructed a new academic building completed in August 2016, which serves as a public
 platform for research events and conferences organised by the Unit. The Learning Resource
 Centre provides online and material research support for the Unit. Research is made available
 through the University of Chichester Chiprints Repository, addressing the ever growing need for
 Open Access accessibility for the Unit’s research.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 The integration of the Unit within the new Institute of Arts and Humanities in 2019 has
 strengthened its collaborative and outward-facing orientation. The Unit has ongoing
 collaborations with local and regional partners, particularly in the local churches and the local
 education authority. Smith sits on the West Sussex SACRE, and Lynch has been regularly
 involved in their annual youth conference. Smith works closely with the diocese of Chichester
 and the Chichester Theological Trust to enhance the ministerial practice of clergy and laity. For
 some clergy this means undertaking Masters level courses. Smith also co-founded the
 Portsmouth Cathedral Institute and been made a Canon of Honour of Portsmouth Cathedral.

 Contribution to research base
 The Unit makes a significant contribution to the subject area in a wide variety of ways,
 adumbrated below:

 Editorial contributions
 Smith is a member of the editorial boards of the journals Political Theology, and Practical
 Theology, and is an active reviewer for the journals International Journal of Public Theology; the
 British Journal of Religious Education; and Literature and Theology.

 Lynch is a reviewer for the journals Political Theology, Religions, Critical Research on Religion,
 and Bloomsbury Philosophy.

 Strømmen is on the Editorial Board of Svensk Teologisk Kvartalskrift; The Bible and Critical
 Theory; Biblical Interpretation: A Journal of Contemporary Approaches Critical Research on
 Religion and the Bible and Critical Theory Book Series with Wipf & Stock. She is also a Board
 Member of SBL program unit ‘Reading, Theory and the Bible’ and on the Steering Committee for
 SBL consultation, ‘Animal Studies and the Bible’. She co-chairs the Deconstructive Poetics
 Panel, European Association of Biblical Studies (with Francis Landy).

 Academic Conference Participation.
 All staff researchers within the Unit have presented papers in a variety of contexts, and have
 been invited to give lectures in international settings as well as in the UK. For example, Smith
 delivered a keynote lecture on ‘Talking to Ourselves: An Investigation into the Christian Ethics
 Inherent in Secularism’ at the International Colloquium on Enlightenment and Secularism at the
 Institute of Philosophy at the Jagiellonian University, Kraków, as well as on ‘The End of

                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Liberalism and the Ubiquity of Ignorance’, which was a plenary response to Professor Courtney
 Goto at the BIAPT 25th anniversary conference in July 2019. He also delivered a keynote
 address at the The John Bowden Memorial Consultation, Sarum College, (May 2014) entitled ‘A
 History of Radical Theology in the Twentieth Century’. Lynch was invited to give a lecture at the
 Stockholm School of Theology entitled ‘Suffering Subjectivity: Religion and the Reality of
 Enmity’, at the Theology and Materialism Workshop. He also spoke on ‘A Political Theology of
 the Citizen’, at the Faculty of Philosophy, Theology and Religious Studies, Radboud University,
 and, at the University of Edinburgh, offered a ‘Response to Malabou’ at the Bodies in Movement
 Seminar Series (Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities). Strømmen was invited to
 lecture at the University of Bern on ‘The Bible in a Populist Context: Real and Virtual’,
 Conference on ‘Ordinary Readers of the Bible’. She was also invited to lecture on ‘The Bible as
 a Text of Terror – Anders Behring Breivik and Right-Wing Discourse on Religion’ at the
 University of Oslo, Norway. Beyond these appearances, she was invited to speak on ‘The
 Features and Functions of the Far-Right Bible’ at an expert consultation on Ultra-nationalism at
 the United Nations, New York, USA, and to lecture on ‘Terrorist Redactions of the Bible: The
 Bible in Anders Behring Breivik’s Manifesto’, at the Interdisciplinary Seminar series on The Bible
 in Art, Music and Literature at the University of Oxford.

 External Examining
 Smith is currently an external examiner for the University of Manchester Luther King House
 undergraduate degrees. He has also acted as a PhD examiner for the University of Wales and
 for Kings College London.

 Public Engagement Events
 The Unit’s team have been involved in a variety of public engagement events, at which they
 have contributed from their research expertise:

 Smith has spoken at Portsmouth Cathedral’s ‘Faith in Politics’ series, at the 2019 National
 Diocesan Communication Officers Conference in Canterbury on ‘Resonance and the Christian
 Heritage in Contemporary Western Society’, as well as at the 2014 Cathedral Group Chaplains’
 Conference on ‘Investigating the Secular Other’. He has also lectured at local theological
 societies, such as (in 2013) on ‘Barack Obama's favourite theologian: Reinhold Niebuhr and
 Public Theology’, at the Peterborough Theological Society.

 Lynch spoke on ‘Climate Apocalypticism’ at the Symposia, Political Theology Network. Available
 at: https://politicaltheology.com/climate-apocalypticism/, and also on ‘Why Hope Is Dangerous
 When It Comes to Climate Change’, Slate. Available at:
 www.slate.com/articles/technology/future_tense/2017/07/why_climate_change_discussions_nee
 d_apocalyptic_thinking.html. This was reprinted in What Future 2018: The Year's Best Writing on
 What's Next for People, Technology & the Planet (Los Angeles: Unnamed Press, 2018).

 Strømmen lectured at the Clergy Study Day: ‘Faith in the Public Sphere: the Bible, Theology
 and the Common Good’ in the Diocese of Chichester. In 2015 she spoke on ‘An Uncommon
 Humanity? Questioning the Human/Animal Boundary’, a Public Lecture at Qom Women’s
 Seminary, Qom, Iran. She has also spoken on ‘Bi-Sexuality and the Bible: A Scandal’ at the
 West Sussex Religious Studies Day at Chichester Cathedral.

 Impact and Engagement Achievements.
 The Unit has developed diverse and meaningful impact – particularly within the south east –
 through its sustained and close collaborations with a range of diocesan and ecclesial partners.
 This work has been both individually-focused and Unit-focused, building on our combined
 strengths and expertise (such as in the field of public theology). This includes both regular
 impact activity, through public engagement, as well as particular projects developed and
 implemented throughout the period. The two impact case studies, which both centre on issues of
 public theology, are both the products of the Unit’s integrated research culture and its broader
 commitment to developing impact. This culture has involved a whole host of mentoring, Unit
 administrative support, and investment that is difficult to capture in factual terms, being based on

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ongoing and meaningful relationships within the community. The Unit is working ever more
 closely with the University’s Research Office to coordinate and evaluate these ongoing impact
 achievements, and the Unit’s wider contribution to economy and society.




                                                                                           Page 6
