Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Nottingham Trent University (NTU)

 Unit of Assessment: C20 - Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Overview

 Social Work and Social Policy (SW&SP) research at Nottingham Trent University (NTU) is applied,
 interdisciplinary and underpinned by an ethos of co-production. The strategy for this Unit of
 Assessment (UoA) since REF2014 has been to root an increase in quality and quantity of research
 in the University’s commitment to working across boundaries and delivering real-world impact.
 Conducted with key strategic partners, for example through the D2N2 Social Work Teaching
 Partnership and the East Midlands Policing Academic Collaboration (EMPAC), SW&SP research
 informs strategic decision-making and policy interventions from the global to the local in crime
 reduction, policing, safety and security, and health and wellbeing. Impact from the research
 enables people and communities to transform their circumstances and opportunities.

 SW&SP has re-energised and re-focused its research during this REF period, building cross-
 disciplinary strengths through three Research Centres that draw on a broader range of
 departments. This has resulted in the following achievements compared to REF 2014:

        a rise in the proportion of outputs in peer-reviewed journals from 48.5% to 71%.
        a more than three-fold increase in research spend from £645K in REF2014 to £2,025K in
         REF2021.
        a greater range of funders, for example evaluating the Small Steps, Big Changes Initiative
         (Nottingham City Care Partnerships, £931K), implementing scale-up packages to tackle
         cardiovascular disease in Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa (EU Horizon 2020, £563K) and
         participating in the EMPAC of regional police forces and Higher Education Institutions
         (HEIs) (Home Office/College of Policing Police Knowledge Fund/HEFCE, £870K).
        social work teaching and research being underpinned by a successful NTU-led bid for a
         teaching partnership with local authority partners in Derbyshire and Nottinghamshire, the
         University of Nottingham and Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Trust in 2016 (£450K).
        doctoral student recruitment up by 40% with a 188% increase in PhD completions.
        the number of staff with significant responsibility for research has risen from 9.52 FTE to
         17.2 FTE.

 Unit context and structure

 Within the School of Social Sciences, SW&SP is a cross-School UoA with contributions from three
 Research Centres. The Centres support research that reflects challenges within and across five
 departments (Criminology and Criminal Justice; Institute of Health and Allied Professions;
 Nottingham Institute for Education; Social and Political Sciences; and Social Work, Care and
 Community). The Research Centres provide the strategic research focus set out in the School’s
 Research and Innovation Plan that drives and enables interdisciplinary SW&SP research. They
 have strong connections with the University’s five strategic research priorities (see REF5a).
 Research groups in departments and staff with significant responsibility for SW&SP research have
 primary alignment with and are supported by the respective Research Centre.

 Centre for Crime, Offending, Prevention and Engagement (COPE) (Hunter, Newton,
 Thompson, Tseloni, Zempi). This Centre, led by Winder (A04), conducts challenge-led research,
 contributing to the University research priorities in Health and Well-being and Safety and Security
 of Citizens and Society. The Quantitative and Spatial Criminology Research Group (Q&SCRG)
 (Hunter, Newton, Thompson, Tseloni) conducts research on victimisation risk, crime harm, and
 community cohesion/engagement to inform international, national, and local crime reduction
 initiatives. Impact of this research is evidenced by Tseloni securing the Office for National Statistics
 (ONS) Research Excellence Award in 2019 for the use of official statistics in reducing burglary

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 victimisation. The Policing and Criminal Justice Research Group (P&CJRG) (Newton, Zempi)
 conducts research aimed at transforming the criminal justice system through co-constructing
 knowledge with offenders that changes lives and stimulates policy innovation and promoting
 narratives of inclusion and the reintegration of those who have offended or are vulnerable to re-
 offending.

 Centre for Public and Psychosocial Health (CPPH) (Bailey, Bowpitt, Dingwall, Grigolo, Moffatt,
 Siebert, Vickers). This Centre, led by Karanika-Murray (A04), conducts national and global
 research that contributes to the Health and Well-being University research priority. Research
 spans challenges in clinical areas, for example, skin integrity (Moffatt), suicide and self-harm,
 (Bailey, Siebert) and non-clinical areas such as social identities and health inequalities (Bowpitt,
 Grigolo, Vickers,) and health and social care systems (Bailey, Dingwall). Adopting sociological and
 psychosocial approaches to health, researchers in CPPH have strong links with health and local
 authority partners regionally and internationally.

 Nottingham Centre for Children, Young People and Families (NCCYPF) (Alldred, Brady,
 Clapham, Henn, Paechter, Pilcher, Toft). This Centre, led by Paechter, supports research and
 impact to improve the experiences of children, young people and families, linked to the local
 agenda for change in Nottinghamshire (Paechter), nationally (Clapham, Toft) and globally (Alldred,
 Brady, Henn). NCCYPF research contributes to the University’s strategic research priorities
 around Health and Well-being and Safety and Security of Citizens and Society. NCCYPF tackles
 youth inequalities through research that improves young people’s participation in society, for
 example in politics and policy development (Henn), and empowers parents to enhance literacy
 and health outcomes for children under five (Paechter, Toft). Two key research groups are
 affiliated to the Centre. The Education Policy and Practice Research Group (EPPRG) (led by
 Clapham) conducts research into the intersections between education policy and education
 stakeholders. The Gender Research Group (GRG) (co-led by Alldred and Pilcher) conducts
 research into gender identities, LGBTQ+ issues, and sexuality and disability issues for children
 and young people.

 Each Research Centre is led by a Director, supported by the School of Social Sciences’ Athena
 Swan Champions in promoting inclusivity and equality of opportunity for researchers at all career
 stages. All Directors are members of the School of Social Sciences Research and Innovation
 Committee (SS-SRIC) which sets the research strategy in the form of an Annual Research and
 Innovation Plan for the School and respective UoAs. The SS-SRIC is chaired by the Associate
 Dean for Research (ADR), a new post created since 2014 which represents the School on the
 University Research Committee (URC) and the University Leadership Team (ULT). Membership
 of SS-SRIC encompasses: the UoA coordinators; PGR Tutor; the Concordat Champion; and the
 School’s Impact Development Champion from the Nottingham Civic Exchange. This means of
 governance ensures that Research Centres are responsible collectively for developing and
 implementing the School’s research strategy and supporting the cross-School nature of the
 SW&SP UoA.

 Key research outcomes, impact and developments since REF2014

 The UoA strategy has been to develop research capacity and leadership to deliver the four
 objectives set out and evidenced below.

 (1) Increasing the quality and quantity of SW&SP research

 This has been achieved both through strategic recruitment of discipline-leading senior academics
 and structured and personalised support to existing NTU academics to realise their research
 aspirations.

 Staff appointments since REF 2014 include four professors and three associate professors. Three
 existing NTU staff have been promoted to associate professor. As a result of this recruitment and
 retention strategy, SW&SP staff with significant responsibility for research have increased from

                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 9.52 FTEs to 17.2 FTEs across all career stages from Early Career Researcher (ECR) to
 professor. This is reflected in a concomitant growth in the quantity of research outputs in quality
 peer-reviewed journals by 185%. Outputs in peer-reviewed journals, as a proportion of total
 outputs, have increased from 48.5% (REF2014) to 71% (REF2021).

 Significant investment of internal funds totalling £390K to support research has been made since
 2014 (including £252K in research associate roles to develop research capacity and capability).
 Monitoring of internal investment since 2014 demonstrates that such awards have supported all
 categories of researchers across the academy; for example, the proportion of female, BAME and
 ECR academics receiving support via internal funding has been greater than their relative
 representation within the overall staff group. This individual allocation of resources derives from
 the implementation of the appraisal and mentoring system described in Section 2.

 (2) Investing resources and capabilities to increase grant and contract income

 Investment and support for SW&SP research has led to a 214% increase in total research spend
 from £645K (REF2014) to £2,025K (2014-2020), including significant EU Horizon 2020 and UKRI
 funding (£1,729K). Research income has also been obtained from charitable organisations, e.g.
 the Big Lottery Fund, Drinkaware Trust, Neighbourhood and Home Watch Network and What
 Works for Children’s Social Care. Non-UKRI income now accounts for 64.6% of total research
 income in the UoA (compared with 32.6% in REF2014). This increase was delivered through a
 range of initiatives including mentoring and peer review for external bids, sandpits leading to seedcorn
 funding and subsequent external applications, and regular surgeries with the ADR.

 (3) Increasing the SW&SP doctoral community and enhancing the doctoral student experience

 Since REF 2014, investment has been made in 32 SW&SP doctoral studentships through Vice-
 Chancellor’s Studentships and School funding. Five studentships have been fully or part-funded
 to meet the research needs of strategic partners in the D2N2 Social Work Teaching Partnership:
 Nottinghamshire County Council (Barfield and Parkes); and Framework Housing (Spours, Smith
 and Meadows). These initiatives have contributed to a 40% increase in SW&SP doctoral student
 numbers since 2013/14 and a rise in the number of outputs co-authored with a member of the
 student’s supervisory team, including: eight research reports; eighteen journal articles; four
 chapters; and one book.

 Internal funds have been invested in providing opportunities for research assistants (RAs) and
 extending the NTU Scholarship Projects for Undergraduate Researchers (SPUR) scheme. SPUR
 offers undergraduate students the opportunity to participate, as an RA, in an academic-led
 research project over the summer vacation. Activities include literature reviews, data collection
 and report writing. De Motte, Parkes and Barfield secured Vice-Chancellor’s studentships after
 having gained experience through the SPUR Scheme and/or as an RA before their successful
 studentship application.

 The pipeline of doctoral students bringing existing SW&SP research experience to their doctorate
 has been enhanced by the improved quality of research opportunities on MA Social Work
 placements afforded through the teaching partnership, and by the introduction of work-based
 research projects on targeted taught postgraduate programmes (e.g. MA Criminology). Both
 routes enable students to conduct research projects that involve external stakeholders.
 Participating students have subsequently secured full-time Vice-Chancellor Studentships at NTU
 (e.g. Parkes, and Robinson) or have chosen to self-fund their doctoral studies at NTU, citing this
 way of gaining research experience as central to their decision (e.g. Radford).

 (4) Enhancing interdisciplinary research partnerships reflected in an increased international,
 national, and local reputation.

 SW&SP’s research partnerships and networks have been nurtured and developed since REF2014
 through investment in the Research Centres, characterised by the co-production of research

                                                                                                  Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 knowledge and impact with key external organisations. Each centre has engaged significantly with
 partners as set out below.

 Centre for Crime, Offending Prevention and Engagement (COPE)

 Policing and crime reduction research operates advisory groups for all ESRC funded projects
 relating to victimisation risk. These groups include representatives from the Home Office, Office
 for National Statistics, police forces, local authorities, community safety partnerships, charities and
 community groups. This has resulted in the Centre’s research directly informing national and local
 policy around burglary (REF2021 Crime Reduction impact case study), violent offending, anti-
 social behaviour and community engagement. It has also brought about changes in the methods
 employed within the Crime Survey for England and Wales (CSEW) and the Commercial
 Victimisation Survey (CVS). NTU researchers have played a lead role in coordinating academic
 collaborations between police and crime commissioners, police forces and HEIs in the East
 Midlands (EMPAC) (Thompson) to deliver bespoke research projects as well as enhancing the
 research capacity of serving police officers through the creation and delivery of the PGCert in
 Policing Research (Thompson and Hunter).

 Partnerships have led to the creation of bespoke research-informed policy tools used by: the Home
 Office (Safer Streets Funding Toolkit, predictive neighbourhood level burglary maps, Hunter and
 Tseloni); College of Policing and police forces (Community Engagement Area Classification,
 Hunter); and Department for Business Energy and Industrial Strategy, Gangmasters and Labour
 Abuse Authority and HMRC (predictive neighbourhood maps and risk classification for hand car
 washes, Hunter and Pickford).

 Centre for Public and Psychosocial Health (CPPH)

 CPPH engages with strategic partners spanning the local (NHS health trusts, local authorities and
 charitable organisations/SMEs) to the global (Uganda, Sub-Saharan Africa) and reflects synergies
 between research and teaching.

 Research undertaken collaboratively with Nottingham City Clinical Commissioning Group has
 improved outcomes, enhancing conversations for young people presenting to GP surgeries with
 self-harm (Bailey) and bowel cancer screening in the BAME community in Nottingham (Gibson).
 Breast cancer screening research in Uganda has utilised reverse innovation methods to train
 community health workers to increase screening opportunities (Gibson). Reverse innovation
 methods also characterise the six-partner, EU funded (£455k) SPICES project that seeks to
 prevent coronary heart disease in Belgium, France, South Africa, Uganda, and the UK. Working
 with Opportunity Nottingham, homeless service users are trained as peer researchers as one
 strand of research that has improved the resettlement of rough sleepers and former prisoners in
 Nottingham (£282K) (Bowpitt).

 Research with Nottingham City and Nottinghamshire County Council has demonstrated the
 effectiveness of non-clinical interventions for improving the mental health of looked after children
 and young people and care leavers (Bailey). Outputs from Bailey’s research conducted with adult
 social work teams in Nottinghamshire reflect partner informed resources, such as evaluation
 frameworks and a toolkit to support the embedding of social workers in integrated care teams for
 older people.

 Nottingham Centre for Children, Young People and Families (NCCYPF)

 NCCYPF research has strong engagement from key partners locally and nationally. This includes
 collaboration with Nottingham CityCare, through a contract to conduct evaluation research for its
 Small Steps Big Changes (SSBC) initiative (Paechter, Toft). SSBC is part of the Big Lottery-funded
 (BLF) Better Start programme, working to improve literacy and health outcomes for children under
 five in the four most deprived wards in Nottingham. The contract for this five-year research
 programme (£931K) has positioned NCCYPF to collaborate with SSBC to build in innovative

                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 practices, such as the employment of parent peer-researchers as members of the research team.
 This partnership has led to further commissioned research through a grant of £134K on families'
 experiences with children under five in Nottingham during COVID-19 (Toft).

 A systematic review, funded by the What Work’s Children’s Social Care Centre and related
 research conducted with the Kairos Women’s Centre funded by the BLF, is exploring safeguarding
 issues for young people who have experienced childhood sexual exploitation (Brady).

 In partnership with the Skills and Education Group (SEG), the NCCYPF has carried out research
 in education organisations to map governance maturity. In collaboration with SEG, Clapham has
 undertaken research that examines how governance supports Outstanding Teaching and
 Learning (Education Training Foundation) and drills down into innovative governance attributes
 (Further Education Trust for Leadership). In Higher Education, a successful partnership with the
 Good Governance Institute (GGI) has resulted in its governance Maturity Matrix, informed by
 Clapham’s research, being used in external reviews of more than 20 universities across the United
 Kingdom.

 Impact strategy

 As set out above, SW&SP research is characterised by building impact in routinely from the outset.
 Setting up advisory boards with representation from relevant government departments, national
 agencies, local service providers (including third sector organisations), service users and citizens
 is central to the approach. Such boards have created a vehicle for constructive feedback on the
 direction of research projects and emerging findings. They have ensured that the research directly
 addresses priority policy issues that organisations are grappling with. One exemplification is where
 stakeholder organisations identified the need to examine the impact of adding burglar alarms to
 existing security combinations during an ESRC funded project. As well as being reflected in an
 additional research output in a peer reviewed journal, this resulted in the Home Office
 commissioning researchers at NTU to undertake more in-depth research to update crime
 prevention advice and underpin the Safer Streets Fund (designed to enable Police and Crime
 Commissioners to tackle residential burglary).

 This co-production approach creates and sustains stakeholder networks that ensure SW&SP
 research findings inform relevant policy makers. This is demonstrated by the sixty reports on
 community engagement, disaster and emergency response, health protection and wellbeing, and
 inequality submitted to the Cabinet Office C19 National Foresight Group to help shape strategic
 responses at a national and local level to the current COVID-19 pandemic. Similarly, SW&SP
 researchers’ contribution to EMPAC has led to reports on anti-social behaviour management and
 risk, policing and community engagement. Furthermore, the evaluation of the Cyberbeat and
 Braunston Blues initiatives, that were commissioned by the regional Police and Crime
 Commissioners and Chief Constables, have shaped local responses to crime.

 Nottingham Civic Exchange (NCE) was set up within the School of Social Sciences in partnership
 with the Royal Society for the Arts, Manufactures and Commerce (RSA) and funded by NTU with
 £737K to date. This enabled the recruitment of Pickford as the School’s Impact Development
 Champion and Brennan and Hulova as impact development officers. NCE facilitates impact from
 research by working collaboratively with researchers and Research Centres to optimise
 engagement with wider external partners and communities. For example, NCE played an
 instrumental role in the University’s contribution of intelligence reports and rapid evaluations
 delivered to the C19 National Foresight Group. NCE helped realise new impact from existing
 programmes of research, for example in crime reduction and victimisation, as well as supporting
 the curating and evidencing of emerging impact from new programmes of research, for example
 in work precarity and ordinary working families.




                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Research ethics and integrity

 Matters relating to research integrity, including research ethics, are overseen centrally (see
 REF5a) and managed locally. Robust scrutiny of projects undertaken by staff and doctoral
 candidates within the UoA is overseen by a committee including reviewers from the Schools of
 Social Sciences, Law and Business. This approach ensures projects are scrutinised from different
 disciplinary perspectives. Training resources are available to all staff and students in the form of
 online modules which cover different aspects of research integrity.

 Future research strategy

 Beyond REF 2021, the priorities for SW&SP research are to:

  Develop existing and emerging research strengths drawing from continued expansion in areas
   of Public and Allied Health, Emergency Services, Policing and Education. Public Health
   research will be supported through NTU’s forthcoming East Africa Centre, with investment to
   build on existing world leading partnerships to pursue jointly agreed research priorities to tackle
   health inequalities.
  Enhance the quality, quantity and impact of interdisciplinary SW&SP research that is challenge
   led. This will be supported through continued investment in Research Centres to achieve
   intellectual depth and target cross-centre research innovations for strategic investment at
   School level. For example, the Nottingham Institute of Health and Allied Professions (NIHAP),
   launched in 2019, will prompt opportunities for impactful research between the CCPH and
   NCCYPF exploring the relationship between child health and education. Similarly, the imminent
   expansion of nursing provision into learning disabilities and mental health, will serve to
   enhance existing research between COPE and CPPH into improving health and social care
   outcomes for people in the prison system.
  Accelerate SW&SP research capacity by investing in successful Research Groups, such as
   the Q&SCRG, to support their trajectory to becoming independent Research Centres. To
   continue to grow and diversify research funding, Centre Directors will work with NTU’s
   significantly expanded Research and Strategic Partnerships Development Team to mobilise
   support for targeted calls. Bespoke career development opportunities are now available
   through NTU’s College for Leadership, Engagement and Research (CLEaR); for example, the
   Leading as Principal Investigator workshop programme is targeted at early and mid-career
   academics developing a track record of securing grant income.
  Expand the SW&SP doctoral community through continued diversification of funding streams,
   building on Erasmus+ success with Uganda (4 students enrolled in 2019-20) and the DTA3
   Cofund Marie Sklodowska-Curie PhD fellowship programme (1 student enrolled 2019-20). A
   place-based DTP will be developed focused on local challenges, including health, as part of
   the unique civic partnership, Universities for Nottingham, which involves both universities in
   the City, local councils, the Local Enterprise Partnership and three health trusts.

 2. People

 The submission has 19 members of staff (17.2 FTE) of which 36.8% are professors. The
 remainder are lecturers (26.3%), associate professors (31.2%) and research fellows (5.3%). Of
 these, females represent 47% and 10.5% of the submitted staff are from a BAME background.

 Since 2014, the UoA has been transformed by a targeted recruitment and comprehensive staff
 development strategy to realise twin objectives of: (1) recruiting researchers to NTU to accelerate
 growth in research capacity and leadership that enhances the work of the Research Centres; and
 (2) facilitating the development of existing NTU academic staff (at all stages in their careers)
 including members of the doctoral community. This strategy aims to: (a) build upon and enhance
 existing areas of SW&SP research excellence; (b) sustain longer-term research activities with
 early career appointments and career progression for doctoral students (for example through post-
 doctoral Early Career Fellowships); and (c) optimise the diversity of the next generation of
 research leaders.

                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Recruitment and retention in SW&SP

 Since REF2014, the number of staff with significant responsibility for research has increased from
 9.52 FTEs to 17.2 FTE. Recruitment has included a cadre of female professors aligned with each
 Research Centre as their primary affiliation reflecting their research interests and discipline
 expertise: Alldred (Youth and Community) (Brunel: NCCYPF); Moffatt (Nursing) (Nottingham:
 CPPH); Paechter (Education and Young People) (Goldsmiths: NCCYPF) and Tseloni
 (Quantitative Criminology) (Loughborough: COPE).

 Recruitment has secured Brady (Social Work) (Coventry: CPPH), Newton (Criminology and
 Policing) (Leicester: COPE) and Pilcher (Sociology) (Leicester: NCCYPF) as new associate
 professors. The promotion of existing NTU researchers to associate professor includes Clapham
 (Education: NCCYPF) Gibson (Public Health: CPPH) and Thompson (Quantitative Criminology:
 COPE).

 All these colleagues hold dedicated research leadership roles: leading Research Centres and/or
 groups; UoA Coordinators; Departmental Research Coordinators; supervising doctoral students;
 and/or mentoring early career researchers (ECRs). As such, all are members of the School’s
 Research and Innovation Committee and key influencers of the School’s research strategy.

 Since 2014, the recruitment strategy of attracting a mix of early and mid-career researchers has
 seen the arrival of Ashby (UCL), Grigolo (Coimbra), Siebert (Nottingham), Thompson
 (Northampton), Vickers (Northumbria) and Zempi (Leicester). Of the nineteen Category A staff
 with significant responsibility for research included in this SW&SP submission, all bar three
 (Bowpitt, Dingwall, and Moffatt) are employed on full-time contracts.

 Researcher development: overview

 SW&SP’s approach to researcher development adheres to the goals and objectives of the
 Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers and Athena Swan. Regular
 research surgeries, delivered by the ADR, support all colleagues, including doctoral students and
 early career researchers. The Centre for Behavioural Research Methods (CBRM) (led by
 Clapham) is an interdisciplinary research Centre in the School of Social Sciences which trains
 academic staff and doctoral students in the three SW&SP Research Centres in developing
 innovative and interdisciplinary research methods. CBRM input complements opportunities for the
 doctoral community provided through NTU’s Doctorate Plus programme.

 Research mentoring and appraisal

 Academic staff with significant responsibility for research have research objectives set annually
 through NTU’s appraisal process (see REF5a). Objectives reflect strategic research KPIs set out
 in the School’s Research and Innovation Plan and align with individuals’ longer-term research
 aspirations articulated in their Individual Research Plans (IRP), spanning three years.

 Researchers have access to a research mentor who is neither their immediate line manager nor
 their appraiser. Mentor allocation is negotiated between academics and their line managers (with
 advice from the UoA and Departmental Research Coordinators). This means mentors are best
 placed to facilitate gaps in an academic’s research profile (e.g. supporting output quality,
 successful applications for small/large scale grant funding or research impact).

 Mentoring support is augmented by researcher development workshops. Some are led by
 bespoke funders, for example, the British Academy, and others by the ADR, which explore funding
 opportunities and broad approaches to successful grant applications. Departmental Research
 Coordinators (Brady, Clapham, Henn, Seibert and Thompson) also provide research mentoring
 and allocate support through internal funds to align individuals’ annual research objectives with
 the expectations articulated in their IRPs. To illustrate: early career researchers are guided in the

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 first instance to apply for internal funds (up to £2K per application) to support research that
 develops local and/or national partnerships so that they flourish as independent researchers with
 strong networks, before applying for UKRI funding that develops these networks through larger-
 scale national and international projects.

 Opportunities for staff to undertake research sabbaticals have been created by departments
 operating a policy that all undergraduate and postgraduate modules are delivered by academic
 teams. This approach has enabled five sabbaticals since REF2014 for SW&SP academics to
 realise objectives in relation to specific research outputs, preparation of funding bids, and impact
 activities. Internal funding has been used to secure teaching buyout where additional support has
 been required.

 NTU’s appraisal process supports researchers to identify their training requirements annually and
 guides training opportunities across the School arranged through SS-SRIC. For example, in 2018-
 19, the ADR and PGR tutors designed and provided training for 46 research supervisors and 36
 Independent Assessors (IA) to target doctoral support at key progression milestones.

 Researcher development and training

 Responsibility for securing significant levels of research funding as Principal Investigators (PIs)
 rests with senior researchers or early career researchers with research successes already
 achieved. The Research Centres create opportunities for less experienced colleagues to
 participate in grants seeking EU or UKRI funding in the role of Co-Is, holding responsibility for
 specific work packages within a multi-partner project. This approach has: (a) extended and
 enhanced existing areas of research strength within the Research Centres and Groups; and (b)
 used these research successes to facilitate ECRs’ development as independent researchers
 (Thompson, Toft). Each year, the ADR works collaboratively with NTU’s Research and Strategic
 Partnerships Development team to support a cadre of ECRs and mid-career researchers to
 develop bids for bespoke calls; currently the British Academy is the key example of this approach,
 with nine bids in the pipeline.

 All substantive research proposals seeking external funding proceed through a School-level peer
 review process, coordinated by the ADR. Bespoke support is mustered, including peer-to-peer
 review, and, as appropriate, expert and/or cross-disciplinary review. This approach has proven
 successful for researcher development with: a 211% increase in secured research income from
 £645K to £2,025K; a higher number of UKRI funded projects compared to REF2014; a greater
 number and more diverse range of academic staff as PIs and Co-Is leading successful applications
 during the REF2021 period; and significant researcher development trajectories (Section 3).

 Training and supervision for the doctoral community

 SW&SP doctoral students have primary membership within one Research Centre. Many
 undertake paid RA work alongside their studies that supports them develop skills in writing for
 publication and presenting data in research reports. Teaching opportunities for doctoral
 researchers are provided after their first year of enrolment. They are encouraged to participate in
 departmental research seminar programmes and the annual Social Sciences’ Research
 Conference at any stage of their doctorate. This annual School-wide event, led by SW&SP
 academics, promotes cross-disciplinary approaches to research; SW&SP doctoral students have
 delivered 17% of the 225 papers presented over the last five years. These approaches to
 embedding doctoral students within the SW&SP community reflects positively in the 86% overall
 satisfaction they reported in the 2019 PRES against 81% across the sector.

 Over the REF period, the number of doctoral students has increased significantly leading to an
 increase in completions from 9 to 26 (+188%).




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Table: Doctoral degrees awarded by academic year in UoA C20

  UoA C20        2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019                          Total          Total
                  -14  -15  -16  -17  -18  -19  -20                    completions    completions
                                                                        2013-14 to      REF2014
                                                                          2019-20
  Number of          3       3      1       5       4      4       6            26               9
  completions
  PhD                3       2      1       4       4      2       6             22              9
  Prof Doc           0       1      0       1       0      2       0              4              0

 Opportunities for SW&SP doctoral research have been expanded through studentships co-funded
 with strategic partners, including Nottinghamshire County Council (focusing on whether the early
 help agenda for children and young people is working) and agencies including Cornwall Unitary
 Authority (around how early is ‘early’ in respect of workplace interventions for common mental
 health conditions).

 All doctoral students in Social Sciences are enrolled as members of the NTU Doctoral School,
 participating in the Doctoral School’s programme of research training and supporting studies, the
 Doctorate Plus, under their academic supervisors' guidance. This programme of advanced training
 delivers fully on QAA guidelines. SW&SP doctoral students typically conduct research in external
 organisations and benefit from additional training and support, for example in preparing research
 reports for and giving presentations to non-academic users. Augmenting the Doctorate Plus with
 methods workshops hosted by the CBRM and bespoke sessions delivered within each Research
 Centre allows for advanced training across the School of Social Sciences; this supports the
 effective conduct of SW&SP research, delivery of research impact and dissemination of findings.

 NTU is one of twenty partner universities in the Doctoral Training Alliance (DTA) for social policy,
 with four doctoral researchers holding studentships in this scheme. SW&SP researchers
 contribute methods workshops to this DTA in quantitative analysis of crime data (Tseloni), and in
 Participatory Action Research (PAR) (Bailey).

 A programme delivered by NTU’s Researcher Development team supports the studies of all
 doctoral students, including workshops in advanced quantitative and qualitative data analysis and
 the use of QSR NVivo software. These workshops provide direct support for navigating critical
 milestones such as registering the project and preparing for the viva. Classes are delivered via
 fortnightly workshops and at annual Doctoral School Conferences. Progress from formal
 registration to thesis/supervisory team approval to thesis submission and viva is monitored via
 annual monitoring by School-based supervisors and independent assessors and scrutinised by
 each School’s Research Degrees Committee. The success of training SW&SP doctoral
 researchers is evidenced by publications jointly authored with Directors of Studies (e.g., Bailey
 and Davis, Bailey and De Motte, Bailey and Griffiths, Tseloni and Thompson), as well as SW&SP
 PhD graduates securing academic posts at NTU (De Motte, Griffiths Thompson, Tura) and other
 HEIs (e.g. Davis, Leicester).

 Promoting equality and diversity

 The UoA is a vibrant place to work, enriched by the diversity of perspectives, cultures and
 backgrounds brought by our students, staff, visitors, and local, national and international partners.
 All three Research Centres draw on a diversity of experiences, cultures and backgrounds as
 evidenced by the 22 funded research projects during this REF cycle that have harnessed the
 perspectives of: NTU students (through 12 SPUR projects); local, national, international partners;
 and marginalised groups including offenders, the long-term unemployed, and people of all ages
 with complex needs. Policy solutions stemming from the research reflect co-produced
 interventions in relation to: safety and security (reoffending); better integrated care for children
 and older people; and targeted interventions to prevent homelessness.


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 SW&SP research conducted by the Gender Research Group (GRG) in the NCCYPF focuses on
 gender identities, LGBTQ+ issues, and sexuality and disability issues for children and young
 people. The GRG disseminates its research across the School of Social Sciences through
 departmental seminars and annual research conferences. This contributes to the raised
 awareness of equality and diversity issues in ways that are evidence informed.

 Since REF 2014, the staff development strategy for SW&SP has transformed the gender profile
 of the UoA:

  Characteristic:                              REF 2014 headcount          REF 2021 headcount
  Female                                                        3                          10
  Male                                                          8                           9

 As noted above, the monitoring of internal investment since 2014 demonstrates the proportion of
 female academics and ECRs receiving internal funding has been greater than their relative
 representation within the overall staff group. At least six SW&SP researchers have been supported
 to make the transition to significant responsibility for research since joining NTU (e.g., Ashby,
 Grigolo, Siebert, Thompson, Vickers and Zempi), of whom three are female.

 The University was awarded the bronze Athena Swan charter mark in April 2019 (see REF5a) and
 targets a silver submission in 2023. NTU has also joined the Advance HE Race Equality Charter
 scheme. The School’s Athena Swan Champion supports Research Centre Directors to ensure
 that the School’s research infrastructure takes account of flexible working arrangements for staff
 with recognised personal responsibilities, such as caring commitments. All Research Centre
 meetings/events are scheduled to maximise opportunities for all academics and research staff to
 attend. Extensive use of online meeting software facilitates participation when physical attendance
 is not possible. Where staff have undertaken an extensive period of leave approved for personal
 reasons, clear plans supporting a phased return are implemented. In some circumstances,
 additional support has been provided by RAs so that members of staff can continue with their
 research commitments while continuing to receive treatment for ongoing health conditions. NTU’s
 Support of Academic Returners (SOAR) scheme funds up £5k following a period of caring-related
 leave to support career pathway development.

 Recruitment across the School has transitioned, through gender decoding of recruitment materials
 and mixed-gender interview panels, to attract a more diverse staff pool. Staff training improves
 knowledge and understanding of equality and diversity within the workplace and staff complete
 mandatory unconscious bias training.

 The Athena Swan Champion coordinates School-level EDI initiatives that showcase SW&SP
 research during International Women’s week, Black History month and LGBT History month. All
 recruitment, annual and mid-term appraisals, and promotion processes follow agreed University
 HR policies and are conducted by staff fully compliant with equality and diversity training. The EDI
 intranet links staff with relevant networks, policies and resources. Staff experience of EDI in the
 School of Social Sciences reflects very positively, with 82% of colleagues agreeing with
 statements on equality of opportunity and protected characteristics in the 2018 staff survey,
 including “I believe the University is committed to equality of opportunity for all of its staff”.

 Individuals employed as post-doctoral research fellows and research assistants make a crucial
 contribution to research outputs, research impact, and each Research Centre’s environment. They
 are encouraged to shape opportunities for their development by being represented as a group on
 the SS-SRIC and the annual School Research Conference Organising Committee. They all have
 access to research funding, mentorship, appraisal, and line management. This approach has
 meant that since 2014 three SW&SP RAs have progressed to become post-doctoral research
 fellows on permanent contracts (De Motte, Harding and Kemp) and two (Holland and Mutale) have
 been given permanent contracts as RAs working across SW&SP Research Centres. Of these
 staff, four are female.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Accessible SW&SP research

 Open Access (OA) and Open Research accords with social work values of collective responsibility
 and inclusivity; thus, SW&SP research at NTU commits to an ‘open’ research agenda. As well as
 seeking open access journals as outlets for SW&SP research, free online access has been
 provided to research data sets and tools as co-produced assets so that policymakers and service
 providers can utilise the outcome of publicly funded research for the benefit of under-represented
 groups and communities. These assets include:

  predictive neighbourhood burglary maps (Home Office, Police and Crime Commissioners, and
   police forces).
  Community Engagement Area Classification (police forces, community safety partnerships,
   and local authorities).
  predictive neighbourhood informal economy maps and classifications (Office of the Director of
   Labour Market Enforcement, Gangmasters and Labour Abuse Authority, HMRC, regional
   organised crime units).
  toolkits to support the embedding of social workers into integrated teams for older people with
   complex needs.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Income

 Since REF2014, the alignment of staffing and resources within Research Centres, together with
 the strategy for researcher development outlined above, has realised a more than three-fold
 increase in research spend (from £645K to £2,025K). Major projects and funders have included:

 COPE

       Three ESRC-funded projects foregrounding different aspects of crime reduction in relation
        to routine behaviour and the difference between stranger and acquaintance violence
        (£173K), shop-theft risk neighbourhood profiles (£137K KTP with Nottingham City
        Council), and anti-social behaviour victimisation risk characteristics (£183K). This funding
        has directly supported research that underpins an ICS in Crime Reduction (ICS lead:
        Tseloni), as well as enabling the expansion of activities and staffing within the Q&SCRG;
        this now represents the second-largest research cluster in this criminological subdiscipline
        in the UK.
       The engagement in EMPAC with police and crime commissioners and chief constables
        from all police forces in the East Midlands plus eight partner HEIs (Co-I: Thompson, £870k,
        Home Office Police Knowledge Fund)/College of Policing/HEFCE).

 CPPH

       The EU Horizon 2020 Project SPICES (PI: Gibson, £455K) uses reverse innovation
        methods to improve coronary heart disease prevention. This methodology was utilised
        initially in research to improve breast cancer screening in Uganda that forms an impact
        case study for this UoA submission.
       Funding for the Fulfilling Lives Programme through Opportunity Nottingham and
        Framework Housing (PI: Bowpitt, £282k). This funding has supported an emerging impact
        case study around multiple exclusion and homelessness.
       An ESRC funded Knowledge Transfer Project (KTP) that used participatory action
        research in children’s social work and social care services to explore families’ experience
        of early help with Nottinghamshire County Council (PI: Barnard, Co-PI: Bailey, £177K).




                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 NCCYPF

       The BLF project Small Steps, Big Changes: improving the outcomes of 0-3-year olds in
        Nottingham (PI: Paetcher, £936K); this has enabled the recruitment of two post-doctoral
        research fellows.

 Facilities and infrastructure

 In the REF period NTU has invested £151k in a Strategic Partnerships Manager dedicated to
 developing the relationship with local NHS organisations. This has underpinned compacts with
 local NHS Trusts that have significant research components, including with Nottingham University
 Hospitals Trust (NUHT), Nottinghamshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust (NHNFT) and East
 Midlands Ambulance Service. In turn these have been supported by Moffatt’s joint appointment at
 NUHT and Bailey’s role as a Non-Executive Director between 2017-2019 at NHNFT (now retained
 as an honorary professor). These strategic partnerships have been central to building the
 research infrastructure to increase health and social care related research and support the impact
 of research conducted in the CPPH (securing £548K in research spend since REF 2014).

 Successful ESRC awards in COPE have benefited from internal investment of £10K to create a
 bespoke crime science lab for the Q&SCRG. The lab meets ONS/UK Data Services requirements
 in respect of secure access to non-publicly available datasets for use by academic staff and
 doctoral students. The lab has created additional capacity to recruit doctoral students to
 complement the group’s research in victimisation risk and draw upon untapped datasets
 (Nomikos, Tura, and Ward). The QSC Lab now meets direct requests from key stakeholders
 seeking specific forms of data analysis to address current policy and service delivery issues. For
 example, updated modelling of burglary victimisation characteristics requested by the Home Office
 (Tseloni); evaluation of the effectiveness, and membership characteristics, of neighbourhood
 watch schemes on behalf of Neighbourhood and Home Watch (Tseloni); and additional analysis
 of secure police crime data in order to enhance the strategic decision-making and operational
 capacity of the Community Engagement Area Classification (Hunter).

 The NCE has contributed to SW&SP impact development in all three Research Centres and has
 catalysed interdisciplinary research and impact with Research Centres in other Schools. NCE has
 supported academic colleagues to prepare and submit research evidence to UK Government
 select committee inquiries, consultations and international rapporteur evidence calls. NCE has
 developed policy debates, for example drawing from research on Work and Families and
 supported discussion with Cabinet Office and DCMS on social tourism. In addition, NCE has
 contributed to the creation of policy briefings related to academic and policy outputs focusing on
 good work, private hire and taxis, human rights, and burglary. These have been shared in targeted
 and broader ways with MPs, government departments and relevant stakeholders. The Nottingham
 Civic Exchange was supported by £737K from NTU’s Strategic Investment fund during this REF
 period.

 Internal funds (£390K since REF 2014), support research infrastructure and capacity development
 and are allocated by the School’s Research Funding Panel, chaired by the ADR with Departmental
 Research Coordinators as panel members. Applications from researchers at any career stage,
 accompanied by IRPs, are considered. Funds can be used to support, for example, software
 licenses to aid data analysis, equipment, employment of RAs, dissemination events, research
 training and attendance at academic conferences. Investment of funds is linked to the delivery of
 specified research outputs which are reviewed on an annual basis. Investment is augmented by
 support from Departmental Research Coordinators and Research Centre Directors, as
 appropriate, to the applicant’s level of experience. Departmental staff development funds can be
 used to offset internal funding from the Research Funding Panel or allocated separately with £37K
 allocated during this REF period. Research is supported by a University Research Operations
 team and a full research lifecycle research information management system, Worktribe (see
 REF5a).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Across all three Research Centres, research undertaken by SW&SP academics, in collaboration
 with colleagues at other HEIs, has resulted in the production of 137 research outputs with authors
 from 80 UK-based universities, 48 international universities, and 10 government departments or
 agencies (both UK and overseas). SW&SP research partners include 37 Higher Education
 Institutions (including 14 from overseas) and 17 public service providers (e.g. Bispebjerg Hospital,
 Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust), third sector organisations (e.g. Projekts
 MCR), charities (e.g. Marie Curie Association), trade unions (e.g. United Private Hire Drivers
 Union) and learned societies (e.g. Finnish Youth Research Society).

 Collaborations are supported by staff and student exchanges. For example, Gibson’s Erasmus+
 programme with Uganda will see the mobility of 123 PGRs and 73 academics between 2018-
 2021. Paechter, Director of the NCCCYPF, set up a Social Sciences 5-day Erasmus+ staff
 exchange with Eötvös Loránd University in Budapest with the NCCYPF welcoming a visiting
 Scholar by return in 2019.

 Collaborative ventures have been facilitated through joint-research funding secured, expert roles
 as government and scientific advisors (Alldred, Dingwall, Hunter, Newton, Pickford, Tseloni),
 membership of research networks and learned societies (Alldred and Vickers [British Sociological
 Association], Dingwall and Paechter [Fellowship of the Academy of Social Sciences FAcSS], and
 Tseloni [British Society of Criminology, Royal Statistical Society]). SW&SP’s contribution to the
 research base and the wider economy and society is evidenced by the following examples
 supported through the respective Research Centres.

 COPE

 •   Sustained research on the role of security in reducing burglary, alongside acting as a
     methodological advisor to both the Home Office and the ONS in relation to the British Crime
     Survey for England and Wales, has resulted in Tseloni being invited by the Minister for Policing
     to sit as the only academic member of the new National Burglary Prevention Taskforce set up
     by the Home Office in 2019.

 •   Tseloni’s secondment (funded by the ESRC) to the Ministry of Justice on a 0.5 basis as part of
     the Data First initiative funded by the ESRC has facilitated the integration of criminal justice
     data sets, and the use of courts and prison data by academic researchers within HEIs across
     the UK.

 •   Through Thompson’s leadership of EMPAC, NTU is operating as the region's Local Community
     Policing Network. This led to the Community Engagement Area Classification. This features in
     the College of Policing’s national neighbourhood policing guidelines, being trialled by twenty-
     four police forces to shape their neighbourhood policing strategies.

 Policy maker engagement in project dissemination events in relation to ESRC funded projects has
 created opportunities to influence national and local policy agendas. For example, as a result of
 the ASB end of project conference (attended by 85 representatives from police forces, local
 councils, housing authorities and charities), the research team was invited to participate in a
 national ASB forum which then resulted in joint authorship of Baroness Newlove’s final report as
 Victims’ Commissioner. In addition, presentation of QSC research on the development of valid
 and reliable estimates of shop theft, and the motivations and perceptions of risk by prolific shop
 theft offenders, at the annual Crime Survey Users Conference in 2017 resulted in Garius, Hunter
 and Tseloni being invited to sit on the Home Office’s Business Crime Experts Group.

 CPPH

 •   Bowpitt’s sustained research through Opportunity Nottingham was extended during the
     COVID-19 crisis to evaluate the impact of accommodating rough sleepers in hotels during the

                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
     pandemic. The recent report Keeping Everyone In draws attention to the 41% of 168 ‘guests’
     accommodated who benefitted from a positive move on. The broader findings from this
     research have informed the work of a multidisciplinary team commissioned by
     Nottinghamshire’s Integrated Care Partnership to case manage the most entrenched rough
     sleepers with the team working with at least 14 individuals since starting in August 2020.

 •   Research undertaken collaboratively with Age UK and HMPs Whatton and Wakefield (Co-PI
     Bailey) has provided a blueprint for activity-based interventions for older prisoners which has
     been utilised in both prisons to improve quality of life outcomes.

 •   Bailey’s research into embedding adult social work into integrated primary care teams for older
     people has influenced the Integrated Care System in Nottinghamshire, changing the way social
     workers are deployed in 14 primary care teams across the region. This research was extended
     to include an evidence synthesis relating to wider social care integration nationally,
     commissioned by the Chief Social Worker for Adults in the Department of Health.

 NCCYPF

  Alldred’s UKRI funded research in the area of gender-based violence and sexual harassment
   reflects collaboration with 5 countries and 8 partners across Europe. The project, which
   provided training for students and staff, has impacted upon at least 23 universities over the
   funding period and continues to be a resource for good practice across the HE sector with
   international impact in Serbia and Spain where procedures have been created for students to
   amend and debate university policy.
  Clapham is currently working with governance consultants (Context2Cognition) and national
   governance bodies (National Governance Association) for schools, to develop a maturity
   framework applicable for the governance in the sector.

 SW&SP researchers have directly influenced policy at a national level through the provision of
 written and oral evidence to the UK Parliament:

  Crime reduction: House of Commons Oral Evidence taken before the Justice Committee on
   ‘Crime reduction policies: A coordinated approach?’ (Tseloni); House of Commons Oral
   Evidence taken before the Home Affairs Committee on ‘Policing for the future: changing
   demands and new challenges (Tseloni); written evidence to Communities and Local
   Government/Work and Pensions inquiry into the ‘future of supported housing’ (Tseloni); and
   House of Commons Home Affairs Select Committee on Hate Crime (Zempi).
  Education: Commons Education Committee Inquiry into the Effect of COVID-19 on Education
   and Children’s Services submitted by Paechter on behalf of NCCYPF with local partners,
   including Nottinghamshire County Council.
  Young People’s Mental Health: Commons Health and Social Care Committee, submitted by
   Paechter on behalf of NCCTYP with Bailey and local partners including Nottingham City and
   Nottinghamshire County Council.
  Informal economy: House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee on Hand Car Washes
   and Good Work for All (Pickford). Pickford provided evidence written with colleagues in
   Nottingham Business School on modern slavery.

 Contribution to the discipline

 SW&SP academics contribute to the discipline via journal editorial board membership: Annual
 Review of Critical Psychology (Alldred); Crime Science (Newton, Tseloni); European Journal of
 Criminology (Tseloni); European Journal on Criminal Policy and Research (Tseloni); European
 Journal of Policing Studies (Tseloni); International Journal of Comparative and Applied Criminal
 Justice (Tseloni); Journal of Mental Health, Training Education and Practice (Bailey); Journal of
 Quantitative Criminology (Tseloni); Sociology (Pilcher); Journal of Research in Crime and
 Delinquency (Tseloni); Pedagogy, Culture and Society (Clapham, Paechter); Sex Education


                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 (Alldred); Sociological Research Online (Pilcher, Vickers, Zempi); and Symbolic Interaction
 (Dingwall).

 SW&SP staff also review for grant bodies and Bailey has been appointed as a subject expert for
 NIHR and expert panel member for NICE.

 Relationships with key beneficiaries

 NCE has supported local beneficiaries to access SW&SP research by acting as a bridge between
 policy debates and developing practical projects on a local, city and regional level. This approach
 is exemplified by NCE’s work on Ordinary Working Families, and the campaign to establish
 Nottingham as a Good Work City. NCE has examined issues around identifying problematic hand
 car washes across England (Hunter and Pickford) (with the Gangmasters and Labour Abuse
 Authority), affordability of family holidays (Pickford) (commissioned by the Family Holidays
 Association), human rights in relation to work, housing and food (Grigolo) (with Nottingham
 Housing Justice Forum) and hate crime experienced by police officers (Zempi) with the Office of
 the Police and Crime Commissioner for Nottingham).

 SW&SP’s commitment to engaging directly with communities and the public is exemplified by its
 founding role in Nottingham Citizens. This is a non-partisan alliance of 37 civil society institutions
 comprised of trade unions, faith groups, charities, schools and universities, all working together to
 make Nottingham a better place to live. This partnership provides a platform to share SW&SP
 research that tackles issues around different aspects of inequality; for example, discrimination and
 abuse arising from hate crime and Islamophobia (Zempi) and multiple exclusion and
 homelessness (Bowpitt).




                                                                                               Page 15
