Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   Institution: Goldsmiths, University of London

   Unit of Assessment: Panel C19. Politics and International Studies

   1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context

 Goldsmiths’ Department of Politics & International Relations (PIR) has carved out a distinctive
 place in the academic study of politics. We generate world-leading and impactful research,
 extending critical political enquiry into new domains and to meet new audiences. We challenge
 intellectual orthodoxies and draw insight from disciplinary fields and approaches outside
 mainstream political research. We pursue an idea of politics and an ethos of enquiry that is
 attentive to diverse cultural conditions and experiences, knowledge of which can expand the
 public understanding of, and participation in, politics. A commitment to equality and diversity in
 staffing is an integral component of our approach. We bring this idea and ethos to our
 collaborations with Government, NGOs, peace-building activities around the globe, as well as a
 variety of Think Tanks, and engaged, international academic networks.

 Our commitments to challenging and enriching political enquiry drives the vitality of our research
 culture. We promote an environment for critical and inventive scholarship that explores political
 choices and opportunities, in particular, from the perspectives of political economy, post-colonial
 critiques, and radical political theories, foregrounding possibilities for just, transformative political
 action. We sustain this culture by concentrating resources on research strengths that
 demonstrate innovative thinking and contest disciplinary boundaries.

 1.2 Strategic Aims

 Since the last REF, we have focussed on ways to strengthen the vitality and sustainability of the
 department. Reflecting on the REF2014 results, we concluded that our efforts to sustain strong
 performances over time were hampered by over-reliance on multiple research themes without
 sufficient depth. We wanted to enhance the impact of our research to demonstrate the practical
 outcomes of our ethos, and this became a particular focus and area of improvement during this
 period. To deliver that vision, our broad strategic aims for 2016-20 were: to improve the quality
 of PIR’s research outputs; increase the quantity of research grant capture; and expand
 opportunities to develop impact from staff research.

 Accomplishing these aims demanded greater coherence in PIR’s identity, which we achieved
 by: altering the department’s name to include ‘International Relations’; forming three new
 research clusters to represent our strengths – ‘Critical Political Economy’, ‘Reconfiguring the
 International’, and ‘Philosophy, Ideology, and Critique’ (see 1.3 below); and relinquishing or
 merging the weaker clusters noted in REF2014, namely in European Politics, Global
 Politics/International Relations, and Art and Politics. The new clusters enhance vitality by their
 close connections to College centres with strong public profiles – the Political Economy
 Research Centre and Centre for Postcolonial Studies – and to the intra-departmental Research
 Unit in Contemporary Political Theory (which replaces former units for Ethics & Politics, and
 Governance & Democracy). The clusters have successfully nurtured impact by foregrounding
 publicly engaged research, with two case studies selected after internal review: one each from

                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Critical Political Economy and Reconfiguring the International. Consolidating expertise has
 therefore fulfilled part of the future strategy flagged in REF2014 but only by making a clear
 choice about where our strengths lie. It has also permitted us to identify types of impact that
 exemplify our distinctive contribution to the discipline.

 1.3 Structure: Research Clusters, Centres and Unit

 To ensure full inclusivity, each member of staff is aligned with at least one of the three clusters
 and its associated centres/unit. Our wider, strategic purpose here, in addition to bringing greater
 coherence to PIR’s profile, is to enhance the integrity of our research culture: aligning resources
 (such as impact support, research leave, administrative support for funding applications, and
 future appointments) to recognised areas of strength, cultivating research intensity, dialogue
 and co-operation among staff in related fields, and attracting PGRs to areas where specialist
 support can be offered. Consequently, academic cluster leads are permanent members of the
 Departmental Research Committee (DRC) along with an academic Impact Lead, appointed to
 monitor and develop potential projects.

 1.3.1 Critical Political Economy

 This cluster encompasses a range of disciplinary and theoretical interests unified by a concern
 with political economy, broadly understood. It foregrounds the cultural and political dimensions
 of economic activity to highlight the role of ideas, measurement devices, discourses, knowledge
 and power in the reproduction of capitalism. The cluster works on topics including
 financialisation, neoliberalism, debt and austerity, the Anthropocene, practices of capitalization,
 post-growth economics, and economic policy formation, and has published in numerous, highly
 ranked journals, including Capital and Class, Theory Culture & Society, Competition and
 Change, New Political Economy and Journal of Cultural Economy. The cluster has played a key
 role in substantially extending audiences for PIR’s research, particularly in challenging dominant
 narratives of public policy and the disciplinary boundaries that support them. A central focus, for
 example, is a fortnightly Work in Progress seminar, where members review one another’s work.
 A crucial means of developing shared critical and theoretical agendas, it provides doctoral, post-
 doctoral and Early Career Researchers (ECR) a valuable means of gaining feedback on work
 and learning from senior colleagues. PhD students are encouraged to take advantage of this
 facility when past their upgrade stage.

 Alongside the cluster sits Goldsmiths’ Political Economy Research Centre (PERC), of which
 PIR’s Davies is Co-Director. PERC is based in PIR but functions as an interdisciplinary network
 across Goldsmiths, united by a concern with critical political economy and an awareness of the
 cultural dimensions of economic practices. Its advisory board includes leading figures in
 heterodox economics and political economy who are consulted on its strategic direction and
 periodically invited to speak at events. Its extra-departmental network consists of 16 academic
 colleagues, concentrated in the Institute of Management Studies, Media, Communications &
 Cultural Studies, and Sociology. A graduate PERC network runs in parallel, coordinated by a
 PhD student in PIR, which meets for film-screenings, reading groups and work-in-progress
 discussions.

 PERC has been a key driver in recent public discussions around the politics of political
 economy, bringing a distinctly critical orientation to ‘economic’ issues and drawing in large

                                                                                                 Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 audiences. It has established a reputation for hosting public events on matters of pressing
 political and economic urgency, introducing heterodox and critical perspectives from a range of
 disciplines. These have addressed topics such as austerity, consumer and household
 indebtedness, the rise of right-wing populism, and the climate crisis. Speakers include Marianna
 Mazzucato, Wolfgang Streeck, Ann Pettifor, Philip Mirowski, and Ha-Joon Chang. All PERC
 affiliates have their own research projects, which they publicise and disseminate via the
 Centre’s social media facilities.

 One central research theme for the cluster has been debt, finance and austerity. During 2015,
 Montgomerie (now left) held an ESRC Knowledge Exchange Grant to explore everyday politics
 of debt. That linked academic partners at Manchester Business School, University of East
 London and Durham, together with civil society partners including the Centre for Responsible
 Credit, Debt Jubilee Campaign, and Zero-Credit. In July 2015, Montgomerie and Davies co-
 authored a report combining their expertise on debt, neoliberalism and mental health, Financial
 Melancholia, published by PERC. Montgomerie’s ESRC Seminar Series, From Recovery to
 Discovery, ran over 2014-16 with a series of PERC events to look at alternatives to austerity. In
 2020, PERC hosted the 12th annual Critical Finance Studies Conference. Similarly, Dutta’s work
 challenges orthodoxies surrounding the financialisation of firms and the state’s role in the rise of
 finance; he is a co-founder, together with Warwick University, of the Critical Finance Group,
 whose 2019 conference was hosted at Goldsmiths and resulted in a special issue of Finance
 and Society. Finally, Ivanova’s work on monetary policy responses to the financial crisis
 (including a comparison to those during the Great Depression) also contributed to this strand of
 research.

 A second theme concerns the history and application of neoliberal thought, in both economics
 and management. Davies’s three monographs – The Limits of Neoliberalism (2014), The
 Happiness Industry (2015) and Nervous States (2018) – have contributed to international
 scholarly and public understanding of economic concepts (including those associated with
 neoliberal traditions) and to contemporary policy making and management. Dutta has
 conducted research on the history of new public management, finding origins of neoliberal
 public sector reforms in Cold War planning techniques. Griffiths has published a monograph on
 the thought of Friedrich Hayek, while Ivanova’s work on the history of economics explores
 Austrian economic thinking. This theme also provides a valuable environment for a PhD
 student, Ibled, who works on the history of neoliberal thought.

 Finally, the cluster has a strong interest in green political economy and the Anthropocene.
 PERC is partner in the ESRC Centre for Understanding Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP), which
 funded a three-year post-doctoral fellowship (Taylor) and a PhD studentship (Douglas). PERC
 researchers contribute variously to CUSP, including Taylor’s research on professional
 understanding of risk and uncertainty, Davies’s exploration of the moral dimensions of
 prosperity, and Douglas’s doctoral research on the ‘limits to growth’ debate. CUSP has enabled
 PERC to develop its own sphere of research activities in relation to sustainability, including a
 public reading group on the Anthropocene, from which a series of book reviews by participants
 were published, and a speaker series of leading eco-socialist scholars. PERC and CUSP held a
 major conference in summer 2019, on Risk, Uncertainty, and the Anthropocene, with prestigious
 international speakers. These engagements led Taylor and Davies to divert their research
 attention towards ecological themes, also shared by other contributors to the cluster.



                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3.2 Reconfiguring the International

 The mission of this cluster is to reconfigure the ways that ‘the international’ and ‘the global’ are
 conceived and investigated within the discipline. It does so, first, by bringing together staff who,
 in attending to ‘the international’, focus not principally on ‘the West’ but on what is mistakenly
 treated as derivative or marginal (‘the Rest’). Researchers in the cluster investigate the culture
 and politics of Asia (Pandey, Seth, Dutton, Brenner), Africa (Ibreck), Latin America (Carballo),
 the Middle East (Mura, Sadeghi-Boroujerdi), and the Balkans (Dragovic-Soso); in doing so, they
 show how non-Eurocentric approaches lead to a richer understanding of the ‘international’, one
 distinctly attentive to its diversity. Second, the cluster’s work has a strong and cutting-edge
 theoretical inclination, drawing upon and developing postcolonial and decolonial theory,
 poststructuralism, and feminism. The cluster has been vital in meeting our strategic goals of
 increasing successful grant capture (see below, 3.1) and improving the quality of our research
 outputs (particularly in new appointments, such as Brenner, Tazzioli, and Sadeghi-Boroujerdi). It
 has also played an important role in developing new collaborations with scholars, artists, and
 civil society bodies (see below, 4.1-2).

 Themes and issues explored usually cut across national divides, challenging the nation-state
 ontology underpinning much of the work undertaken within the discipline, not least in
 International Relations. These include: the politics of knowledge (Seth, Carballo); memory,
 justice and truth commissions (Dragovic-Soso, Seth and Ibreck); cartography and counter-
 mapping (D Martin); gender and power (Pandey and Evans); violence, conflict and identity
 (Brenner, Seth); nationalism (Seth, Dragovic Soso, Ibreck, Brenner, Carballo); the relations
 between art and politics (Buckley, Dutton); comparative political theory (Sadeghi-Boroujerdi,
 Mura, Seth); and the influence of cosmologies and religion (and of culture generally) in shaping
 how politics and power are understood, practiced, and challenged (Pandey, Mura, Sadeghi-
 Boroujerdi, Seth). The cluster provides a common forum for diverse research interests, drawing
 attention to numerous, emergent sites of resistance and possibilities for just transformations:
 Ibreck and Brenner, for example, study borderlands where state authority and legal jurisdiction
 break down, in Southeast Asia and Africa; and Tazzioli studies the porousness of European
 borders and efforts to ‘manage’ migration and refugees. Ibreck’s innovative work in Sudan
 provides one of our Impact Case Studies.

 Members of the cluster have published books with major publishers: Cornell University Press
 (Brenner), Zed (Ibreck), University of Hawaii Press (Pandey), Cambridge University Press
 (Sadeghi-Boroujerdi), Oxford University Press (Seth), Sage, and Rowman and Littlefield
 (Tazzioli). Seth’s essays are scheduled for publication in Portuguese translation as a book,
 História e Pós-colonialismo. The cluster’s researchers have been invited to give 12 prestigious
 keynote speeches (see 4.2), two are on peer review panels (Seth, Ibreck), four serve on the
 board of journals (Dutton, Dragovic-Soso, Seth and Pandey), including International Political
 Sociology and American Political Science Review, and four edit book series (Dragovic-Soso,
 Dutton, Sadeghi-Boroujerdi and Seth).

 The Goldsmiths Centre for Postcolonial Studies (CPS) is the primary medium for this cluster’s
 public activities and collaborations. It is led by Seth, with Carballo and D Martin as deputy
 directors; the three are UK editors of the international journal, Postcolonial Studies, and editors
 of a four-volume reference collection, Postcolonial Politics (both Taylor & Francis), underscoring
 CPS’s status as a key hub in the wider international network of postcolonial scholarship. The

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 centre draws its advisory board from international scholars around the world. Through these
 connections CPS members have participated in several joint research funding applications and
 have won a number of funding awards: e.g. Brenner’s (PI) Global Challenges Research Fund
 (GCRF); Seth (PI) & Brenner’s (CI) AHRC award for projects on non-state education in
 Myanmar, which brings educators and activists from Myanmar’s border regions into
 conversation with scholars; Seth’s (PI) ESRC-AHRC project which brings scholars from Japan
 and the UK together to explore ethnic conflict and violence in South and Southeast Asia;
 Pandey’s BA-Leverhulme small grant to investigate constructions of gender and the body in
 medieval Japan; Ibreck’s (PI) two GCRF awards on regional justice in Eastern Africa and her
 SSRC award for a project on governance and conflict in South Sudan, which develop a unique
 approach to collaborative ethnography, directly engaging more than 50 civic activists as co-
 researchers, in South Sudan but also from surrounding countries including Somalia, Sudan,
 Ethiopia and Uganda; Seth, D Martin and Carballo’s collaborative French Agence National de
 Recherche (ANR) grant for a European Research Network on Europe in a Networked World;
 and Tazzioli’s collaborative ESRC project on how financial and digital technologies are
 transforming refugee governance and refugee lives, her BA small grant on the implementation
 and use of digital technologies in refugee governance in Greece, and a Cherish-de Escalator
 Grant exploring how migrants use digital technologies in the ex-jungle of Calais, and how
 activists and NGOs devise technologies and digital mapping programmes to support the
 migrants stranded there.

 Public facing activities to reach new audiences are central to the centre’s remit and, in the
 period covered, it ran visiting speaker series with lectures by distinguished scholars from the UK
 and abroad; hosted four externally-funded visiting researchers (from Denmark, Germany,
 Belgium, and Switzerland); ran three major seminar series (on Comparative Political Theory;
 Islamicates; Latin American Scholarship); organised a workshop on Decolonising Knowledge
 with Linnaeus University in 2015; and hosted a film festival on political documentaries, titled
 Films from the Underside in 2015. In 2020 it launched a dedicated website –
 postcolonialpolitics.org – to debate pressing issues concerning, especially, the Global South.

 1.3.3 Philosophy, Ideology, and Critique

 Exploring radical philosophies and political theories that challenge orthodoxies associated with
 mainstream liberal thought is a longstanding research theme in PIR. This third, smaller cluster
 comprises staff working on ideas and theories that critique the parameters of modern statehood,
 formal citizenship, and rational, secular modes of political engagement. Particular strengths
 include innovative historical and conceptual analyses of post-anarchism (Levy, Newman),
 Western and non-Western ‘political theologies’ (Newman, Mura, Sadeghi-Boroujerdi), and new
 feminisms and the politics of sexuality in non-Western cultural contexts (Evans, Pandey). Giving
 space to explore critical and sometimes provocative types of political thinking is the cluster’s
 contribution to PIR’s research vitality. For example, shared expertise in psychoanalytical
 approaches to politics (Mura, J Martin, Newman) led to a department-wide reading group with
 post-graduates on Freud’s Beyond the Pleasure Principle in early 2020. Additionally, in 2020
 Newman and J Martin initiated a joint project exploring theological ideas, including a public
 seminar series on the sacred in contemporary politics. Other notable achievements in this
 exercise include: publication of six monographs exploring radical intellectual traditions (two by
 Newman and one each by Evans, Griffiths, J Martin and Sadeghi-Boroujerdi), and two major
 edited collections on anarchism (by Levy, and Levy & Newman), with publishers including

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Cambridge University Press, Polity, Palgrave and Routledge; editorship of two journal special
 issues (Evans, J Martin); journal editor roles for European Journal of Politics and Gender
 (Evans) and Contemporary Political Theory (J Martin); and editorial board membership (Evans,
 Levy, J Martin, Newman). J Martin co-edits an international book series on Rhetoric, Politics and
 Society with Palgrave, and Newman co-edits the series The New Politics of Autonomy with
 Rowman & Littlefield International. Visiting professor roles were taken up by Newman at the
 universities of Ljubljana (2015), Paraiba, Brazil (2016), Sydney (2018), McQuarrie and UNSW
 (2019-20), and by Evans at the University of Lausanne (2018-20). Evans is co-PI on a
 Government Equalities Office project on disabilities and political representation (2018-20); and
 Levy co-presented research to the Home Office in its History & Policy series (2014).

 The Research Unit in Contemporary Political Theory (RUCPT) replaced the Research Unit
 in Politics and Ethics (RUPE, led by Newman) in 2015. It serves as a platform for the cluster
 and offers a resource for PGRs working on recent trends in political theory and philosophy. Both
 units’ speaker series included eminent critical thinkers such as Profs John Lechte (2014 and
 2019), Roberto Esposito (2015) and Franco Berardi (2016). In 2014 one-day conferences were
 run on the legacy of Max Stirner and (alongside the CPS and the PSA Anarchism Specialist
 Group) on Anarchism and the Postcolonial Turn, with speakers from PIR (Newman and Levy)
 and other institutions. Aware of the comparatively minimal scale of its affiliates RUCPT (led by
 Newman and J Martin) has purposefully adopted a ‘developmental’ strategy to cultivate
 theoretical projects. It has hosted presentations of ongoing research by staff members
 (including a book launch of Newman’s monograph, Political Theology), PhD presentations, and
 provided a focus for specifically PGR interests such as an article writing workshop in 2017 and a
 one-day symposium on Politics and Ontology held in collaboration with the University of Kent
 Centre for Critical Thought in 2018.

 1.4 Future Aims and Goals

 PIR’s research strategy began a process of renewal in January 2020. A departmental away-day
 was held to discuss its broad direction and, following a further strategic review in March, we also
 had the input of an external academic team. Detailed specification of the strategy is delayed by
 the pandemic crisis, but it will retain our orientation towards critical and innovative research, and
 the current cluster structure, which support the vitality of our environment.

 To address sustainability, however, we need significantly to expand our profile within and
 beyond the discipline in order to enhance our public presence and, moreover, to further realise
 our guiding ethos – demonstrating the value to political enquiry of challenging the mainstream
 and foregrounding cultural diversity. Our ambition is therefore to increase research partnerships
 and collaborations with academic and non-academic partners, particularly by highlighting the
 practical and methodological value of our work. That will involve eliciting the transferable
 components of critical and heterodox approaches in our clusters in response to current and
 pressing issues. We will achieve this, in part, through collective reflection in cluster workshops,
 utilising existing skills and collaborative experience, and learning from impact activities
 undertaken in this REF. But we will also develop the role of the Departmental Research
 Committee and the Research Administrator to prioritise and promote impact opportunities,
 funding calls that include support for PGR projects with distinct methodological approaches, and
 dissemination strategies highlighting practical benefits and wider ‘applications’ to our insights.



                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Additionally, we will seek greater recognition by external performance measures of our research
 profile so as to strengthen our reputational basis for attracting funding and PGRs. We will also
 develop in-house doctoral training to direct cluster expertise towards sustaining a more
 specialist PGR environment.

 Finally, we are aware that potential ‘sub-clusters’ exist in the areas of the politics of memory and
 justice, psychoanalytic approaches to politics, immigration, technology, and art and politics. We
 will monitor the possibilities for enhancement in these fields, particularly if they contribute to
 developing practical and methodologically oriented research insights.

   2. People

 2.1 Staffing strategy and staff development

 Since REF2014 PIR’s staff profile has changed considerably and intentionally. This was to
 strengthen our research identity and to build on the commitment to equality and diversity
 underpinning the vitality of our research culture generally. Of the total researchers submitted
 (including two at 0.5 FTE, one at .4 FTE), eight are new members of staff, with expertise in
 comparative political theory (Mura, Sadeghi), critical political economy (Dutta) and international
 politics (Ibreck, Brenner, Tazzioli, Carballo, Evans), matching identified areas of strength.
 Although all staff associate with at least one cluster, they are not expected to pursue research in
 exclusively one alone. Recent appointments have also been made to maximise impact
 opportunities and experience (e.g. Tazzioli, Ibreck). Of our eight most recent appointments,
 three had impact case studies under consideration and all are actively involved in knowledge
 exchange activities.

 Ongoing support for research staff in the department takes several forms. First, staff undertake
 an annual appraisal with the Head of Department (HoD) where individual accomplishments and
 needs are identified, and support discussed. Second, the department utilises and shares a
 transparent workload model to ensure balance between various roles, enabling staff to
 anticipate how to devote time to research. Workload adjustments are made in light of specific
 circumstances and research needs, such as fieldwork, finishing a book project, or pursuing
 impact-related activity. Third, there are opportunities for research leave, training, and
 participation in research activity at Goldsmiths or externally.

 2.2 Research Time

 Recognising that, in HE, research opportunities are not always distributed equally and that, for
 various reasons, female, BAME and junior members of staff, in particular, are structurally
 disadvantaged, PIR has sought in different ways to enable staff across career stages to find
 time for research. On occasion, that is to make up for lost opportunities because of heavy
 workloads (which have resulted in exclusions from previous REFs). We use a ‘fair workloads’
 scheme giving staff opportunities to do research or to contribute to the wider research culture.
 All staff benefit from flexible, remote working, and home working is particularly supported for
 those with caring responsibilities. Additionally, four have been granted leave to take up visiting
 fellowships at other institutions. Five have taken maternity or paternity leave and were fully
 supported on their return, two using Keeping-in-Touch (KIT) days to ease them back into the



                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 working environment and benefiting from adjusted workloads. Two staff have successfully
 requested reduced fractional contracts or unpaid leave for personal or health reasons.

 PIR also operates a transparent policy of sabbatical leave in line with the Goldsmiths research
 strategy. The now current system was recognised in our 2016-20 strategy document as an
 integral device for prioritising production of outputs and funding applications. All research-active
 staff are eligible for a term’s research leave after nine successive teaching terms. Staff are
 regularly reminded of the process: after initial discussion with the HoD, applicants propose a
 research plan (including detail on outputs, grant applications, impact-related activity), which is
 then discussed in the DRC. The DRC reports back to the applicant, possibly with suggestions or
 requiring changes to be made to the plan. Revised applications are then reviewed and
 endorsed by the HoD and submitted for consideration and approval by the College Research
 and Enterprise Committee (REC). This provision is offered in addition to any leave achieved
 through grant buy-out. Applying for funding is not a prerequisite for approving sabbatical leave,
 since staff may be at different stages of their careers and have varying research needs. But
 applications are encouraged since they promote an active research culture by clarifying projects
 and encouraging sharing and planning of work. Normally, two to three staff are given a term’s
 research leave in any academic year. In 2017-20, four professors (J Martin, Seth, Newman and
 Davies) and four lecturers (Gunn, Buckley, D Martin and Ivanova) were awarded sabbaticals. In
 all cases, specified outputs were either significantly progressed or completed.

 2.3 Mentoring and Staff Development

 In keeping with the College’s commitment, in its Concordat, to ‘develop’ researchers, PIR
 encourages staff to adapt and extend their personal skills. All ECRs are provided an individual
 mentor, who is a senior staff member, to guide and advise them in the initial stages of their
 careers. Mentors meet regularly with ECRs and include them in their networks and events. They
 are allocated by the HoD in line with expertise and aptitude. All professors are expected to be
 involved in such mentoring, with some (Davies, Seth) having more than one mentee.

 Furthermore, staff are encouraged to undertake training offered by the College Research Office,
 and to organise and attend specialist conferences and workshops. Practical experience of
 organising academic events and associations is beneficial for developing networking skills,
 undertaking knowledge exchange, instigating collaborations, and managing academic research.
 So, in addition to the work of Davies and Seth in their respective centres: J Martin convened the
 PSA Specialist Group for Rhetoric, Discourse and Politics (2010-20); Levy was organiser for the
 Association for the Study of Modern Italy annual conference in 2016 and 2019, and ran the
 Modern Italian History Seminar in 1996-2016; and Evans was co-convenor of the PSA Women
 and Politics Group (2012-2015) and convenor of the European Standing Group of Politics and
 Gender (2013-18).

 PIR held three departmental research away-days and several smaller, research-related events
 since 2014, with a conscious emphasis on collectively defining strategic goals and generating
 dialogue among its clusters. These are moments for staff to discuss and value each other’s
 research and update others of their plans. They are opportunities to celebrate research activity
 and craft strategic priorities. External speakers, for example from the REC, are invited to lead
 sessions about the shifting grant income landscape, REF, impact, or knowledge exchange.
 Individual staff also offer their expertise as a training opportunity (e.g. a session on writing grant

                                                                                                 Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 proposals offered by Montgomerie and Evans). In addition to the centres’ and units’ activities,
 the department holds research events for its staff: a Department Research Seminar, which
 includes presentations by staff awarded research leave, and book launches to celebrate
 particular achievements. For example, in 2018 J Martin publicly interviewed Davies about his
 monograph, Nervous States, and in 2019 public launches were held for books by Ibreck,
 Tazzioli and Brenner.

 2.4 Internal Research Funds and Administrative Support

 Each member of academic staff has an annual personal research allowance (£800), allocated
 also on a proportional basis to staff on fractional contracts. This supports personal research
 activities where other resource is unavailable, including membership of professional
 organisations and conference funding, fieldwork travel, or research materials. If funds remain
 unspent, they can assist staff whose costs are higher (e.g. due to undertaking fieldwork in more
 distant parts of the globe).

 Each Centre and Unit is funded by the department (£2000 pa), with PERC also receiving funds
 from the College and other collaborating departments.

 Since 2018, as part of its strategy PIR has employed a Research Administrator (RA) to support
 the department (in conference and workshop organisation, impact activity, grant applications), a
 post raised to full-time in September 2019 that has significantly improved the management of
 research. Whereas in the past research activity was hampered by insufficient support, the RA –
 who is secretary to the DRC – has improved sustainability by supplying technical advice,
 coordinating College services, and managing information flow (see 3.1-2).

 2.5 PGR Students

 Doctoral research plays a substantial role in the vitality of PIR and is an increasingly important
 part of our strategy to sustain and develop our ethos. We currently have 26 PGR students, with
 13 PhDs awarded since 2013-14 (incl.) – around a 20% increase in submission since 2008-12 –
 four recent submissions and three more about to submit. Because of its interdisciplinary, cultural
 orientation PIR has succeeded in winning CHASE funding for PhD projects; and one in the
 period covered was awarded ESRC funding. At least one PGR per year is awarded a CHASE
 scholarship, sometimes two or three. Two have recently undertaken paid CHASE work
 placements. While paid studentships within the department have not been available for several
 years, we are currently considering a departmentally funded BAME scholarship, in recognition
 of the alarming scarcity of BAME academics across the sector.

 Across this period, we have had a number of outstanding researchers, many attracted to the
 department’s heterodox and interdisciplinary profile. There is a lively culture of self-organisation
 among PGRs, typical of Goldsmiths and strongly encouraged because it creates solidarity and
 provokes intellectual enquiry: in PIR this culture currently includes PhD-only ‘work in progress’
 seminars and a number of reading groups, a PhD Film Club, as well as contributions to the
 PERC blog and participation in the recently formed PERC Graduate Network.

 All staff undergo training in PGR supervision processes by Goldsmiths Graduate School and
 also acquire guidance on student-facing sessions. This training discusses good practice and

                                                                                                Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 potential pitfalls; and it provides valuable suggestions, particularly to new supervisors. Every
 research student is assigned two supervisors to advise on their topic, which is assessed initially
 by the PhD convenor and a potential ‘first’ (or primary) supervisor. PGRs may then opt to have
 only one supervisor, or one primarily, who meet twice a term (at a minimum). A short transcript
 of each session is completed by both, then submitted online for College monitoring. A review of
 progress in the first six months is made for all first-year research students and annual reviews
 for all PGRs are undertaken later in the year to track progress. An ‘upgrade’ from MPhil to PhD
 status is held between 18-24 months (FT) or 36-48 months (PT) after commencement, to
 ensure the viability of the project. This is attended by the student and two (non-supervising) PIR
 staff. The Postgraduate Committee monitors and advises the DRC on the progress and
 completion of all PGRs.

 Attention to the developing needs and skills of doctoral students is central to their progress and
 PIR’s strategy has compelled significant developments in this regard. The DRC now includes
 among its membership the PhD convenor (an academic member of staff) and a student PGR
 representative. PIR hosts an annual Politics PhD Conference in April, attended by its staff and
 research students. It is co-organised by PGRs and the PhD convenor and, in addition to
 presenting research (normally in their second year of study), students serve as chairs and
 participants. The conference enables PGRs to acquire presentation skills, as well as receive
 questions and comments from a broad audience rather than their supervisors alone.
 Additionally, the Graduate School holds a general annual PhD conference and all PGRs are
 required to attend and present work at least once during their period of study.

 PGRs will typically undertake training in qualitative and quantitative methods in their first year of
 studies via Graduate School provision. This is compulsory for all ESRC-funded students. In the
 past, PhD recruitment often reflected individual supervisor interests. More recently, we have
 encouraged applications (particularly funded projects) that relate to the clusters and the
 Centres/Unit where expertise is concentrated, underscoring the importance of ‘pools’ of shared
 research interests to create a more dialogical environment. Our ambition is to enhance this by
 developing and delivering in-house doctoral training that mirrors our strengths and so better
 sustains our research culture.

 PGRs benefit from support in terms of space and funding for fieldwork, within the constraints of
 the College and department. They are allocated desk space and computers in two open-plan
 offices. Those PGRs undertaking fieldwork abroad have applied successfully for funding from
 the College and external bodies, with additional contributions by the department, where feasible.
 Research students are frequently keen to gain teaching and assessment experience, which we
 offer on undergraduate modules. Just under half the PGRs who graduated in the period covered
 have gone on to specialist research and/or careers in academia – two current members of PIR
 staff (Evans and Tazzioli) are former PhDs students with us.

 2.6 Equality and Diversity

 Our strategic focus on heterogeneity in politics supports a concern to ensure equality and
 diversity in staffing so as to enable shared ‘ownership’ of our research profile. Of 19 permanent
 research-active members of staff, seven are women and five are of ethnic minority or mixed
 background; more than half are not British-born. Since 2019-20, its senior academics (seven
 Professors, two Readers) include three women and two BAME scholars. Of the last seven

                                                                                               Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 academics hired since 2015, six have protected characteristics. As our REF submission
 demonstrates, around a third of our highest internally ranked outputs are from female members
 of staff – which is approximate to their representation in PIR as a whole.

 In making preparations for the REF, we felt it necessary that all staff could participate in the
 process. Our strategy’s development involved collective ‘away days’, cluster meetings, and
 regular consultations with cluster leads following their group discussions. In addition to annually
 reviewing individual research needs, draft documentation (and regular updates) for the
 submission were made available, and staff were invited to comment.

 Four processes of internal review of potential output selections were undertaken in the period
 covered. Reviewers were appointed with clusters in mind and purposefully included staff in a
 mix of sex, ethnicity, and with ECRs paired with more senior staff. An experienced external
 academic reviewer was also appointed. Reviewers followed College advice on the secure
 management of sensitive data and received guidance and training on unconscious bias. Finally,
 reviewers’ scores and comments on outputs were disclosed to staff individually, and staff were
 encouraged to indicate any unfair obstacles to making a contribution.

     3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income

 PIR’s strategy aimed to increase research income by expanding the number of funding
 applications over the long term, doing so principally from within clusters so as to cohere with our
 emerging profile. This was to be achieved by purposefully recruiting staff with innovative
 approaches, established research records, and potential for impact; deliberately using clusters
 as a medium to elaborate projects, invite collaborations, read draft applications, share advice on
 impact; and using a Research Administrator (RA) to personally advise staff on sources of
 funding, promote and assist in writing applications, share good practice gleaned from the
 College network of RAs, and mediate with College services (such as Finance). Our wider
 objective was to fashion an efficient and supportive environment for sustaining income
 generation across the breadth of PIR staff (not only isolated ‘star performers’) into the future.

 The adopted measures have resulted in a higher quantity of medium-to-large applications (an
 average of eight per year over 2016-20) and a wider range of application types (such as: small
 and large grants, grants for collaborative work, and applications to specified schemes by
 Research Councils), as well as joint bids among staff – both senior and recently appointed –
 with overlapping expertise. Total levels of grant income increased substantially from £93k in
 2013-14, to £97k 2016-17 and £140k in 2018-19. Additionally, income has increased from
 sources other than UK Research Councils such as the EU, the US (from £0 in 2013-14 to £17k
 in 2018-19) and, notably in the case of new and recent appointments, from the Global
 Challenges Research Fund (GCRF).

 Grant capture over the period aligns with membership of research clusters. For example:

 •    Critical Political Economy




                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ESRC funding for Interrogating the Dashboard (Davies, CI, 2014-16); Knowledge Exchange
 Grant for Everyday Politics of Debt (Montgomerie, PI, former staff, 2015); and the seminar
 series, From Recovery to Discovery (Montgomerie, PI). Davies is also CI on the ESRC Centre
 for Understanding Sustainable Prosperity (CUSP), a five-year large grant that includes a full
 PhD studentship and post-doctoral post.

 •   Reconfiguring the International

 An AHRC-funded project Non-State Education and Conflict in Myanmar (Seth and Brenner, PI
 and CI, 2018); the ESRC-AHRC funded project Ethnicity, Religion, Conflict and Violence in
 Postcolonial South and Southeast Asia: A Comparative, Interdisciplinary Study (Seth, PI, 2018);
 and a GCRF award for Economic Development and Ethnic Conflict in Myanmar’s Borderlands
 (Brenner, PI, 2018) and two on Regional justice networks in Eastern Africa (Ibreck, PI, 2018,
 2019). Ibreck is recipient of SSRC funds for her project Research and policy analysis on the
 logics of governance and experiences of conflict in South Sudan (2018) and of Democratization,
 Diversity, State Fragility and Gender (The Horn Economic and Social Policy Institute, 2019).
 Tazzioli is CI on a recently awarded ESRC grant on Financial Inclusion and Digital Connectivity
 in Refugee Governance which started in January 2020.

 •   Philosophy, Ideology and Critique

 Evans is CI on a project funded by the UK Government Equalities Office on Barriers to Political
 Representation: Disability and the EnAble Fund. In 2014-15 J Martin completed a two-year
 Leverhulme Research Fellowship on Affective Strategies in Political Rhetoric.

 3.2 Infrastructure and Facilities

 The primary infrastructure for monitoring the quantity and quality of research applications is the
 Departmental Research Committee, which looks at all applications prior to signing off by the
 HoD (in order to ensure quality but also assess cost implications for the department and note
 ethics issues). Before applications come to the DRC, the RA discusses a project with the
 applicant, advises on scheme requirements, and thereafter ensures that the sequence of key
 stages in the process is followed in a timely fashion. The DRC also sets and monitors general
 research priorities in PIR, discussing how to allocate support (such as sabbaticals) and
 resources (such as available room space, IT equipment, or small funds).

 The department’s Director of Research (DoR, who is chair of the DRC) attends the wider
 College forum for Directors of Research, led by the REC, which meets twice a term. That way,
 DRC policies are informed by broader policy initiatives. Regular information updates, advice on
 policy changes and informal dialogue on best practice are disseminated through these
 meetings. They permit PIR to pursue the integrity and sustainability of its research culture by
 remaining alert to broader developments and initiatives in other discipline areas. Regular
 dialogue with REC originally prompted PIR to develop its 2016-20 strategy, to consider the
 longer-term possibilities of new recruitment for refocussing and managing a renewed research
 profile, and to consider enhancing research vitality as a driver for further development.

 To sharpen our research profile, one of our priorities is to project PIR’s vitality to wider
 audiences in order to harness interest from potential partners and impact beneficiaries, funders,


                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and PGRs; and via media that appeals to people attracted to critical, cultural interventions in
 contemporary debates. PIR therefore has its own web pages, which document particular
 research highlights by staff in a research blog. It also has a Facebook site (with 1400 followers)
 and a Twitter account (as do nine individual staff). Each of the two Centres and the Research
 Unit has a dedicated web site to publicise its activities and to enable access to events (such as
 digital attendance registration). PERC, for example, has been exemplary in this regard, given its
 focus on current issues in political and economic life. Its Twitter account has over 5.5k followers
 and it utilises a mailing list with 1800 members. These resources are crucial in establishing
 PERC’s presence as one of the leading public-facing political economy centres in the UK.


   4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Collaborations, Networks and Partnerships

 PIR researchers address the questions, problems and experiences in domestic and
 international political life, and particularly the wider cultures of politics that lie beneath or beyond
 the preoccupations of public authorities. This focus exemplifies our view that heterodox thinking
 and cultural diversity can critically illuminate political disputes and forge new paths to just
 settlements. We have therefore encouraged engagements with audiences especially receptive
 to the critique of dominant policy frameworks and open to the prospect of radical social and
 political transformation. That includes academic specialists and stakeholders in the fields of
 political economy, postcolonial scholarship, and radical political theory, as well as related
 associations and networks, and the wider public. From such engagements we have opened up
 new debates so as to challenge orthodoxies, hear and discuss alternative perspectives from a
 range of disciplines, and test ideas in development.

 Because of their concentration of resources and expertise, the two Centres have played the
 major role in pursuing these engagements.

 PERC, for example, regularly facilitates dialogue between academics and stakeholders from the
 world of policy, civil society and student communities. These talks are recorded and uploaded to
 Soundcloud and YouTube for a general audience. For example, in March 2017 it hosted
 Rethinking Capitalism, which was filmed and shared on social media channels. This event,
 introduced by Taylor, saw Mariana Mazzucato and Michael Jacobs presenting joint work on
 structural economic reform, and engaging in dialogue with environmental economist, Tim
 Jackson, on its implications. PERC also fosters international networks, hosting Visiting Fellows
 from Turkey, Denmark and South Korea. Its researchers contribute to media debates and
 engage with policy think tanks. Davies, for example, writes frequently for publications including
 London Review of Books, The Guardian and The New York Times, and has discussed his work
 on anti-expert politics at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD)
 and the European Parliament; Dutta has contributed writing to the Institute for Public Policy
 Research and sits on the board of the new think tank, Commonwealth, which explores
 democratic ownership models – he is also a member of the Politics of Money research network,
 funded by the German Research Foundation (DFG, or Deutsche Forschungsgemeinshaft);
 Taylor works closely with the Institute for Actuaries to explore how risk models can adapt to
 existential threats of ecological change. PERC has collaborated with New School Economics
 (NSE), an undergraduate student society established by Goldsmiths’ students and part of the


                                                                                                 Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Rethinking Economics national network, to respond to the 2008 economic crisis with a call for
 greater pluralism in economics. It supports NSE with funding and publicity, making the PERC
 blog available to students to report on conferences, write reviews, and share information and
 videos from their annual conference.

 CPS engages its audiences primarily by acting as a medium of cultural and intellectual
 exploration; ‘culture’ here serving as the repository for the multiple modes by which
 predominantly non-Western experiences are captured and challenge received norms in national
 and international politics. The Centre is closely linked to the network of postcolonial institutes
 around the world and participates in a consortium with them in research collaborations and
 funding bids. For example, Seth’s contribution to a project with other scholars of postcolonialism
 at the New University of Lisbon; and D Martin is a founding member of E-NeW (Europe in a
 Networked World), a multi-partner network aimed at promoting the creative work of immigrant
 and postcolonial communities across Europe. CPS adopts a distinctively cross-disciplinary
 approach to its activities – collaborating at Goldsmiths with the departments of Music and of
 English, for example – and addresses, in particular, academic audiences and PGRs, artists and
 non-academic publics interested in the legacies of colonialism. It also hosts artists in residence
 and visiting researchers from around the world.

 4.2 Wider Audiences

 Individual staff also engage in networks and make contributions that utilise their particular
 research expertise. These efforts realise our strategic objective of expanding the public
 understanding of politics and promoting forms of participation. They include working with NGOs
 and charities dealing with major conflicts, local councils, public institutes and professional
 communities.

 For example, specialist knowledge based on long-term, close observation of political processes
 has brought recognition for a number of staff. We regard this recognition as an important
 mechanism to demonstrate and circulate our research ethos. As a leading expert and advisor in
 the politics of Post-Yugoslav States, Dragovic-Soso sustains long-term partnerships with
 organisations in the field. In the period covered, she has served as presenter and participant on
 the International Fora on Transitional Justice in the Post-Yugoslav States organized by the
 Coalition for a Regional Commission Tasked with Establishing the Facts about All Victims of
 War Crimes and Other Serious Human Rights Violations Committed on the Territory of the
 Former Yugoslavia in the period from 1991-2001 (RECOM), hosted at various locations in the
 Western Balkans. The audiences have included 200+ people from local and international
 NGOs, victim associations, government and public servants from the region, and
 representatives from the EU, and the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia
 (ICTY). In 2015 she participated in a closed workshop at St Anthony’s College, University of
 Oxford, that brought together academics and representatives of UK government, NGOs and the
 international organisations on Bosnia and Herzegovina: New International thinking, an event
 that resulted in a policy document. In 2017 she was invited to take part in a scoping roundtable
 on media and democracy in the Western Balkans at the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
 Since 2018 Dragovic-Soso has been adviser to the UK charity, Remembering Srebrenica, and
 has advised on the Legacies of Conflict strand of the 2018 Western Balkans summit held in
 London, also at the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.



                                                                                            Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Likewise, Ibreck has developed partnerships with various organisations – such as the
 DefendDefenders: the East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders Project; Justice Africa;
 South Sudan Law Society; Community Empowerment for Progress Organisation (South Sudan)
 – and served as an advisory panel member on Christian Aid project: Civil society resistance to
 land grabs in Columbia, Sierra Leone, Angola, Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories,
 and their Land Matters report (2014-15).

 More generally, staff expertise has been a channel to academic collaborations and contributions
 with public institutions across civil society. Buckley has served as Evidence Expert for the All-
 Party Parliamentary Committee Inquiry into Building Resilience to Radicalisation (2017) and
 advises on the NGOs, Culture + Conflict and Artraker, and is academic advisor to the Tate
 Modern Research Centre: Learning, and the Whitney Museum of Art in New York. Griffiths
 serves as an advisor to the Lewisham Democracy Commission. J Martin’s work on rhetoric
 brought his participation in an AHRC seminar series on The Crisis of Political Rhetoric, directly
 engaging speechwriters, politicians and academics. He is also a scholar of the British
 Psychoanalytic Council and participates in its Politics from the Couch seminars (2019-), which
 connects clinicians and academics in order to develop joint research projects. Finally, Davies’
 ESRC project on Funding the Dashboard was partnered with the think-tank, Demos.

 In addition to the five journal editor roles and eight editorial board memberships already noted
 (in 1.3.1-3), seven staff have given keynote speeches in the UK and around the world:

 •   Evans – Aalborg University, Denmark (2016)
 •   Dragovic-Soso – University of Belgrade, Serbia (2015)
 •   Dutton – Oz/Asia Festival, Australia (2014) and the Beijing Foreign Languages University,
     China (2015)
 •   Levy – German Historical Institute in Rome (2016)
 •   D Martin – BISA Postcolonial & Decolonial junior researcher event, Brighton (2017)
 •   J Martin – University of Oslo, Norway (2018)
 •   Pandey – University of Helsinki, Finland (2016), and in the US: Stanford University (2017),
     Dartmouth College (2018), UCLA (2019)
 •   Seth – Humboldt University, Berlin (2015), Ouro Preto, Brazil (2016), UK Political Studies
     Association conference, Cardiff (2018), and Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts (2019)

 To share new knowledge and understanding, but also to set out unorthodox ideas that run
 counter to the mainstream, PIR staff frequently speak to the media, who approach us for our
 expertise and our critical perspectives. Davies’ regular contributions to public debate have been
 noted above and form one of our Impact Case Studies. His political commentary attracts such
 broad attention as to be republished in book form by Verso as This is Not Normal (2020). In
 2015 Dragovic-Soso was interviewee/participant in a three-hour documentary on Milovan Djilas,
 aired in three episodes on Radio Television Serbia. In 2016 she commented all day on BBC
 World and the BBC News Channel on the judgment of Bosnian Serb leader, Radovan Karadžić,
 by the ICTY. She also contributed commentary on Karadžić to the web-based news platform,
 The Conversation. Additionally, J Martin participated in a 2020 report in the Huffington Post on
 the language of political leaders during the early Covid-19 pandemic; and D Martin, Carballo
 and Seth co-wrote a contribution to the online site, openDemocracy, on colonialism, slavery and
 Empire in light of 2020’s protests around race.



                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 These contributions and interventions reflect PIR’s strategic aspiration to shape the public
 understanding of politics. In responding to unfolding crises and disputes in contemporary life
 they exemplify a multi-stranded, practical dimension to our research ethos on which to build in
 the future. Our ambition is to sustain this vibrant connection to events, making it an engine for
 enhancing our research vitality and generating further partnerships and collaborations.




                                                                                             Page 16
