Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Edge Hill University

 Unit of Assessment: 28 History

 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 The work of Edge Hill’s historians has been submitted for national assessment since RAE 1996.
 The scope and quality of the unit’s research have grown with each period of assessment, but the
 years 2014-2021 saw a particularly significant expansion. Since 2014, History’s objective has
 been to expand the scale, scope, and impact of the team’s research. We achieved this by
 establishing five strategic research clusters, outlined below, and by forging a range of new
 partnerships with internal and external collaborators. As a result, the unit has doubled in size
 (from 7 to 13 FTEs) and produced more than eighty scholarly publications. Placing impact at the
 heart of the team’s research strategy has resulted in projects that have positively influenced the
 work of non-academic beneficiaries in fields such as education, political policy, cultural heritage,
 and entertainment. The growing reputation of Edge Hill’s historians has also attracted a much
 larger cohort of PhD researchers — ten awards in this cycle, including three international
 students, compared with two in the previous REF. The team is particularly proud to have
 recruited History’s first externally-funded early career fellow (Irving), one of the first two
 Leverhulme Fellows to be appointed at Edge Hill. Finally, the research strategy we established
 in 2014 led to the creation of the International Centre on Racism and laid the foundations for a
 Nineteenth Century Studies Research Centre to be established in the next REF cycle.
 The core of History at Edge Hill is housed in the multi-disciplinary Department of English, History
 and Creative Writing, which is one of ten departments in the Faculty of Arts and Sciences. The
 unit also includes scholars from other departments in the University whose research
 complements our core specialisms. The extended team is divided into five intersecting research
 clusters:
    1. Medieval History (Ramli, Dobie, Tsougarakis),
    2. Middle Eastern History (Ramli, Irving, Renton, Tsougarakis),
    3. EHU Nineteen (Brown, Irving, Nicholson, Renton)
    4. Political History (Gordon, Keating, Renton, Spalding, Verney, Ward, Whitham)
    5. Race, Religion, Gender, and Class (RRCG) (Brown, Gordon, Irving, Keating,
    Nicholson, Ramli, Renton, Verney, Ward)
 These clusters feature a diverse range of interests and methodologies, encompassing colonial
 and imperial history, social and cultural history, digital humanities, economics, gender studies,
 intellectual history, microhistory, politics, and theology.
 The creation of these clusters led to the development of new research groups and centres.
 In the RRCG grouping, the International Centre on Racism (ICR) was founded in September
 2019. Directed by Renton, and with Irving, Ramli, Ward and Verney as members, the ICR is
 the base for a partnership with the European University Institute (EUI) and our flagship
 multimedia magazine project, MONITOR Global Intelligence on Racism. MONITOR, launched in
 2018 via funding from the EUI, is the first magazine committed to bringing academic scholarship
 on racism to global public debate. The ICR evolved from the activities of the Ethnicity, Race and
 Racism research group; an interdisciplinary group which was founded in 2010 and hosted a
 regular programme of research events and activities throughout this REF cycle. Transforming
 this group into the ICR was a commitment made in REF2014 and it has borne fruit by
 establishing new international partnerships, attracting external funding, generating wide-ranging
 public impact, and enhancing the unit’s reputation at a time when debates around race and
 racism have become pressing.
 The development of new research centres remains central to the unit’s future research strategy.
 Our aim is to nurture collaborations and partnerships within each cluster, developing the most
 promising into formalised research centres. The research and impact activities of ‘EHU
 Nineteen’, our nineteenth-century research cluster, have expanded considerably in this cycle

                                                                                               Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and now meet the criteria for forming an interdisciplinary Nineteenth Century Studies Research
 Centre. This will be established early in the next REF cycle and co-directed by Nicholson
 alongside colleagues from English Literature and Drama.
 Medieval history has also been a marked beneficiary of our cluster strategy. Since REF2014, the
 unit has expanded from one medievalist (Tsougarakis) to include a further two (Dobie, Ramli),
 thereby incorporating medieval economic history and early Islam. Tsougarakis and Dobie are
 founding members of the University’s research group, Monastic Lancashire, which promotes
 research on medieval monastic houses in the region and engages with schools and heritage
 organisations. Plans for promoting the integration of medieval monastic history into the
 secondary school history curriculum were discussed at the International Medieval Congress in
 2019 but were temporarily stalled by the Coronavirus pandemic.
 Members of the ‘Political History’ and ‘RRGC’ clusters also participate in the University’s
 interdisciplinary networks: Migration Working Group – North West (Gordon, Verney) and the
 Prison Research Interest Group (Brown). Our research groups are also integrated into,
 promoted, and supported by the University’s Institute for Creative Enterprise (ICE) and the
 Institute for Social Responsibility (ISR). Ward and Brown sit on the Steering Committee and
 Advisory Board of ICE, and the Director of the ISR sits on the Steering Committee of the ICR.
 This engagement underpins the interdisciplinarity of our research and supports its sustainability.
 Alongside establishing the EHU Nineteen research centre, the Unit will focus on developing the
 collaborative research activities of the ‘Middle Eastern History’ cluster, and also fostering new
 projects in the ‘Political History’ thereby strengthening policy-impact.
 In REF2014 History was commended for the impressive amount of impact activity taking place
 within a small unit and that strength continues to grow. The department established an Impact
 Working Group (IWG) in 2015, which monitors and facilitates promising impact opportunities in
 collaboration with department management and the university impact manager. Following
 analysis of the REF2014 process and the Unit’s key research strengths, the group devised an
 impact strategy which, as well as supporting existing projects, focussed on the early
 identification of key external beneficiaries. Staff are supported through targeted training sessions
 with the University’s Impact Manager and through sessions with external organisations such as
 the NCCPE. In addition, individual staff members have received media training to help ensure
 effective communication of research. Where time is needed to deliver on impact and public
 engagement, staff have accessed the University’s Impact and Knowledge Exchange Fund
 (IKEF) and advice is also given about sources of external income and about impact as part of
 broader applications for external funding.
 The unit’s impact strategies are also supported through regular department-wide information
 gathering, research mentoring, guidance from the IWG, collaborative work within research
 clusters, and discussion (and objective setting) during performance review.
 Collaboration, both with HEI and non-academic partners is central to all aspects of our research
 strategy and is central to our approach to impact. In line with the aims outlined for REF2014, we
 have built productive new external partnerships and research collaborations: the ICR includes
 members from the International Slavery Museum, Birkbeck, University of East London,
 Manchester and Leeds Beckett, while its international advisory board includes scholars from
 Harvard, Toronto, Maryland and Western Sydney. Research projects based within EHU
 Nineteen have involved collaborations with the British Library, the Atkinson museum and gallery
 (Southport), Gleneagles Hotel, and academics from Glasgow University and the Open
 University. The high-profile Lincoln Castle Revealed project (one of our case studies) was
 brought to successful fruition in this REF, to national public acclaim; Brown played a key role
 with Cambridge and Nottingham Trent universities. Ward has embedded work with community,
 particularly minority ethnic groups, as an integral part of his co-production methodology. He was
 lead CI on a 5-year ESRC/AHRC funded project called Imagine: Connecting Communities
 Through Research (£1.8 million) involving more than 30 community organisations. Since 2018,
 he has broached new research relationships with major Liverpool-based arts organisations
 Writing on the Wall and the Everyman and Playhouse theatres.


                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Historians also engage in considerable inter and multi-disciplinary working. Evidence of key
 academic collaborations include Brown and Barton’s (UOA18) historical and criminological
 interdisciplinary work on the prison, which has generated multiple academic and public-facing
 publications and a major conference (British Crime Historians 2018). Another example can be
 found with the work of Renton with Gidley (Birkbeck), Rogers (Amsterdam) and Schüler-
 Springorum (Berlin), which straddles history, sociology and anthropology. The history team has
 also begun to work closely with Edge Hill’s new purpose-built archive, which features a wealth of
 unexplored materials relating to local and educational history. Using this exciting new resource
 as the basis for locally focused, community-based research projects is a key strategic objective
 for the next REF cycle.
 Key to our impact strategy has been the development of partnerships with a range of local,
 national, and international organisations, including The British Library, The Atkinson Gallery, The
 Dartmoor Prison Museum and the European University Institute. Members of the History UOA
 have also placed strategic emphasis on building media partnerships, including work with the
 BBC, Al Jazeera, and Ha’aretz playing a key role in Renton’s impact case study. Social media
 have been used to build bridges to new audiences and facilitate sympathies and collaboration
 beyond academia. Collectively, this impact strategy has enabled our research to reach wider
 audiences and share the team’s expertise with academic, professional, and public beneficiaries.
 Central to our approach is staff development and support. As we outline in more detail in section
 two, the recruitment, retention and development of excellent researchers at all levels has been
 of great strategic importance to the growth and performance of the history unit. By supporting,
 encouraging, and investing in the research development of its staff, the core membership UOA
 has remained stable. Eleven of the staff submitted in this unit have remained in post throughout
 this REF cycle and those who were ECRs in 2014 (Nicholson, Tsougarakis) have now
 progressed into senior research, teaching, and administrative roles. Several members of the
 history UOA have benefitted from periods of university-funded research leave, which were
 awarded strategically in order to develop promising research projects and pathways to impact.
 Our collegial culture sustains an environment in which colleagues enthusiastically support one
 another by reviewing funding bids, sharing research materials, and teaching new skills and
 methodologies in an atmosphere of mutual respect. These strategies for attracting, developing,
 and retaining excellent researchers will ensure long-term succession planning over future REF
 cycles and provide opportunities to increase the diversity of the unit.
 Since 2014, increasing the submission of high-quality external funding applications has been an
 important aim and remains central to delivering our research objectives. We have achieved this
 through a combined focus on the strategic development of clusters and a collegial staff-support
 environment. As a result, reportable external income has increased considerably compared to
 REF2014, including awards from the AHRC and the Leverhulme Trust. Non-reportable income
 and support-in-kind has also been obtained from the British Library, The Atkinson, and the
 Hagley Museum and Library (US). Several members of the UOA have also received support
 from internal research funding routes to seed the ground for competitive external bids. This is a
 long-term process, and we expect many of these projects to bear more fruit during the next REF
 cycle.
 Our keenness to be early adopters in areas that contribute to equity means an ethical approach
 has been, and will continue to be, at the heart of our research strategy. For the last decade,
 historians have been central to our departmental, Faculty and University research ethics
 approval processes. The University developed a comprehensive and thoughtful Research Ethics
 Policy in 2017 after a thorough review and benchmarking exercise, of which Verney was a part,
 and the Unit proudly adheres to these policies. The University provides training on research
 integrity and detailed advice on all aspects of applying for ethical review and approval. Our
 approach to integrity includes having respect for our sources and subjects and through our
 commitment to responsible metrics: we do make benign use of metrics, recognising that
 quantitative evaluation should support but not supplant qualitative, expert assessment. Adhering
 to DORA, we exercise nuanced judgement of all available evidence in relation to recruitment,
 promotion and the allocation of resources. Historians are committed to open research and
 adhere to the University requirement that all viable publications are at least green open access.

                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 In the next REF cycle, along with promoting OA for journal articles, we will explore with Library
 and Learning Services options for OA books and chapters, for example by working with Open
 Book Publishers, university presses and other providers, building on the steps we have already
 taken by making chapters OA wherever possible. We believe that a commitment to open
 research is an important way of reaching greater audiences, particularly HE colleagues in
 developing countries and research-users who may not have the same access to libraries and
 subscriptions.
 The period since REF2014 has been one of profound growth and development for Edge Hill’s
 historians. These changes have been driven by a new cluster-partnership strategy, which, in
 turn, grew out of initiatives that had been in development over the last decade. In REF2008, we
 submitted 5FTE, and had just joined a multi-disciplinary department. Since then, History has
 been galvanised by the collaborative opportunities of that new context, and the experience of
 being part of national and then international partnerships — first as external partners (e.g.
 Verney’s AHRC Network on Barack Obama) and then, over time, as the initiator and hub of
 international projects, a trend exemplified by the flourishing of the ICR. The next REF cycle will
 be a period of continued growth and consolidation, enhanced by nurturing and capitalising on
 the energies of any new appointments. We will build on the now well-established strategic focus
 of identifying opportunities for collaboration, developing external networks and partnerships, and
 supporting these via internal and external grant capture.

 Section 2. People
 At the heart of this submission are thirteen academics who research and publish historical, and
 historically informed, interdisciplinary research. Aside from our Leverhulme Early Career Fellow
 Irving, all are on full-time permanent contracts, which has enabled a collegial research culture to
 mature. During this REF cycle, History has become an increasingly diverse group characterised
 by wide-ranging interests and interdisciplinary collaborations. Five colleagues have joined the
 University since 2014, including Ward (2018), Ramli (2018), and Irving (2020): Irving first
 worked with our team as Lecturer in Middle Eastern History to replace Renton, who had won a
 one-year research fellowship at the EUI. That positive experience of development and support
 was critical to her decision to apply for a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship with us. To
 support Irving, we have developed a bespoke approach whereby she determines what she
 would like to do with support from her mentor, Renton. This has included developing her own
 module, establishing a new PGR network in her field and being a member of a PGR supervisory
 team – these experiences will contribute to her CV. The arrival of Irving is the beginning of what
 we hope will be the growth of a post-doctoral community in the future.
 The number of historians within the core department has remained stable, reflecting our staffing
 strategy of retaining excellent researchers by encouraging their development and rewarding their
 progress. Within the assessment period Brown and Renton were promoted to professor,
 Nicholson (ECR in REF2014) and was promoted to reader, and Tsougarakis (ECR in REF
 2014) was promoted to SL (Whitham was promoted to reader on 1 August 2020). This is a
 testament to the support mechanisms embedded at Edge Hill which have enabled us to nurture
 and reward achievement across all career stages and thereby retain a stable team.
 The University and the department have a firm commitment to equality and diversity and to
 being an equal-opportunities employer. Career progression at the University is structured to
 ensure protected groups are given full and fair opportunity. Our unit’s REF preparations involved
 extensive internal peer review of all candidate outputs and all members of the UOA were
 included in this process, giving everyone opportunity for professional development and direct
 involvement in the REF process. While we champion an inclusive approach to research and
 teaching that celebrates diversity, the stability of our team has limited opportunities to shape the
 staff profile according to these important principles: our current gender profile is 2F:11M and
 15% of our colleagues identify as BAME. This is largely reflected in our REF2 with 18% of
 outputs by women and 12% by those identifying as BAME. Recent arrivals have begun to
 address the unit’s ethnic and gender imbalance, and it should also be noted that a female
 professor of History has a senior role as Associate Head of Department (AHoD, research and
 postgraduate). Nevertheless, improving the diversity of the unit remains a key objective. The

                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 seniority of many of the unit’s historians (45% aged 55-74) means the next REF cycle may
 provide opportunities to put this into practice. We expect that the areas of research for which we
 have become known, e.g., the concerns addressed by ICR, will help us to attract an increasingly
 diverse field of well-qualified candidates. For now, our commitment to increase diversity focuses
 on the university’s annual PhD/GTA scholarship programme and on recruitment supported by
 external funding. The histories of race and the impact of European colonialism have long been
 central to our research and teaching, and we are committed to doing more to address their
 enduring legacies. In the next REF cycle, the ICR will recruit a minimum of one postdoctoral
 fellow for the purpose of establishing a national postgraduate and ECR network in racism
 studies.
 The department works hard to support ECRs with the development of their research. All new
 staff are given an experienced mentor who they can ask for advice and with whom they discuss
 research plans. ECRs undertake a comprehensive institutional induction programme offered to
 all staff (see REF5a). ECRs are also given a departmental induction and are expected to
 undertake the PGCert in Teaching in HE (if they have no teaching qualification). Both ECRs and
 staff returning from long-term leave are given reduced teaching loads to enable them to
 accelerate their research and both are prioritised in University research-funding schemes. ECRs
 are supported with applications for external funding.
 Applications for substantial periods of internally-funded research leave can be made to the
 University’s research support funds. These are competitive schemes, which ensure the quality of
 the projects and develop skills that transfer to writing external grant applications. All research-
 active staff, regardless of their mode of employment (part-time/full-time/fixed-term), are eligible
 to bid for these funds, notwithstanding the emphasis on ECR support. During this REF cycle, five
 colleagues secured research leave variously to: complete major publications (Whitham, 2019),
 initiate new research projects (Gordon, 2014), undertake overseas archival research
 (Tsougarakis, 2018), and launch major impact-building projects (Nicholson, 2017; Renton,
 2018).
 The UOA makes use of multiple measures to ensure opportunities for staff development and
 career progression, all of which fulfil requirements of the Concordat to Support the Career
 Development of Researchers. All staff undergo annual performance and development review
 (PDR). Five-year research plans are outlined by staff on a rolling basis and discussed during
 PDR where objectives are agreed. These goals span all aspects of academic research from
 output plans, to impact-building activities, applications for internal and/or external funding, and
 conferences. In order to help staff achieve their research objectives, the department provides
 targeted, subject-specific training on topics such as impact in the humanities, open access, REF
 guidelines, research planning, and on the progress of REF preparations. These sessions are
 supplemented by the University’s wider Researcher Development Programme, which provides a
 range of training opportunities including both face-to-face workshops and online modules, which
 are open to all staff, including associate tutors and postgraduates. Likewise, historians
 participate in training events organised by the University’s Institute for Social Responsibility.
 These sessions are provided both for senior researchers (e.g. Research Governance,
 Developments in the Research Funding Landscape) and focused support for ECRs (e.g. Boost
 your Research Profile, What Makes a Good Grant Proposal).
 Excellent University and departmental support is available for national and international
 conference attendance, giving staff opportunities to present their research, elicit feedback, and
 develop research networks. The department also provides funding for externally-provided
 researcher training, travel and accommodation for archival visits, meetings to develop external
 collaborations, and, where appropriate, short-term associate tutor support for replacement
 teaching.
 Research is a standing item for discussion in department meetings and the annual departmental
 strategy days. There are also multiple additional opportunities for collective discussions about
 research to take place, including meetings of postgraduate supervisory teams, events hosted by
 research groups, and conferences organised by history staff (for example the British Crime
 Historians Conference 2018 and the Social Media and Anti-Semitism Conference 2019). A
 diverse range of external speakers have been welcomed to the department. Recent guests

                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 include Peter Tatchell (human rights and LGBT campaigner), Alex Maws (Head of Education at
 the Holocaust Education Trust) and Gil Anidjar (Professor of Religion, Columbia University).
 Since 2014, the department has held an annual postgraduate research conference which staff
 attend and where GTAs, PhD and MRes/MA students network and present their current
 research. In 2020, prior to cancellation forced by Covid-19, History was due to host the Royal
 Historical Society regional visiting lecture, to be combined with the department’s annual
 postgraduate conference. This visit will now take place in 2021. Other events have also been
 taken online; for example, the ICR organised 'Centring Race in History: Antiquity to the Present',
 in collaboration with MONITOR magazine and the European University Institute. The conference
 featured speakers from 4 continents, 167 attendees from 14 countries, and attracted over 2600
 views on MONITOR's YouTube channel.
 Developing and supporting the next generation of historians is a vital part of the unit’s research
 strategy, and we have achieved this by expanding our postgraduate community. Six PhDs were
 awarded in this cycle compared to two in REF2014. This has been achieved through the
 Graduate Teaching Assistant scheme (established 2012) which has shifted the student profile
 from small numbers studying part-time to a more substantial full-time cohort. Within this REF
 cycle ten History GTAs were recruited.
 Our growing reputation has attracted talented international students, including two US citizens
 and one Dutch national. EHU Nineteen has been particularly successful in attracting doctoral
 students; six of the GTAs appointed in this cycle were supervised by researchers from this
 group. Three of them were specifically attracted by the opportunity to work on interdisciplinary
 projects guided by supervisors from History, English Literature, and Computer Science.
 Historians’ commitment to interdisciplinarity is evident through being part of supervisory teams of
 a further four PhD students researching English literature, linguistics and criminology. The team-
 taught MA in History & Culture and the MRes programme have also enabled the nurturing and
 retention of able and committed students through the GTA scheme and provided individuals with
 a long-term career trajectory. One joined Edge Hill as a mature student via the University’s
 ‘fastrack’ access course and went on to complete a first-class BA and distinction-level MA before
 securing a GTA position and completing his PhD.
 Postgraduate students are well supported from the outset and given a formal induction to the
 department and the University, its processes and support networks. Students and their
 supervisors complete a learning needs analysis (LNA: informed by Vitae’s RDF which the
 Graduate School uses to inform its training and development programme for all PGR students);
 this establishes an individually tailored programme of training that adapts as students progress.
 This support and routine monitoring ensure that doctoral projects remain on schedule. Full-time
 students have supervisory meetings at least 10 times a year, though our open-door-policy
 means that students regularly drop-in for additional guidance. PhD supervisory teams consist of
 two (occasionally three) academics, one of whom is required to have previously supervised to
 completion. The University provides a full research training programme through the first
 semester of enrolment. Members of the unit contribute to those institutional training sessions. In
 their first year, GTAs’ teaching responsibilities do not begin until the spring semester, giving
 them time to engage fully with research and pedagogic training before embarking upon
 supported teaching within the department.
 To support the career development of PhD students and enhance their employability whether in
 academic posts, or careers outside of the academy, the department endeavours to integrate
 them as staff members so that they gain a rounded and balanced perspective on academics’
 diverse teaching, administrative, pastoral, and research roles. Many PhD students are seeking
 careers in research/education and so have the opportunity to undertake a PGCert in Teaching in
 HE. As part of their career development, postgraduate students have also supported the
 organisation of major conferences and co-written publications with members of staff. Career
 preparation is an important part of postgraduate training and the University careers service also
 provides support on writing CVs and applications, and preparing for interviews.
 PhD students undergo three viva voce examinations – registration, progression and final — two
 of which involve external examiners. This provides strong oversight of progress and excellent
 preparation for the final viva. Compulsory training is provided for postgraduate supervisors within

                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 the department: this includes sessions on LNA, applying for ethical approval, and postgraduate
 mental health. To nurture cohort identity and share information about research events and
 opportunities, GTAs meet informally as a group with the postgraduate coordinator twice per
 semester. Brown, as AHoD, line manages the GTAs and takes them through the standard
 probation process, consisting of four probationary meetings and associated observations of
 teaching within the first year. Thereafter, they have separate annual appraisals as staff and as
 postgraduate students. All History PhD students recruited in this cycle have been retained or
 completed successfully.
 Considerable support is provided to underpin skills development. All postgraduates are guided
 through the process of applying for ethical approval for their projects. All PhD students are given
 the opportunity to offer a session on their own research within relevant modules and are
 encouraged to present their work at the annual departmental postgraduate conference. Small-
 scale postgraduate research expenses, including attendance/presentation at domestic
 conferences, are supported by the department budget. For larger costs, the department match-
 funds the competitive bursaries offered by the Graduate School. This funding is important to
 enable postgraduates to develop research networks, learn how to present their research and
 gives them experience of applying for funding competitively. The department provides necessary
 research expenses, such as travel to undertake research in archives overseas. Our PhDs have
 published their work in respected journals and edited collections and have been awarded
 external funding, for example £500 from the Society for the Study of Labour History. After
 graduation, some have gone on to secure teaching posts at institutions such as University of
 Liverpool, Lancaster University, Swansea University, and Edge Hill itself, while others have
 successfully pursued alt-ac (alternative academic) careers in further education, libraries,
 knowledge exchange, and freelance editing. We are proud to continue to support our former
 students with the drafting of job applications and the development of collaborative postdoctoral
 research projects.


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities
 External funding supports the vitality and sustainability of the history team’s research, and so the
 development of high-quality funding bids is one of our key objectives. While this remains an area
 for development, we have had notable successes during this cycle and have more than doubled
 the income submitted to REF2014. These achievements were supported by:
    1. the strategic development of our research clusters and centres;
    2. the targeted use of internal funding to support external bids; and
    3. a greater emphasis on, and support for, external funding applications.
 The core of our approach is through planning via the PDR and discussing five-year research
 plans which all staff have. This allows peer review to be integral from the outset of project
 development. In addition, the PDR process can help to identify the support needed for
 researchers to develop competitive bids that align with funders’ criteria. The research clusters
 provide peer support in the development of bids. This is particularly embedded in the practices
 of the interdisciplinary EHU19 and ICR, and will be enhanced for all the other clusters. As more
 staff win grants, we will have more experienced staff to act as mentors. In the meantime, support
 is also provided by colleagues in other UOAs where appropriate.
 The appointment of Irving as Leverhulme Early Career Fellow represents a particularly
 noteworthy achievement, given the competitiveness of the scheme and the relatively small
 number of awards granted to post-92 universities. The Fellow is our first externally-funded
 postdoctoral researcher and we can begin establishing a track record of success that will bolster
 the credibility of subsequent applications. Attracting and supporting a growing community of
 postdoctoral researchers is a strategic aim for the future development of the UOA.
 The team’s research has been extensively supported by the University’s research support funds.
 In this cycle, the following awards have been granted: 13 international conference grants and ten
 research project grants. In several cases, this initial support was instrumental to securing

                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 external funding. For instance, Renton used internal funding to build a project on the European
 idea of the Middle East that underpinned his successful application for a one-year Jean Monnet
 Fellowship at the EUI (2016-17), which also built, on his previous award from the AHRC (2012-
 2013) on the British empire and Western Asia. Similarly, Nicholson’s internally-funded pilot
 version of The Old Joke Archive attracted funding subsequently from the British Library Labs
 and Being Human Festival, and an AHRC collaborative doctoral award with the British Library
 (announced just after the REF 2021 period). This work responds to funders’ emphasis on
 interdisciplinarity and AHRC’s theme of digital transformation.
 Institutionally, research support priorities have evolved toward greater emphasis on facilitating
 external grant capture, and this has led to enhanced support for bid writing, including structured
 support from the extensive central Researcher Development Programme and training provided
 by the research institutes. Alongside large project grants, we also seek smaller funds for
 research trips and other activities. Recent successes include Whitham, who has twice obtained
 research funding from the Hagley Institute, USA (2014 and 2017) for a residential fellowship to
 study records of the National Association of Manufacturers and US Chamber of Commerce and
 a grant from the British Association of American Studies to visit archives in Seattle; Dobie
 obtained funding from the Trustees of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and
 Wales to support a major conference in 2019 supported in-kind by Edge Hill (the ICAEW
 Charitable Trusts have approved funding to support another EHU conference in June 2021);
 Tsougarakis obtained a grant from the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation (2018) to support
 study in Venice; and Irving obtained a grant from the RHS to support postgraduate and ECR
 conference participation. Building on their external funding, both Tsougarakis and Whitham
 were able to obtain further internal research funding enabling them to take research leave.
 Historians contribute extensively to university, faculty and departmental research and other
 infrastructures. Verney is Associate Dean for Research in the Faculty. Ward is Head of the
 English, History and Creative Writing Department, Brown is AHoD (research and postgraduate),
 Renton is postgraduate coordinator and Director of the ICR and Nicholson is coordinator of the
 Impact Working Group for the department. Ward, Brown, Renton, Nicholson and, since
 August 2020, Whitham are members of the department readers and professors group forming a
 key part of research leadership. As readers, professors and senior academics, historians provide
 research mentorship across the department and university. Advice on ethics is given by Brown,
 who leads on initial departmental scrutiny of applications for ethical approval and also sits on the
 Arts and Humanities Research Ethics Committee, which Verney chairs. Brown is a member of
 the Faculty and University research committees. Brown advises on applications for research
 funding and assesses applications alongside the Head of Department, Ward, and sits on the
 Faculty RIF Steering Group which reviews internal funding applications. Nicholson and Renton
 support the development of external funding bids and impact case studies within the department.
 Renton has also played an important role in developing the department’s impact activities,
 instigating the Impact Working Group, which is now co-ordinated by Nicholson. Renton’s role
 as Director of the new International Centre on Racism includes the development of a network for
 postgraduate and early career scholars in the field of racism studies.
 As members of a multidisciplinary department, historians work closely with researchers in
 English Literature, English Language, and Creative Writing. To facilitate collaboration the
 department has regular seminar series in which all researchers, staff and PGRs, participate. We
 also facilitate exchange through regular conferences, including the department’s annual
 postgraduate conference, which has welcomed keynote speakers from MMU, Lincoln University,
 Lancaster University, Liverpool University, and the University of Sheffield. We have an annual
 research away-day that reviews strategy and monitors progress. These more formal exchange
 infrastructures are complemented by informal opportunities for exchange, such as coffee
 mornings, some of which have become virtual under lockdown.
 Edge Hill has made a major investment in the construction of a state-of-the-art new library (The
 Catalyst) which provides the resources, tools, and expertise needed to support the research and
 teaching activities of the history team. The history team’s research is supported by a dedicated
 humanities librarian and specialised research support for students and staff, which includes
 advice on finding literature, navigating electronic journals and databases, using specialist

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research software, and managing bibliographic data. The library’s physical holdings have
 expanded significantly via its ‘You want it, We get it’ scheme, which allows both staff and
 students to directly request purchase of new texts whenever they are required. Historians are
 well supported by subscriptions to digital archives — including collections of newspapers,
 periodicals, parliamentary papers, and specialist research materials on black life and protest —
 which have been vital for the production of new historical research and delivery of research-
 informed-teaching. The Catalyst also features a purpose-built archives facility curated by the
 University’s first archivist (0.8fte). Historians and their students have already begun to
 collaborate with him on new research and public engagement projects linked to Edge Hill’s
 history and its relationship with the West Lancashire region. Support was given by historians to
 enable the recent archives call for material held in private hands (to donate, loan or copy) to
 enhance the collection. Developing our relationship with the University’s archive and using it as
 the basis for new research projects is a key strategic objective for the next REF cycle.
 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Our collective contributions to the research base, economy and society have been delivered
 across five key forms of collaborative work:
        1. developing history research projects
        2. providing historical expertise to interdisciplinary research projects
        3. contributing to the delivery and organisation of academic conferences, research
            societies, and publishing projects
        4. partnerships with external bodies and heritage organisations
        5. a broad range of impactful public engagement activities.
 Together, these collaborative endeavours have enabled a relatively small team of historians to
 make big contributions to their discipline and share the results of their research with a wide
 range of local, national, and international beneficiaries. Engaging outside of the academy is
 central to our approach, whether that is with schools, via the media or relationships with cultural
 and other organisations.
 Research projects led by historians have made significant and wide-ranging contributions.
 Brown’s work on prisons has supported a £22 million heritage project at Lincoln Castle and her
 work on interwar motor-bandits has uncovered new discourses linking crime with technological
 change. Renton’s research has made a major contribution to the history of anti-Semitism and
 revealed its links with Islamophobia. Nicholson’s work on Victorian humour has uncovered the
 social, cultural, political, and economic significance of a long-neglected aspect of nineteenth-
 century life. Whitham’s two substantial monographs reveal the crucial role played by business
 organisations in shaping American foreign and domestic policy during and immediately after the
 Second World War; work that sheds new light on the way the US readied itself for
 ‘superpowerdom’. Gordon’s research has contributed to our understanding of migration,
 transportation, and political protest in twentieth-century Europe. Spalding’s latest monograph
 has made an equally topical intervention on the history of the left wing of the Labour Party.
 Tsougarakis’ work on Greco-Latin religious interaction in the late medieval period has achieved
 international recognition and his study of Latin monasticism in Greece has become a standard
 work on this topic. Verney’s collaborative AHRC Obama research network has led to further
 research on the Trump presidency and Black Lives Matter. Ward has been at the forefront of
 pioneering work on co-production and academic-community engagement. Dobie has applied
 insights from contemporary accounting practice to investigate issues in medieval management-
 practices. Ramli has worked to develop Islamic studies in schools. Irving has pioneered the
 marriage of archaeological and historical perspectives in subaltern studies of Palestine.
 Historians have contributed their research and expertise to a range of external research projects.
 For example, between 2015 and 2017, Gordon was an external advisor for ‘The Children’s ‘68’
 research project (University of Reading), which involved collaboration with universities and
 heritage groups throughout Europe. Nicholson was invited to contribute his digital humanities
 expertise to several external research networks, including ‘Humours of the Past’ (AHRC) and

                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Scottish Cosmopolitanism at the Fin-de-Siècle’ (Royal Society of Edinburgh). Irving is a
 member of the Crossroads project, which examines the connected histories between Europe
 and Arab Christian communities in Palestine. Collectively we have disseminated research at
 over a hundred national and international conferences, symposia and research seminars,
 including over thirty events as keynotes or invited speakers.
 Our environment has fostered a wider culture of interdisciplinary and cross-disciplinary
 collaboration. The ICR brings together researchers from fields including History, Media and Film
 Studies, Theology, Sociology, Anthropology, Education, and Criminology. Similarly, Nicholson
 has fostered several productive collaborations with researchers in STEM disciplines. Between
 2017-2019, for example, he was a visiting research fellow in the Department of Computer
 Science at the University of Bristol, where he contributed historical expertise to an ERC-funded
 project exploring big-data approaches to historical newspaper archives.
 We have contributed to the work and governance of national and international research groups,
 societies, and subject associations. Gordon and Whitham have served on the steering
 committee of History UK, which represents the practice of history in higher education. In addition
 to directing the ICR, Renton is on the executive committee of the British Association for Jewish
 Studies and is President-Elect for 2023. Brown is a member of British Crime Historians steering
 committee, which organises the largest national conference in the field. Dobie is an executive
 committee member of the Business Archives Council of Scotland and joint editor of its journal
 Scottish Business and Industrial History. Whitham sits on the British Association of American
 Studies’ public engagement and impact award panel. In 2018, Nicholson was elected to the
 board of the international Research Society for Victorian Periodicals and has judged four of the
 Society’s annual prize competitions.
 We have close, collaborative relationships with a range of cultural heritage organisations. Brown
 played a significant role on the advisory panel of the Lincoln Castle Revealed Project, which was
 a catalyst for the reinvigoration of the Lincoln Castle site and uphill area of Lincoln as a world-
 class tourist attraction. Similarly, her exhibitions at the Dartmoor Prison Museum supported the
 reinvigoration of the museum following its reopening in August 2017. Her wider public-facing
 work has enhanced public awareness of the history of the prison, its heritage and incarcerated
 offenders. Nicholson works closely with the British Library, which awarded him its Labs Prize in
 2016. He has helped the Library to understand better its digital collections and to experiment
 with creative new ways of sharing these resources with public and academic audiences.
 Nicholson has also worked closely with The Atkinson in Southport, where his research
 underpinned an exhibition on the history of Victorian Humour (2019-2020), which attracted
 18,004 public visitors, including 642 people for a day-long launch event funded by Being Human
 Festival of the Humanities.
 Historians also support the health of the subject by editing and reviewing publications and
 funding bids. Irving is editor-in-chief of Contemporary Levant and series editor of Revolutionary
 Lives for Pluto Press. Dobie is joint editor of Scottish Business and Industrial History and
 editorial board member of Accounting History Review and Contabilità e cultura azienda.
 Tsougarakis is the Reviews Editor for the Journal of Religious History, Literature and Culture,
 and serves on the editorial boards of Al-Masaq and Frangokratia. Ramli is on the advisory board
 for the Edinburgh University Press book series, ‘Studies in Islamic Scripture and Theology’.
 Gordon is editorial board member of the Journal of Modern and Contemporary France. Brown
 acts as a critical friend for Social History and is on the editorial board of the Prison Service
 Journal and Transactions of the Historic Society of Lancashire and Cheshire. Our historians
 regularly review submissions for leading academic journals in their fields and have also
 evaluated book proposals for Bloomsbury, Edinburgh University Press, Oxford University Press,
 Cambridge University Press, Palgrave, and Routledge. Finally, the history team have supported
 the work of external funding-bodies by reviewing proposals for the AHRC, British Academy,
 Leverhulme Trust, Royal Historical Society, and Research Council of Canada. Ward was
 member of the AHRC Peer Review College (2010-2016).
 Historians have encouraged discussion and dissemination of new research by organising
 conferences, symposia, seminar series, and panels. In 2018, Brown worked with two GTA
 historians to host the British Crime Historians Symposium, which featured over a hundred

                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international delegates. Dobie co-organised the Accounting History Review
 Conference in 2019, which will return to Edge Hill in 2021. Renton and Gordon have organised
 an annual symposium for the Ethnicity, Race and Racism Research Group throughout this REF
 period as well as regular research panels, and in 2019 Renton organised the ICR’s new annual
 international conference. In 2015 and 2016 Nicholson organised two symposia for the North
 West Print Culture Research Network. In addition to hosting these events, historians at Edge Hill
 have organised and chaired panels for numerous conferences, including the International
 Medieval Congress (Tsougarakis) and the annual conference of the Association for the Study of
 Modern and Contemporary France (Gordon).
 The reputation of Edge Hill’s historians is reflected in invitations they receive to act as external
 examiners for PhDs both nationally and internationally: including at Birkbeck, the University of
 Hull, the University of West of Scotland, University of Newcastle, University of Kent, University of
 Nottingham, the University of Swansea, University of Queensland, and University of the West
 Indies. Nicholson was also appointed by the University of Buckingham to examine an
 application for PhD by publication.
 During this REF cycle, historians have contributed to society and economy in a variety of ways.
 They have used their research to influence policy makers and policy. Gordon’s expertise on
 historical transport policy enabled him to co-author the North West Green Party’s Transport
 Manifesto in 2015 and he has also collaborated with Generiques, an NGO in Paris promoting
 public understanding of the history of immigration in France and Europe. Brown’s work on
 interwar motor crime has supported the History & Policy Network and informed a session
 delivered at the Home Office in London. Renton has briefed a Shadow Home Secretary,
 participated in an EU policy workshop on anti-Semitism at the EUI, and participated in a
 research briefing in the UK Parliament on anti-Semitism and Islamophobia. Ward’s co-
 production research on minority ethnic histories contributed to the Cabinet Office’s Race
 Disparity Audit, initiated by the May government in 2015. Finally, Nicholson’s work on
 journalism history was cited in a report about advertising submitted to the House of Lords
 Communications Committee (2017).
 The history team has maintained a track record of excellence in education by working closely
 with schools and other educational organisations. The Unit supported education professionals
 via a major Higher Education Academy funded collaborative (with Roehampton University and
 UCL) project in 2013-2015 designed to ‘Develop undergraduate students’ understanding of
 historical enquiry and research’. Brown was PI on the project, which also involved Nicholson,
 Spalding and Tsougarakis and employed three postgraduate students. The project produced a
 toolkit of materials designed to enhance the learning experience and outcomes of first-year
 undergraduate students. As part of the project, two one-day workshops were held at
 Roehampton (April 2014) and Edge Hill University (Nov 2014), and attended by teachers from
 schools, FE and HE in the respective regions. Dissemination was furthered via papers given at
 the Historical Association and Schools History Project Conferences, and a total of three sessions
 for School Improvement Liverpool (Brown, Tsougarakis, Renton). The project also formed part
 of the content of a Radio 4 Making History programme (August 2014).
 As primary developer for Key Stages 4-6, Ramli is a key contributor to a project run by the
 Living Turath foundation that is creating a new Islamic Studies curriculum for primary and
 secondary schools in Australia. The project, funded by the Department for Communities and
 Justice in New South Wales, aims to design a new curriculum that combines traditional
 approaches to Islamic learning with a more global outlook. This new curriculum aims to help
 young Muslims to negotiate between their complex identity as Muslims, Australian Citizens, and
 members of the global community. Ramli has also begun development on a two-year, Key
 Stage 6 diploma programme for Muslim schools in the Arab world which traces the historical
 development of Islam and will help students grapple with contemporary issues facing the global
 Muslim community. Closer to home, Nicholson is currently working with nearby schools to train
 A-Level history pupils in critical and effective use of digital archives, with a view to encouraging
 the pursuit of original, curiosity-driven research before students reach university. This locally
 focused pilot project will be expanded during the next REF cycle using online toolkits — inspired
 by the work of Brown’s HEA-funded project — in order to reach teachers and their pupils on a

                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 national and international scale.
 The expertise of historians in the unit has also underpinned a range of other collaborations and
 consultancies with external beneficiaries. For example, members of the team have been invited
 to perform fact-checking work for New Republic Magazine (Gordon), The New York Times
 (Brown), and Greg Jenner’s Dead Famous (Nicholson). Gordon collaborated (2014-2016) with
 the French rail history association, Rails et Histoire, which aims to bring together researchers
 and rail professionals, and included a round table discussion at the French Embassy in Paris.
 Finally, Keating has given numerous talks to public groups at Waterford Museum, the Irish
 Freethinker & Humanist summer school, and the Ingestre Road Community Centre in Camden.
 Research by Edge Hill’s historians has reached even larger public audiences through social
 media, television, radio, newspapers and magazines. Verney has made thirteen appearances
 on radio, including Radio London (July 2016), BBC Radio Lancashire (2017) and Radio Five
 Live (July 2016) and two appearances on BBC1 Breakfast News. Brown has appeared on BBC
 Radio 4 (Rethinking Clink 2016 and Woman’s Hour 2015) and BBC Radio 3 (The Egg Dealer
 2019). Nicholson has written and presented three stories for BBC Radio 4’s Making History,
 appeared as a guest on Radio 3’s ‘Free Thinking’ debate programme, and was invited to write
 and present 26 short stories based on his research for the daily ‘Time Traveller’ slot on Radio 3’s
 Essential Classics. Historians have also appeared extensively in the newsprint media, such as
 Renton in Big Issue North, Ha’aretz, Taz Die Tageszeitung, Deutsche Welle, Judische
 Allgemeine, and the Middle East Monitor. Similarly, Nicholson’s work has received press
 coverage in The Times, The Daily Mail, Smithsonian Magazine, BBC History Extra, History
 Today, and dozens of online news outlets.
 Historians have made particularly effective use of social media and online platforms to engage
 the public and contribute to global debates. Renton and the International Centre on Racism
 have an active online presence which centres on MONITOR. The magazine has attracted more
 than 100,000 views since it was launched in February 2018. Nicholson’s twitter accounts,
 @DigiVictorian (22,863 followers) and @VictorianHumour (13,854), reach people in 97 different
 countries and his research-based posts were viewed more than 65 million times in this cycle.
 85% of the 442 followers who responded to a survey reported that Nicholson’s use of twitter
 had “changed their understanding of Victorian history.” Research posted by these accounts has
 been used by teachers, curators, writers, lawyers, journalists, and nurses to inform and enrich
 their work and has also inspired coverage in the print and broadcast media.




                                                                                            Page 12
