Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Leicester
 Unit of Assessment: 28
 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context and Structure
 As a unit based in Leicester, the most ethnically diverse city in the UK, our research priorities
 reflect those of our environment, addressing challenges that Leicester, and other localities in the
 UK and overseas, face in the twenty-first century. Our research strengths cluster around:

       colonialism and its legacies;
       community and sense of place;
       ethnic and racial identity;
       heritage;
       migration and diaspora;
       religion and faith-based minorities;
       the environment;
       urban planning;
       welfare and health.

 The University’s strategic restructuring of its Colleges and Schools in 2016 enriched our
 research environment and enhanced our ability to achieve our aims. Now positioned within the
 College of Social Sciences, Arts and Humanities (CSSAH), History (31.4 FTE) merged with
 Politics and International Relations to form a new School (HyPIR). This transformation enables
 us to drive forward interdisciplinarity, engage in collective activities, and benefit from greater
 research support.

 Our research activity is powered by – but not limited to – our internationally-renowned research
 centres and networks. Spanning the early medieval period to the present, these dynamic
 nexuses of collaboration facilitate interactions between staff and PGRs, underpinning cross-
 disciplinary activity and impactful research and engagement. Importantly, they exist in synergy
 with each other so that many colleagues participate flexibly in more than one network or centre.
 They also incorporate and link colleagues from across the University. Their quality and vitality
 are demonstrated throughout this statement.

 History houses three longstanding, high-profile research centres:
      Centre for English Local History (ELH, established 1948);
      Centre for Urban History (CUH, established 1985), incorporating the East Midlands Oral
         History Archive (EMOHA);
      Stanley Burton Centre for Holocaust and Genocide Studies (SBC, established 1988).

 Historians are also active in two interdepartmental research centres:
      Centre for American Studies (CAS);
      Leicester Medieval Research Centre (LMRC).

 Colleagues also engage across the University in cross-disciplinary research networks and
 clusters. Five colleagues belong to the longstanding Early Modern Research Network, which
 brings together scholars in History, English, Museum Studies and History of Art and Film. The
 creation of HyPIR generated the opportunity to establish a new interdisciplinary network across
 History and Politics focusing on Modern Britain in 2017.
                                                  1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Since 2014, the University has invested in two new research networks. In 2016 UoL was
 awarded £1.5m from the Wellcome Trust Institutional Strategic Support Fund (WTISSF,
 Institutional Environment Statement (IES), section 2.2) to establish the Medical Humanities
 Network (MHN); funding for two further years was received in September 2019. The Global,
 Colonial and Postcolonial Research Cluster (GloCoPoCo) encompasses research on Australia
 and the Pacific, the Americas, Africa, the Indian Ocean and Asia. In addition, the Leicester
 Institute for Advanced Studies (LIAS, IES 2.2) has provided support and funding for new
 research networks involving historians, including the Africa Research Group (ARG) and the
 Migration, Mobility, Citizenship Network (MMCN).

 Collectively, our centres, networks and clusters facilitate a culture of aspiration, innovation and
 achievement, and cultivate an environment for research excellence and meaningful impact that
 incorporates both staff and PGRs, enabling us to deliver on the aims of our REF2014 strategy.

 Achievement of strategic aims for research and impact over the assessment period
 During this cycle our research strategy has been shaped by aims articulated in REF2014, now
 achieved.

  2014 Research Aims                           Achievements
  Consolidate record of external grant             Establishment of mandatory internal and
  capture; increase range of staff holding            external peer, grant-writing support
  large grants.                                       yielding increased grant capture.
                                                   New grants in excess of £8.2 million, up
                                                      64% since REF2014.
                                                   Total grant income increased 233% from
                                                      £2.015m (2014) to £6.7m (2020).
                                                   30% Category A staff currently hold
                                                      grants over £100k (23% in 2014).
  Improve mechanisms and practices to              Creation of HyPIR Research
  support vibrant and sustainable research            Development Fund (RDF) from 2018/19
  culture.                                            to support new research initiatives.
                                                   System of annual research mentoring
                                                      meetings implemented.
                                                   Creation of and participation in new
                                                      research networks (ARG, GloCoPoCO,
                                                      MHN, MMCN and Modern Britain).
  Sustain staffing in areas of research            Appointment of 6 staff on open-ended
  strength and invest in growth areas.                contracts including 2 investment posts in
                                                      SBC and GloCoPoCo.
  Recruitment of at least one postdoctoral         Recruitment of 8 postdoctoral fellows
  fellow p.a.                                         over 7 years on independent projects
                                                      funded by BA (2); Leverhulme (4);
                                                      Wellcome (1); BEIS Commonwealth
                                                      Rutherford Fellowship (1).
  Strengthen PGR cohort through                    Recruitment of 43 UKRI-funded PGR
  international recruitment and funded                students by 2020 (23 in REF2014).
  studentships.                                    Proportion of international PGR
                                                      completions over cycle increased from
                                                 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                                      12% (2014) to 18.5% (2020).
                                                     Near-doubling of completion rate from
                                                      6.6 (2014) to 12.9 (2020) p.a.
  Develop collaborative projects with                36% of grants awarded involved
  academic colleagues beyond Leicester                collaboration with external partners.
  and research-led partnerships with non-            Collaboration with 10 non-HEI partners
  HEIs.                                               in supervision of 17 CDAs and CDPs.


 Impact Support
 We support research impact generation through our agile approach and proactive interventions:
 embedding impact planning in annual research mentoring discussions:
     nurturing impact through responsive internal funding and targeted mentoring by
       experienced colleagues;
     supporting early-stage impact, to ensure that impactful research matures at its own pace;
     deploying responsive workload planning to allow for the development and evaluation of
       impact;
     seeking non-HEI collaborations, for example via CDAs and CDPs with IROs or HLF
       projects and partnerships;
     engaging with local, regional, national and international communities to develop
       partnerships where our research can support their goals;
     remaining alert to serendipitous opportunities arising through established and emerging
       research relationships;
     working intensively with colleagues at all career stages to develop impactful grant
       applications.

 In delivering this strategy we draw on the institutional support of the UoL Impact Team, the
 CSSAH impact fund and HyPIR’s RDF.

 The three submitted impact case studies reflect our inclusive strategy for developing impact.
 Other projects with a longer-term trajectory are also being sustained and developed and new
 ones nurtured. The multi-faceted and wide-reaching impact resulting from the highly publicised
 discovery of Richard III, in which Schürer played a key role, arose in response to a
 serendipitous discovery (ICS2). Yet, it was catalysed by existing research relationships and non-
 HEI collaborations and internal funding served to maximise that opportunity. The highly-praised
 ‘Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms’ exhibition, which generated national public impact as well as economic
 benefit for the British Library (BL), exemplifies how a longstanding partnership between Story
 and the BL (including an AHRC CDP studentship) was developed to support the latter’s goals
 (ICS3). Pro-active deployment of workload planning and focusing of internal resources by the
 School enabled Story to engage fully with the demanding requirements and timescale. Lastly,
 Hopper’s transformative partnership with Newark Millgate Museum, now the National Civil War
 Centre (NCWC), grew out of informal collaborations which fed into the pathways to impact of
 ‘Welfare, Conflict and Memory’ (AHRC £761,542). Internal funding was used strategically to
 support two exhibitions at NCWC, plus visitor evaluation, while an AHRC M4C CDP studentship
 underpins ongoing outreach activity (ICS1).

 Open Access
 HyPIR regards Open Access (OA) as integral to research excellence and knowledge creation,
 and thus fully embraces – and exceeds – the University’s ambitious OA Policy (IES 2.6). In
                                                 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 addition to the University’s OA fund, HyPIR’s RDF supports OA publication (up to £1500 for a
 Gold OA article and up to £5000 to subsidise a monograph), enabling, for example, Gold OA
 publication of Bethke’s article in a 2019 special issue of the International Journal of Fashion
 Studies. Our efforts to include OA publication costs within grant proposals have resulted in
 further Gold OA outputs including six articles, a book chapter, an edited collection and a
 monograph. All PhDs are available OA, and OA publication is emphasised in research mentoring
 meetings, leading Goldsmith, for example, to place her first monograph with the Royal Historical
 Society’s new OA Historical Perspectives series.

 Ethics and Research Integrity
 HyPIR follows the University’s robust procedure for ensuring all research is conducted to the
 highest ethical standards, informed by University UK’s Concordat to Support Research Integrity
 (IES, 2.7). All colleagues and students are required to submit research programmes for approval
 to a University Research Ethics and Integrity Committee, which ensures adherence to
 professional standards and legal requirements. PGRs undergo mandatory research integrity
 training in their probationary period. The extent to which our procedures enable ground-breaking
 research to be conducted ethically is exemplified by Khoshnaw who, under Korb’s supervision,
 filmed and produced three short documentaries on genocide in Middle Eastern contexts
 involving interviews with victims as part of his practice-based PhD.

 Key Achievements
 Increasing success in grant capture has been accompanied by high numbers of publications,
 with 31 monographs, 147 journal articles and 144 book chapters published in this cycle.
 Outstanding examples include the five-volume Reliquiae Baxterianae (2020), a ‘glorious
 resource’ (Renaissance Studies) edited by Coffey et al. and Schürer’s foundational work on
 historical demography published as the Integrated Census Microdata (I-CEM) 1851–1911
 (2020). Both constitute major resources for future historical research.

 More broadly, our achievements show how our research centres, clusters and networks develop
 distinctive research agendas that generate world-leading scholarship and impactful research:

 Snell’s Spirits of Community (2016) confirms ELH’s international reputation for the historical
 study of community. With Muir’s monograph Deviant Maternity and Illegitimacy in Wales, 1680-
 1900 (2020) and Hopper’s major AHRC award ‘WC&M’, it is also developing a reputation for
 histories of welfare and health. Jones’ collaboration with geographers, geomorphologists and
 place-name specialists on flooding perpetuates the Hoskins tradition of innovative
 interdisciplinary research: ‘Flood and Flow: Place-Names and the Changing Hydrology of River
 Systems’ (Leverhulme Trust £128,725) and ‘Enhancing UK Flood Resilience’ (AHRC £32,679).
 This is generating new data on riverine flooding in England across two millennia that will
 underpin robust future flood models. The work of both Jones – and Hopper with the NCWC – is
 evidence of our impact strategy at work, allowing impact pathways to grow organically from
 carefully crafted research programmes.

 CUH has consolidated its reputation as a centre of excellence, particularly for the twentieth
 century, with Gunn’s Automobility and the City (2019), Lincoln’s Urbanizing China in War and
 Peace (2015) and articles from Butler on post-war Irish planning. Lincoln and Butler were
 awarded AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowships in the fields of post-war urban
 reconstruction in China and post-war Irish town planning respectively. Kidambi’s widely-
 acclaimed Cricket Country (2019) was the fruit of ten years research initiated through a

                                                4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Leverhulme fellowship (2009). Gunn and Sweet’s reputation for modern British and eighteenth-
 century urban and cultural history attracted two British Academy post-doctoral fellows (Ansell
 and Kefford) and one Leverhulme Early Career Fellow (LECF) (Goldsmith) in this cycle.

 Bethke’s monograph, Tanz auf Messers Schneider (2015), signals SBC’s widening remit to
 include investigations of race, ethnicity, and identity formation, and a new focus on post-1945
 European and world history. This was reinforced by her Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship at
 the Hebrew University in Jerusalem (2019–21). Korb and P.Moore’s research and publications
 maintain SBC’s reputation for innovative work on the Holocaust, attracting international scholars
 such as LECF Fenoglio.

 Story’s research on narratives of identity and connectivity between early medieval Britain and
 the Continent, via the Leverhulme Trust Programme Award ‘Impact of Diasporas on the Making
 of Britain’ (2011–2015) and ‘Networks of Knowledge: Insular Manuscripts c. AD650–850’
 (Leverhulme Trust International Network £87,507), underpinned a series of articles and the BL’s
 ‘Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms’ exhibition (2018/19) and its award-winning catalogue (ICS3).

 Colleagues from CAS have authored three monographs in this cycle (Toner, Johnstone,
 Clapp). CAS has provided an institutional framework for Toner to extend her research beyond
 Mexico into North America, leading to her multi-disciplinary project ‘Consuming Authenticities’
 (AHRC £18,296) and her Early Career Leadership Fellowship, ‘Alcohol, Race and Ethnicity’
 (AHRC £245,651). Through Johnstone’s 2016 British Academy Rising Star Engagement Award
 ‘The US and American History in Britain in the Twenty-First Century’ (£14,971) CAS organised
 engagement workshops for ECRs across the UK and through Lewis it leads an important
 outreach initiative, Journey to Justice.

 Major awards associated with the MHN include King’s ‘In Their Own Write’ (AHRC £872,127),
 Gentilcore’s ‘The Water Cultures of Italy,1500–1900’ (ERC Advanced Grant £2,744,003) and
 Taylor’s WTISSF-funded fellowship ‘Medicalising childhood in Britain, 1900-2000’ (£46,287),
 while Gentilcore, Hurren and King have published four monographs arising from Wellcome,
 Leverhulme, AHRC and ESRC-funded research in this cycle.

 Anderson, founder and co-convenor of GloCoPoco, has co-authored a major study of the
 Andaman Islands and, arising from the ERC-funded ‘The Carceral Archipelago: Transnational
 Circulations in Global Perspective, 1415–1960’ (2013–2018), a series of articles, a co-edited
 special issue and an edited volume. PI on a BA-GRCF grant in collaboration with the University
 of Guyana and the Guyana Prison Service, ‘History and Security Sector Reform’ (£45,545),
 Anderson is now PI with CI Toner and the same partners in an interdisciplinary project with the
 Schools of Arts and Criminology, ‘Mental Neurological and Substance Abuse Disorders in
 Guyana’s Jails: 1825 to the Present Day’ (ESRC-GCRF £1,308,801). Groves’ monograph
 Malawian Migration to Zimbabwe,1900–1965 (2020) explores labour migration in Southern
 African cities, bridging the research agendas of GloCoPoCo and CUH. Four post-doctoral
 fellows, Henrich, Ryan, Boehme and R. Anderson, funded by Wellcome, Leverhulme and BEIS
 (Commonwealth Rutherford Fellowship) respectively, have been supported by GloCoPoCo.

 COVID-19 has inevitably impacted research activity, but we have worked hard to maintain a
 dynamic research culture (e.g. writing retreats, online seminar series and reading groups)
 despite the challenges caused by internal constraints on research allowances, postponed study
 leave, and a short-term institutional shift to prioritise blended teaching. Successful applications

                                                  5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to UKRI for extensions to existing projects (Hopper, Story, Anderson/Toner) will minimise the
 impact of COVID-related restrictions; other projects have been able to continue (e.g. Toner,
 Lincoln, Butler). LECFs Boehme and Fenoglio were supported in taking furlough and PGRs
 benefited from a comprehensive package of University support. We have also grasped
 opportunities created by responsive COVID funding, drawing on existing external partnerships
 and internal interdisciplinary relationships to leverage funding and stimulate research initiatives
 through LIAS (e.g. Moss working with Guyana Prison Service) and the University’s Research
 England GCRF QR allocation (Carstocea on COVID-19’s impact on European Roma
 communities).

 Strategic Aims and Ambitions
 Research successes in this cycle reflect our pursuit of excellence and innovation alongside
 greater cross-disciplinary collaboration within and beyond the University. Our strategy going
 forward will focus upon the following priorities:
      Improve diversity in our staffing profile and our research portfolio, particularly in terms of
        gender among promoted staff and ethnic diversity across all career stages, including our
        PhD cohort.
      Focus staff recruitments in areas where BAME historians are better represented, such as
        histories of migration and race in modern Britain and the Global South.
      Develop our research centres, networks and clusters through support of and investment
        in our research themes, appointing staff with the ambition and ability to deliver impactful
        research.
      Work with LIAS to foster collaborative and cross-disciplinary initiatives, providing the
        foundation from which to apply to a broader range of funders.
      Maintain and develop our success in grant capture through diversification of sources of
        funding, including philanthropic donations.
      Widen the proportion of colleagues holding major awards (≥£100k) through targeted
        support and mentoring of applications.
      Provide a supportive and inclusive research environment for ECRs and PGRs that
        equips them with skills and experience to build a successful career through allocation of
        increased resources to the ECR network.
      Enhance opportunities for our PGR community, e.g., through participation in doctoral
        training partnerships and expanding CDPs with IROs and other partners.
      Create opportunities for research impact, and nurture impact arising from long-standing
        partnerships (e.g. Horrocks’ collaboration with the BL and Hopper’s work with the
        NCWC), as well as from new partnerships (e.g. Anderson with Guyana Prison Service)
      Strengthen our programme of community engagement by building on the strong local,
        national and international partnerships we have already established and by aligning
        research priorities with contemporary challenges, especially those reflected by our host
        city and the county.


 2. People

 Overview
 History currently comprises 33 Category A and 31.4 FTE (36 in REF2014). Our present staff
 profile comprises 8 professors, 11 readers/associate professors/senior lecturers, 11 lecturers, 3
 post-doctoral fellows (plus 3 fixed-term lecturers/teaching fellows and 5 project RAs). Our
 staffing strategy is informed by principles of transparency, consistency, accountability and
                                                  6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 inclusivity, highlighted in the University’s strategy document, A Culture of Equality: Equality,
 Diversity and Inclusion (IES, 3.1). Life-long academic and career development features
 prominently as we seek to retain outstanding colleagues and develop world-class research.

 Our recruitment strategy sustains strong areas by replacing departing senior staff with high-
 calibre ECRs (e.g. Vandeburie interactions between medieval Islam and the Christian West),
 and securing new posts in emerging areas (e.g. Groves to African History). We shortlist on
 excellence, potential, and fit-to-job, supported by mandatory unconscious bias training to
 produce diverse candidate lists.

 PGR recruitment strategy has been to: maximise opportunities created by the AHRC and ESRC
 Doctoral Training Partnerships (DTPs) including sharing best practice in preparing CDP/CDA
 applications; build on international partnerships to recruit overseas students; and facilitate
 progression through our BA and MA programmes to doctoral research (51% of UKRI-funded
 students are/have been UoL graduates).

 Our review and selection of REF outputs was completed in accordance with the University’s
 Code of Practice and was fair, transparent, robust and accountable. In making the final
 selection, all available information was discussed case-by-case within the UoA 28 REF team
 and selected to reflect quality and demographic profile. Of the 70 outputs submitted, the
 proportions by BAME and female staff are marginally higher than might be expected pro rata
 and the number of outputs submitted by grade of staff are in line.




                                                   7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



    70
                                                                                          Category



    60



    50                     Grade


    40



    30



    20



    10



     0
         Professor   Associate     Lecturer     Post-Doc                   ECR        Female       Male        BAME
                     Professor

               % of staff by grade (left) and category (right)       % of outputs selected for submission to REF

      Figure 1: Proportion of outputs submitted to REF by grade and category of staff member

 Since REF2014 we have made six open-ended appointments (P.Moore, Bethke, Butler,
 Groves, Muir, Vandeburie) of which two were investment posts in new areas (Bethke and
 Groves). Other new appointments were targeted to sustain research excellence in our Centres:
 Butler (twentieth-century architectural and planning history) in CUH; P.Moore (modern
 Germany) in SBC; Muir (eighteenth/nineteenth-century gender, poverty and welfare in England
 and Wales) in ELH and Vandeburie in LMRC. We also appointed 9 fixed-term associate
 lecturers and teaching fellows funded by external research grants or staff secondments to
 research organisations to support our full-time T&R staff, ensuring 40% research time in line with
 University strategy (IES 3.2).

 Mentoring and Staff Development
 Appointments to academic and research posts are subject to a period of probation overseen by
 the Head of HyPIR who follows up recommendations relating to research needs with History’s
 Director of Research. Every new colleague is allocated a mentor from across HyPIR who
 advises on research, teaching and career development, promoting collegiality and
 interdisciplinarity. Mentoring support is provided throughout the career cycle: all academic and
 research staff (open-ended and fixed-term) are supported through a process of annual personal
 development discussion, which intersects with annual research mentoring meetings. The latter
 give colleagues dedicated space to discuss research agendas, to flag needs and to focus on six
 core issues: immediate research and publication priorities; longer-term plans and publication


                                                                 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 strategy (including OA); grant applications; doctoral student recruitment; impact and KE
 opportunities; and career progression.

 Colleagues are supported in attending leadership training (completed by Lewis, Toner and
 Johnstone, all of whom were subsequently promoted) in line with the Concordat to Support the
 Career Development of Researchers and the University’s Concordat Action Plan 2017–2019. All
 colleagues, regardless of contractual status, are entitled to an annual research allowance (£850
 in March 2020 and £1200 for ECRs) to support research related activity and may also apply to a
 range of College funds (see section 3). Additionally, through continued grant success in HyPIR
 and the University policy of allocating 50% of overheads to departments, we made a strategic
 decision in 2018 to establish a fund (RDF) to support the research development of all colleagues
 including PGRs, teaching fellows and RAs, spreading the benefits of grant capture beyond the
 PIs. Decisions are made by School Management Committee, informed by reports from the
 Directors of Research.

 Colleagues on both open-ended and fixed-term contracts may apply for research leave once in
 every seven semesters, subject to the submission of an agreed research and publication plan
 and completion of a teaching qualification. Applications, decided by the College, are unaffected
 by periods of ill-health, parental leave or secondment. Since 2014, no eligible colleague has
 been denied leave and 27 have benefited from leave totalling 45 semesters, sustaining our
 increased research income and publication of 31 monographs.

 We encourage colleagues to take up secondment opportunities to other organizations where this
 supports career development and strengthens networks and partnerships. Horrocks has been
 seconded as consultant to the BL (0.05-0.1 FTE) since 2011, generating successful CDP
 applications and impact pathways. Sweet was seconded to the AHRC as Director of
 Partnerships and Engagement (0.6 FTE) from March 2018-May 2019, strengthening History’s
 contacts with both the AHRC and the IRO network.

 Early Career Researchers
 We are committed to enhancing the careers of new researchers and ensuring that colleagues
 who join us on fixed-term contracts leave better qualified than when they arrived, in accordance
 with the Concordat and University action plan. We seek to create a supportive work environment
 that recognises the challenges of precarity. We support all early career staff to develop their
 research portfolios through grant capture, regardless of contractual status. All ECRs have a
 reduced teaching load and are offered career-development mentoring and continuing
 professional development through access to on-the-job training from the Doctoral College (IES
 3.2). With the creation of HyPIR, we established an informal School-wide network for ECRs to
 discuss expectations around ECR research achievements for career progression. Following
 UKRI’s best-practice we allow self-definition of ‘ECR’ for this purpose and our network includes
 teaching fellows, post-doctoral fellows, new lecturers, and project-RAs. This group, chaired by
 an ECR (who also sits on the CSSAH ECR forum), currently has 38 members and meets every
 6 weeks. It provides an informal space for discussing issues such as publishing in peer-reviewed
 journals, writing book proposals, and demystifying REF. With the Director of Research, it also
 organises events on research finance, grant writing, OA policy and impact.

 The success of our support strategy is evident in the growth in number of our ECRs, their grant
 income generation and their onward trajectories to academic positions in the UK and Europe. Of
 our eight post-doctoral fellows, four (Ryan, R.Anderson, Henrich, Kefford) have been appointed

                                                 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to open-ended lectureships, two (Ansell, Goldsmith) to fixed-term posts while Fenoglio and
 Boehme have been awarded honorary fellowships by HyPIR until February 2021, ensuring they
 maintain an academic base during furlough. Of fixed-term lecturers and teaching fellows leaving
 during this cycle, two went on to open-ended contracts at other HEIs, four to research
 fellowships or academic-related posts and Dailey was supported to the successful award of an
 ERC Consolidator Grant (c.1.5M euro to Leicester, Nov.2020). Three RAs from projects funded
 in this cycle have since secured research posts and five were appointed to open-ended
 lectureships; of these only two are in history departments, reflecting both the quality of the
 career-development support provided and the cross-disciplinary environment in which our major
 research projects operate.

 Postgraduates
 Our PGR programme has developed significantly since 2014 with the establishment of the
 Midlands-3-Cities (M3C/M4C) AHRC DTP in 2014 and, from 2016, the ESRC Midlands
 Graduate School (MGS) DTP. Horrocks, who led the successful ESRC application, is
 institutional lead and Schürer the Social and Economic History pathway lead. These DTPs have
 allowed us to recruit and support a larger PGR cohort compared to REF2014: 91 PhDs have
 been awarded over this cycle compared to 40 in 2014 while completion rates have improved
 from 6.6 to 12.9 pa over the same period.

 Figure 2 reflects the success of long-term efforts to boost international recruitment and our
 commitment to increasing BAME representation. 49% students identify as female (48% in 2014),
 exceeding the national average in History of 46.7%.




    EU/International


              BAME


                       0   2       4       6           8      10    12      14      16     18

                                               2020    2014

             Figure 2: Diversity and internationalisation in PhD completions (%) 2014-20

 Our students have been funded through external grants (3), internal investment in Graduate
 Teaching Assistants (6), international scholarships (2) and, as Figure 3 details, UKRI
 studentships (43).




                                                  10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



     ESRC CDA


         ESRC


     AHRC CDP


    AHRC CDA


        AHRC


                0          5            10            15           20           25            30

                                              2020    2014


                         Figure 3: UKRI PhD studentships awarded 2014-20

 All studentships are advertised and are offered on a full or part-time basis. Both DTPs hold
 application writing workshops, which can be attended remotely. Recruitment is conducted
 according to sector standard equal opportunities practices and interviews are held virtually if
 travel poses difficulties.

 Our goal in REF2014 was to broaden the supervisory base, previously concentrated on a few
 colleagues. Consequently, all colleagues on open-ended contracts have been involved in PhD
 supervision during this cycle, ensuring that students continue to be matched with the most
 relevant supervisory expertise. Less-experienced supervisors, including post-doctoral fellows,
 are appointed to supervision teams where their expertise is appropriate. Opportunities for ECRs
 to build PGR-support skills are also available through Probation and Annual Review interviews
 (paired with experienced colleagues) and through their inclusion in assessment and interview
 panels for DTP studentship competitions.

 Induction, training, and monitoring follow DTP and University regulations and are overseen by
 the Director of Graduate Studies. Monthly meetings with supervisors (including non-HEI
 partners) are documented and recorded. Probation reviews occur during the first year of full-time
 study (second year part-time) and are followed by the annual (or bi-annual) review; both involve
 two assessors external to the supervisory team. Training needs for skills development and future
 career preparation are identified at the first supervision and reviewed annually. A bespoke
 programme is agreed using University, College and School resources and/or those of the DTPs.
 The University’s Doctoral College provides transferable skills and research methods training
 guided by the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Subject-specific training (e.g.
 palaeography) is provided by staff in History.

 Our PGRs are integrated into our research culture, which is in turn enhanced by their academic
 achievements and skills. We run specialist masterclasses for our postgraduates that provide
 immersive training and exposure to diverse methodologies; they encourage discourse and
 exchange across disciplines and are open to the M4C consortium (e.g: LMRC: Reassembling
 the Staffordshire Hoard 2014). Six different research seminars are run through History’s centres,
 networks and clusters, which PGRs are encouraged to attend and where they also have

                                                 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 opportunities to present their own work. They are supported in organising their own activities,
 including an annual HyPIR PGR conference and the New History Lab (NHL) seminar, which
 provides opportunities for students to present their research, participate in employment-related
 events, provide mutual support and discuss shared issues around the PhD journey. PGRs also
 gain valuable paid experience working with academic staff to run conferences or as externally-
 funded research assistants, including for Hopper’s ‘WC&M’ and Coffey’s Wilberforce Diaries
 projects.

 Students are supported in applying for grants to cover conference attendance, archival research,
 training or travel for fieldwork from the HyPIR RDF (7 awards to date), the DTPs, and other
 external sources of funding, including the Economic History and Royal Historical societies.
 CSSAH encourages applications to its PGR fund from self-funded students, with 17 successful
 History applications since 2017. Additionally, the ‘Friends of ELH’ have provided over £16k in
 travel and research bursaries since 2013/14, for self-funded students.

 Our PGRs actively contribute to the wider discipline through publication of peer-reviewed
 articles, curating exhibitions, organising and presenting papers at national and international
 conferences. For example, in 2018, Satam received PGR RDF funding for a research trip to
 India that laid the foundations for a three-day international conference on ‘Exploring the
 Unexplored: New Perspectives on the History of Mumbai’, resulting in a collaboration with the
 universities of Göttingen, and Mumbai. Satam was appointed to an assistant lectureship at Amity
 University, India in 2019. The quality of PGR research is recognised through the award of prizes,
 including the Boydell & Brewer prize for the best PhD in maritime history (Roscoe, 2019) and the
 Midland History essay prize (Strange, 2018 and Blacklaws, 2017).

 The opportunities and training that we provide have enabled 23% of PGRs graduating in this
 cycle to enter academic or academic related roles in the UK or internationally, contributing to the
 future development of the profession. 20% have been appointed to posts in the heritage sector,
 local government, think tanks and publishing. 59% of those graduating were mature students,
 many of whom did not undertake a PhD for career progression; however, many remain active as
 volunteer researchers.

 This strong and supportive supervision culture is recognised by our students, consistently
 scoring over 90% in the PRES during this cycle for both full-time and part-time students.
 Students have high confidence (91%) that they will be able to complete within the expected
 timescale. Its efficacy is reflected in the improvement in our completion rates (see above).

 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion
 We are guided by the University’s strategy to recognise and value diversity, ensure quality of
 opportunity and to enable all staff and students to flourish in an inclusive and respectful working
 and learning environment. Our Category A staff currently comprise 39.4% women and 60.6%
 men of whom 3% self-declare as BAME.




                                                 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)




               Figure 4: The closing gender gap in Category A staffing since 2008 (%)

 The Royal Historical Society’s recent reports on gender and race and ethnicity provide a salutary
 reminder of the systemic inequalities in the profession; inequalities which we are working hard to
 correct. Although we are approaching gender parity in staffing (Figure 4), much remains to be
 done in terms of recruitment and career progression: 37.5% professors and 41.6% associate
 professors are women; 33% of total promotions in this cycle went to women and 67% to men.
 There are no BAME staff at professorial level but 9% at associate professor.

 To address these issues, HyPIR created a Staffing Committee in 2018 with a remit that includes
 proactive discussions around promotion applications and direct mentorship of those applications.
 We have appointed an Athena Swan (AS) Lead and an Inclusion and Diversity Champion, each
 with substantial time allocated in our workload planning model. In August 2019 the Staffing
 Committee formally adopted the AS Lead’s Strategic Plan and established an AS Self-
 Assessment Team. An AS staff survey has been completed, the results of which became
 available in July 2020 and will inform our strategy from the beginning of the 2020/21 academic
 year.

 Progress is evident in the fact that most new appointments in this cycle have gone to women
 and non-binary colleagues (50% open-ended, 60% fixed-term appointments and 50% post-
 doctoral fellows were female and 10% fixed-term non-binary). Although no BAME staff have
 been appointed to open-ended contracts, 33% of our RAs on funded projects identify as BAME.

 We aim to build on our success in attracting outstanding early career female colleagues and to
 support them in developing the appropriate career profile to ensure promotion (e.g. support
 provided for Toner, Bethke, Groves and Muir). Addressing the ethnic diversity in our staffing
 presents a challenge that will inform future staffing decisions. We recognise that the problem
 starts early in the academic career cycle: we are therefore delighted that, as part of the
 institutional strategy to address the BAME awarding gap (IES 3.1), History was awarded one of
 CSSAH’s inaugural BAME PGR 3+1 scholarships.


                                                13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We follow the University’s institutional workload modelling tool (IES 3.2) that distributes
 academic work efficiently and equitably (implemented in HyPIR 2018-19). Every
 administrative/citizenship role is advertised to ensure equality of opportunity. In keeping with the
 University’s flexible working policies, established to support carers and enable gender equality in
 the workplace, three staff have successfully applied to work flexible hours to accommodate
 caring responsibilities in this cycle. Four staff – two open-ended, two fixed-term – have taken
 parental leave since 2014. Long-term health issues affecting three others have been sensitively
 managed through staged return to work and regular review, enabling individuals to remain
 research active and, in one case, secure ill-health retirement.

 Academic research cultures can be exclusionary for those without a common background in
 and/or access to tacit knowledge about academic norms and behaviours: accordingly, our
 comprehensive induction programme for PGRs is designed to address areas that students may
 find intimidating such as conference attendance and engaging with established academics.
 Induction also provides a crucial opportunity to inform students about support available from the
 University’s Doctoral College, in terms of mental health and well-being as well as academic
 resources. As with all other core activities, we enable remote participation to include students
 based outside Leicester or with caring responsibilities. This has provided a strong foundation on
 which to build new ways of remote working with PGRs since the onset of COVID-19.

 In promoting equality and diversity we have successfully encouraged part-time, off-campus and
 international students to become student representatives on CSSAH’s PGR Committee which
 offers them a forum to highlight how their experiences can be improved. We support our PGRs
 in engaging with events such as Black History Month and LGBTQ+ awareness, particularly
 through the activities of NHL. UKRI funded students with registered disabilities receive financial
 support from the relevant consortium to cover costs such as laptops or deaf-signing interpreters.
 The University’s Accessibility unit works closely with staff to provide support for these and other
 students with a wide range of disabilities.

 Our research environment draws its strength from the supportive and inclusive culture that we
 seek to inculcate. We are clear that much remains to be done further to diversify our staffing
 profile and to enable progression and promotion of female and BAME staff to meet our ambition
 to be a world-leading department that pioneers and empowers diverse interpretations of history.
 We believe that the measures that we have already implemented and our future strategy to
 further diversify our community will ensure that our research environment continues to generate
 cutting-edge historical scholarship that speaks to global challenges and reflects the University’s
 exciting agenda for ‘Citizens of Change’.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research Income

 Figures 5 and 6 show the significant growth in our grant income and capture this cycle: ranked
 18th by HESA in 2013/14 for research grants and contracts, in 2018/19 History was in 5th place
 nationally.




                                                 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)



  annual average per FTE



         average per FTE



         annual average



                   total


                           0       1          2       3           4       5       6       7       8

                                                  2020     2014


                                   Figure 5: Growth of grant income (£m)




  annual average per FTE



        average per FTE



         annual average



                   total


                           0   1          2       3          4        5       6       7       8   9

                                                  2020     2014



                                   Figure 6: Growth of grant capture (£m)

 This success has been achieved by:
     providing staff with one-to-one support from experienced colleagues through the whole
        cycle of developing a major funding bid, from early ideas discussed at research
        mentoring meetings, to applications for small grants for pilot projects, and through to
        large individual or collaborative bids;
     strategic use of institutional support and School funds derived from grant overheads as
        seed funding for pilot projects and impact activities;
     improving the quality of applications through internal and external peer-review and
        targeted investment in professional grant writing support;
     incentivising success in grant capture by allowing PIs a share of grant overheads
        allocated to HyPIR (15% for grants < £200k, 20% for awards ≥ £200k, with potential for
        further flexibility for larger grants) to further develop research and impact activity and
        grant income generation.

                                                      15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Grant income over this cycle has been fuelled by 72 new grants awarded from 23 different
 external funding bodies comprising UKRI, charitable trusts, third sector organizations and
 philanthropic gifts, including £60k for the digitisation and transcription of William Wilberforce’s
 diaries (Coffey). Compared with the 110 awards reported in REF2014, this reflects our strategy
 of securing larger, collaborative awards. 73% of current Category A staff have secured grants
 during this cycle and 30% currently hold grants over £100k, as shown in Table 1.

 Table 1: Distribution of large grants according to career stage and gender

                               No. staff       Career stage               Gender split
          Awards over                          5 professor                2F
                               6
          £500k                                1 associate professor      4M
          Awards £200-                         1 post-doctoral fellow
                               2                                          2M
          500k                                 1 lecturer
          Awards £100-                         1 professor                1F
                               3
          200k                                 2 lecturers                2M

 Our strategy of supporting colleagues from initial internal funding to a small grant to a major
 award is illustrated by Toner’s achievements: College RDF funding supported the Drinking
 Studies Network which she co-convenes; this coincided with her AHRC Care for the Future Early
 Career Developmental Award ‘Consuming Authenticities’ and was followed by Co-I roles on two
 related projects leading to her 2019 AHRC Early Career Leadership Fellowship, and enabled her
 to publish articles, a monograph, and a special issue of Food and History.

 Many projects are on-going and outputs will follow in the next cycle; equally, grants awarded in
 the previous cycle have enabled acclaimed publications by Anderson, Coffey, Hurren, King,
 Kidambi, Schürer and Story as outlined in section 1. Our ambitious research strategy
 continues with applications worth £4.4m FEC currently under consideration (Nov. 2020) while
 recent awards such as Dailey’s ERC Consolidator Grant (1.5M euro) will underpin our research
 income and impact pathways into the next REF cycle.

 Operational Infrastructure
 HyPIR’s research is overseen by a single committee that includes the Directors of Research and
 Directors of Graduate Studies for History and Politics/IR respectively and ECR representatives.
 Since 2014 it has expanded to include Research Environment co-ordinators, responsible for
 identifying opportunities to augment institutional support, and Research Impact co-ordinators,
 tasked with widening ownership and oversight of impact strategy and developing pathways, for
 each UoA.

 Advisory Boards support each research centre, comprising external members from HE and non-
 HEI backgrounds. These enhance the research environment through provision of: advice on
 strategic direction and new initiatives; links beyond HEIs for the purposes of grant submissions,
 sponsorship, internships and knowledge transfer partnerships; and support for staff and students
 through informal mentoring and advice on impact. The CSSAH Research Committee reviews the
 centres at least once every three years, providing feedback to improve performance and impact.

 The dedicated CSSAH research support team supplies costings for and oversees a robust and
 supportive framework for internal peer-review of all grant applications: those under £150k are

                                                  16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 reviewed within the department by at least two colleagues; grants over £150k are reviewed by a
 subject specialist within History and by a colleague in CSSAH with funder-specific expertise.
 Overall, this has enabled a success rate of 47% for applications to the AHRC and 38% to the
 British Academy during this cycle. College-centred support is complemented by the University’s
 Research and Enterprise Division (RED) team (IES 4.1).

 The CSSAH team also administers College-specific research funds to which historians have
 successfully applied to fund travel, proof-of-concept/scoping projects, develop international
 partnerships, enterprise and public engagement and assistance in grant writing. To date, 19
 colleagues have received 25 awards (value £62,312). For example, Bethke was awarded £4000
 for travel to Israel underpinning her subsequent Marie Skłodowska-Curie Fellowship, and
 Groves was awarded £3792 for travel to Malawi to improve language skills, build networks and
 investigate archives for a forthcoming AHRC application. LIAS has awarded funding worth
 £80,500 to historians to create cross-disciplinary networks and ‘Tiger Teams’ and to undertake
 proof-of-concept research: e.g. Vandeburie and Bethke currently have funding to develop a
 cross-disciplinary network of historians, sociologists and material scientists to address questions
 of mobility, migration and identity as expressed through textiles. £2500 from the University’s
 Research Development Partnership Fund enabled Anderson to conduct a scoping survey in the
 UK and Guyana to develop her successful application to the British Academy, which
 subsequently paved the way to her major ESRC-GCRF award.

 In January 2020, in response to rising grant income, we increased the maximum HyPIR RDF
 allocation from £3000 to £5000 (under review post COVID-19). ‘Research Development’ is
 broadly defined to include impact, KE, and enterprise activities, as well as early stage
 ‘speculative’ work. Examples include: research assistance (King, Attard); conference
 attendance (Pells, Muir); publication costs (Muir); archival visits (Johnstone); and public
 engagement (Lewis). Preference is given to ECRs and to applicants intending to leverage
 funding from elsewhere. These combined resources are proving essential in furthering
 colleagues’ professional development and will be critical in sustaining future growth in grant
 income and leveraging innovative research directions.

 The institutional context in which impact is managed has changed substantially since REF2014,
 with the University assuming a more strategic role, through the provision of Impact Development
 Funding, bespoke support by members of a central Research Impact team, training on how best
 to realise impact from research projects and writing workshops. Schürer who is PI on the
 institutions ESRC Impact Accelerator Account (IAA) plays a key role in shaping institutional
 strategy. During this cycle, History has made nine successful applications worth £46,589 to the
 College’s Impact Development Fund (IDF) and three to the ESRC IAA worth £10,940,
 supporting, e.g., Hopper’s collaboration with NCWC. Strategic use of teaching relief allows
 colleagues time to develop impact-generating activities: e.g. for Gunn when commissioned by
 the Government Office for Science in 2018 to write a history of twentieth-century UK transport
 systems and for Horrocks’ work at the BL.

 All this support is available equally to colleagues on fixed-term and open-ended contracts: thus
 Foxhall (fixed-term lecturer) received IDF funding to employ an RA to support the curation of an
 exhibition arising from her Wellcome-funded project on the history of the migraine while RA
 Moss received IAA funding to develop a VR model of Mazaruni prison in Guyana to improve staff
 training.


                                                 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Scholarly Infrastructure and Facilities
 The digital infrastructure for research has been enhanced through the University’s Research
 Environment Infrastructure Fund (REIF), enabling historians to collaborate with other Schools to
 purchase major digital archives (totalling over £1,023,000). These include Gale Cengage
 Newsvault; Colonial State Papers Online; Parliamentary Papers; the Women and Social
 Movements Library; Early Modern State Papers Online and Grand Tour Online. Harris and
 Riedi’s recent publications depended upon ‘Parliamentary Papers’ and Cengage Newsvault and
 Cengage’s ‘Slavery and anti-slavery: a transnational archive’ underpins Coffey’s work on
 Wilberforce. Grand Tour Online was essential for post-doctoral fellows Ansell and Goldsmith,
 while Early Modern State Papers was key to Hopper’s ‘WC&M’ project and 6 successful early
 modern M4C applications.

 £20k from REIF purchased equipment to support landscape research and the analysis of
 buildings and material artefacts, including a drone, laser distance meter, high specification digital
 camera and tripod, and digital microscope for macro-photography. This equipment is critical to
 the success of both Story’s ‘Worked in Stone: Completing the Corpus of Anglo-Saxon Stone
 Sculpture’ (AHRC, £54,880) and Jones’ ‘Flood & Flow’ projects.

 The David Wilson Library and its Archives and Special Collections are particularly strong in
 antiquarian and topographical holdings and modern British archives (especially for the history of
 the University and the city). These resources support public engagement, e.g. Horrocks’ work
 around the University’s 2021 centenary, and research, e.g. Sweet’s 2016 Rhind lectures for the
 Society of Antiquaries of Scotland. ‘Unlocking our Sound Heritage’ (HLF £528,924), part of the
 BL-led £5.3m Save our Sounds project, preserves and provides access to the nation’s rare and
 unique sound recordings. Our successful bid, drawing on Horrocks’ (PI) and Hyde’s expertise in
 oral history (EMOHA), built on partnerships that Horrocks has been establishing with the BL
 since 2011. The new oral history resources it creates will support research in modern British
 social history, complementing EMOHA’s extensive archive of oral history recordings.

 CUH and ELH benefit from dedicated accommodation in Leicester’s Marc Fitch Historical
 Institute, with a specialist topographical library, archives, seminar room (used for workshops and
 masterclasses across History), offices for academic staff, workspace for PGRs, post-doctoral
 and visiting fellows, and common-room facilities. SBC has a resources room to support teaching
 and research, including books and desk space for PGRs. LMRC also enjoys dedicated space
 housing a small research library, study area, and conference space. Cumulatively these facilities
 encourage the integration of PGRs into our research culture and foster collaborative working
 across all career stages.

 Our supportive and inclusive research environment, combined with substantial investment in
 infrastructure and financial support, has facilitated remarkable success in growing research
 income across all career stages. It underpins our scholarly outputs and ensures that the impact
 of our research is fully realised.
 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Partnerships and Networks
 Our reputation for research excellence reflects the strength of our national and international
 collaborations and our strategy to develop a global framework for our research. Major outputs,
 such as Anderson’s Andamans book and co-edited special issue on convicts, Gunn’s
 comparative study of automobility, Coffey’s edition of Baxter and Horrock’s award-winning

                                                  18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 work on the oral history of British science were all the product of collaborative research projects
 with academics in other institutions. Our success in grant capture is built upon major
 collaborative projects including Anderson and Toner work with partners in Guyana); Hopper
 ‘WC&M’ (Nottingham, NCWC), King, ‘ITOW’ (National Archives) and Schürer, ‘Britain’s First
 Demographic Transition’ (ESRC £100,928, 2020–2023) (Cambridge).

 Successful research partnerships (e.g. Hopper with Nottingham NCWC and National Archives;
 Story with BL) are often initiated through small-scale collaborations, such as joint PGR
 supervision through the DTPs and CDA/CDPs. 17 colleagues are involved in cross-institutional
 supervisory teams benefiting 22 students and we have established partnerships with 10 different
 sector organizations through the CDA/CDP scheme including the Salvation Army, the MCC and
 the National Trust. CUH has strengthened international collaboration through participation in the
 Marie Skłodowska-Curie European Joint Doctorate Programme, Urban History in 20th Century
 Europe, led by Bauhaus University (2016–2020) and through formal collaborations leading to
 postdoctoral and PGR exchanges with the Shanghai Academy of Social Sciences, Hangzhou
 Normal University and the Centre for Global Urban Culture, Shanghai Normal University. SBC
 and GloCoPoCo are developing joint research collaboration for academic staff and PGRs with
 cognate institutions including TU Berlin’s Centre for Research on Antisemitism, the Amsterdam
 Institute for War and Genocide Studies and the Hebrew University. These relationships are
 fostering a cohort of PGRs with excellent national and international networks in and beyond
 academia.

 Discipline Contribution
 All colleagues make an international contribution to the wider profession through editing major
 journals and book series and through participation in peer-review and awarding panels. Gunn
 and Sweet edit Urban History, the world’s leading journal in the field; Snell co-edited Rural
 History to 2020 and King edits Family and Community History; Anderson edits the Journal of
 Colonialism and Colonial History and Hopper chairs the board of Midland History. Additionally,
 16 colleagues sit on the editorial boards of 27 journals and 7 are either general editors or on the
 editorial boards of 8 book series. All colleagues regularly review book proposals, manuscripts
 and journal articles and Attard received the Australian Economic History Review excellence in
 refereeing award (2016). Sweet is Academic Director of the Bibliography of British and Irish
 History, and Butler and Groves have served as associate editors.

 13 colleagues belong to peer review colleges and assessment/awarding panels for UK and
 European funders and smaller charities such as the Marc Fitch Trust and the Economic History
 Society, while Sweet was seconded to the AHRC as Director of Partnerships and Engagement.
 The expertise of our colleagues as referees for funding applications is in high demand from
 global funders and for international applications for promotion and tenure. We are also sought by
 non-UK HEIs to examine PhD theses and UG and MA programmes across 12 different
 countries. Over 50 invitations to give keynote addresses and public lectures worldwide further
 indicate the wider impact of our research, including Lewis’s delivery of the annual public lecture
 on the History of US Racism, University of Kassel (2015) and Anderson’s keynote for the
 Australian Historical Association annual conference (2018).

 Historians at Leicester play a key role in shaping and sustaining the discipline beyond Leicester.
 We have organized over 180 conferences and workshops, hosted visiting scholars and
 supported learned societies, community groups and historians beyond the academy. CUH
 operates as a national and international hub for urban historical research, hosting international

                                                 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 visitors at all career stages (averaging 12 p.a.). Colleagues belong to the organizing committees
 for the annual conferences of the Pre-Modern Towns and Urban History Groups and the biennial
 conference of the European Association of Urban Historians. Sweet is one of 3 UK
 representatives on the International Commission for the History of Towns and a Trustee of the
 Historic Towns Trust; Butler has led the Irish Modern Urban History Group with Erika Hanna
 (Bristol) since 2014 while Kidambi and Lincoln play key roles in the emergent Global Urban
 History Hub (inaugural international conference held at Leicester, 2019).

 ELH hosts the Leicestershire Victoria County History Trust (VCH) and provides a venue and
 support for seven different societies working on local and landscape history. It also provides
 facilities for VCH volunteer training events. Jones is a Council Member of the English Place
 Names Society and Schürer is UK representative on the European Historical Population
 Samples Network (EHPS-Net). Muir and Groves are collaborating with colleagues at DMU to
 establish a Leicester branch of the Historical Association. SBC staff sit on the academic advisory
 board of the National Holocaust Centre (Korb) and the council of the German History Society
 (P.Moore). CAS hosts the longest-running American Studies Annual Research Lecture in the
 UK, funded through the British Association for American Studies and the US Embassy; Clapp
 was a Committee member of British American Nineteenth-Century Historians (2013–2019); and
 Johnstone was elected to the Nominating Committee of the Society for Historians of American
 Foreign Relations (2016–2018). Beyond the centres, Knox is Treasurer of the British
 Association for Slavonic and East European Studies and co-convenes their study group on
 Religion and Spirituality in Russia and Eastern Europe while Bothwell is a committee member
 for the Society for Fourteenth-Century Studies and sits on their editorial board and Vandeburie
 is secretary to the Society for the Medieval Mediterranean and International Liaisons Officer for
 the Ecclesiastical History Society.

 Exhibitions, Consultancy and Public Engagement
 Colleagues’ research has enriched the content and interpretation of exhibitions and heritage
 sites locally, nationally and internationally. In addition to our impact case studies, Anderson
 consulted on the ‘Splendours of the Subcontinent: A Prince's Tour of India 1875-6’, exhibition:
 New Walk Museum, Leicester (2017) and sits on the National Maritime Museum’s Trustees
 Collections and Research Committee. Kidambi consulted on and curated a travelling exhibition
 on historic Indo-South African cricket relations organized by the Government of India’s Festival
 of India in South Africa (2014). J.Moore collaborated with the British University in Egypt and the
 Episcopal/Anglican Church in North Africa to establish the Cairo Research Centre and Archive
 (opened 2019) supported by £2000 of HyPIR funding and £2000 of College international seed
 funding. Goldsmith consults for the V&A’s forthcoming exhibition on masculinity and King
 consults for the National Trust’s new infirmary ward at Southwell Workhouse using his research
 on the old and new poor laws. Hurren is a consultant with Historic Royal Palaces and with The
 National Archives on ‘Dignity’, one of their four strategic areas.

 Colleagues regularly share their research and expertise with diverse publics through interviews
 and consultancy for television, radio, film and plays: e.g. Goldsmith, an AHRC/BBC Radio 3 New
 Generation Thinker (2018), made 6 radio appearances, podcast interviews and 7 public lectures
 at events such as the York Festival of Ideas. Anderson, Hurren and Sweet have all contributed
 to BBC programmes and Hopper’s research informed the production of The Hypocrite, the
 Royal Shakespeare Company’s most popular play of 2017. Colleagues have contributed to
 public debate in print and broadcast media and through reports for think tanks and government:
 e.g. Bethke has used her platform as a member of the SBC to support academic freedom and

                                                 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 oppose the Polish President’s 2018 ‘Holocaust Bill’ that bans historical discussion of Polish
 collaboration with Nazi Germany. Kefford contributed to a report by REFORM on the role of the
 private sector in public service delivery, advising on the historical background of private sector
 involvement in public services since 1945. Building on his ground-breaking research on traffic
 and cities in Britain and Japan, Gunn contributed to a key report on traffic and the future of
 mobility in the UK for the Department for Transport

 The reach and impact of our research is international, but much of our most direct public
 engagement responds to the challenges and opportunities faced by the city and its region,
 particularly in terms of its heritage and the ethnic diversity of its population. The discovery and
 interpretation of the grave of Richard III has been critical in developing a partnership that
 Schürer continues to shape. The Leicestershire VCH ‘Charnwood Roots’ project engaged over
 650 volunteers who donated 2731 hours between 2013–2017. CUH and EMOHA have worked
 closely with Leicester City Council around the management and interpretation of Leicester’s
 heritage. These include ‘Story of Parks’ (Sweet and Hyde 2015); ‘St Peter’s Belgrave’ (Butler
 2016-17, £15,318), the ‘Greyfriars Townscape Heritage Initiative Trades Directory Project’
 (Butler 2016–present), J.Moore’s organization of public engagement events and workshops
 with Leicester’s National Railway Museum, and a conference on 'Planning Leicester: Planning
 and the Historic Environment since the 1960s' (2016) that attracted over 100 delegates. EMOHA
 has provided over 150 training sessions in oral history methods for non-academic audiences in
 Leicester and the East Midlands since 2014, enabling successful grant applications such as the
 AHRC /Radio Leicester collaboration ‘Our Place in the First World War’ (Hyde/Horrocks
 £20,085, 2013–14) and creative partnerships with community groups through HLF-funded
 projects such as the ‘Post-War History of Leicester’ (Hyde £27,000, 2016) and ‘Silence in the
 Archives: Oral Histories of the Menopause’ (Foster/Gunn £20,000, 2019–20). Gunn is co-
 organizer of the Leicester Urban Observatory, a collaboration between the University, Leicester
 City Council, DMU and Loughborough University to share knowledge and promote events
 around the planning of Leicester, including public lectures, day schools and the 2017 Leicester
 Urban Summer School. SBC has built close links with community organizations such as Civic
 Leicester and collaborates with the City in Holocaust Memorial Day. Its members have been
 involved in public commemoration events, e.g., organising Northampton’s commemoration of UK
 Holocaust Memorial Day in 2015 and advising on the Highfield Street Synagogue’s Sharing
 Jewish Heritage HLF project. SBC-led film screenings highlighting key issues such as ethnic
 violence are open to the public and provide a space for discussion and understanding. Since
 2010 we have celebrated Black History Month with both academic- and community-oriented
 events (lectures, film screenings, and other public engagement activities. HyPIR has a formal
 partnership with The Race Equality Centre and Highfields Community Centre in Leicester.
 Building on this relationship, in September 2019, Lewis (CAS) led a team from HyPIR and
 Museum Studies that hosted the Journey to Justice travelling exhibition to promote community
 partnerships, school and widening participation, social justice, and local heritage and history.
 Over 2500 visitors saw the exhibition, and a Schools’ Day brought 128 secondary school pupils
 onto campus for guided tours of the exhibition and workshops on Black History led by academic
 staff. Additional funding through the National Collaborative Outreach Programme in 2020
 supported the ‘Social Justice Plaque’ scheme which takes Journey to Justice into local schools,
 providing tools and support for pupils to research who they want to have represented on a
 plaque in their own school as their ‘Social Justice Champion’.

 Partnerships established through these initiatives have deepened our knowledge of working with
 policy makers in both local and central government and alert us to the wider applications of our

                                                 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research. The experience of public engagement, consultancy and co-creation of research
 translates directly into our research environment, suggesting new research questions, creating
 opportunities for impactful research and generating career development opportunities for staff
 and PGRs. With the right principles in place, and with robust procedures for institutional support
 established, collaborative research leads to benefits for the wider community, which in turn feeds
 back into university life. Through our partnerships and networks, our hosting of events, our
 participation in learned societies, our extensive public engagement activity, and our distribution
 of expertise through consultation, media appearances, and organisation of exhibitions, we have
 benefited the wider academic and civic communities with which we work, and we have in return
 been enriched by them.

 Prizes
 The world-leading quality of the research and impact undertaken by Leicester historians has
 been recognised by international prizes juries: Bethke received the Irma Rosenberg Prize from
 the Institute of Contemporary History, University of Vienna (2016) for Tanz auf Messers
 Schneide. Hurren’s Dying for Victorian Medicine (2015) was highly commended at the British
 Medical Association Book of the Year Awards (‘Basis of medicine’ category). In 2020, Kidambi’s
 Cricket Country won the British Society of Sports History Lord Aberdare Literary Prize and was
 shortlisted for the Wolfson Prize and the MCC Cricket Society book of the year; King received
 the British Academy Peter Townsend prize for Writing the Lives of the English Poor (2019).
 Knox was a finalist and received a ‘Special Mention of Excellence’ for the 2020 Alberigo Award
 from the European Academy of Religion for Jehovah’s Witnesses and the Secular World (2018).
 Story’s Anglo-Saxon Kingdoms catalogue was highly commended for the Historians of British
 Art Book Prize (pre-1600 category: Multi-Authored Book) and received the International Society
 of Anglo-Saxonists award for best research tool (2017–2019). Butler received the 2014
 Hawksmoor medal from the Society of Architectural Historians of Great Britain, Boehme was
 shortlisted in 2019 for the Jack Goody award (Comparative Studies in Society and History) and
 Campbell for the 2016 Surrency Prize for best article published in Law and History Review.
 Horrocks’ work on the Oral History of British Science was recognised in 2015 by both the Royal
 Historical Society Public History Prize for Web and Digital, and the British Society for the History
 of Science Ayrton Prize for web projects and digital engagement in the history of science,
 technology and medicine.

 Conclusion
 Our strong contribution to wider society and the research base constitutes yet another
 successful outcome of our flourishing research environment. We take pride in our support for
 and the success of our PGRs and ECRs through whom the future vitality and dynamism of the
 discipline will be maintained. We continue to develop and deploy our research strategy to create
 a global framework for our research and to effect diversity within the discipline. Our commitment
 to addressing contemporary challenges at a local as well as national and international scale
 through historical research mirrors the University’s commitment to the city of Leicester and its
 region and is aligned with both the University’s prior research strategy and current future-
 focused strategy for ‘Citizens of Change’.




                                                 22
