Unit-level environment template (REF5b)


 Institution: Oxford Brookes University

 Unit of Assessment: 23

 Section 1. Unit context and structure; research and impact strategy

 1.1 Introduction and Context

 Education at Oxford Brookes University is a wide-ranging, multi-disciplinary research community
 combining traditional academic and practice-oriented research. Since REF2014 research and
 impact activity has expanded steadily in scope and scale. This is evidenced by a 58% increase in
 staff with significant responsibility for research (SRR) from 10.50 to 16.6 FTE, a four-fold increase
 in research spend, from £139,040 to £579,182, and an increase in doctoral completions by more
 than 40%, from 16 to 23 in the current assessment period. The quality and variety of outputs has
 also improved, with an increase from two to six single-authored monographs since 2014 (including
 award-winning publications, Section 4). The UoA is home to researchers of national and
 international standing in the following subfields: Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and
 Mathematics (STEAM) Education (McGregor); Applied Linguistics and English as an Additional
 Language (Kotzor; Spiro; Fujino; Russell); Philosophy of Education (Cain; Aldridge); History
 of Education (Wright); Anthropology and Sociology of Education (Alexander); Youth and Media
 Studies (Paule); Psychology of Education and Assessment (Brown); Higher Education
 (Walkington; Arthur; O’Donovan); Early Years (Wild); Teaching and Learning (Browne;
 Dalrymple; De Abreu; O’Donovan); Leadership and Professional Learning (Arthur; Gibson);
 Geography (Butt; Walkington); and Art Education (Payne). Diversity of disciplinary background
 and research trajectory encourages an inclusive and vital environment for research and impact.
 Staff in the UoA are represented in key national and international learned societies and editorial
 boards of their sub-disciplines, while also contributing to a range of activities across the institution,
 and in the local community (examples are given below and in Section 4).

 Since 2014, we have developed a vibrant and sustainable environment for research, in the context
 of a School of Education (SoE) in which 31% of FTE have significant responsibility for research
 (SRR, see Section 2) and where teaching remains a dominant activity and source of income. The
 SoE represents the institutional hub for educational research in the UoA but is not the exclusive
 location of all such activity. The UoA bridges multiple Departments and Faculties (e.g. De Abreu
 and O’Donovan in Business; Paule in History, Philosophy, and Culture; Walkington in
 Geography; and Cain in Philosophy), and is strongly represented in the leadership of the
 university-wide Research, Innovation and Knowledge Exchange (RIKE) Networks (Alexander in
 Children and Families; Paule in Gender, Diversity, and Inclusion), as well as across other faculty
 and institutional activities described below. While in 2014 research groups were less clearly
 defined, since then we have developed the following core research clusters (RC) to provide a
 vibrant, supportive and inclusive environment that facilitates research excellence (see also 1.2
 below):

     ●   STEAM (Learning and Creative Pedagogy) (led by McGregor)
     ●   Humanistic Perspectives (led by Wright)
     ●   Applied Linguistics (led by Spiro)
     ●   Inclusion and Wellbeing (led by Brown)
     ●   Policy, Leadership, and Partnership (led by Gibson and Sky)



                                                                                                   Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Early Childhood (led by Shaw with Wild)

 Other UoA researchers intersect these groupings across the broader landscape of teaching and
 learning (De Abreu, for example, focuses on children, language brokering and psychology in
 educational contexts, while Walkington, Dalrymple and O’Donovan represent a core of
 researchers focusing on aspects of teaching and learning in Higher Education). The development
 of the above groupings reflects a consolidation of our 2014 profile (particularly for STEAM) while
 also facilitating new areas of growth (sociology of education and youth; psychology of education;
 history of education; leadership and management; and HE pedagogy).

 We support research across a broad span of career trajectories, evidenced in our track record for
 internal promotion and progression as well as in recruitment of new staff, including early-career
 and second-career researchers (outlined in Section 2). Our positioning in the city of Oxford offers
 opportunities for research and impact in collaboration with both local and international partners
 including schools, third sector organisations (e.g. Science Oxford; Pitt Rivers Museum), and other
 universities (especially University of Oxford [UoO] – see Section 4). Our approach to impact
 emphasises sustained local and regional engagement, particularly with schools, early-career
 teachers, and university students, leading to broader impact at the national and international scale.
 We have a clear plan for extending a sustainable approach to research and research impact in
 coming years (Section 1.3), centred on making our research activity inclusive, innovative and
 impactful.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy

 Establishment of our positive research environment has been achieved by working towards five
 core strategic goals articulated in a Research Implementation Plan, initiated in 2014 and reviewed
 regularly against faculty and institutional objectives.

 First, in relation to Research Community and Activity, we have focused on the successful
 functioning of research infrastructure, on effective leadership, on improving levels of staff
 engagement (particularly early-[ECR] and mid-career researchers [MCR]), and on nurturing
 collaborative and interdisciplinary research. We have restructured and strengthened our interests
 around the six RCs, with each RC lead devising an action plan annually. Each contributes to the
 UoA research events schedule and hosts a funded external visiting academic. From 2014-2020,
 devolved QR funds (c.£1,800/year) were distributed to RCs for events and staff development.
 Strategic direction for the UoA is provided by the SoE Research Lead (RL) (Butt and McGregor,
 2014-2018; Alexander, 2018-present) who is also a member of the SoE Leadership Team. The
 RL works with the RC Leads (including ECR and MCR) through regular meetings of the Research
 and Consultancy Committee (RaCC), developing and monitoring activity and strategy. The RL
 and RC leads cascade support to RC members. Senior research leaders also mentor staff directly.

 Since 2019, QR funds have been allocated to a dedicated UoA Research Convenor (Frodsham),
 who is a postdoctoral researcher (PDRA) with a 0.2FTE allocation for providing support with
 bidding activity, website updates and events logistics. QR funding also supports research
 conference attendance, which feeds into publications (e.g. returned outputs for Alexander,
 McGregor, Spiro, and Brown). Additional funds are available from the Faculty and University for
 research. For example, with support from senior researchers, UoA members have maintained a
 sustained record of success in bidding for internal seed-corn research project funding, impact
 funding and funding for events (see Section 1.4).



                                                                                               Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The above changes have facilitated research engagement of staff through a more organised and
 strategic approach. Since 2014, the UoA has expanded its annual programme of QR-funded
 events to approximately 30 per year. This programme relates directly to staff development
 (Section 2.2), including:

    -   A traditional externally facing seminar series;
    -   Regular work-in-progress workshops;
    -   An annual Education research conference (the 2020 virtual conference welcomed over
        130 delegates from across the world);
    -   Research away days so that staff have direct input into research strategy (e.g. Spiro’s
        establishment of support for internal peer-reviewing of publications; Arthur, Wright, and
        Dalrymple’s Faculty-funded initiative mapping best practice for doctoral supervision);
    -   A programme of development events including: fortnightly academic writing mornings
        (2018-), away days and residentials (2014-); mini-research sabbaticals of one-two weeks
        (2016-2020); support for bid writing and managing projects; and for developing
        consultancy activities, impact, and public engagement; discussion and reading groups (all
        2014-).
    -   The UoA has extended its public lecture and seminar series to include the involvement of
        international honorary/visiting staff. The significant contributions of Barry Carpenter OBE
        to UoA and Faculty research activities (e.g. through his Autism and Girls Conference in
        2019 and popular 2020 COVID Recovery Curriculum talks) provides strong evidence of
        this.

 The Covid-19 pandemic has accelerated our remote engagement with research students and
 those working flexibly from home with caring responsibilities, who can more readily access virtual
 activities such as seminars, cluster meetings and events. Researchers have identified the value
 of these activities. McGregor organised STEAM RC events linked to the Primary Science
 Teaching Trust (PSTT)-funded research, generating new research (e.g. McGregor’s co-authored
 outputs with PDRA Frodsham). Wright identified discussions within the Humanistic Perspectives
 RC, and writing retreats, as crucial to the development of outputs (including her award-winning
 2017 monograph, see Section 4). Brown noted writing away-days in 2017-2018 as crucial for
 developing publications in 2018-19. Alexander attributes his success in securing a Fulbright
 scholarship (2014-2015) to support from more senior academics during RC meetings and
 subsequent mentoring. Other activities have a direct impact on research outputs. The annual
 Westminster Trust Sabbatical (2017-2020) is match-funded by the SoE, and these semester-long
 sabbaticals have been awarded to McGregor (2018), Alexander (2019), Arthur and Spiro
 (2020). McGregor used this to produce three journal articles; Alexander three articles and one
 monograph; and Arthur two co-authored journal articles.

 Interdisciplinary and collaborative work has also flourished because of changes in planning and
 leadership. Under the Humanistic Perspectives cluster, for example, the Remembrance in Schools
 project brings together philosophy, history, and sociology of education, resulting in one co-
 authored publication (Wright, Haight, Aldridge and Alexander) in the Journal of Beliefs and
 Practices, and several further under development as the project continues (section 1.3).
 McGregor leads a collaborative writing project through the STEAM RC for an edited volume
 entitled Reflections on Becoming an Educational Researcher, including early- and second-career
 researchers and senior colleagues at UoO. The Applied Linguistics RC, led by Spiro, has held a
 series of interdisciplinary symposia including: Language and the Creative Arts (2015-2017);




                                                                                             Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 English as an additional language (2017); and Thinking-in-action: Approaches to Teacher
 Development (2018).

 Second, in relation to research Income, we have been successful in our aim to increase grant
 capture, to diversify sources of income, and to increase support for staff (see Section 3.1). Grant
 capture is monitored via a bids consideration committee (2014-), which works to identify and match
 opportunities against expertise (e.g. Alexander and McGregor’s Daiwa Foundation bid, 2014;
 Arthur’s British Academy bid, 2018; Kotzor’s part in a UoO-led AHRC bid, 2019). This committee
 also supports bidding for internal faculty funding (e.g. Butt and Alexander’s successful bid for
 £14,000 project funding, 2015-2016; Research Excellence awards of up to £10,000 in each case
 for Butt, 2017; McGregor in 2018 and 2019; and Brown and Alexander, 2019). Regular
 developmental workshops and direct mentoring aimed at improving the quality of funding
 applications, especially from early- and mid-career researchers, have resulted in a marked recent
 increase in bidding (e.g. Payne, Brown, doctoral student Shires, PDRA Frodsham).

 Third, in relation to Research Students (PGR), we have aimed to grow and sustain the quality
 of the PGR community, evidenced in the steady increase in doctoral completions from 16 in 2014
 to 23 in 2021, as well as growing our Professional Doctorate (EdD) recruitment (35 enrolled since
 2014). The UoA now has a large and vibrant doctoral community as a result of this strategic focus
 (61 PGR, 12 PhDs and 49 EdD). We have focused on further inclusion of PGR students in events
 (e.g. regular developmental ‘Research Circles’; EdD colloquium; staff workshops for improving
 quality of supervision; opportunities for international collaboration) and publication profile (e.g.
 Alexander and Butt’s co-authored articles with doctoral student Loewenthal; McGregor’s
 collaborations with PhD student Bell, PDRA Frodsham, and others). We actively support doctoral
 study for UoA staff (see also Section 2.3).

 Fourth, in relation to International Collaboration, since 2014 we have strengthened existing
 links while growing new partnerships. Strategic links exist with partners in the USA, Europe, and
 China, including individual connections between academics, collaborative research projects (e.g.
 De Abreu’s EU Horizon 2020-funded research), and a growing portfolio of research-informed
 professional learning programmes (outlined in Sections 2 and 4). In 2019, the UoA achieved a
 major international success co-hosting with UoO the European Science Education Research
 Association Doctoral Summer School 2020. Science education expertise is recognised
 internationally through McGregor’s involvement in the Strategies for the Assessment of Inquiry
 Learning (SAILS) FP7 EU project, involving 11 European countries (2013 – 2016).

 Fifth, in consolidating Research and Impact Strategy, the strategic plan (Section 1.3)
 demonstrates a focus on careful planning for future sustainability.


 1.3 Strategic Plan 2020-5:

 Our strategic plan focuses on making our research activity inclusive, innovative, and impactful.
 A Research and Knowledge Exchange (KE) vision statement was written in consultation with UoA
 members in 2018/19, informing the UoA’s plans for 2021-2025, focusing on three objectives:

    1. Inclusivity: To continue to develop a dynamic environment supporting the research and
       scholarship of all staff and doctoral students; and to further develop research leadership.
       To recruit and retain ECR and MCR staff, while encouraging internal promotion. To



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        continue to grow a diverse and collegiate doctoral community. To ensure that an inclusive
        approach to research and impact is reflected in the practicalities of workload planning.

    2. Innovation: To grow our national and international profile for interdisciplinary research that
       is creative and innovative, while extending and diversifying our generation of research
       income.

    3. Impact: To focus on the distinctiveness of our research expertise, emphasising
       engagement with the key publics (especially schools), in turn contributing to the common
       good. To extend the breadth of research-informed professional learning activity, building
       on existing success.

 In 2021-2025 our community will celebrate our diversity of research expertise and experience.
 Emphasis will be placed on collaborative research, learning from existing strengths and
 recognising virtuous, circular links between teaching and learning, engagement with schools, and
 academic research. In forging a sense of inquiring intellectual community, together we will build a
 vital and sustainable research culture based on shared principles of equity and social justice.

 1.4 Enabling and facilitating impact

 The strategic plan for 2021-2025 reflects a clear commitment to maximising impact on wider
 publics, in line with Faculty-wide strategy (delivered through the institution’s Research Impact
 Steering Group and by Research Impact Officers). Affording time and resources for impact has
 been essential to the UoA’s strategy since 2014, evidenced through increased workload hours for
 KE and impact. External funding (e.g. Alexander’s 2016-18 ESRC Impact Acceleration Award)
 and internal Faculty funding has also enabled impact (Walkington and McGregor received
 £1,500 faculty funding to support impact case studies (ICS), including assistance with data
 collection and buy-out from teaching; and Wright received £3,000 for the Remembrance in
 Schools Project). Support for impact has facilitated the following successes:

    ●   Undergraduate research engagement: Get Published! (now Launchpad) (Walkington,
        Payne) focuses on undergraduate research engagement and mentoring. This OBU-wide
        programme is widely recognised internationally as an example of innovative practice for
        student research engagement, with clearly evidenced impact on approaches in other
        institutional settings. This forms an important part of Walkington’s ICS.

    ●   Wilson and McGregor’s Thinking, Doing, Talking Science (TDTS) project has had
        demonstrated impact nationally on science education (the focus of the McGregor’s ICS).
        Via an EEF-funded trial, the creative pedagogy of TDTS has been shown to have a
        measurable positive impact on learning for primary pupils. The TDTS model has been
        taken forward by multiple organisations: e.g. the Wellcome Trust Explorify platform
        explicitly reflects the principles of TDTS, and 10,291 UK schools have at least one teacher
        using Explorify (approximately 50% of UK primary schools). TDTS directly informed the
        pedagogic approach adopted in the newly opened facility of Science Oxford. The impact
        of this work is to continue with further EEF funding for an efficacy study based at that
        organisation.

    ●   Art education: Payne works on research engagement for artist-teachers in local schools.
        The local impact of Payne’s research has led to impact at the national level through her
        role as President for the National Society for Education in Art and Design, and as a
        member of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for Art, Craft and Design in Education.


                                                                                              Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Payne chairs an Initial Teacher Education Special Interest Group who have successfully
        lobbied the Department for Education (DfE) to implement £9,000 bursaries for art and
        design teacher trainees in 2020-21. Payne is one of only 11 UK academics profiled on the
        ‘Research Impact at the UK Parliament’ website.

    ●   Professional learning: UoA research impacts positively on local and international schools
        via professional learning activities delivered through OBU’s Centre for Educational
        Consultancy and Development (detailed in Section 2 & 4). One example, the Principles of
        Practice programme with the English Schools Foundation (ESF) in Hong Kong, focuses
        on research literacy for teachers and is informed by the research of Alexander, Spiro,
        McGregor, Aldridge, and Walkington. This programme has directly shaped the strategic
        vision for the ESF. Also informed by UoA research (Walkington and Browne), the Khebrat
        Leadership for Change programme was a project with the Saudi Ministry of Education
        focusing on mentoring teacher engagement with educational research. In 2016-17 the UoA
        was the only in the UK to succeed in bidding for this project. Alexander’s ESRC Impact
        Acceleration Award also focused on professional learning, exploring how schools engage
        in discussions of culture and difference.

    ●   Special Educational Needs, Disabilities and Inclusion (SENDI): Visiting academic
        Barry Carpenter (OBE) carries out impact activity in the field of autism, e.g. in the
        development of a national project developing online ‘Training materials for teachers of
        children with severe, profound and complex learning disabilities”. More recent work on a
        post-COVID “Recovery Curriculum” was proposed via two talks given at the DfE in 2020,
        attended by 8,700 participants.

 1.5 Interdisciplinary research
 Interdisciplinarity is at the heart of the UoA research culture, and is a strategic goal demonstrated
 through a strong track record of researching and publishing with colleagues across disciplinary
 boundaries within Education. This is evidenced in the close working between UoA members and
 institutional RIKE networks (see also Section 1.1) and in the cross-disciplinary nature of
 researchers’ work. Spiro’s co-authored 2019 monograph, for example, combines linguistics,
 cultural studies, and pedagogy; McGregor’s work explores the links between science and drama;
 Alexander and Paule have worked together on outputs combining Media Studies, Gender
 Studies, and Youth Studies; O’Donovan works across education, psychology, and business. De
 Abreu’s EU Horizon 2020-funded research on provision for migrant children demonstrates
 collaboration across an international and interdisciplinary team (see also section 4).

 1.6 Research Integrity and Ethics
 The UoA champions best practice for research integrity, with strong links to the university
 Research Ethics Committee (UREC): Brown is the Faculty ethics officer, new to role since 2014.
 Brown regularly delivers Faculty training on research ethics and provides scrutiny for student and
 staff research projects alike. This in turn feeds into undergraduate and postgraduate
 programming. Brown, Gibson and others also offer research ethics sessions for school partners.
 Walkington’s research into undergraduate research engagement tackles questions of ethics and
 integrity. Brown also collaborated in 2018-19 with Spiro and the UREC chair on research
 investigating ethics committees in educational research (a returned output published 2020 in
 British Educational Research Journal).


 1.7 Open Research


                                                                                               Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA is committed to the principles of open research championed at the institutional level,
 encouraging open access publishing wherever possible. The UoA encouraged all researchers to
 adopt an open access approach to journal articles, conference proceedings, books and book
 chapters published between 2014-2020. Open access publications are made available via the
 institutional repository, RADAR. The majority of UoA research events are open to the wider public
 of the local education community. This is evidenced in the focus of the 2020 annual Education
 conference, which focused on the intersection between research and professional practice. In
 terms of open data, Russell is a central member of the open linguistics database Rendaku (a
 sound change in Japanese), http://www-h.yamagata-u.ac.jp/~irwin/site/Rendaku_Database.html.
 We are working closely with the EEF to explore how data from the Thinking, Doing, Talking
 Science project can be made more openly available.

 Section 2. People

 2.1: Staffing Strategy

 The UoA includes a diverse profile of individuals, including: experienced senior-career professors
 (e.g. McGregor; Butt; Browne; De Abreu; O’Donovan; Spiro; Walkington; Wild); MCR who
 have progressed through internal promotion (Alexander; Wright; Dalrymple); and staff who have
 enjoyed senior careers in schools before their current appointments (e.g. Payne; Gibson;
 Brown). The research infrastructure outlined above (1.1) has allowed staff to develop substantial
 research careers while holding management, administrative, and teaching roles (e.g. in the SoE
 Wild (former) and Dalrymple as Head of SoE; Alexander as RL; Wright as PGRT; Butt and
 McGregor previously as RLs).

 Since 2014 we have demonstrated a commitment to growing research capacity through the
 appointment and promotion of research-active staff. This targeted approach to staffing has
 strengthened existing specialisms while broadening the scope of our research portfolio. We have
 recruited new staff with a significant responsibility for research, namely Alexander, Brown,
 Kotzor, and Gibson, all ECR and/or second-career researchers at the time of appointment. The
 UoA now has a clearer focus on research being a key part of the job specifications of the majority
 of new staff, with a commitment to support and mentor their ongoing research (e.g. Gibson and
 Frodsham).

 Investment in research staffing is evidenced through internal promotions, which also reflect
 research achievements. Our professorial staff has increased from 6 in 2014 to 8 in 2020 (new:
 Wild and Spiro). Payne has been promoted from Senior Lecturer (SL) to Principal Lecturer (PL).
 Alexander has progressed from ECR RF in 2013 to Reader and UoA RL in 2019. Aldridge was
 promoted from PL to Reader in 2017 and has subsequently been appointed as Professor at Edge
 Hill University. Butt has since retired, however where staff have left or retired, we have focused
 on vitality and sustainability by recruiting or supporting the promotion of enthusiastic individuals
 who have an emerging or established research profile.

 2.2: Staff development

 The UoA has a strategic focus on inclusive staff development, in keeping with the OBU Academic
 Development Framework (which mirrors Vitae recommendations for researcher development).
 For new staff (e.g. Alexander, Kotzor, Gibson, Brown) this is articulated through the ‘Your First
 Three Years; YFTY’ programme, providing training in research development, research
 management, and grant capture. The annual Personal Research Plan (PRP) is a valuable
 developmental tool, documenting research achievements and plotting future activity (see IES).

                                                                                              Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Alexander as RL is responsible for leading researcher development through the PRP. At Faculty
 level, support for new staff is articulated through events that extend beyond YFTY, including
 funding (e.g. Central Research Fund [CRF] Research Excellence Awards, events and impact
 funding); events focusing on grant capture and bidding; data skills development; project
 management workshops; writing workshops; and mentoring for promotion. A Faculty ECR
 Mentoring scheme also offers support and funding (£2,000 per FTE). Mentoring for senior
 researchers focuses on grant capture, developing impact, promotion and mentoring others. UoA
 researchers have taken advantage of this provision (e.g. through successful internal research
 funding bids; and evidenced in promotions), while the UoA has its own suite of staff development
 activities (see Section 1.1).

 Continuing the focus on inclusivity, we encourage opportunities for early-career development
 including positions of leadership and responsibility. This also addresses succession management.
 For example, since 2018 Wright has become PGRT. Gibson, Brown, Kotzor, and Wright are
 all SL who are RC Leads. Brown has progressed through her Faculty-wide research ethics role.
 While a SL (2016), Alexander took over leadership for research-informed professional learning
 as Director of the Centre for Educational Consultancy and Development, before progressing to
 RL. Payne has progressed via a doctorate to an institution-wide position for widening participation,
 drawing on her research. In October 2020 Frodsham progressed from a short-term PDRA to a
 part-time permanent role as a SL focusing on KE and teaching activities. Some staff have recently
 completed doctorates (e.g. Winters) while others (Shires, Reid, Fletcher, Tobin and Fenwick, and
 Skelton) are in the process of completing doctorates in Education at OBU. This will enrich
 significantly the pool of current staff with a developing portfolio for research to be returned in a
 future REF.

 Our focus on inclusivity goes beyond leadership and responsibility to also nurture collaborative
 contexts for staff development. From 2018, for example, fortnightly ‘Research Circles’ (Wright
 and Spiro), focus on developing research skills and peer support. Through PSTT-funded
 research, McGregor has championed the development of doctoral students (e.g. Bell) and PDRAs
 (Frodsham). Via the STEAM group, McGregor mentors less experienced staff through the
 ROBER collaborative writing project (see 1.1).

 Other targeted staff development activities include:

    -   Mentoring: Professorial staff and Readers advise staff and RC Leads through one-to-one
        sessions; and during targeted workshops/events (e.g internal peer-review led by Spiro).
        Most external bidding activity includes a mentor and reviewer at the Faculty level, and the
        UoA provides close mentoring of bids via input from the RL and other senior research staff.
    -   Sabbaticals are available as outlined in Section 1, funded by The Westminster Trust.
    -   Funding: QR funds support attendance at conferences (£7,000/year). This is in addition to
        RC funds (also QR) and a Faculty Staff Development budget. Each year approximately 10
        individuals attend conferences, ensuring a consistent UoA presence at key disciplinary
        conferences (e.g. BERA, AERA, ESERA).

 2.3 Exchanges between academia and business

 Exchanges between academia and business are focused principally through the work of the
 Centre for Educational Consultancy and Development (CECD), which has three core areas of
 research-informed activity: 1) UK-based professional learning for schools; 2) International
 professional learning programmes (principally for international schools); and 3) contract research.
 In keeping with the objectives of our REF2014 strategy (‘expanding the work of our research and


                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consultancy centres’ to ensure the vibrancy and impact of our research, and our future focus on
 innovation, the aim of CECD is to develop income-generating projects with schools and other
 educational partners that are underpinned by UoA research. Through CECD, UoA researchers
 develop impactful projects with non-academic partners.

 This approach has been successful. Consultancy and CPD income was £12,250 in 2014-15, and
 has increased to £249,638 across 2015/16-2019/20. A large proportion of this funding (£144,000)
 was generated from professional learning projects with the Ministry of Education of Saudi Arabia
 under the Khebrat programme, underpinned by the research of Walkington on mentoring
 (described above and in Section 4). Our flagship Newly Qualified Teachers Induction programme
 is the heart of local professional learning activity (informed by the research of McGregor and
 Payne) and includes teachers from up to 40 UK schools per year. Since 2014 CECD has
 developed several successful contracts focusing on research-informed professional learning
 programmes with fee-paying international schools (Times College in China; 22 schools in The
 English Schools Foundation group in Hong Kong; 8 schools in the Ecolint/Geneva International
 School group in Switzerland). This work is underpinned by the research of Alexander, Spiro, and
 Gibson.

 2.4 Research students
 From 2014-2020 there were 23 successful doctoral completions, representing a steady increase
 of over 40% from figures in REF2014 (16). At least two further PhD and two EdD students are
 expected to complete in 2020-21.

  Year                           PhD                     Professional Doctorate
  2013-2014                      2                       0
  2014-2015                      2                       0
  2015-2016                      2                       0
  2016-2017                      1                       2
  2017-2018                      5                       0
  2018-2019                      6                       2
  2019-2020                      1                       0


 PGR are an integral part of the research community. The PGRT (Wright), along with other
 members of the EdD team (Arthur; McGregor; Spiro; Dalrymple) oversee supervision and
 promote the research engagement of doctoral students, including RC membership and
 participation in the research activities described in section 1.1.

 Doctoral students by degree

  PhD                                              EdD
  12                                               49


 The EdD represents a large proportion of the total number of doctoral candidates in the Faculty.
 Research students come from a variety of backgrounds: the majority are employed as
 experienced practitioners in education or allied fields (e.g. Nursing). Since 2014 the UoA has been
 successful in advertising and recruiting students to five Faculty, match-funded scholarships
 (Howard, Loewenthal, Coppard, Tobin, Bell). Faculty support for PGR is articulated through the
 Doctoral Training Programme (2018-), providing activities to consolidate skills for academic
 practice. In keeping with our strategic focus on inclusivity, a key intention is to integrate more fully

                                                                                                  Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 both EdD and PhD students in the work of the UoA – through membership in RCs, mentoring,
 engagement in teaching, and attending and presenting at UoA and Faculty research events (e.g.
 Research Circles). PGR present their research work regularly at national and international
 conferences (often alongside supervisors, e.g. McGregor; Butt; Alexander). The EdD is twinned
 with colleagues at the University of Hawai’i (organised by Spiro), offering students exposure to
 wider international networks. With a focus on supporting progress towards timely completion,
 Wright has since 2018 instigated a series of developmental workshops including shadow transfer
 sessions, mock vivas and peer review of thesis drafts. All PGRs have access to shared workspace
 in a dedicated UoA Research Hub and study room, with IT facilities. The UoA has a dedicated
 Education library, and students have access to other libraries (including UoO Bodleian libraries).
 Support for PGR also extends beyond the degree: recent graduates (e.g. Frodsham, Martin-
 Millward) now have permanent or fractional roles in Education at OBU.

 In terms of ensuring quality of provision, resource is directed into upskilling staff, who are
 increasingly engaged in supervisory work and internal and external examination of theses, as well
 as widening UoA representation on supervisory teams across the Faculty and beyond. One aim
 has been to pair new supervisors with experienced supervisors, supporting development and
 ensuring a consistent, quality student experience. Many staff in the UoA also contribute to the
 taught programme of the EdD, following university training to meet the requirements of doctoral
 supervision and teaching. UoA researchers are also active in researching HE pedagogy, including
 doctoral supervision. Arthur and Dalrymple won internal funding to develop a professional
 learning project focusing on doctoral supervision (2019); and Alexander, Aldridge, and Dalrymple
 completed commissioned research on best practice for doctoral supervision via CECD (funded by
 the British Council, 2015). This feeds into best practice. McGregor’s appointment to host the
 European Science Education Research Association (ESERA) doctoral Summer School 2020 is
 another marker of esteem for the UoA in terms of best practice for doctoral provision.

 Excellence in our wider postgraduate research community is evidenced in the following:

    ●   In 2018 EdD student Curry won the Emerald Literati Award for Outstanding papers (Curry,
        R., (2017) "Makerspaces: A beneficial new service for Academic Libraries?", Library
        Review, Vol. 66 Issue: 4/5, doi: 10.1108/LR-09-2016-0081)
    ●   The 2018 Winner of the BERA Masters Dissertation Award was Manley for her
        dissertation: School-based counselling interventions for the reduction of anxiety in primary
        school children: a systematic review
    ●   In 2018 the dissertation of Parsons was ‘highly commended’ by the judges of the BERA
        Masters Dissertation Award.
    ●   In 2019 MA Education artist-teacher student Bird was shortlisted for the Turner
        Contemporary annual art competition Portfolio.
    ●   Chalmers received the commendation: British Council ELT (English Language Teaching)
        MA Dissertation Award in 2014; and was shortlisted for the BERA Masters Dissertation
        Prize in the same year.

 2.5 Equality and diversity

 OBU is committed to equality and diversity in its selection of staff and outputs for REF through its
 Code of Practice (see IES) and more broadly. UoA researchers are actively engaged in equality
 and diversity issues through various strands of research (e.g. Alexander and Paule research
 questions of race, gender, and social justice). Part of the remit of the Wellbeing and Inclusion RC
 is to explore questions of equality and diversity. This is well-evidenced in the annual Inclusion
 Week event, which brings researchers and practitioners together at OBU from across the region

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to discuss questions of inclusion and diversity. The UoA is represented on the university Athena
 Swan committee (Alexander, Arthur) and supported the successful application for a Faculty
 Bronze Award (2020). UoA members are also prominent in the university Gender, Diversity and
 Inclusion Network (Paule), and elsewhere in relation to university strategy on diversity, inclusion,
 and widening participation (Payne; Dalrymple was University Associate Dean for Student
 Outcomes in 2020). Equality and diversity are also central to pedagogy and research-informed
 professional learning in the UoA, with research on these themes feeding into curricula.

 In a sector where men still retain the majority of senior research positions, the UoA is committed
 to championing gender equality. Of the 66 (by headcount) REF-eligible staff in Education, 77%
 are women and 29% have SRR (19 or 16.6 FTE). Our EIA has shown no significant difference
 in those having SRR by any of the protected characteristics including gender; 29% of eligible
 women and 27% of eligible men have been returned and thus the UoA comprises 4 men and 15
 women. The majority of senior staff, including all current professors, are women and both ICS
 were authored by women. The UoA gender mix of the output audit committee reflected that of the
 UoA overall and the EIA showed no difference in the number of outputs submitted by any of the
 protected characteristics including by gender.

 The UoA encourages equality of access to research career progression for part-time and fractional
 staff with family or other caring responsibilities (e.g. Alexander and Wright). Flexible working is
 encouraged through a formal ‘teaching constraints’ register and through a flexible approach to
 workload planning accounting for responsibilities outside of work. Approximately 30% of all
 returned staff (both men and women) have taken parental leave, caring leave, or have adjusted
 to fractional working since 2014.

 Inclusion and wellbeing are a focus for research (e.g. De Abreu’s in Section 3.2), professional
 learning, and everyday practice in the UoA. Wellbeing and mental good health are championed in
 the UoA through a range of activities. Poetry events, social events, smaller groups for physical
 exercise, a weekly ‘free vend’ coffee morning, choir and musical events all aim to provide balance
 and wellbeing. Payne’s ‘anti-neoliberal booth’ installation at the Think Human Festival invited
 audiences to dwell in silence as a route to wellbeing. The Inclusion and Wellbeing research group
 have hosted several events (e.g. the Autism and Girls conference 2019) that help to support
 wellbeing by championing the discussion of inclusion and the experiences of marginal groups.

 Section 3. Income, infrastructure, and facilities

 3.1 Research Income:

 Since REF2014 the UoA has generated research spend of £579,182. This represents an increase
 of 350% on income recorded in the last assessment period (£149,030). Sources of research
 income in the current assessment period include: Primary Science Teaching Trust (the largest
 source of funding) (McGregor), AHRC (Kotzor), ESRC (Alexander), The British Academy
 (Arthur; O’Donovan); Gender and Education Society (Paule); The Higher Education Academy
 (O’Donovan; Dean); HEFCE (Sharpe); and the Daiwa Foundation (Alexander and McGregor).
 The substantial income generation from research-informed professional learning activity is
 outlined in Section 2.3. The increase in research income reflects our commitment to income
 generation as a strategic aim, as well as our investment in staff development for grant capture.

 The vitality and sustainability of our approach to grant capture is reflected in the growing value
 and diversity of our income generation since 2014. In 2013-14 income was £54,660 from two
 sources. By 2019-20 the UoA had increased income (£92,320) and the number of funders, e.g.

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 PSTT funding for McGregor’s ‘Exploring and Exemplifying Creativity in KS2 & KS3 Science
 Classrooms’, and Kotzor’s contribution to a large-scale AHRC bid led by the UoO entitled ‘Journey
 of words: Manuscript to Mind’). Bidding activity also increased to 17 bids submitted by 11
 individuals.

 Part of this overall significant increase in successful grant capture and bidding activity is attributed
 to increased support for bidding activity (see Section 2.2), and collaboration between senior
 researchers and less experienced researchers. Support for bid writing has also allowed bids that
 were originally unsuccessful to be repurposed for successful projects (e.g. Alexander’s
 successful 2014-2015 Fulbright award, derived from a previously unsuccessful application).
 Extending and diversifying grant capture remains an area of strategic focus, and signs of progress
 are already evident. De Abreu, for example, has recently been awarded c.€376,000 as part of the
 EU Horizon 2020-funded project ‘NEW ABC: Networking the educational world – Across
 boundaries for community-building’, starting in 01/2021 and focusing on the emotional wellbeing
 of migrant children in education in the UK. The project involves 14 institutions from 9 countries.

 3.2 Estates and Facilities

 Since 2014 OBU has focused significant investment in estates and facilities (see IES section 4).
 UoA researchers benefit from refurbished spaces for research, dissemination, and impact (e.g.
 the Think Human Festival hosted in the John Henry Brookes building; Payne’s participation in
 artist-teacher installations in the Glass Tank gallery space). All UoA researchers have individual
 or shared office space and can access a dedicated UoA Research Hub room. PGR also have a
 permanent workspace. In 2020 we were forward-thinking in investing QR funds in Zoom
 infrastructure (prior to institutional buy-in) for online research events.

 OBU has a dedicated Education library and a wealth of online resources relevant to the key sub-
 disciplines represented across the UoA. Researchers can access resources across Oxford,
 including the UoO Bodleian libraries. The UoA maintains a strong and positive relationship with
 the Department of Education at the UoO and other departmental and wider scholarly networks
 relevant to the research of UoA members. Alexander, for example, is a Research Associate at
 the Oxford Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology, while Kotzor is a member of the Oxford
 Language and Brain Laboratory. Payne works with colleagues at the Pitt Rivers Museum on artist-
 teacher research and museum collections. McGregor, Butt, Aldridge and Wild also maintain close
 working relations with counterparts at the UoO. Within Oxfordshire, the UoA is also linked to the
 Oxfordshire Teaching Schools Alliance, to the Oxford Education Deanery, Science Oxford
 (McGregor, see Section 1.4 above) and academy trusts with whom knowledge exchange and
 dissemination takes place regularly.

 Section 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 4.1 Research collaboration, networks, and partnerships

 Since 2014 we have expanded our local, national, and international partnerships, in keeping with
 the Faculty Research and KE strategy. From 2018, two annual Westminster Trust-funded Teacher
 Fellowships allow local teachers buyout from teaching responsibilities to pursue original research
 with the mentorship of UoA members. UoA researchers also research and publish extensively
 with colleagues in other institutions, nationally and internationally (reflected in returned outputs).
 The impact of such collaborations has been to raise the profile of UoA research, offering
 opportunities for interdisciplinary work, often resulting in publications and new research projects.
 For example, Walkington co-leads research in mentoring undergraduate research with

                                                                                                 Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 colleagues at Duke University, Elon University, Bridgewater State University and Roanoke College
 (see Walkington’s ICS). Butt worked with Emeritus staff (Catling, Vass) and Eaude (UoO) on a
 conference and special edition of the journal Education 3-13 (2017); with Symeon Dagkas
 (Canterbury Christchurch University) commissioning and editing a special edition (‘Hall of Fame’)
 of Educational Review (2018); and with David Lambert (UCL/IoE) on commissioning and editing
 a special edition of International Research in Geographical and Environmental Education (2015).
 As a lead academic for the PSTT, McGregor works regularly with an international group of
 researchers in science education (e.g. McGregor edited a 2017 special edition of the Journal of
 Emergent Science, supporting junior academics Coppard and Bianchi). Alexander in 2017 co-
 organised an international conference on the life course with the American Anthropological
 Association. In 2018 Alexander also organised an international conference on teaching
 anthropology at OBU with the Royal Anthropological Institute. In troubling times for international
 networks in Europe, De Abreu’s participation in large-scale EU Horizon 2020 funded research is
 evidence of how the UoA maintains an outward-looking perspective (detailed in Section 3.1).

 Elsewhere, Alexander has held visiting posts at New York University (2014-15) and later at the
 Autonomous University of Barcelona (2019). In 2014 O’Donovan was Visiting International
 Scholar at the Australian Business Deans Council. The EdD colloquium is a focus for international
 collaboration with the University of Hawai’i (Spiro). In Hong Kong, Alexander works on research
 engagement for teachers with the English Schools Foundation, and in China, Browne carried out
 research-informed CPD at Beijing Normal University (2018). In Saudi Arabia, Browne,
 Alexander, and Dalrymple worked between 2016-2018 on the Khebrat project outlined in 2.3 and
 4.2). In South Africa, Walkington has influenced approaches to undergraduate research
 engagement at Durban Technology University. In India, Shaw and Skelton have worked with the
 Helga Todd Foundation since 2018 on research into primary teacher mentoring. In Japan,
 Alexander and McGregor have researched teacher mentoring with colleagues at Kyoto
 University of Education, funded by the Daiwa Foundation (2014-2017).

 The UoA has a culture of awarding Visiting Fellowships and Professorships, with these individuals
 supporting research activity, mentoring, providing seminars, and jointly authoring publications.
 Honorary staff appointed since 2014 include: Mitchell (Early Years); Vass (History Education);
 Christensen (Anthropology). These links have enabled an expansion of expertise and a
 contribution to the vitality of the research environment.

 4.2 Engaging with diverse communities and publics
 UoA researchers engage with a wide range of communities and publics, including the following:
     ● Payne is a member of the all-party Parliamentary Group for Art, Craft and Design
        Education and has had significant engagement with the broader artist-teacher community
        in her role as President of NSEAD (see section 1.4).
     ● The Remembrance in Schools project (Wright, Aldridge, Alexander): This project involves
        engagement with external stakeholders including representatives of interest groups (eg
        the British Legion), heritage professionals (eg Imperial War Museum), and school teachers
        interested in remembrance practices. This research was also featured in the Times
        Educational Supplement (2020).
     ● Think Human Festivals: In 2018 and 2020 OBU hosted a week-long festival showcasing
        the value of the humanities and social sciences at OBU. Members of the UoA (Payne,
        Spiro, Alexander, Paule and others) enjoyed a high profile at both festivals, which were
        attended by approximately 2000 people.




                                                                                           Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    ●   Autism and Girls Conference 2019: This event led by doctoral student Reid and visiting
        academic Carpenter, welcomed over 100 delegates, mainly from practitioner
        backgrounds.
    ●   The ‘My Primary School is at the Museum’ project involving McGregor, Wild, PDRA
        Frodsham, and Payne is a national initiative exploring museum learning, in collaboration
        with local schools, museums, and academic and professional partners (King’s College
        London’s Cultural Institute; Wendy James, Partner at Garbers & James Architects).
    ●

    ●   Youth Transitions: Alexander developed the FutureYou2020 art-research installation
        (2017-2020), exploring how young people imagine the future. Through interactive displays
        and an originally composed soundscape, public audiences have engaged with Alexander’s
        research findings, including writing themselves letters that the researcher will send back
        at the end of 2020, extending engagement. The installation has been visited by thousands
        of individuals at the Ashmolean Museum (2016), the Bodleian library (2019), Pegasus
        Theatre (2018), at the Oxford Festival of Ideas (2019), Oxford Science Bazaar (2017), and
        Think Human Festivals (2018/2020).

    ●   Spiro’s research on cultural boundary crossing has been articulated through poetry to
        encourage public engagement, e.g. with Eynsham Peace Oak and Schools (October
        2019); the National Museum of Justice and migration stories (May 2019), and through
        poetry collections published by Stanza Two.

    ●   Professional learning: outlined in in Section 2, we have expanded significantly our
        research-informed professional learning programming for the teaching profession. This is
        evidenced as much in our work with local teachers, through programming for newly
        qualified teachers in Oxfordshire (in collaboration with the Oxfordshire Teaching Schools
        Alliance) as in our work leading research-informed professional development for the Saudi
        Ministry of Education (Khebrat 1 & 2), and our Principles of Practice programme for more
        senior teachers in international schools from Hong Kong to Switzerland. These
        programmes directly engage the teaching profession with UoA research.
    ●   Researchers regularly engage with the media. Alexander and Brown have appeared on
        local radio to talk about A-Level results; Alexander’s research has been featured on a
        number of popular podcasts including that of the UoO (iTunesU), and Education on Fire.
        Wright’s research on remembrance was featured in the TES (2020). Paule’s research
        featured in Grazia and other national press for her work on gender and celebrity (2019-
        20). Tobin (doctoral student) featured in The Guardian (2020) for emerging research on
        representations of fatherhood in children’s literature.

 4.3 Indicators of recognition and influence
 Indicators of the quality of research in the UoA are evidenced in different prizes and fellowships
 awarded. Wright (2020) was awarded the prestigious Kevin Brehony Prize for the best first single-
 authored book 2017-19 in the History of Education. In 2014-15 Alexander was the only recipient
 of the competitive Fulbright-Peabody scholarship (US-UK Fulbright Commission). UoA members
 are regularly invited to give keynote lectures (for example, Walkington has delivered 8 keynotes
 from 2014-20 including at the Research in Higher Education Newer Researchers Conference
 2017, The Innovation Room, and University College Copenhagen, 2016). UoA researchers hold
 positions of responsibility across a range of organisations because of their standing. Walkington
 is reviewer for OCR A-Level Geography in South Africa. Alexander is the global chief examiner
 for International Baccalaureate (IB) Social and Cultural Anthropology. Butt provided consultancy

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 research for SQW, who were commissioned to evaluate the School Challenge Cymru Project.
 Reid (doctoral student) was a contributor in 2018 to the UNESCO and European Agency For
 Special Needs and Inclusive Education: Inclusive Education in Action initiative. Wild is Patron of
 the Reading Quest Charity and a consultant for Beanstalk. Walkington has recently advised The
 Higher Education Academy and Quality Assurance Agency. Shires (doctoral student) is a founding
 Fellow of the Chartered College of Teaching.

 UoA members are also represented across a range of professional bodies, in some cases in
 positions of leadership. Researchers are members of BERA (Wild, McGregor and others) and
 the University Council for the Education of Teachers (doctoral student Shires, Alexander), and
 Senior or Principal Fellows of the HEA (Dalrymple, Walkington). McGregor is a lead academic
 advisor for the Primary Science Teaching Trust (PSTT), Chair of the Research Committee for the
 Association of Science Education (ASE), member of National Association for Research in Science
 Teaching (NARST) (USA), and the National Science Teaching Association (USA). Butt was Chair,
 then Secretary, of the Geography Education Research Collective (GEReCo), invited member of
 the International Geographical Union – Commission on Geography Education (UK). Alexander
 was a Board member of the Anthropology of Childhood and Youth SIG (American Anthropological
 Association, 2014-2017), and a member of the Education Committee for the Royal Anthropological
 Institute. Wild is member of British Psychological Society, and sits on the National Steering Group
 for Early Childhood Studies Degree Network. Browne is a member of Education and Training
 Foundation.

 Walkington is a member of Steering Group of the British Conference on Undergraduate Research
 (BCUR), Co-Chair of the Society for Research in HE Academic Practice Network, member of HE
 Research Group (HERG) of RGS-IBG; co-chair of the International Network for Learning and
 Teaching (INLT). While at OBU Aldridge was an active member of Philosophy of Education Society
 of Great Britain and was an elected member of the Executive Board of the Association for Moral
 Education. Wright is a member of Social History Society, and Honorary Secretary of the History
 of Education Society, UK. Paule is a member of Gender and Education Association (GEA), Media
 Communication and Cultural Studies Association (MeCCA), and Ruskin College Council. Spiro is
 on the Steering Executive for Centre for the Internationalisation of Curriculum Inquiry and
 Mentoring (CICIM). Brown is a Fellow of the British Psychological Society (BPS).

 4.4 Academic journal editorship/editorial board membership: In addition to reviewing across
 a range of journals, since 2014 staff have been editors, or served on editorial boards, for the
 following academic journals:

    ●   Educational Review (Butt); Oxford Review of Education (Butt; Alexander); Research in
        Geography Education Online (RIGEO) (Butt);
    ●   Scholarship and Practice of Undergraduate Research (US) (Walkington), GEOverse
        (Walkington), Journal of Geography in Higher Education (Walkington);
    ●   History of Education (Wright, editor 2014-2019),
    ●   Reading in a Foreign Language (Spiro),
    ●   International Journal of Science Education; International Journal of Thinking Skills and
        creativity; Journal of Research in Science teaching (McGregor);
    ●   Teaching Anthropology (Alexander, editor 2016-2020);
    ●   British Educational Research Journal (Aldridge, editor)




                                                                                            Page 15
