Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Liverpool John Moores University

 Unit of Assessment: History (28)

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Since 2014, the History department at Liverpool John Moores University (LJMU) has strategically
 expanded its membership to strengthen the research culture and base. It has recruited eight new
 staff at ECR level and broadened its areas of research strength (see 2i). It comprises 17 FTE
 researchers in nineteenth- and twentieth-century history. The department is based within the
 School of Humanities and Social Science (HSS), and serves as the locus for the LJMU wing of
 the co-institutional Centre for Port & Maritime History (CPMH; a partnership between the University
 of Liverpool, LJMU and Merseyside Maritime Museum [MMM]).

 Growth in staffing to a ‘critical mass’ has facilitated the establishment of two broad research
 clusters within the department: ‘Social and cultural identities and representations’, led by
 Matthews-Jones, and ‘Politics, economics and ideas in international history’, led by Crossland
 and Keil. The clusters provide effective peer support amongst researchers for producing outputs
 and funding bids, and reflect departmental strengths in cultural and international history. There
 are 14-15 members of each cluster, including full-time and non-permanent colleagues, and PGRs.
 Several colleagues belong to both clusters, facilitating the cross-fertilisation of ideas.

 Our research strategy focuses on the production of excellent historical research rooted in local,
 national and international contexts. Equally, the department encourages all staff to consider the
 potential for their research to generate impact beyond the academy, both by developing
 partnerships with external non-academic collaborators, and by encouraging public engagement
 and dissemination. Staff are encouraged to apply for QR funding at Faculty level to support both
 research and impact (worth c. £60K during this REF cycle).

 i. Strategic priorities from REF 2014

    1) Expand production of high-quality outputs

    2) Increase the success rate of funding bids to support research, particularly with external
       partners

 There has been a step-change in staff ambition, leading to a 50% increase in monographs and
 72% rise in journal articles submitted, compared to REF2014, and the winning of external research
 grants (£330K compared to £6K). These achievements reflect a sustainable, internally-driven
 growth strategy. Interlocking with curriculum development, we have prioritised research profile and
 potential for new appointments. We have further supported staff by department-level workshops
 on grant development and maximising output quality, facilitated by external academic speakers.

 Several grants have been captured via collaborative applications, notably Vaughan’s
 BA/Leverhulme (£9,914) and AHRC projects (£239,404) on East African regionalism with co-
 investigators from the Universities of Edinburgh, York, Utrecht and UCLA. Vickers’ Arts Council
 award, Dry Your Eyes Princess (£14,800) was in partnership with a photographic artist, Stephen
 King. White’s Heritage Lottery and Elder Dempster Pensioners Association funded Homeward
 Bound (£10,500), was facilitated through CPMH. Enhanced Faculty-level support for grant
 application development has also contributed to these successes.

    3) Expand the PGR community

 Our PhD community has grown during the current cycle, with students supported by external and
 internal funding awards. Through financial support for research trips, conference attendance and
 organisation, and professional development opportunities, our students have benefitted from a


                                                                                             Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 supportive and energising research environment. The result has been a healthy total of eight PhD
 completions during the current cycle (compared to one for REF2014).

    4) Continue and develop interdisciplinary networking, seminar, conference and publishing
       activity

 LJMU History staff play a leading role in sustaining the inter-institutional and interdisciplinary
 CPMH. Two CPMH workshops have resulted in interdisciplinary collections co-edited by White
 (Shipping and Globalization in the Postwar Era [2019]; Singapore – Two Hundred Years of the
 Lion City [2019]). Clampin played a leading role in CHARM (Conference on Historical Analysis &
 Research in Marketing), hosting its 2017 international conference at LJMU.

 Department staff have also pursued a range of major research and publication projects of an
 interdisciplinary nature. Notable here is Vaughan’s AHRC-funded project on Regionalism in East
 Africa (2020-2022) which includes the employment of a Post-Doctoral Research Fellow in Politics.

    5) Establish a Research Centre

 This has been revised in light of the 79% FTE staff increase in the History Department, and the
 expansion of research areas. The department has opted to develop two broadly defined key
 research clusters rather than a single research centre, ensuring both viability and inclusivity. The
 clusters recognise and regularise existing patterns of interaction, providing peer review for draft
 outputs and grant proposals. Clusters also nominate external speakers for the departmental
 seminar series, thus encouraging wider networking and collaboration. The inclusion of non-
 permanent staff and PGRs in the clusters contributes to the career development of early-stage
 researchers.

 ii. Future strategic aims

    1) Maintain and develop mentoring and support structures for existing and new staff in order
       to sustain and expand our base of high-quality outputs and grant applications

 The success of the current REF strategy, particularly in supporting the career development of
 ECRs, evidenced in 2iv below, has resulted in a healthy pipeline of high-profile projects contracted
 for publication for the next REF cycle. The department will now work to ensure the development
 of researchers moving into their mid-career stage. The Head of Department (HoD) and Research
 Coordinator (RC) will take a key role in driving this continued mentoring, and the clusters will
 provide a structured environment for developing research projects and funding applications. Staff
 will be invited to make presentations to their clusters in a planned and well-timed manner (3-6
 months ahead of grant applications). Targeted advice on funding opportunities by career stage
 will be developed in co-operation with the Faculty Funding Support Officer. A welcome
 consequence of bid success, the addition of five PDRAs to the staff base entails new
 responsibilities in embedding a postdoctoral culture and facilitating the transition to ECR status.
 Overseen by the HoD and RC, PIs will lead in the development of post-doctoral skills, working
 with institutional staff development programmes.

    2) Development of research clusters into research centres

 The department will aim to continue to develop the institutional strength of the research cluster
 system, with the objective of attaining LJMU recognition of at least one cluster as a designated
 research centre within the next REF cycle. The clusters will continue to select guest speakers,
 enhancing networking and collaborative opportunities. Centre/institute status will permit the
 department greater strategic control over the allocation of QR funding, and also attract and support
 larger numbers of PGRs.

    3) Develop further opportunities for PGR recruitment



                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Constraints on PGR funding for LJMU History are likely to continue into the next REF cycle,
 especially given that LJMU is not currently part of an AHRC consortium. Nonetheless, the
 department will continue to work strategically to identify and support students and projects that
 stand the strongest chance of success in internal funding competitions. Dovetailing with impact,
 we will explore avenues for collaborative doctoral funding with established external partners, thus
 cementing those relationships.

 iii. Note on COVID-19

 While the pandemic has impacted on research activities within the department, archive visits have
 generally been rescheduled not cancelled, while four staff have utilised LJMU’s virtual retreats to
 support their writing. Locally-managed funds have been rolled over. For Faculty-administered QR
 awards, staff unable to use their funding will be prioritised in future rounds. Vaughan’s RA has
 been temporarily redeployed on a teaching-only contract, with the intention of applying for a no-
 cost extension. We are confident, therefore, of the sustainability of our plans and the maintenance
 of outputs.

 iv. Approach to impact

 Drawing upon a long tradition of public engagement, coalescing with LJMU’s Civic University
 identity, the department continues to enable impact arising from its research. We have a particular
 interest in employing historical analysis and insight to address issues of socio-economic
 marginalisation, discrimination and inequality, and issues of communal identity and perception.
 Staff have been encouraged to pursue engagement with relevant external stakeholders at local,
 national and international levels, and to utilise public engagement and dissemination to facilitate
 the reach and significance of their research impact.

 During the current cycle, we have worked more closely with LJMU’s Impact Officer to enhance
 staff understanding and achievement of impact. We have run new impact-focussed staff
 development events within the department, facilitated by case-study leads, one of whom, O’Brien,
 has been appointed as Impact Coordinator (IC). Staff have begun to embed impact potential at an
 early stage of project development (see 4i). This approach will continue in the next REF cycle
 through enhanced mentoring from the HoD, RC and IC, facilitated further by each cluster having
 at least one annual meeting dedicated to discussing impact within their sub-fields.

 The two case studies submitted exemplify our approach, fulfilling our strategic aims for impact
 from REF2014 of consolidating and extending external collaborations outside academia and
 raising profile with enhanced monitoring and coordination. Vickers’ case study, Dry Your Eyes,
 Princess focused on social marginalisation, discrimination and inequality, and communal identity
 and perception, through analysing sexual and gender diversity in the British Armed Forces.
 Vickers worked closely with external stakeholders - a photographic artist and the veterans
 interviewed in the underpinning research - to produce an exhibition displayed at the Museum of
 Liverpool (attesting to the department’s local civic agenda) and also in Belfast. Vickers has
 pursued a wide range of dissemination activities, notably at the London Metropolitan Archives.

 Similarly, O’Brien’s study addresses issues of communal identity and perception through its focus
 on museums in Ireland (especially prisons), and their role in shaping wider notions of Irish history,
 identity and collective memory. Again, O’Brien’s close partnership with the museum, heritage and
 tourism sector in Ireland, and especially her work as historical advisor for the development and
 redevelopment of three award-winning museums, reflects the department’s strategy of forging
 impact through robust relationships with external stakeholders. Her wide-ranging dissemination
 across Ireland’s radio and print media, as well as several contributions in the UK and USA,
 exemplifies the department’s approach to generating impact with significant reach - locally,
 nationally and internationally.

 Moving forward, the department has identified key areas of research impact that have the potential
 for broad reach and/or deep significance for users/beneficiaries, and will pro-actively support the

                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 development of these areas of impact in the next cycle. In particular, the IC will provide leadership
 in liaising with the University impact and research team in order to obtain resources and supportive
 expertise to underpin the development of these key areas. The work of Matthews-Jones with
 Toynbee Hall (using research to design workshops and creative clinics with disadvantaged young
 people), Clampin with the National Trust (using research to inform NT’s public engagement), and
 Vaughan in East Africa (using research to develop HE curricula and to inform a major policy report
 on regional integration) are all areas of strength, exemplifying our strategy of building external
 collaborations with the heritage and education sectors (locally, nationally and internationally).
 Grant will submit a further Wellcome bid to support the impact of her ageing in the USSR project
 through the production of a series of short films (disseminating research to a wide audience in
 health studies, gerontology and the history of the USSR).

 Furthermore, the impact of COVID-19, whilst impeding in-person impact-building activities, has
 alerted us to opportunities for reaching wider audiences for research dissemination. Notably,
 Craig participated in a significant online public history initiative: Reddit AskHistorians 2020 digital
 conference (September 2020) (https://www.askhistorians.com/2020-digital-conference), which, at
 24 September 2020, achieved 10,000 cumulative views on YouTube. Moving forward, the IC will
 maintain a focus on opportunities for using digital means of dissemination and public engagement
 to broaden our research impact.

 v. Open Research Environment

 Impact and public engagement activities interlock with our promotion of an open-research
 environment. Developing open-access resources, as well as capturing funding streams to facilitate
 this, were strategic aims for impact activity from REF2014. Benbough-Jackson’s, McDonough’s
 and Vickers’s AHRC-funded Merseyside at War, supported also by the office of the Lord-
 Lieutenant of Merseyside, is an online archive of Merseyside’s experience of the First World War
 (harvested at: https://web.archive.org/web/20181109031326/http://www.merseyside-at-war.org/
 and also available for consultation at the British Library’s Reading Rooms).

 White’s Heritage Lottery and Elder Dempster Pensioners’ Association funded online archive is of
 equal distinction. Hosted at LJMU, the Elder Dempster website makes publicly available a series
 of interviews with former seafarers (and other Elders-related personnel) as well as digitised
 archival material (https://www.ljmu.ac.uk/microsites/elder-dempster). Like Merseyside at War, the
 Elder Dempster project epitomises the Civic University approach through building community and
 institutional links on Merseyside to bolster the research environment in the region and beyond,
 broadening public accessibility to research materials.

 Meanwhile, Beaumont’s Fellow Travellers monograph (2019) and White’s Shipping &
 Globalization were published Open Access. A commitment to Open Access publishing and
 dissemination is further evidenced in Matthews-Jones’ instrumental role in the development of
 the Journal of Victorian Culture Online, the digital supplement of the Journal of Victorian Culture.
 Publishing shorter, less-formal content via blogs, the supplement promotes and widens access to
 main journal content. It makes specialist academic research more accessible to a wider
 readership. Two workshops (Cork [2018]; Dublin [2019]) led by O’Brien on heritage sites,
 museums and exhibitions are also noteworthy here. They brought together academics, museum
 and heritage professionals and additionally resulted in the publication of two Open Access reports.

 vi. Research integrity and standards

 Our commitment here is illustrated by oral history projects whereby Vickers’ and White’s projects
 (Dry Your Eyes Princess; Homeward Bound) have been conducted according to Oral History
 Society guidelines approved by LJMU’s Research Ethics Committee. The oral testimony aspect
 of Clampin’s National Trust Formby project and Vaughan’s AHRC award also went through full
 ethics approval (and the latter also encompassed data management and protection).



                                                                                                 Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 There have been no allegations of research misconduct (made by staff or PGR students) within
 the REF cycle. The rigour with which research is conducted accords with the standards set-out in
 the University’s Code of Practice for Research.


 2. People

 i. Staffing strategy

 The period has seen a significant growth in staff numbers from 9.5 to 17 FTE. Through internal
 promotion and new appointments, our strategy continues to be to recruit a balanced portfolio of
 staff in terms of specific expertise (aligned to research clusters and objectives, facilitating growth
 of new areas) and experience (established and early-career).

 New appointments in the review period at ECR level (at the point of employment) have been:
 Vaughan (May 2014); Crossland (September 2014); Beaumont (September 2015); Grant
 (September 2015); Craig (September 2016); Saunders (September 2016); Livesey (September
 2018); Keil (February 2019), expanding the range of expertise thematically to include the history
 of international communism, international humanitarianism, nuclear proliferation, colonialism,
 healthcare, civil liberties and activism, slavery and sexual violence; while, geographically,
 European and wider-world coverage (Africa, Latin America, Russia, US) has been enhanced.
 Furthermore, personnel expansion has consciously maintained a chronological research focus in
 the post-1800 era, sustaining and expanding existing strengths. Growth in staffing in both
 international and cultural history has fed into the development of the two research clusters now in
 existence.

 All new appointments are included in REF output submissions for 2021, underscoring the
 effectiveness of our strategies for new and established staff equally. All Category A staff are
 submitted in this round compared to 74% in 2014. The success of staffing strategy is reflected in
 Readership promotions – O’Brien (2015), Grant (2018, within three years of appointment at ECR
 level), Crossland (2019, within five years of appointment at ECR level). The current demographic
 profile is three Professors, one Principal Lecturer, three Readers, 11 Senior Lecturers/Lecturers.
 This balanced staffing profile allows for effective management of research activity, mentoring and
 succession planning. For instance, McDonough’s retirement was planned for through Keil’s
 appointment. All Category A staff are permanent. Fixed-term (teaching only) contracts (of which
 there have been six semester-long over the cycle) are only used to replace existing staff
 undertaking externally-funded research projects or experiencing long-term illness.

 ii. Staff development

 Staff development is a key priority for the department. All staff are assigned a mentor. Overseen
 by line managers, there is a probation period of 12 months for new recruits (plus those promoted
 to Reader and Professor). Annual appraisal identifies research, impact and related career
 development as distinct elements. Additionally, at a department-specific level, a REF internal
 assessment scheme for outputs includes an annual feedback and planning meeting for all staff
 with the HoD and RC (and in the case of the HoD and RC with the Director of School). Brown bag
 seminars, the research cluster system, and the Perspectives Research Seminar Series facilitate
 regular research discussion opportunities for staff.

 Department-specific research training is provided to all staff, related to publication, impact and
 grant applications, drawing on institutional (Impact Officer) and external expertise and
 participation. More specific outside assistance has been provided for particular projects. The Oral
 History Society, for example, provided training for both the PI and the RA on Homeward Bound.
 The LJMU staff development programme includes training courses on publishing, grant
 applications, impact and media engagement.



                                                                                                Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 iii. Departmental support for staff research

 An in-house competitive sabbatical scheme, since 2018/19, has been open to all permanent staff
 – there have been 4 recipients at various stages of their career development (one Professor, one
 Reader, two SL [one ECR]), permitting a semester free of teaching and administrative
 responsibilities to work on a major research output or impact case study.

 Exchanges with external bodies are encouraged, reflecting the University’s research partnership
 and external engagement agenda. Between 2016 and 2018, White spent 15 weeks at PNB
 Research Institute, Kuala Lumpur as an integral part of the research and writing of In Trust (2018).
 Other productive exchanges have included Matthews-Jones with Toynbee Hall (see 4i below).

 The department recognises the achievements of staff in research and impact through a dynamic
 approach to workload allocation. The HoD annually undertakes detailed modelling which makes
 specific reference to annual appraisals and individual staff development. Where particularly
 significant research or impact-related projects are in prospect or underway, teaching load is
 appropriately adjusted (O’Brien and Vickers, for example, had reductions to concentrate on
 Impact Case Studies). The department also recognises research achievements through
 developing the roles of individuals at a wider level within the University. For example, Vaughan,
 sits on the Arts, Professional and Social Studies (APSS) Faculty Degrees Committee (a role also
 factored into workload calculations).

 As well as locally-managed workload adjustments and sabbaticals, Faculty QR funding is
 specifically available for the development of impact, where this may lead to the generation of a
 case study. The department has received £12,785 from central (Research & Innovation Services)
 funds to support impact activities – notably, this supported O’Brien’s workshops in Éire.

 iv. Support for ECRs and PDRAs

 Considerable departmental, faculty and central support is channelled specifically to ECRs.
 Beaumont, Crossland, Grant, Matthews-Jones and Vaughan have drawn on this support
 during their transition from early- to mid-career stage. Teaching timetables for new appointments
 are kept deliberately low for at least 12 months from appointment. University-level ACTivator
 training programmes and faculty/departmental funding are available for all levels but have proved
 particularly beneficial for the skills enhancement of ECRs.

 Matthews-Jones and Vaughan both received LJMU ECR fellowships – a scheme to specifically
 foster collaborative research and mentoring via other HEIs, as well as provide for research
 expenses. These fellowships – coupled with institutional training - provided a foundation for top-
 tier publications (Matthews-Jones, Victorian Studies [2017] and Vaughan, Historical Journal
 [2018]) and larger collaborative grant applications with external academic partners (Vaughan,
 British-Academy small grant as PI, awarded 2016; AHRC project grant as PI, awarded 2019;
 Matthews-Jones AHRC project grant as Co-I, submitted 2019).

 ECRs are rapidly integrated into the research culture of the department by presenting a paper to
 the department’s Perspectives Research Seminar Series within six months of appointment. ECRs
 have played a key role in leading the research environment via the organisation of Perspectives
 and Work-in-Progress seminars (Vaughan, Beaumont, Grant). A department-level Research
 Team to support the RC also involved ECRs (Vaughan and Crossland) to develop their
 integration into the local research culture, and enrich their transition to mid-career.

 ECRs are involved at an early stage in PhD supervision. Teams of three supervisory staff per
 student give individuals at the beginning of their research careers maximum experience of
 supervision alongside an experienced lead supervisor. This builds future capacity, and,
 simultaneously, those without previous experience of PhD examination undergo LJMU Doctoral



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Academy training. Vaughan, Crossland, and Matthews-Jones have co-supervised doctoral
 students within the current cycle as ECRs.

 PDRAs can access staff development opportunities as per Category A staff, including courses in
 establishing a research profile, public engagement, getting published and writing grant
 applications. The department has hosted five PDRAs funded by research projects led by
 department members since 2014. Postdoctoral researchers are provided with dedicated office
 space, and undergo appraisal from their line managers, and are assigned a mentor. They are
 invited to department-level research seminars and cluster activities. Furthermore, Grant is a
 member of the University’s Researcher Development Concordat Steering Group, overseeing
 implementation of the Concordat principles.

 v. Research students

 History plays a leading role within HSS with regards to the professional development of PGRs.
 Vaughan and Crossland are PGR Development Coordinators for HSS, with responsibility for
 organising events to support PGR professional development, and also for allocating internal
 funding to support PGR research which tops up Faculty-level provision. Since 2016-17, School-
 level PGR development events organised by History staff, and drawing on interdisciplinary
 academic and non-academic staff expertise, have strengthened the PGR skill base around getting
 published, impact, job applications and interviews, and postdoctoral funding. In 2020 Vaughan
 was appointed APSS Faculty lead for PGR professional development.

 Within the department, a small but growing high-quality and sustainable community of doctoral
 research students has been recruited (with an M-level or equivalent qualification as a minimum
 requirement). Five of these students transitioned from our vibrant MRes degree into doctoral
 study. In terms of protected characteristics, four PhD students studied on a part-time basis.

 Sheldon’s AHRC CDA supported one of the department’s PhD completions. Other enrolments
 and completions have been facilitated by competitive local funding initiatives – one VC full
 scholarship; one full Faculty GTA scholarship; two School-based part-time fees bursaries.
 Moreover, the department’s research students have been highly successful in winning grants from
 competitive external funding schemes for archival research and conference attendance,
 encouraged and guided by supervisors – for example, LJMU History PhD students have received
 6 RHS conference/travel grants and one was joint winner of the RHS Martin Lynn Scholarship in
 African History (2016), allowing them to visit South African archives.

 PGR students are supervised by three History (or related-discipline staff) with detailed knowledge
 of the project area. In three cases, these teams have included an additional external adviser.
 Regular supervision meetings – at least one per month – have been supplemented by the student
 writing a 3000-word registration document in the first three months of enrolment, focused on the
 historiographical and primary source underpinnings of the project plus an Annual Monitoring
 Report (both documents being subsequently approved by the Faculty Research Degrees
 Committee). MPhil to PhD transfer within 12 months of FTE registration is achieved through the
 writing of a 5000-word paper, examined and approved by an internal viva. History staff have also
 participated in interdisciplinary supervisions based in English, Media, Sociology, Engineering and
 Journalism.

 History PGRs have particularly benefited from School and Faculty funding for archival visits
 (including overseas) and conference attendance (where this involves presentation of a paper).
 They have also taken full advantage of further training provided by LJMU’s Doctoral Academy
 whose Researcher Development Programme (RDP) supports PGRs throughout the doctoral
 journey, fully mapped to the Vitae Researcher Development Framework. Skills workshops, writing
 days and ‘thesis boot camps’ have proved particularly valuable for our students.

 Funding for conference attendance (both international and UK) is additionally provided through
 RDP. These awards are small in value (£175-£350) but they can make a major contribution to

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 timely thesis completion and wider career development. As one student commented, their
 attendance at a conference in Denver ‘significantly helped me complete two chapters in my
 thesis… provid[ing] me with the opportunity to pick the brains of established experts… Moreover,
 it provided me with potential questions for postdoc research and papers, one of which has recently
 been published’.

 PGRs have been provided with teaching opportunities within the Department supported always by
 mentoring and peer review locally as well as mandatory completion of the University’s ‘3Is’
 (Information, Ideas and Insight) training programme. For fees-only bursary students, teaching
 provides an important income stream to sustain their studies and ensure timely completion. In
 terms of outreach, through RDP, two History PhD students trained with The Brilliant Club to work
 as Scholars Programme tutors in state schools in the North-West.

 A noteworthy initiative, facilitated by QR and additional School funding (worth c. £1000 p.a.), has
 been the annual International History and Diplomacy of the Twentieth Century conference since
 2016 organised by three LJMU History PGRs and attracting external PGRs, ECRs and established
 scholars as presenters. With 14 scholars presenting at ‘The Global South during the Cold War’
 conference in the summer of 2019, for example, these events (three at LJMU and one at Oxford)
 have provided invaluable networking and organisational experience (https://ihd.news/).

 Publication by PGRs has also been encouraged and mentored – notable successes being journal
 articles by LJMU PGRs in International History Review (x2), Journal of Imperial & Commonwealth
 History and Journal for Eighteenth-Century Studies. History PGRs also attend departmental
 seminars and research-cluster meetings.

 The department supports successful doctoral candidates to continue their academic career. Dan
 Feather (a product of both our MRes and PhD programmes, and a recipient of an HSS fees-
 bursary) was appointed as a part-time and then full-time permanent Lecturer in Humanities at
 LJMU. Juliet Carroll, the recipient of Sheldon’s CDA, is Lecturer in History of Art & Museum
 Studies in the Liverpool School of Art. Simon Hill’s appointment as a Visiting Research Fellow, as
 well as further teaching, has allowed him to work up his thesis into a monograph (with Palgrave).

 The PGR environment has been significantly enhanced by Sheldon’s role as Dean of LJMU’s
 Doctoral Academy from 2015 (having also served as Associate Dean [Research, Scholarship and
 Knowledge Transfer] for APSS [2014-17]), and as executive and trustee of the UK Council for
 Graduate Education since 2018.

 vi. Equality & Diversity

 History plays a leading role on Equality and Diversity issues within HSS. Matthews-Jones leads
 the School’s Athena Swan Working Group, which has also included Livesey, Vickers and
 Vaughan. Vickers was the Faculty Equality and Diversity lead from 2018-2020 and consequently
 sat on the steering committee for the Respect Always campaign, concerned with creating an
 inclusive and respectful environment for the LJMU community.

 Given that much of the department’s research and impact work is concerned with historic
 marginalisation, discrimination and exploitation of underrepresented groups, equality and diversity
 are high priorities in the department’s staffing and PGR strategies. The History Department was
 exclusively male as late as 2012 but the gender balance is now 7 female and 9 male staff. The
 department’s staff profile is inclusive of individuals of BAME groups, LGBT and those with a
 disability.

 Applications for new posts are judged entirely on merit in relation to the Job Specification without
 reference to age, gender orientation, ethnicity, religion, sexuality or nationality. Staff are
 encouraged to flag EDI issues in their applications for funding or other research-related support




                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and rewards. Two female members of staff (O’Brien and Grant) have been promoted to Reader
 in the review period.

 With teaching relief, the department also encouraged Matthews-Jones and Vickers to follow
 Advance HE’s Aurora leadership development initiative for women and those who identify as
 female, thus taking positive action to address the under-representation of women in leadership
 positions. For Vickers, this was especially important in equipping her for the role of Programme
 Leader for the School’s Arts & Humanities L3 provision.

 Both Harbord and Matthews-Jones were among the first cohort at LJMU to be selected
 competitively to attend the disabled leaders course Calibre. Harbord and Matthews-Jones sit on
 the staff disability network, and, emphasising the department’s wide public engagement with
 diverse communities, Matthews-Jones ran events in 2019 and 2020 for Disability History Month.
 Indeed, Matthews-Jones is a visible role model for disabled academics nationally: she was
 interviewed in 2017 by NUworld, a dyslexia organisation, on working in academia with dyslexia.

 Locally and nationally, LJMU History staff have made significant contributions on equality and
 diversity issues with regards to race and LGBT+. Through her role as the Equality and Diversity
 Representative for British American Nineteenth Century Historians (BrANCH) since October 2018,
 Livesey fed into the RHS Race Report. Through RHS funding, she established an annual BrANCH
 BAME essay prize from 2019. Reflecting RHS recommendations, inter alia, the department’s first
 Black History Month talk (2019) took place out of the University space at the Kuumba Imaani
 Centre, Toxteth. In summer 2020, Livesey joined LJMU’s BAME outreach network. Vickers,
 meanwhile, was consulted on (and contributed to) the RHS LGBT+ report. This will form the basis
 of future departmental discussions and interventions as per our race-related initiatives.

 The PGR community exemplifies equality and diversity in terms of gender, sexual orientation, full-
 and part-time modes of study, age range and social background. PGRs have been empowered
 through support to attend conferences and run events. Billie-Gina Thomason’s PhD project on
 male-to-female transgender individuals in Victorian Britain is an exemplar in terms of topic and
 personnel with a team of three female supervisors. Thomason’s exceptional public engagement
 activities, assisted by University PGR Events funding, were recognised through the award of
 LJMU’s PGR Outstanding Communicator in 2020.

 Flexible and remote working is facilitated by Off Campus IT access, allowing staff to work at home
 and to juggle family and carer responsibilities. Wherever possible, teaching timetables and
 departmental meetings are arranged at times of the day to permit flexible working, while also giving
 staff undisturbed space and time for the writing of extended research outputs. During the COVID-
 19 crisis, staff were provided with laptops and AV equipment to ensure access to online research
 resources.

 Demonstrating our commitment to flexible working, one member of staff has recently moved to
 0.6FTE. Fixed-term teaching staff meet regularly with the HoD and receive research support and
 guidance from the RC as well. They have the same access to resources as permanent staff,
 including department-level funding to visit archives and attend conferences.

 Staff returning from parental leave or long-term illness are given a reduced teaching load for the
 first year, and comprehensive support including regular meetings with their line manager in order
 to best effect that transition.

 Support for staff with protected characteristics has included the funding of a copy editor and the
 provision of a home-use printer for a member of staff with dyslexia. Adjustments have been made
 to workspace and facilities for another with a physical disability.

 Staff feel that their wellbeing has been significantly improved by an enhanced communications
 strategy, including regularised team meetings at which research strategy is a standing item and



                                                                                              Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 staff development days dedicated to research/impact. Staff also value the greater attention to
 individual workloads to facilitate research/impact.

 Output selection and the writing of REF5b has adhered to the LJMU code of practice. Gender
 imbalances have, nevertheless, been identified – notably a 7:1 male-to-female ratio for double-
 weighted monographs. Our sabbatical scheme - in which 75% of awardees have been female -
 may correct this imbalance in the next exercise. ECR inclusion is more encouraging - the four
 current ECRs (one-quarter of the submitted FTE) are authors of 32% of journal articles submitted.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 i. Income

 Staff are encouraged to seek funding from a range of competitive external sources, as well as
 support from an internal Faculty-level competition that allocates up to £2K to individual projects.
 These smaller, pump-priming grants have supported the development of larger applications, as
 well as specific outputs.

 Since 2014, £1.081m of external funding has been awarded to new projects involving members
 of the department. Awards of significance have been won from the Wellcome Trust, AHRC,
 BA/Leverhulme Trust, The Research Council of Norway, Arts Council UK and Heritage Lottery
 Fund (HLF).

 The 55-fold income increase since 2014 (recorded in REF4b) has been facilitated by enhanced
 Faculty- and School-level peer review of grant applications, a dedicated Faculty Funding Support
 Officer supporting all stages of grant application from conception to application, and also by
 national award-winning University staff development workshops focused on grant-writing.

 The largest single award was £607,931 from the Wellcome Trust for Grant’s Growing Old in the
 Soviet Union, 1945-1991 (2019-2023). This includes 3 PDRAs. Grant will also mentor Sergei
 Mokhov for his three-year project 'The Invisible Dying: Care and Incurable Illness in Late Soviet
 Times', funded by an Oxford Russia Fellowship (£166,800). In 2019 Vaughan was awarded
 £239,404 from the AHRC for Regionalism in East Africa, c. 1900-present, involving the
 employment of a PDRA. These major projects will both result in monograph and article outputs.

 White received £70K from PNB, a Malaysian investment company, to write In Trust. White also
 won £7,500 from HLF and £3,000 from the Elder Dempster Pensioners Association in 2016 for
 Homeward Bound, resulting in the Elder Dempster Website. Sheldon’s £54.5K AHRC CDA
 facilitated the publication of her edited collection, The Della Robbia Pottery (2015) including her
 chapter submitted for assessment.
 Among other awards, Vickers received £14,800 from the Arts Council as a lead applicant for Dry
 your Eyes Princess which has resulted in two articles as well as numerous activities that form the
 basis of her impact case study. This work was further supported by £2K awarded by two leading
 LGBTQ arts festivals. Saunders received £12K as part of a larger project bid to the Research
 Council of Norway to pursue a project on Mining regulation in Latin America (from which an article
 is currently in progress). Vaughan, Livesey and Crossland have all received BA/Leverhulme
 Small Grants, supporting the writing of two monographs, two articles and two chapters during this
 cycle.

 Research funding of £120.3K has been awarded to History staff through internal faculty- and
 university-level competitions. This support has underpinned the research and writing of one
 monograph, three edited collections, six journal articles, one book chapter, activities relating to the
 two impact case studies, and four large external grant applications. University ECR awards to
 Matthews-Jones and Vaughan were part of this funding, worth over £3K to each researcher and
 supporting their efforts to build external collaborations and funding bids.



                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ii. Infrastructure

 The department’s research clusters have a specific function as reading groups for drafts before
 submission to publishers, journals and funding bodies. They are also used as reading groups for
 the discussion of major new works in the sub-discipline, encouraging sustained research-
 oriented conversations. Each cluster lead arranges at least one meeting per semester, focused
 on a particular activity and in an informal collegiate setting, and reports back to the department.
 Each cluster also nominates at least one external speaker per academic year.

 The department benefits from a dedicated Programme Administrator and Library and Information
 Officer.

 LJMU Archives has expanded its collections in areas immediately relevant to the department’s
 research – such as Clampin and White and the collection of merchant navy ephemera. There is
 also access to a number of digitised collections through the LJMU Library System – a notable
 new addition being US Newspapers Online. For Homeward Bound, the RA was provided with a
 single-occupancy office given the confidential nature of data collection plus use of digital
 recording and photographic equipment.

 For impact activities, the facilities and expertise provided by LJMU Archives and IT staff/services
 was crucial in data storage and online dissemination and presentation of the Homeward Bound
 research. In addition to the PI’s staff time, this infrastructure represented the major in-kind
 contribution. The LJMU archives and library have also provided curating, space and material for
 the hosting of exhibitions – for example, on Cunard (2015) and Elder Dempster (2016).

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Networking and collaboration was a key research objective in our 2014 submission, in line with
 LJMU’s overarching objective to grow ‘global engagement, building connections and
 collaborations’. HSS and the department actively support staff to organise conferences at LJMU.
 Craig organised the Historians of the Twentieth Century United States (HOTCUS) conference at
 LJMU in 2019, receiving £1500 from HSS, while Clampin received £7.8K from University funds
 to support CHARM 2017. The ongoing collaborative activities of CPMH are supported with a
 dedicated match-funding stream provided by HSS, worth £3.8K across the organisation of two
 key workshops, leading to co-edited collections by White. School match-funding also facilitated
 the hosting in Liverpool of the British Commission for Maritime History’s ‘New Researchers in
 Maritime History’ conference (2018).

 Individuals have also developed and participated in a range of collaborative research projects,
 supported by department-level peer review. Vaughan’s two funded collaborative projects on East
 African regionalism emerged from his LJMU ECR fellowship specifically designed to encourage
 such collaboration. The BA/Leverhulme-funded project, resulting in one Historical Journal article,
 one co-authored book chapter, and workshops in York and Nairobi, involved Dr Emma Hunter
 (Edinburgh) and Dr Gerard McCann (York) as CIs. Vaughan’s international collaborators in the
 AHRC project are Dr Frank Gerits (Utrecht) and Dr Alden Young (UCLA).

 Similarly, Matthews-Jones used her LJMU ECR fellowship to build collaborations with
 colleagues based at Queen Mary’s Centre for Studies of the Home, including presenting a paper
 which later became a book chapter (submitted for assessment), and the organisation of a
 conference (July 2016). Saunders’ Mining regulation project has entailed close cooperation with
 scholars at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology who led the successful funding
 bid ('Political Regulation of Natural Resources, 1870-1910, Global Experiences' [2016-19]).

 Members of the department have led the publication of several co-edited and edited volumes.
 Crossland co-edited The Red Cross Movement: Myths, Practices and Turning Points (2018) with
 Melanie Oppenheimer (Flinders) and Neville Wylie (Stirling). Matthews-Jones co-edited Material
 Religion in Modern Britain (2015) with Timothy Willem-Jones (La Trobe). Vickers co-edited

                                                                                             Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gender and the Second World War: Lessons of War (2016) with Corinna Peniston-Bird
 (Lancaster). Grant co-edited Russian and Soviet Health Care from an International Perspective
 (2017) and Revisioning Stalin and Stalinism: Complexities, Contradictions, and Controversies
 (2020) with James Ryan (Cardiff). White co-edited Shipping & Globalization with Niels Petersson
 (Sheffield Hallam) and Stig Tenold (Norwegian School of Economics) and Singapore 200 with
 Anthony Webster (Northumbria).

 LJMU History staff are leading members of national research networks. Notably, since 2016,
 Crossland has been a founder-member of the Humanitarian Working Histories Group (linking
 scholars from Liverpool, Hull, Huddersfield, Manchester, Oxford) and is a leading member of the
 interdisciplinary Invasion Network. Craig joined the ‘Rewriting the Constitutional History of the
 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty’ consortium organised by the University of Southampton in
 February 2020 (entitling research expenses, privileged access to documents, conference
 attendance and dissemination beyond academia [notably at the UN]).

 i. Relationships with key research users, beneficiaries and audiences

 Department staff have consistently developed collaborative relationships with key research
 users and audiences to develop impact in a range of local, national and international contexts.
 These relationships have themselves fed back into the research agendas of academic staff (see
 especially material on Vaughan below) and will continue to shape the development of the
 department’s research culture.

 Building on his research on the history of marketing and the cultural history of Britain during
 World War Two, Clampin has developed an impressive range of consultancy roles for both
 academic and non-academic users. In 2019 he worked with the National Trust at Formby and
 Lyme Park on their wartime histories. At Formby, Clampin was project manager for a series of
 performances and, at Lyme Park, he was lead historical adviser, supporting volunteers. As
 exemplary practice, the latter resulted in a National Trust film. In archive development, since
 2017, Clampin has been a member of the Unilever Archive and Records Management Academic
 Circle and a consultant for the History of Advertising Trust Education Group. He is also an
 adviser to a research project on consumption during World War Two (Department of Economic
 History, Stockholm), and 2017-19 served on the editorial board of War, the State and Society:
 Britain’s Home Front in World War II, a Taylor & Francis primary-source digitisation project.

 Additional to White’s role in CPMH, and Homeward Bound specifically (see 1v above),
 departmental links to the heritage sector on Merseyside were strengthened further by Sheldon’s
 CDA with the Williamson Art Gallery (which included an exhibition on the Della Robbia Pottery
 [2016]).

 Beyond developing the impact of our research on Merseyside, Matthews-Jones has worked
 with a key charitable stakeholder, Toynbee Hall, concerned with tackling the causes and impact
 of poverty in East London. Having published on Toynbee Hall (Victorian Studies, 2017), during
 2018-20 she shared her research at Toynbee through historical consultancy, a permanent
 exhibition, building tours, and (with disadvantaged young people) a two-day creative clinic and
 five workshops on visual culture. Material from the latter was passed to Toynbee’s Learning
 Department, clearly demonstrating the reach of Matthews-Jones’ research.

 Alongside the relationships detailed in ICS1, Vickers has engaged with a range of stakeholders
 and communities to develop the impact of her research on the history of gender and sexuality –
 recognised in Vickers receiving an LJMU Vice-Chancellor's award for social and economic
 engagement (2017). She has acted as academic adviser for ‘OUTing the Past’ festival and
 conference since 2016, consultant for the ‘Pride of Place’ project (2017), co-curator of
 'Uncovering April Ashley’s Archive and Exploring Liverpool’s Trans Lives' (April-September
 2019), and steering committee member for ‘Tales from the City’ exhibition (Museum of Liverpool,
 October 2017-March 2019).


                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 At the international level, as part of his 2016-18 project, Vaughan was lead organiser of a
 conference on East African regional integration in Nairobi (July 2017), involving academic and
 non-academic participants from regional civil society organisations (such as The Borders Institute,
 Nairobi and The Tanzanian Citizens Information Bureau). This research demand from diverse
 publics and communities solidified fundamental ideas and objectives for a larger project bid. Of
 particular significance for shaping Vaughan’s ongoing research was the participation of the
 Director of the Institute of Regional Integration and Development at the Catholic University of East
 Africa (CUEA), Dr Catherine Biira. Dr Biira subsequently played a central role in drafting the AHRC
 bid, and was a key partner in a project fittingly funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund.
 Crucial impact objectives of the project have been shaped by this stakeholder participation:
 notably, Vaughan will work closely with CUEA in the hosting of a major conference in 2021/22 and
 in designing an MA module, contributing further towards regional capacity-building, education and
 development.

 Harbord has acted as Country of Origin Information expert for Immigration Tribunals in the UK,
 Netherlands and Spain, on Occupied Palestinian Territories (and also stateless Palestinians
 residing in any nation). She provided research-based reports (500,000+ words), and expert
 witness testimony in court on five occasions. Harbord’s representations were all upheld. Her
 evidence was cited within judges' reports as significant, substantial or conclusive in their rulings,
 demonstrating the utilisation of research expertise for life-changing impact.

 The capacity of the department’s research to reach a broad public benefits from the long-
 standing engagement of McDonough with both popular and academic audiences. Gestapo
 (2015) has sold +100,000 copies with 17 foreign-language translations. Further dissemination
 has been achieved through McDonough’s numerous world-wide media appearances, especially
 in television documentaries. The Netflix min-series Hitler’s Circle of Evil (2017), for example, had
 over 10 million views and Discovery Channel’s The Rise of the Nazi Party (2014) 12 million.

 Other department members have engaged broadly with the media for research dissemination to
 a wider public. Especially prominent internationally has been O’Brien. Additional to wide-
 reaching and frequent newspaper and radio engagement (e.g. New York Times and National
 Public Radio [USA] in 2015), O’Brien has regularly contributed to RTÉ Brainstorm (11 articles
 since October 2017) using historical insight to address topical issues, especially related to Irish
 heritage, tourism and education. Similarly, Craig, Crossland, O’Brien and Vaughan have
 published with The Conversation (November 2016 and February 2017, December 2017, August
 2018 and July 2020 respectively). Crossland has also published with History Today (September
 2018) and Craig with BBC World Histories (September/October 2017). Matthews-Jones and
 Livesey have acted as consultants on BBC television programmes (2016 and 2017
 respectively).

 The department’s contribution to the sustainability of the discipline is exemplified by Matthews-
 Jones’ work at History UK as co-convenor (2017-2020). Inter alia, she worked with The National
 Archives to refresh their guide to collaboration between archivists and HE (2017), ran seven
 workshops nationwide (including one at LJMU) with TNA for archivists and HE professionals on
 developing collaboration (2019), and organised conferences on Research Grants (IHR,
 September 2018), Research Impact (IHR, September 2019), and Mental Health and Wellbeing
 (London South Bank University, October 2019). Matthews-Jones currently works with the
 Archives and Records Association to advise on building relationships with universities.

 Department personnel have also held executive roles in a number of subject-specific
 associations: Grant (Acting Secretary of the British Association of Slavonic and East European
 Studies [2017]); Livesey at BrANCH (committee member since 2013 and Equality & Diversity
 Representative since October 2018); Saunders (executive committee of the Anglo-Bolivian
 Society since 2010); Vickers (member of the Oral History Society LGBTQ Special Interest
 Group since 2016); White at the Historic Society of Lancashire & Cheshire (Council Member,




                                                                                               Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Acting President [2016] and lately chair of the Grants & Prizes Committee) and the British
 Commission for Maritime History (Trustee since 2017).

 The Universities Studying Slavery consortium with Livesey as the lead at the University of
 Bristol (2018), and LJMU (2019-present) is an outstanding example of the department’s
 responsiveness to national and international priorities and initiatives. Livesey spoke at a
 UNESCO international seminar on British Universities and Slavery in March 2018
 (https://en.unesco.org/events/international-seminar-new-approaches-interpreting-and-
 representing-slavery-museums-and-sites). She contributed on contemporary racial issues and
 legacies of slavery to BBC World Service (2019), BBC Radio Ulster (2018), US National Public
 Radio (2018), and, in November 2018, participated in a 'Free Thinking' discussion for BBC Radio
 Three. She has additionally provided commentary for national newspapers on universities and
 slavery (e.g. https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/jun/10/toppling-edward-colstons-statue-is-
 unlikely-to-be-enough-to-stop-public-anger).

 Staff have been prominent in the organisation of conferences which have contributed to the
 vitality of the research base nationally and internationally. Bringing together academics and
 humanitarian practitioners, Crossland co-convened a conference at The International
 Federation of the Red Cross in Geneva (2019). Notable in its global contribution is Clampin’s
 presidency since June 2017 of CHARM, the leading international and interdisciplinary body in its
 field. During Clampin’s term, CHARM’s annual gatherings have taken place in California,
 Liverpool, and Ottawa, typically attracting scholars from 15 countries. Clampin’s presidency
 followed on from his role as local arrangements chair for CHARM 2017 hosted by LJMU, serving
 as a prime example of how institutional support has raised profile and facilitated networking and
 collaborations to achieve prominence.

 Likewise, on a national scale, Craig’s role as Events Secretary for HOTCUS (2017-2020) has
 involved the organisation of three conferences. Craig became Vice-chair of HOTCUS in 2020.
 Livesey was lead organiser of the BrANCH conference for 2018 in Cambridge. Seventeen other
 subject- or project-specific conferences/workshops have been organised by department staff.

 Department members have peer reviewed for a range of historical and inter-disciplinary journals
 and monograph publishers in this cycle. Monograph publishers include Bloomsbury, Harvard,
 OUP, Palgrave, Routledge. Some of the leading journals staff have reviewed for are Journal of
 Contemporary History, Development and Change, English Historical Review, Historical Journal,
 Human Rights Quarterly, International Security. White has reviewed research accreditations and
 large-scale funding applications for South Africa’s National Research Foundation and the Dutch
 Research Council and has served as external assessor for academic appointments in
 Imperial/Commonwealth History at Universiti Malaya since 2014.

 Nine editorial board positions on journals or book series have been held by staff, most notably
 Matthews-Jones as editor of Journal of Victorian Culture (including managing editor of Journal of
 Victorian Culture Online). She has led the development of site themes and content and has
 managed the publication of c. 450 OA pieces. According to current JVC editor, Prof Jane Hamlett
 (Royal Holloway), Matthews-Jones ‘has been vital to JVC's emerging reputation in the last five
 years as an innovative journal that has led the way in using social media and developing the digital
 humanities.’

 Keynote addresses include Crossland: Humanitarianism and medicine: Past and Present
 Conference, Spanish National Research Council (CSIC), Menorca (2017); O’Brien: Irish
 Museums Association Annual Conference, Cork (2019); Annual Hibernian Lecture, University of
 Notre Dame, Indiana (2015).




                                                                                              Page 14
