Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Canterbury Christ Church University

 Unit of Assessment: 19 – Politics and International Studies

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 1.1 Unit Context and Structure
 Our submission brings together theoretically driven impactful research, which embodies the
 principles of social inclusion, individual rights and human dignity. 2021 will be the second time
 research in Politics and International Studies at Canterbury Christ Church University (CCCU)
 has been returned to the Research Excellence Framework. Our UoA is innovative in its
 interdisciplinary character, with a particular focus on the co-creation of outcomes. We seek to
 impact on political issues locally, nationally and internationally through research, curriculum
 engagement, research networks and knowledge exchange.
 13.8 FTE have been returned across the UoA. Staffing draws from 3 Schools (Law, Policing and
 Social Sciences; Christ Church Business School and Psychology and Life Sciences). UoA19 sits
 within the Faculty of Science, Engineering and Social Sciences (SESS). It incorporates 6.8 full
 time staff from our Politics team, 3 full time staff in Business Studies, 3 full time sociologists, and
 2 full time geographers. Out of the staff returned, 13 are employed on full time contracts, and 1
 on a part time contract (0.8). Included in the submission are 1 Professor (Bates), 2 Readers
 (Keil and Kent.A), and 4 Early Career Researchers (ECRs). Examples of former staff included
 are 1 Professor (Hadfield) and 1 Reader (Bennister).
 In 2015, CCCU introduced a new strategic framework (2015-2022). This enabled us to
 strengthen our strategic priorities in anticipation of a submission to REF2021. As part of this
 process a decision was made to return aspects of our work within a Law submission. The
 Politics and International Studies submission to REF2014 acted as an important springboard for
 the development of a Law return to REF2021.

 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our research is underpinned by a vision of high-quality applied work. Our structure is oriented
 towards delivering applied research which informs local, regional, national and international
 policy and practices. This work is drawn together within four overarching research themes:

  Theme 1:              Theme 2:               Theme 3: Applied       Theme 4: Politics
  Politics, Policy      Conflict, Security     Political Theory       of Work,
  and Society:          and Cooperation                               Education and
  Europe and                                                          Generations
  Beyond

 T1. Politics, Policy and Society: Europe and Beyond
 This brings together research from political sociologists, political scientists, economists, and
 political geographers. It encompasses activities relating to the European Union, political elites,
 EU policy-making and geopolitics. Across the university, the theme has developed collaborative
 partnerships to include colleagues in Law, Policing and Criminal Justice, Health and Education.
 Work in this area has formed the basis of key policy impacts – particularly at a regional level (for
 example, through helping to shape responses to Brexit in Kent and Medway).
 (Anderson, Babalola, Bennister, Cashman, Hadfield, Keil, Koeker, McManus, Lieberman,
 Kent.A, Kent.R)

 T2: Conflict, Security and Cooperation
 This brings together research on post-conflict societies and democratisation. It links to activities
 in the area of power-sharing and federalism along with key issues relating to security. Research
 forms the basis of the impact case study: Promoting federalism in Myanmar: Integrating
 indigenous solutions for federalism into framework principles for peace negotiations and building
 capacity to establish and promote federal governance (ICS19.01).
 (Anderson, Babalola, Barrinha, Keil, Lieberman, McLaughlin and Russell)


                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 T3. Applied Political Theory
 This comprises research on applied theory, tackling issues of marginalisation and social
 exclusion, political activism, racism, and moral questions related to ethics – specifically ‘dirty
 hands’ dilemmas. The work is connected to our Activism Research Network, and to the Impact
 Case Study: Politically Engaged Artistic Practice – Changing the Lives of Young People through
 the Tate Exchange Programme (ICS19.02).
 (Bates, Cashman, Ogilvie, Tillyris, Van Milders)

 T4. Politics of Education, Work and Generations
 This has set out to develop high quality impactful research at the intersection between social
 policy and politics. It brings together work in policy studies, specifically as relating to research on
 generational issues in education and work. Research has been particularly impactful through
 informing current policy – for example in debates in the UK government’s Intergenerational
 Commission, and with key advocacy organisations.
 (Bristow, Ogilvie, Potter and Van Milders)

 1.3 Strategic Aims
 Following a review of REF2014, we developed a strategic research plan, which identified five
 overarching aims:
 A1. To support and enable all research active staff to deliver high-quality impactful research.
 A2. To increase the volume and quality of research outputs.
 A3. To develop an innovative approach to co-creation which integrates research within the
 curriculum.
 A4. To target our activities towards high-quality impactful research, which embodies the
 principles of social inclusion, individual rights and human dignity.
 A5. To create sustainable growth of resources commensurate with the delivery of A1-4.

 A1. To support and enable all research active staff to deliver high-quality impactful
 research:
 a. Internal funding has been directed towards enabling staff to achieve the targets in Workload
 Profiling (WLP). Research support is identified in Individual Research Report Plans (IRRPS).
 WLP ensures that all staff with Significant Responsibility for Independent Research (SRIR) are
 allocated at least 0.2 FTE pro-rata for research and ECRs have 0.30 FTE equivalent. This has
 led to the increase in output quantity and quality identified below.
 b. Our 4 research themes scaffold staff to meet their expectations and aspirations, acting both
 as an arena for internal support and scrutiny, and an access point for research and wider
 networks. This has led not only to an increase in the quantity of outputs, but a demonstrable
 increase in quality across the cycle. This is evidenced by external review feedback and
 successful publication in target journals.
 c. The creation of this supportive environment has been key to the delivery of our staff strategy
 (see Section 2).

 A2. To increase the volume and quality of research outputs:
 We have:
 a. Increased our pool of available research outputs by 250%, from 52 in REF2014 to a supply
 pool of more than 130 outputs in 2020. This amounts to an average of 9.4 outputs per staff
 member across the cycle.
 b. Enhanced qualitative control mechanisms: All developmental outputs are subjected to a
 process of pre-submission scrutiny, supported by internal investment (see Section 3). This
 includes the use of external critical friends with significant REF experience, and a wider
 programme of staff development.

 A3. To develop an innovative approach to co-creation which integrates research within
 the curriculum:
 We have:
 a. Focused resources, allowing an increase in the volume and quality of outputs.
 b. Enhanced supervisory capacity through planned progression of new supervisors.

                                                                                                  Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 c. Supported a philosophy of students as co-creators of knowledge and impact. At PhD level, our
 supervisors have worked on joint outputs and impacts with their students. Two outputs returned
 to this REF have developed from this approach (Bates, Ogilvie and Pole 2016; Bates and
 Sharky 2020)– which we aim to expand in the next REF. This strategy for co-creation has also
 been crucial in our wider curriculum offer. Since 2014, we have funded 25 student internships
 aligned with research projects. Research has also been aligned to the curriculum, through 4
 Jean Monnet Modules (Hadfield; Keil; Lieberman), and 1 Parliamentary Studies module
 (Bennister).
 d. Facilitated the recruitment of high-quality staff and PhD students, specifically through
 attractive forms of thematic alignment. Since 2014, there has been a substantial increase in the
 number and quality of PhD applications, and an 11-fold increase in PhD completions (see
 Section 2).
 e. Enhanced the student experience, through a strategy of co-creation. Academic programmes
 contributing to this submission have strong records of student satisfaction. For our Politics offer,
 our standing in the National Student Survey (NSS) is consistently high (over 90% overall student
 satisfaction). In the 2021 Guardian League Table our Politics programme achieved a position of
 9th – the only post-1992 institution in the top 10.

 A4. To target our activities towards high-quality impactful research, which embodies the
 principles of social inclusion, individual rights and human dignity:
 a. All staff are expected to achieve impact in their work. Staff are supported through the
 allocation of internal resources as part of the appraisal process to work with partners (NGOs,
 international organisations, the public sector and businesses). Investment has been targeted to
 the development of impact case studies (see Section 3). Moreover, the incorporation of three
 academics from Christ Church Business School integrates our approach to impact with our
 Business to Business (B2B) offer.
 b. The impact of our research has occurred locally, regionally, nationally and internationally. At
 local and regional levels, we have focused on delivering change to the communities of which we
 are a part – in alignment with the University commitment to the Civic University. Our success in
 this area was evidenced by the Knowledge Exchange Framework (KEF), in which we were in the
 top 30% of English HEIs for both ‘Working with the Public and Third Sector’ and ‘Public and
 Community Engagement’ (see REF5a, 2.2).
 Locally, we have hosted research engagement events with the public, through our Making
 Politics Matter (MPM) initiative. Regionally, our work on the impact of Brexit for Kent and
 Medway brings together the local and regional aspects of our strategy. Impactful work as part of
 the Tate Exchange partnership (ICS19.02) is local, to the extent that it has transformed the lives
 of young people in Dover, and national, to the extent that it has involved co-creation of impact
 with young people and community groups in the Rhondda Valley. Internationally, work on
 federalism and conflict resolution has impacted on policy and practice in Myanmar, Syria,
 Lebanon, and Bosnia (see ICS19.01).

 A5. To create sustainable growth of resources commensurate with the delivery of A1-4:
 Our approach integrates internal investment, research income, knowledge exchange and
 curriculum funding, towards the delivery of our objectives. We have emphasised:
 a. Targeting funder diversity: Along with bidding success from research funders such as the
 Nuffield Foundation, our knowledge exchange and curriculum work (including funding from the
 EU’s Jean Monnet programme) has been essential to our income strategy.
 b. Encouraging collaborative bidding inside themes, and through external research partnerships,
 for example Potter’s work with the LSE and Bates’ work with Valley’s Kids.
 c. Building capacity and expertise for high level bidding. We have supported bidding activity
 throughout the UoA, from ECRs to research leaders (see Section 2).
 d. Encouraging like-for-like investment. Keil’s work in Myanmar has been supported by the
 Hanns-Seidel-Foundation. Bates’ work with the Live Arts Development Agency and Tate
 Exchange, allows access to high-cost resources and facilities (see ICS19.01 and ICS19.02).




                                                                                              Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.4 Future Strategy
 In this REF period, we enhanced the quality of outputs and impacts. This included establishing
 clear research themes, identifying strong impact case studies and embedding support for all
 staff. Our headline objectives for the next REF are:

 F1 - To enhance our profile for high-quality research in applied political theory,
 constitutional and territorial politics, and security studies
 The step change in the quantity and quality of outputs was enabled by the clear thematic
 alignment of our work in the 2014-2020 period. We will continue to refine this alignment in a way
 that supports the distinctiveness of our work.
 As a result, the UoA will be organised in 3 future research themes:
  Future Theme 1                Future Theme 2              Future Theme 3
  Applied Political Theory      Constitutional and          Security Studies
                                Territorial Politics

 The theme of Applied Political Theory will remain. Anticipated interdisciplinary alignments with
 Law colleagues, recent appointments in territorial politics (Anderson; Babalola) and a move
 from a European to a global focus, are key reasons for developing the theme of Constitutional
 and Territorial Politics – building on the achievements of Politics, Policy and Society: Europe and
 Beyond. A change of name of the theme Conflict, Security and Cooperation to Security Studies
 better encompasses the breadth of future work and presents the possibility for interdisciplinary
 work with colleagues working in Policing. The research in Theme 4 in the 2014-2020 period is
 expected to lead to a Sociology submission in the next REF cycle.
 If a key aspect of our strategy was to increase the quantity of outputs, the focus in the coming
 cycle will be to enhance publication efficiency (the number of high-quality outputs proportionate
 to the total outputs produced). This process aligns with a new institutional Individual Research
 Responsibility Plans (IRRP) process which came into effect in 2020 (see REF5a).

 F2 – To facilitate and support interdisciplinary research aligned to our research themes
 The thematic alignment will scaffold interdisciplinary research. A Faculty restructure has brought
 aspects of Politics and International Relations, Law, Policing and Sociology together in a new
 School, enabling strategic alignment of investment and activities. The £65m Verena Holmes
 Building will provide resource to underpin such collaboration – a key example being the Hydra
 Suite (See Section 3). The focus on applied political theory is an example in practice, of our
 belief that all research can be impactful. Work in this area is already producing collaboration not
 only with colleagues in Law, but also continues to build on collaboration between Politics and
 Sociology (Bates, Ogilvie). Co-created work in the Daphne Oram Building for the Creative Arts
 will also help to support interdisciplinarity beyond our Faculty, enabling collaboration with the
 Faculty of Arts, Humanities and Education.

 F3 - To maximise opportunities for local, regional, national and international impact
 The growth of impactful research has been a priority since 2014, and resulted in the
 development of local, regional, national and international partnerships. We will continue to use
 the university structures to deliver impactful research in these areas – locally and regionally,
 through working with our Enterprise and Engagement Team, and nationally/internationally
 working with our Research and Innovation Funding Unit (RIFU). We will continue to embed
 research users throughout the entire research lifecycle, from conceptualisation and design, to
 conclusion, outcome and impact.

 F4 - To become a beacon area for the co-creation of research
 Building on the success of co-creating research and impact with students, we will ensure the full
 alignment of our research with our curriculum. We will continue to generate creative possibilities
 for the co-creation of impactful research. To achieve this, we will work with the Graduate College
 to recruit PhD students aligned to our thematic strengths, and existing collaborative
 partnerships.



                                                                                              Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.5 Research Integrity and Governance
 Our processes focus on the implementation of clear, transparent and fair policies with a high
 standard of research integrity and governance. Processes for funding allocation are set out in
 Section 3. The IRRP process establishes expectations for researchers, with an alignment
 between individual researchers and strategic priorities.
 All research proposals undergo peer scrutiny before they are submitted to the CCCU ethics
 committee for approval. The online tool Research Space ensures that research goes through all
 necessary steps before ethical approval can be granted. The School level ethics panel assesses
 PGR proposals before the request approval stage. All staff and research students receive ethics
 training, and any PGR ethics applications must first receive support from a supervisor.
 UoA members are actively involved in wider institutional processes of research governance. For
 example, Bates is a member of the Research and Enterprise Integrity Committee, and the
 institutional REF steering group, as well as co-chairing this UoA.

 1.6 Public availability of research
 We are committed to the principles of openness, transparency and reproducibility of research.
 100% of our REF submitted outputs are open access compliant. All staff have received training
 in making their work accessible, with registration on platforms such as ORCHID, and Research
 Gate encouraged. The University encourages Green Open Access publication, and directs
 funding to support it. All staff and research students are expected to upload their outputs to
 Research Space, CCCU’s institutional repository. Our researchers also use on-line forums to
 share their publications with a wider audience free of charge.

 2. People
 Our People strategy focuses on developing and supporting a thriving and inclusive research
 culture for staff and research students.
 It is essential that we recruit the best quality academic staff. This involves ensuring that our
 international research reputation is strong, so that we draw from the widest range of candidates.
 Once we have recruited high quality staff, it is important to focus on their retention. We ensure
 that all staff are supported to achieve their aspirations. This includes aligning their research with
 our strategy as a focus for investment. The requirements for career progression are transparent
 and supported.
 CCCU is a signatory to the Concordat to Support Career Development of Researchers. We have
 committed to extending the principles of the Concordat to all staff on teaching and research
 contracts, continuing our long-standing dedication to the development of ‘home-grown’
 researchers (see REF5a, 3.2).

 2.1 Staff Development and Support
 We provide a comprehensive programme of support for staff development. The appraisal
 process includes a Personal Development Plan (PDP) and Individual Research Responsibility
 Plan (IRRP), where research objectives are set, and research funding is allocated. Staff
 development is supported through targeted funds (see Section 3).
 ECRs have been supported by our Supporting Progression in Academic Research Careers
 (SPARC) programme. The School of Psychology, Politics and Sociology was the Second School
 within the University to gain Athena Swan Bronze status. An area of Good Practice was
 identified as: ‘Supporting Progression for Academic Research Careers (SPARC) programme
 allowing “protected” monthly afternoons for early career researchers to learn about and discuss
 Research and Knowledge Exchange [RKE] related issues’. As part of SPARC, ECRs are
 assigned a mentor who oversees their research development. ECRs are expected to contribute
 to the regular series of research seminars, which include contributions from internal and external
 speakers. The research seminars operate as an arena to bring together all aspects of our
 research team. All ECRs are expected to complete the Postgraduate Certificate in Academic
 Practice.
 Senior colleagues have structured mentoring opportunities through engagement with other
 senior colleagues, including the Professoriate. The research steering group identifies the staff
 development priorities. Human Resources and Organisational Development (HROD) provide
 training on career development, promotion processes and EDI. The Research and Innovation

                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Funding Unit (RIFU) provide a range of targeted staff development opportunities including on
 funder identification, bid writing and impact.
 Internal investment is allocated for staff development for impact. This underpins our theoretically
 informed but applied approach to research - all researchers as impact drivers, and all research
 as impactful (see Section 3).
 We have adopted a strategically aligned Study Leave programme. Our aim has been to allocate
 one period of study leave per year – lasting for one semester. As a competitive process, staff
 must bid for study leave as part of the IRRP. Applications are assessed by panel members from
 inside and externally to the UoA. The strategic priorities for study leave are: the production of
 high-quality outputs; a demonstrable contribution to the curriculum; and a contribution to impact
 and income generation.

 2.2 Recruitment and Progression
 All staff included in the FTE are employed on permanent contracts. We have focused on
 recruiting and retaining high quality research active staff. We ensure opportunity for career
 progression and promotion. Since 2014, 2 staff became Professors (Bates, Hadfield), and 4
 staff gained the status of Reader (Bennister, Hadfield, Keil, Kent.A), while 6 staff were
 promoted to Senior Lecturers.
 Stage 1 of the institutional Equality Impact Assessment (EIA) as described in our REF2021
 Code of Practice has been completed and is reported in Section REF5a 3.4. Owing to small
 numbers and requirements of GDPR, analysis remains at Faculty level. UoA level data is not
 formally available. The data for REF2021 shows that in this Faculty, 47% of REF eligible staff
 are female, compared with 53% male. This compares to 37% of female staff who were returned
 to REF in 2014, and 62% male. Clearly whilst progress has been made since REF2014, there is
 more work to be done. 80% of staff returned in this submission have worked in Schools with an
 Athena SWAN Bronze Award.
 UoA level co-ordinators and panel members attend training on implicit bias and complete the
 university’s on-line module in this area. The criteria and process for inclusion in REF was made
 transparent to staff through staff forums, and through the dissemination of written material. Prior
 to review, publications were anonymised. REF has been emphasised throughout as a
 developmental process. Self-rating in line with REF criteria and ratings feedback was carried out
 initially in research pairings. Ratings were discussed with the wider teams. These ratings – and
 decision mechanisms – were then checked in discussion with external ‘critical friends’.
 Underpinning principles of equality have been emphasised throughout this process.
 We have adopted family-friendly work policies. All staff are required to engage with the institution
 wide campaign ‘Expect-Respect’ which focuses on respect for EDI amongst staff and students.
 Cashman was awarded an institutional Golden Apple for her work on this issue in 2019.
 We take a lead role in institutional debates on decolonalisation. We are working with our BAME
 Staff Network, the Closing Our Gap Project, and to build alliances with the QTIPOC
 (queer/trans/intersex people of colour) community. We have worked to ensure that all staff with
 disabilities and/or long-term health concerns are fully supported, for example through access to
 university counselling services (See REF 5a, 3.1). Our work concerning EDI issues is shared
 through regular comments via our Blog pages, on issues such as Black Lives Matter.
 Visiting Professors have a key role in our outreach, impact and knowledge exchange work.
 Strategically, we:
 Appoint Professors with expertise beyond academia to support impact and engagement
 (Macgregor, Hammond and Fidler have contributed to the Centre for European Studies
 (CEFEUS) and our curriculum. Macgregor is a retired British diplomat - former ambassador.
 Hammond is the former CEO of the Equalities and Human Rights Commission. Fidler is
 currently UK and Brexit Editor of The Wall Street Journal).
 Add value to our research informed and research engaged curriculum, by appointing leading
 experts in the field. (McLellan and Sayers - world renowned political philosophers - are aligned
 with the Applied Political Theory theme and work closely with Bates).

 2. 3 Support mechanisms for training and supervision of PGR students



                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 We have a diverse PGR portfolio, including an MSc by Research, a PhD by Thesis, a PhD by
 portfolio and a PhD by publication, each of which supports our aspirant PGR community to carry
 out research in the settings that most support their careers.
 Since our return to REF2014, we have delivered an 11-fold increase to PhD by thesis
 completions. This has been achieved partly through an alignment of PhD projects with research
 themes. The focus in the cycle was to target supervision in Themes 2 and 3. Theme 3 achieved
 2 successful completions and Theme 2 achieved 9 completions. From 2021, supervision will be
 aligned to the revised thematic structure.
 Success has also been achieved through the creation of a vibrant research culture, which
 integrates PhD students into all aspects of our work. PhD students are involved in the co-
 creation of outputs, along with structured opportunities to co-create impact. For example, Bates
 has worked with PhD students to develop the model of Politically Engaged Artistic Practice (see
 ICS19.02), which also resulted in a key publication in the on-line Open Access journal Tate
 Papers. Keil worked closely with Anderson in relation to ICS19.01.
 All PGR students are expected to take part in the Researcher Development Programme (RDP)
 based on the Vitae Researcher Development Framework (REF5a 3.3). These activities are
 captured digitally through our ‘ReCap’ technology and made available on the virtual learning
 environment (Blackboard) to which all PGR students have access. PGR progression and
 support is managed through Research Space, and further support is provided through the Post-
 Graduate Research Association (PGRA). PGR students have representation within key
 committees, including Faculty Board, Faculty Research and Enterprise Committees, the
 University’s Research Degrees Sub-Committee and the Research and Enterprise Integrity
 Committee.
 We work with our Graduate College to ensure that all staff have adequate training to support
 PGR students. The Graduate College establishes criteria for the designation of PhD supervisors
 – at either ‘accredited’ or experienced level. Potential supervisors in the area of Politics and
 International Studies are encouraged to become involved in PhD supervision as part of their
 professional role. Involvement and achievement is monitored through the IRRP and appraisal
 processes, and is supported in workload profiling (WLP) – specifically through time allocation
 and training. In the PDP process at the appraisal stage, a skills needs assessment is carried out
 to identify what support staff require for research supervision. This informs the content of
 Graduate College training provisions for all staff, including new supervisors.
 Our approach to postgraduate recruitment is as follows: We advertise our PhD offer
 internationally in alignment with our 4 research themes. We have offered 8 fully funded and full-
 time studentships since 2014 to the total value of £426,000. We have worked closely with
 external partners to provide funding opportunities. We have had considerable success with the
 Algerian Government, which has funded 3 Algerian PhD students for a 4-year period, to the
 approximate value of £288,000. The introduction of Postgraduate Loans at a national level has
 also meant that we have had a significant increase in the application for self-funded places. All
 PGR students are awarded £500 per year from the School budgets for conference attendance;
 they can apply for additional funds. We provide a programme of career advice tailored through
 our Graduate College and needs assessment with students.
 We have aligned our PGR recruitment with our staff approach to Equality, Diversity and
 Inclusion above. For example, in our Politics and International Relations pathway, 40% of our
 PGR students are male, 60% are female and 40% have a BAME background.

 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 3.1 Income and Investment Strategy
 Our research is embedded in our local and regional economy. We have prioritised bidding
 activity and inwards investment in research activities and facilities which can help to make a
 difference to the lives of our communities. Much of our research – given the nature of our
 discipline – also has an international focus.
 Responding to the competitiveness of the funding environment, we have developed a diverse
 approach to income generation, encompassing research and knowledge exchange income. We
 have committed to internal investment which has allowed us:
      • To deliver high quality outputs and impacts aligned with our key research themes.

                                                                                            Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    •    To develop bidding knowledge and capacity to the secure long-term viability of our
         research.
     • To focus on funder diversity (in terms of research and knowledge exchange income, and
         the size of funding bids, and the range of funders).
 In the 2014-20 cycle we have developed a 3-Pillar funding and investment strategy:

             Pillar 1:            Pillar 2:               Pillar 3:
             Inward               Research Income         Knowledge Exchange
             Investment                                   and Curriculum
                                                          Projects
  2010-14    £90,000              £296,191*               £0
  2014-20    £341,500             £159,107*               £241,000

 *The 2014 submission included research income from Law and Policing, which is now returned
 as an independent UoA, with research income to the amount of £523,258.

 Pillar 1: Inward Investment totalling: £341,500
 We have focussed on investment, targeted towards building the capability and capacity to
 deliver high quality research outputs and impacts. This process has been advanced with the
 introduction in 2017/18 of the annual Research & Enterprise Quality Improvement and
 Enhancement (REQIE) process to drive quality improvement and inform resource allocation (see
 REF5a, 2.1). To this effect, we have:
 Invested £96,000 into a Research and Impact Strategy Fund, which has focused on:
 developing research capability through staff training; enhancing the knowledge of research
 quality (particularly through employing experienced ‘critical friends’)’ and increasing output,
 impact and bidding capacity (specifically through the employment of a Senior Research Fellow).
 Invested £93,000 in an Impact Enhancement (Projects) Fund. This fund has focused on the
 early-stage development of impact case studies, and the process of selection, refinement,
 support and enhancement in the cycle, including allocated supportive RKE student internships
 for impact support. This resulted in the initial development of 4 case studies across all 4 Themes
 in the period, and to the ultimate selection of 2 (ICS19.01 – Theme 2 and ICS19.02 – Theme 3).
 Invested £152,500 in a Research Output Fund. This has focussed on enabling staff to enhance
 the quality of outputs, including through processes of pre-publication review and international
 conference attendance. The fund has also provided student intern support, thus helping to
 operationalise our strategy of co-creation. This has helped to generate a 250 % increase in
 output quantity.
 Invested £426,000 in PhD bursaries aligned with research themes. This investment – combined
 with the equivalent of £288,000 external bursary funding specifically from the Algerian
 Government - has allowed the delivery of an 11-fold increase in PhD completions across the
 period.
 Invested in like-for-like funding, particularly drawing on the internal investment streams above.
 For example, internal investment in our work with Tate Exchange enabled access to the
 internationally renowned facilities of the Tate Modern, thus supporting the development of
 research and impact (ICS19.02), alongside curriculum enhancement. Our work in Myanmar has
 been supported by like-for-like funding (to cover travel and expenses) by the Hanns-Seidel-
 Foundation (ICS19.01).
 In addition to the large growth in the quantity of outputs, this approach has also produced
 successful bidding activity for external research and knowledge exchange and curriculum
 enhancement income to the total value of £400,107 which has been invested in the production of
 impactful research.

 Pillar 2: Research Income to the total of £159,107
 The headline funding achieved by the UoA is £159,107. This compares to a figure of £296,191 in
 2014. This change is in part a result of the success elsewhere, in helping to grow the Law UoA.
 Research income has been focussed towards Themes 1, 2 and 4. It demonstrates success in
 funder diversity, but also achieving funding from prestigious research funders. For example, we


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 have achieved: £37,200 from the Nuffield Foundation for work on Prime Ministerial
 Accountability (Bennister) (Theme 1), which has resulted in two high-impact publications, of
 which one is returned to this REF, as well as report for the UK Parliament. Bristow has
 received £8,000 from the Leverhulme Trust. It has resulted in key publications submitted to this
 REF (Theme 4). The EU-funded EMAR project (which generated 4 industry-specific reports)
 received £44,000 to examine how to make European maritime more competitive (Theme 2) –
 thus enhancing our B2B offer.

 Pillar 3: Knowledge Exchange and Curriculum Projects
 At £241,000 this comprises the largest section of our external funding. Given our strategic focus
 on the production of impactful research which benefits the local and regional context, the
 generation of knowledge exchange and curriculum income has been important. The Jean
 Monnet Centre of Excellence (CEFEUS) has been pivotal here. The majority of CEFEUS’s work
 has been aligned to Themes 1 and 2, though its work is also of cross cutting significance. Since
 it was established in 2015 (led by Hadfield and subsequently Keil), CEFEUS has been an
 overarching focus for funding capture and interdisciplinary research across and beyond research
 themes, and a key support for our co-creative curriculum and research. From 2014, funding was
 gained for two Jean Monnet modules, a Jean Monnet Chair (renewed in 2017), and a Jean
 Monnet Centre of Excellence. This amounts to £224,000 of competitive funding. The majority of
 CEFEUS’s research in the period has focused on the local and regional impact of Brexit, and
 has involved close collaboration with local and regional partners across the public and private
 sectors. This has resulted in five research reports, as well as key submissions of evidence to
 parliamentary enquiries and public consultations. Further knowledge exchange funding for
 projects associated with the local and regional context include £17,000 for work with the
 Ebbsfleet Development Corporation on Green Space Identification (using Geographical
 Information Systems (GIS)). Additional inward investment in GIS has meant that we have key
 expertise and infrastructure, positioning us well with knowledge exchange bidding activity.
 Equality, Diversity and Inclusion: We focus on a transparent and inclusive mechanism for the
 allocation of internal investment, in line with our wider EDI processes. Our UoA Steering group is
 the primary means for the allocation of research and enterprise support funding (RESF), and
 contains representation of male and female staff. Research governance is representative of our
 staff base. All staff involved with making decisions regarding funding allocation have received
 unconscious bias training. We use the appraisal process to identify and address any EDI issues
 in relation to the overall funding strategy.

 3.2 Facilities
 Staff and postgraduate researchers have access to the Augustine House learning and resources
 centre. This £23m centre opened in 2009 and has cutting-edge facilities for researchers and
 PhD students.
 The Hydra Simulation Suite (a collaborative resource hosted by the School of Law, Policing and
 Social Sciences) is located in our £65m Verena Holmes Building. This suite is a technological
 tool for researchers and students to take part in immersive simulations of real-life natural
 decision-making, and is of particular use for research associated with Theme 1 and will continue
 to be significant in the development of our future research strategy.
 The Mabb Lovell Court Room is funded by the School of Law, Policing and Social Sciences. This
 was historically the court room attached to a prison (also now part of the CCCU estate), which
 has been refurbished as a court room which also supports the simulation work of the Hydra
 Suite.
 We make extensive use of our £13m Daphne Oram Building for the Creative Arts which opened
 in 2019. This facility includes cutting-edge production and performance spaces for staff,
 students and the local community. This resource is of particular importance for our work on
 politically engaged artistic practice, which comprises an aspect of research (see Theme 3 and
 ICS19.02).
 Partnership with the Tate Exchange Associates Programme enables access to Tate Galleries
 and exhibitions for our researchers and postgraduate students. It also provides us each year
 with floor space and resources at Tate Exchange (located in the £260m Blavatnik Building). This
 has been pivotal to the development of ICS19.02.

                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The European Review of International Studies (ERIS) partnership with Sciences Po, Paris
 enables an exchange of access to research facilities,for staff and research students between
 Paris and Canterbury. The Parliamentary Academic Fellowship provided Bennister with access
 to the extensive resources of the UK Parliament.
 We have invested in technology to support our geopolitics provision (Theme 1 and 2).
 Geographical Information Systems (GIS) is a software package that allows the analysis,
 exploration, and visualisation of spatial data. We have purchased an ArcGIS educational licence
 to the cost of £3,150 p.a. Quantum GIS (QGIS), which is a free and open-source GIS software
 package, is maintained by a growing community of developers worldwide. We currently use
 Erdas IMAGINE (at a cost of £2,150 p.a.), which is an industry-standard software for processing
 satellite and aerial imagery.

 3.3 Income generation and future investment
 In order to deliver our future strategic objectives (Section 1, F1-F4), income generation and the
 investment in people and infrastructure remain key priorities. Internal investment in the 2014-20
 cycle has led to a step-change in the quantity and quality of impactful research. It has allowed
 the strengthening of capability and capacity for external bidding activity. Building on the existing
 3-Pillar structure for investment and income capture, we are now in a position to grow external
 income to ensure the sustainability of the UoA.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 Collaboration is at the heart of our work. Our approach stresses both the importance of
 collaboration and the co-creation of research. This has involved the development of
 partnerships, and engagement with key beneficiaries and users.

 4.1 Partnerships and Collaborations
 We have focused on the development of sustainable partnerships within an international higher
 education context and beyond, to deliver high quality outputs and impacts which make a positive
 contribution to society. Our 3-Pillar investment and funding strategy directs resources towards
 key strategic collaborations. Our partnerships and collaborations are aligned with our 4 research
 themes. These themes have operated as hubs, bringing together research across the University.
 These research themes also operate as points of contact for collaborative research beyond the
 university. Collaborations have been key to our impactful research and funding strategy. While
 some of the examples are captured in our submitted impact case studies (ICS19.01 and
 ICS19.02), other collaborationsshow the wider diversity of our impactful research, including our
 B2B offer.

 Theme 1: Politics, Policy and Society: Europe and Beyond
 Joint academic projects:
 Work aligned to this theme has included a key strategic partnership with Sciences Po, Paris
 (The European Review of International Studies (ERIS)) involving Bates, Keil and Lieberman at
 CCCU, Professor Christopher Hill (Cambridge), and Professors Bertrand Badie (Sciences Po)
 and Christian Lequesne (Sciences Po and Director of the Centre d'études et de recherches
 internationales (CERI)). ERIS is a journal with a growing international reputation. Bennister’s
 Nuffield Foundation funded work on Prime Ministerial Accountability, in collaboration with Kelso
 (Southampton), led to his Parliamentary Academic Fellowship which gave privileged access to
 the parliamentary estate and collaboration with the House of Commons library. Bennister’s
 work with ‘t Hart (Utrecht) and Worthy (Birkbeck) on the influential Leadership Capital Index
 (LCI) has resulted in the production of 3 collaborative outputs, including a major edited work with
 Oxford University Press.

 Collaborations:
 Work on the local and regional impact of Brexit (Hadfield, Keil, Lieberman) has engaged
 governmental organisations (the European Commission through Jean Monnet funded projects),
 local and regional MPs, UK Parliament across parties, local government (specifically Kent
 County Council) and other organisations including the Dover Ports and Harbour Authority. It has
 led to a total of 15 public events for the dissemination of research findings such as regular Brexit

                                                                                              Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 townhall meetings between 2015 and 2020. Kent.A’s work with the Ebbsfleet Development
 Corporation has informed the design of new blue and green spaces.

 Theme 2: Conflict, Security and Cooperation
 Joint academic projects:
 Work on the regulation of outer space by Lieberman involves collaboration with colleagues from
 around Europe, including Ecole Supérieure des Sciences Commerciales d'Angers (ESSCA)
 France, as part of the European Space Policy Network. This has resulted in bidding activity, and
 to date in 5 research outputs. Kent.A’s work on Soviet Mapping has involved collaboration with
 the Centre for the Changing Character of War (Oxford). It has resulted in 3 research outputs.
 Work on federalism (Anderson, Babalola, Keil) has resulted in our research group on
 Federalism and Conflict Resolution becoming a member of the International Association for
 Centers of Federal Studies (IACFS) in 2020. Cooperation with the Institute for Comparative
 Federalism at European Academy (EURAC) (Italy) and the Institute of Federalism at the
 University of Fribourg (Switzerland) has resulted in 2 joint publications, as well as collaborative
 events such as an annual research conference since 2018.

 Collaborations:
 Work with colleagues in Myanmar has resulted in impact through engaging Members of the
 Myanmar Parliament, the Civil Service, political parties and civil society organisations. This has
 been achieved in partnership with the Hanns-Seidel-Foundation in Myanmar. Keil has worked
 with think tanks and NGOs to support ongoing decentralization debates in Syria (with the
 European Center for Kurdish Studies) and Lebanon (with Democracy Reporting International).
 This work has resulted in one impact case study (ICS19.01) as well as several research outputs
 and collaborative funding bids. Work within EMAR has contributed to establishing a framework
 which increases the competitiveness of the EU maritime transport industry. Kent.A’s work with
 Geoinformation Group, to bring together governmental and other organisations to provide
 training, has fed into work of the Geospatial Commission (Cabinet Office). His work on Soviet
 Mapping has led to an invitation by the US European Command Headquarters (EUCOM), to
 advise senior government and military staff on Russia's capability for conducting globally
 integrated operations as enabled by its geospatial capability.

 Theme 3: Applied Political Theory
 Joint academic projects:
 Bates’ work with McKenzie, McLellan (Kent) in association with the PSA Marxism Specialist
 Group resulted in an edited collection. As co-convenor Bates organises panels for this specialist
 group. Bates is also an Editor of the PSA journal Studies in Marxism working with Cowling
 (Teesside). Tillyris has worked with Edyvane (Leeds) to organise panels at the Manchester
 Workshops in Political Theory. This resulted in a Special Issue of the journal Theoria in 2019.
 Tillyris was also Co-organiser of CIAP 2018: The Ethics of Resistance Conference, CCCU,
 September 2018 (with Vogler (Edinburgh) and Van Hoef, (Utrecht)).

 Collaborations:
 At the intersection between the local, regional, and national, Bates’ work with the Tate
 Associates Programme (see ICS19.02), has engaged young people from marginalised
 communities, artists, art practitioners, teachers, art institutions (in particular, galleries such as
 the Tate) and audiences/participants. The collaborative work (resulting in 3 exhibitions at Tate
 Modern and one article, a contribution to the ESRC Festival of Social Sciences, and other
 academic outputs) brings together community groups, artists, and local schools. Work with the
 Turner Contemporary Gallery (as part of our B2B offer) has led to the development of new
 effective models for measuring the socio-economic impact of the creative industries. This has
 been further enabled by cross UoA collaboration (with UoA24) accessing Arts Council funding
 (see REF5a, 2.4.). It has led to the production of 3 journal articles, 2 reports and developing
 impacts.

 Theme 4: Politics of Work, Education and Generations


                                                                                                 Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Joint academic projects:
 Van-Milder’s work has involved key collaborations with colleagues from the University of Kent’s
 Future of Work Seminar Series (with Turner). As well as participating in the Future of Work
 series, Potter’s work on the politics of work has been carried out in collaboration with colleagues
 at the LSE.

 Collaborations:
 Bristow’s work has resulted in high-impact collaborations, on the theme of ‘Policing Pregnancy’
 with partners such as the British Pregnancy Advisory Service (BPAS), Birthrights and the Centre
 for Parenting Culture Studies. Bristow has also carried out work with two reproductive health
 charities and generated a high volume of national media coverage; and the award of a grant
 from the Wellcome Trust in 2019, to consolidate an interdisciplinary network of academics and
 Third Sector organisations working on the concept of ‘generations’.

 4.2 Engagement with diverse communities
 Our approach is value led and evidence informed. This approach cuts across all 4 research
 themes. It aligns with our commitment to target activities towards high-quality impactful research
 which embodies the principles of social inclusion, individual rights and human dignity (see
 Section 1 – A4). We consider our outreach and engagement activities as central to our public
 duty and responsibility to disseminate publicly funded research findings. We work with
 community partners, and the university outreach programme and the Kent and Medway
 Collaborative Outreach Programme (KaMCOP) to access diverse audiences within the locality
 and region. Work with local migration charities (Samphire and Kent Refugee Action Group) has
 engaged some of the most vulnerable members of our community. Our international work on
 building peace in post-conflict societies has engaged communities in Myanmar, Syria, Lebanon,
 The Philippines, and Kosovo.
 Our Enterprise and Engagement Team provides support, resources and networking to enable
 staff to engage across the employment, enterprise, research and knowledge exchange agendas.
 Our success in this area is evidenced by the KEF. Our Making Politics Matter public speaker
 series – organised by students and community members has been cited in our successful return
 to KEF1, as has our work on Politically Engaged Artistic Practice as part of the Tate Exchange
 Programme (ICS19.02).

 4.3 Sustainability of the Discipline:
 Members of our UoA recognise the importance of contributing to the sustainability of Politics and
 International Studies (and cognate disciplines) in a number of ways. Staff contribute
 substantively to the activities of their professional organisations. For example, Kent.A was
 President of the British Cartographic Society (2015-2017). Bates is the Co-Chair of the Marxism
 specialist group of the PSA. Keil is a member of the Programme Committee of the Association
 for the Study of Nationalities (ASN) and an Executive Member of Research Committee 28 of
 IPSA. Bennister is a founding member of the Leadership Specialist Group in the ECPR and the
 PSA, and Anderson is currently co-chairing the UACES Collaborative Research Network
 ‘Territorial Politics in Crisis.’ We are an institutional member of UACES and have been a
 member of the ECPR.
 The national and international standing of staff is also regularly drawn upon to act as External
 Examiners. We support other scholars through acting as internal and external examiners of
 undergraduate and postgraduate programmes. Bates is currently the External Examiner of the
 BA in Politics and International Relations at the University of Loughborough, Keil was External
 Examiner at the University of Plymouth and London Metropolitan University. Lieberman was
 external examiner for an MA programme at the University of Roehampton. Keil has examined
 PhDs at the Universities of Leicester and Sussex, as well as in Germany (Universities of Passau
 and Erfurt), Austria (Vienna University) and Italy (University of Trento).
 Staff are involved in editorial and review activities. We encourage and support our staff to sit on
 the editorial boards of key journals in their discipline, and to engage in journal and grant
 reviewing activity. Bennister was a member of the ESRC Peer Review College, Keil was an
 expert reviewer for Horizon 2020 funding, as was Hadfield. Keil is regularly called upon by the
 British Council to act as a reviewer for the Newton Fund on International Research

                                                                                             Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Collaborations and Networks. We have encouraged and supported our staff to become involved
 in reviewing activity with leading journals in their field. Staff have acted as reviewers for
 publishers such as Oxford University Press, SAGE, Palgrave, Routledge, Rowman and
 Littlefield, Manchester University Press and Springer. Our staff regularly review for the major
 journals within their discipline, including: Europe-Asia Studies, The Sociological Review, The
 British Journal of Sociology, Review of International Studies, Journal of Common Market
 Studies, Publius, CRISPP, and Space Policy. Altogether, staff reviewed potential articles for
 over 80 journals.

 Examples of editorial responsibilities include: Since 2013, we have co-hosted the journal The
 European Review of International Studies (ERIS) with CERI in Paris. Bates, Keil and
 Lieberman are currently members of the Editorial Board. The journal is supported by a
 Managing Editor, employed by CCCU and funded by the UoA. Since 2014, CCCU has also
 been the host of the annual ERIS lecture. Further examples include: Editorship of The
 Cartographic Journal (peer-reviewed journal of the British Cartographic Society (Kent.A);
 Editorial Board Membership: Croatian International Relations Review (Keil), Ethnopolitics (Keil),
 Contemporary Southeastern Europe (Keil), Nile Journal of Political Science (Babalola),
 Contention: The Multidisciplinary Journal of Social Protest (Ogilvie as associate editor),
 and Studies in Marxism (with Bates as co-editor).

 We host two book series, ‘Federalism and Internal Conflict’. So far 7 books have been published
 in the series (since 2019). Our ‘Balkan Politics and Society’ series has published 4 volumes
 since 2019.

 As well as extensive participation in national and international conferences, we have hosted
 numerous events within our UoA. These have included: a conference on the Ethics of
 Resistance in 2018, in partnership with the Conference for Interdisciplinary Approaches to
 Politics (CIAP). We co-hosted the UACES collaborative Research Network (CRN) Europe and
 the Everyday (with colleagues from Aston and Leicester University) and in the wake of this
 organised a workshop on the future of Europe at CCCU in 2017. Members of the UoA have
 been invited as keynote speakers in the UK, Europe and worldwide. Examples include: The
 Forum for European Philosophy, LSE (2017) (Tillyris); Friedrich Naumann Foundation and
 Sarajevo School of Technology, Bosnia (2019) (Keil).; Members of the UoA have also delivered
 other invited talks, including at the University of Kent, Birkbeck University (McManus); Blavatnik
 School of Government, Oxford University (2019) (Bristow); Peking University (2018) (Bates),
 and the University of Loughborough (2016) (Tillyris).

 We continue to disseminate our work in the media – both in the print media, and through social
 media. In 2017, Keil and Anderson launched the website www.50shadesoffederalism.com
 which provides short articles on different themes related to federalism. The website has had
 more than 700,000 clicks. Articles from the website are also available in French, through a
 partnership with the Canada Research Chair at the University of Quebec in Montreal, and in
 Spanish and Catalan, through cooperation with the Institute for Autonomy and Local
 Government Studies in Barcelona. Working primarily in the contexts of CEFEUS and Themes 1
 and 2, Hadfield and Lieberman have had considerable media activity, particularly with BBC
 Kent (amounting to over 100 appearances since 2015). Bristow has an extensive media profile,
 including on BBC Radio 4’s Moral Maze. Potter has discussed his work on BBC Radio 4’s
 Thinking Allowed. We have a vibrant Blog which publishes short blog pieces by staff, research
 students and undergraduates.




                                                                                            Page 13
