Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: St. Mary’s University, Twickenham

 Unit of Assessment: 20, Social Work and Social Policy

 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context

          Research in the Social Work and Social Policy Unit of Assessment (hereafter ‘the Unit’)
 comes from staff from the Institute of Business Law and Society and the Faculty of Sport, Allied
 Health and Performance Science, of St Mary’s University, Twickenham (hereafter ‘St Mary’s/the
 University’), as well as academics who were previously submitted to the 2014 REF in the
 Education Unit of Assessment by St Mary’s. There is also research co-operation with the Institute
 of Theology and Liberal Arts at St Mary’s, especially in areas where religion relates to social
 thought, public policy, and practice. We have created an inter-disciplinary Unit which spans
 several disciplines, all of which are related to the Unit descriptor. The research in the Unit is inter-
 disciplinary and applied. Much of the research relates closely to the University’s mission and
 history as a higher education institution that serves those parts of the community that might
 otherwise be marginalised or excluded.

 Structure of research

         Our research takes place in a range of research centres and clusters in the Institute of
 Business, Law and Society, the Institute of Education, and the Faculty of Sport, Allied Health and
 Performance Science. Research centres are more formal groupings, and they are set biennial
 targets in relation to income generation, publications, and public engagement. These centres and
 clusters are outlined below, and greater detail of their work is provided in Section 4.

 The Bakhita Centre (formerly known as the Centre for the Study of Modern Slavery)

          The Bakhita Centre, formerly the Centre for the Study of Modern Slavery, was established
 in 2015 as part of St Mary’s University’s commitment to act in relation to the growing scale of
 human trafficking and slavery in the UK and across the globe. The Centre is part of Cardinal
 Vincent Nichols' initiative to combat slavery and trafficking, along with Bakhita House (a London-
 based safe-house for trafficked women) and the Santa Marta group which seeks to co-ordinate
 the efforts of law enforcement authorities, NGOs, and governments worldwide. The Centre's role
 is to support this initiative with research that feeds into anti-slavery and human trafficking policy at
 the highest level, in the UK and internationally, and to contribute to education and awareness
 raising.

        The Centre has received several research grants and grants for engagement projects
 (described below) and was “pump primed” by the University, including with assistance in the form
 of PGR studentships. This Centre has been supported by the University’s GCRF funding within its
 QR allocation and provides one of the Impact Case Studies presented in this submission.

        See Bakhita Centre for Research on Slavery, Exploitation and Abuse (stmarys.ac.uk)

 Centre for Research into the Education of Marginalised Children and Young Adults (CREMCYA)

         This Centre was established in 2018, after a successful British Council project in 2017
 undertaken by the founder director. The success of that project attracted nearly £500,000 of
 philanthropic research funding to employ a director, research assistants, and a fully funded PhD

                                                                                                  Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 studentship for a student from a less developed country. The Centre has also been supported by
 GCRF funding and has begun to attract self-funding PhD students. It has also developed an MA
 programme. Within this Centre there is also a research cluster focusing on inclusive education.

        See Centre for Research into the Education of Marginalised Children and Young Adults
        (CREMCYA) (stmarys.ac.uk)

 The Centre for Law and Culture

         Launched in 2014, the Centre for Law and Culture examines issues of social justice and
 equality through interdisciplinary doctrinal, historical, and philosophical legal scholarship. The
 Centre brings together researchers in law specialising in human rights and inclusion, with a
 particular focus on gender and women in the legal profession. There is also collaboration with the
 Bakhita Centre on issues related to supply chains and human rights law.

        See Centre for Law and Culture (stmarys.ac.uk)

 The Aquinas Centre for Theological Literacy and the Centre for Research and Development in
 Catholic Education

        These two Centres work closely together. The latter transferred from the Institute of
 Education at University College, London, in 2016. The two centres work on research in Catholic
 education, relating that work to public policy as well as to teaching practice and curriculum
 development. These Centres are responsible for the inter-disciplinary journal International Studies
 in Catholic Education (the first international journal in this area) which also transferred from UCL
 in 2016.

        See Aquinas Centre for Theological Literacy (stmarys.ac.uk) and Centre for Research and
        Development in Catholic Education (stmarys.ac.uk)

 Business Ethics Cluster

         This is an inter-disciplinary research cluster working with the Institute of Theology and
 Liberal Arts and working in the field of business ethics and conduct. Its members work closely with
 the Economy of Francesco project (The Economy of Francesco | OFFICIAL WEBSITE
 (francescoeconomy.org)), which is being developed and overseen personally by Pope Francis
 with the aim of building a more inclusive economy.

 Teacher Wellbeing and Resilience Cluster

         This research cluster, based in the Institute of Education, studies the wellbeing and
 resilience of teachers in primary and secondary education, as well the transition between phases
 of the profession and pastoral support, mindfulness, and mental health.

 Other research groupings

         The Unit also includes staff from the Faculty of Sport, Allied Health and Performance
 Science from within the Research Centre for Applied Social and Health Sciences. The focus of
 the research of this grouping within that centre is inclusion, diversity, psychology, wellbeing, and
 nutrition. The focus is empirical with a view to influencing public understanding and professional
 practice.


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         An additional important project within the Unit is The Art of Dying Well. This began as a
 pastoral and public engagement project with the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and
 Wales. The project then moved to St. Mary’s so that it could develop a strong research aspect to
 complement the public engagement. It has received a total of £406,000 of grant awards and
 philanthropic donations to date (about 40 per cent of which is for projects after 31 July 2020).

        In addition, the Institute of Business, Law and Society hosts the Social Enterprise
 Knowledge Exchange Network, which undertakes research in social enterprise and social
 entrepreneurship and its relationship to social policy goals.

 Research and Impact Strategy

        The submission to the Unit has been developed since the University’s submission to the
 REF 2014. The decision to submit staff in the Unit is an important component of the St Mary’s
 University Research and Enterprise strategy, outlined in ‘Vision 2025’, which committed the
 University to:

        1. Develop research and enterprise capacity alongside a renewed emphasis on teaching
        excellence.
        2. Intensify interdisciplinary research and scholarship to create and disseminate new
        knowledge.
        3. Partner with public, private, and third sector bodies to influence public policy debate and
        decision-making.
        4. Raise the University’s profile and increase our impact through an active presence in the
        public square and development of solutions to key public policy concerns.
 The strategy explicitly mentioned social policy as a research area on which the University would
 focus going forward. In response to this aim, the Unit has sought to develop in the following areas.

 1. To encourage staff to work across boundaries to develop insights that support real life problem-
 solving especially in relation to areas where there is a real social need

          The Unit has grown through the intensification of cross-disciplinary collaboration between
 research groups working in Units submitted in 2014, together with the addition of new areas of
 research contributed by new members of staff and new research centres that have been
 developed in the last five years. This cross-disciplinary focus was developed considering
 feedback received from the REF 2014 submission in Education, and the conclusion that the
 research culture in the field of Education needed to be carefully nurtured. The decision to submit
 research from Education in the Unit reflects a long-term aim to augment and develop that area of
 activity. Research into the fields of social policy and social work has received strategic and
 financial support at the institutional level which has led to, amongst other things, the creation of
 two newly funded and now self-supporting research centres working at the leading edge of social
 policy.

        The Unit includes academics who have published and developed their careers within
 several sub-disciplines. This has created an effective dynamic for an inter-disciplinary Unit. These
 sub-disciplines include education; psychology, sexuality and gender; law and criminology;
 business ethics; economics; youth and social work; and politics.




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
          The common theme of the research within the Unit is that it involves the creation and
 application of knowledge which is designed to improve societal outcomes for the disadvantaged
 and address problems of exclusion and discrimination. Our research does this directly and through
 our public engagement and impact strategy, which is designed to inform public policy debates and
 achieve social change via civil society, educational institutions, and business. Thus, the research
 in this Unit is not limited to examining the role of the state in meeting social needs but includes
 research and public engagement on and through civil society, the private sector, and international
 institutions and organisations. The research programmes are very much built around agendas of
 inclusion, human rights, equality, and diversity. The success of the development of such research
 activity is demonstrated in the details provided in Section 4.

 2. To partner with public, private and third sector bodies to influence public policy debate and
 policy formulation

           The impact that the development of our research has had is demonstrated in detail in
 Section 4. One example is the success of our work in the fight against human trafficking, where
 the Bakhita Centre has had significant success in affecting the training of professionals and in
 assisting public policy debate, such as that around the Modern Slavery (Victim Support) Bill, as
 discussed in our Impact Case Study. To facilitate this focus on applied research and enhance our
 collaboration with civil society, think tanks, the world of politics, public services, and the economy
 more generally, research centres and clusters have networks of advisers. Each research centre
 is required to have an external adviser. The Institute of Business Law and Society also has a high-
 profile advisory board who assist us with aspects of work in social policy. Members include
 Vivienne Artz, Chief Privacy Officer at Refinitiv who has assisted the Bakhita Centre; Charles
 Wookey, Chief Executive of Blueprint for Better Business, whose staff assist the business ethics
 research cluster; and Stephen Breninkmeijer, Chair of the European Climate Foundation.

         As can be seen from this discussion of the work of the research centres and clusters, the
 Unit has been at the heart of the University’s aim to develop links with the world of practice and
 the public square. Achieving impact from research is an important aspect of the academic
 promotion criteria at every level. Within the Unit, there is a great deal of expertise in public
 engagement and impact. This expertise arises from strategic appointments to St. Mary’s staff of
 individuals who have experience in the political or practice spheres as well as from visiting staff.
 We ensure that this expertise is shared widely. Workshops on impact are held within the University
 on a regular basis and the “Experts in Residence” at the Doctoral College provide training and
 advice on impact to PGR students and St Mary’s academics.

 3. To expand our national and distinctive international networks to provide a forum for discussion
 of global issues and the development of solutions to serious social problems

         The University’s links with the various charities attached to the Catholic Church are used
 to develop pathways to impact and to provide advice and funding for projects that link research to
 public engagement. Within the Catholic Church, St Mary’s engages at many levels nationally and
 internationally, feeding research into deliberations about public policy issues, school curriculum
 development and the Church’s role in the alleviation of poverty and social exclusion. This has
 included important academic work and co-operation in the public square in inter-faith relations,
 especially on the relationships between Muslims, Christians, and secular society. Such faith
 groups, civil society and philanthropic organisations have been key to the strategy designed to
 expand research funding in the Unit.



                                                                                                Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Practical and professional engagement is demonstrated by the number of St Mary’s staff
 who work part-time for leading public policy think tanks, while others have positions as members
 of advisory boards or as trustees of think tanks or NGOs. Academics at St. Mary’s who do not
 have significant responsibility for research participate in the process of achieving impact from
 research. This is made possible by the variety of promotion routes and by the workload model,
 which allows time for public engagement activities which may be related to the research of
 colleagues. Examples of this collaborative activity are described in Section Four.

         Members of the Unit also collaborate with academics whose outputs have been submitted
 to other Units of Assessment in achieving impact and public engagement. The inter-disciplinary
 nature of the work undertaken at St. Mary’s has led to some individuals working seamlessly across
 boundaries of Units. For example, Murphy (a member of this Unit) has worked with church
 organisations and written in journals aimed at clergy on theological and pastoral aspects of modern
 slavery. Booth (a member of Theology and Religious studies) has worked on the research and
 impact for one of the impact case studies in this Unit. In addition, Booth has worked with
 organisations at the interface of theology and public policy. In January 2019, the Catholic Social
 Action Network launched his policy paper on housing in the Houses of Parliament, with
 introductions by parliamentary members of all main political parties. He has also given oral
 evidence to several Parliamentary Select Committees, including twice in 2020 to the Commons
 Treasury Select Committee on the economic impact of Covid-19 and has also been asked to give
 policy advice to the Canadian Shadow Minister for International Development and Human Rights.

        The development of our links in relation to public engagement and the heavy teaching
 commitments in a small university has meant that the development of top-class research has
 lagged the public engagement and has inhibited the development of a wider range of impact case
 studies. However, the significant increase in funding we have achieved is translating into a pipeline
 of research and publications, which will be related to impact in coming years.

 Future development and strategy

         Following a restructuring of the University that took place in 2020, each of the Institute of
 Business, Law and Society and the Institute of Education has developed their own research
 strategies. At the heart of these are the following key features:

    1. The development of a publication record to match the income generation that we have
       achieved in the later years of the assessment period and following the end of the
       assessment period.

    2. The development of ‘The Art of Dying Well’ project as a major research project to match
       the success of the public engagement.

    3. The maintenance of a culture of inter-disciplinary work with both Institutes working closely
       with the Institute of Theology and Liberal Arts and the Faculty of Sport, Allied Health and
       Performance Science.

    4. The further embedding of the research culture in the Institute of Business, Law and Society,
       building on the progress that has been made in applied research in social policy in the last
       five years to improve the quality of research and ensure more effective impact and public
       engagement over a range of areas.




                                                                                               Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    5. The further development of already excellent links between research and teaching
       including the introduction of a professional doctorate in social and public policy.

    6. Continuing to improve and broaden research in Education so that, in the next REF, the
       staff and research can be entered as a separate Unit of Assessment, including colleagues
       from the Institute of Business Law and Society who are working on education in business
       schools.

    7. An increase in income generation.

    8. Ensure that we have sufficient PGR supervisors at the requisite level for our rapidly
       growing PGR programme.

 2. People

 Research management, organisation, and leadership

         The overall University People Strategy has been applied within the Unit with considerable
 success. As noted above, this is a new Unit that reflects the implementation of the University’s
 strategy and cross-disciplinary co-operation among our academic staff. The Unit has developed
 quickly, with 17 FTE of staff with SRR who were not submitted to REF 2014, and the only staff
 who were submitted in REF 2014 being from Education.

          The Concordat to Support the Career Development of Researchers (2008/2019) informs
 the implementation of the Unit’s research strategy by supporting researchers, supervisors and
 supervisees in developing integrity, probity, equality, and diversity in the Unit’s research
 environment. Every new staff member and ECR considered to be a ‘developing researcher’ is
 allocated a research mentor (this is also available to all staff who request it). Staff meet with their
 Programme Director and the Associate Dean for Research on an annual basis to discuss and
 agree a Personal Research Plan (PRP) for the coming year. This covers all proposed research
 activity and the resources to be allocated for its successful execution. The Research Plans are
 reviewed on an annual basis and a report given to the University Research Office.

         Research is led by the Associate Deans, Doctoral Leads, and subject research leads. The
 Associate Deans have responsibility for implementing the research strategy, ensuring compliance
 with REF requirements, processing PGR applications (working with the Doctoral Leads) and
 ensuring that mentoring and other forms of support for early career researchers is in place. They
 have responsibility for nurturing researchers and implementing the mentoring system, monitoring
 research, assisting with funding applications, organising events such as seminars and ensuring
 that research centres are meeting their objectives.

         A series of internal seminars have been developed so that members of academic staff and
 PGR students can present their work and receive feedback. In addition, staff are regularly exposed
 to the research of external academics. The current programme running from October 2020 to
 March 2021 in the Institute of Education, for example, includes three members of staff with SRR,
 three PGR students, two funded research assistants and three academics from other highly
 ranked research universities. There are also Festival of Research events that have a broader
 development focus.




                                                                                                 Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Postgraduate research students

         During the HESA returns period August 2013 to July 2020 there have been two PhD
 completions within this REF cycle. There are currently three PhDs in Education (one of these is
 on the Professional Doctorate Programme in Education) who have been examined and have
 completed, subject to final corrections. This reflects the relative newness of the Unit. Looking
 forward, the table below details the current student registrations across the subject areas covered
 within the Unit.

 Doctoral Admissions

                     Education
                                     Business   &
                     (including Prof              Social Policy                  Law
                                     Management
                     Doc)

  2014/15            3

  2015/16            3

  2016/17            6                                       2

  2017/18            7                   4                                       1

  2018/19            9                   1

  2019/20            7                   2                   4


        Going forward with this cohort of research students we will use the established
 postgraduate framework to help them develop. St Mary’s offers regular in-house training in
 research methods, publishing, and use of research materials and staff. The creation of the
 Doctoral College in 2017 has also assisted in this task, providing our PGR community with a
 dedicated and premium workspace at which they are guaranteed desks and networked computers
 to support their research activities.

          The University’s application for Research Degree Awarding Powers was approved on 16
 March 2021, and we will be able to award research degrees from 1 April 2021. During the period
 covered by this report, our cohort was registered at Liverpool Hope University. St Mary’s
 supplements Liverpool’s monitoring system with its own progress monitoring review under the
 aegis of the University Committee for Research which reviews the support and training provided
 to all research students through the Annual Report and Interim Review processes.

         A research students’ ‘Module’ is hosted on the St Mary’s Virtual Learning Environment.
 This contains all relevant administrative documents and research programme resources. A central
 PGR skills training programme is provided at St Mary’s in addition to the sessions available at
 Unit level. We have undertaken to create an environment that supports and values the PGR
 community, enabling them to blossom within the Unit. Each student is attached to a research
 centre or cluster and as well as the programme of Unit-led events each Centre/cluster actively
 involves its students in conferences, colloquia, seminars etc. All registered PhD students are
 required to have a minimum of eight formal PhD supervisions per annum – with most exceeding
 this.



                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Progress is closely monitored with both the interim review and annual review each year,
 the results of which are discussed at the Institute sub-committee for research. The annual review
 requires each student to produce a 2000-word report about which they are questioned at the hour-
 long review meeting by their supervisory team. The progress of each student is reviewed mid-way
 through their course in a Confirmation Review. This requires a 20,000-word report detailing their
 progress to date and an in-depth interview with the supervisory team and external auditors.

         Our PGR students are strongly encouraged to present at conferences, achieve impact from
 their research where they can and work towards academic publications. For example, Fell was
 invited to speak at the International Human Trafficking conference at the University of Toledo,
 USA held on the 19 September 2019 and presented on Sustainable Development Goal 8.7 at the
 Commonwealth Nations, human rights initiative led summit (CHOGM) in March 2018. The Unit
 has a successful professional doctorate programme. Most of the students on this programme are
 school leaders who can integrate their professional practice with research benefiting the research
 environment within the University which, in turn, contributes to the development of practice within
 the teaching profession.

 Equality and Diversity

          Consistent with the University’s core value of inclusiveness, the Unit has a commitment to
 providing equal research opportunities regardless of age, race, gender, religion, or sexual
 orientation. Of the staff returned in the Unit, 65% are female. The staff returned also includes full-
 and part-time staff, and early career and experienced researchers. The growth in the doctoral
 student numbers within the Unit since 2019 has also seen an increase in students from BAME
 backgrounds and a growth in the percentage of female students on doctoral programmes pertinent
 to this Unit. Among the fifty postgraduate students, twenty-five are female and ten are from BAME
 backgrounds.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities

 Research and public engagement funding

         Since the submission for the Unit is a new one for St Mary’s there is no direct comparison
 available between income generation for REF 2014 and income generation for REF 2021. The
 most reasonable comparison is with the 2014 Education Unit of Assessment. Research grants for
 that Unit in the REF2014 period totalled £4,433. For REF2021 this total will be £69,000. However,
 in many ways, this understates the progress that has been made in raising income for research.

         The Unit has seen a significant increase in grants awarded for research. This increase has
 been achieved because of the central institutional support that was put in place through the
 implementation of Vision 2025. In addition to this, the building of the research culture within the
 University led to QR funding being used more strategically to finance activities that would lead to
 potential income generation. The most important factor in increased research income, however,
 is the development of a clear vision for research and the development of relationships with key
 potential philanthropic funders in respect of applied research which is expected to have a social
 impact. The research grants reported to HESA have increased from £5,500 to £94,500 in 2019/20,
 though some of the intermediate years have been higher still.




                                                                                                Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        There are three reasons why there is a considerable lag between this very encouraging
 increase in research grant awards and research grants declared in HESA returns:

    •    There is typically a delay between grants being awarded and research projects starting.
         For example, in 2017/18, we were awarded a £440,000 philanthropic donation for the
         Centre for Research into the Education of Marginalised Children and Young Adults. The
         Centre was formed with a director in mid-2018 and all the staff appointed in 2019. There
         are now numerous research outputs under review.

    •    Many of the projects and centres funded by these new awards are multi-year projects and
         the income is not included in the HESA returns until spent by the institution.

    •    Some of these awards were returned in the HESA returns as philanthropic and not
         research income in 2017/18 and 2018/19.

  Year                                              Research grant income for Unit (£)

  2013/14                                           6,000

  2014/15                                           0

  2015/16                                           0

  2016/17                                           46,000

  2017/18                                           189,000

  2018/19                                           81,000


          We are aware that the quality of outputs and impact does not reflect the more recent
 improvement in research culture, the number of PGR students, increased public engagement
 activity, the research environment and funding awarded. Notably, the impact case studies all rely
 on research undertaken since 2015 and much of the research and impact was close to the end of
 the assessment period. There has, though, been a significant change since 2014, and the funding,
 PGR students, research assistants and increased research activity by staff are all now giving rise
 to research that is generating a pipeline of publications and, because of our strategy and the nature
 of the research, will also lead to important impact. Examples of organisations that have awarded
 these grants include: ESRC, the EU, the Arise Foundation, the Assumpta Sisters, Porticus, the
 Plater Trust, and the Modern Slavery Innovation Fund.

        The Unit has also been part of several successful collaborative bids towards the end of the
 assessment period which, again, will lead to research outputs and research income being
 recorded in the next REF assessment period. For example:

         1. The Unit has recently been awarded a £300,000 ERASMUS grant for a three-year
         project on geographic information system teaching and research. The applicant involved
         was supported by QR funds to attend a conference at which she networked with teachers
         and scholars who became part of the group that applied for the grant.

         2. The Inclusive Education research cluster is part of a consortium which has received a
         research grant of £765,000 from the Youth Endowment Fund (established by the Home


                                                                                               Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        Office) in October 2019 for a feasibility study to implement a Transition Hub for children in
        care aged 11 to 14 (see also below).

        3. The Unit is also working on a collaborative project with Christ Church Canterbury, funded
        by Templeton, on “Big Questions” related to the unity of knowledge in education.

        4. The Bakhita Centre has recently been part of a successful consortium bid with the
        Human Rights Lab at the University of Nottingham. St. Mary’s will receive £50,000 to
        conduct research to address comprehensively the gap in knowledge concerning survivors
        of modern slavery and human trafficking interactions with services outside the National
        Referral Mechanism (NRM) and their outcomes.

        5. In addition, we have received an award of a further €100,000 for collaboration with
        African scholars on Catholic education from Porticus following the success of the project
        in 2019/20 financed by a €60,000 grant from the same organisation.

        6. The Art of Dying Well project has also received £120,000 from Porticus for a public
        engagement project linked to its research on end of life companionship.

         Although not part of HESA definitions of research income – and outside the REF
 assessment period – the international influence of work within the Unit on Catholic education has
 led to St. Mary’s being awarded a €160,000 grant over four years from September 2020 for PhD
 scholarships. This grant, from the All-Hallows’ Trust, is for students to work on themes set out in
 the mission statement of the Global Researchers Advancing Catholic Education (GRACE) which
 is an international research-based partnership involving universities in Ireland, the US and
 Australia. The mission of the Trust, which will be reflected in the work of the PhD students, is how
 education can contribute to the promotion of the global common good in the face of “[a] looming
 sense of ecological disaster, a lack of global and local empathy, a growing coarseness in public
 discourse, a diminishment of responsibility and a shortage of imagination for an alternative future.”
 This award will help strengthen our considerable PGR programme in the field of education.

 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaborations with and impact on professional practice

          The research of the Teacher Wellbeing and Resilience research cluster has had impact on
 professional practice in the training of teachers, within the University and outside. Begun in 2014,
 following a collaboration with University of South Australia, it has led to publication and significant
 impact on teaching, training, and wider society. The results of the research are embedded in the
 Initial Teacher Education provision at St Mary’s and were a recognised and distinct feature in the
 2019 Ofsted inspection. St Mary’s research on wellbeing for teachers is featured in the
 Department for Education’s (November 2018) document: ‘Addressing Workload in Initial Teacher
 Education’ and following this publication, Professor Gordon was invited to speak at related DfE
 dissemination events. A collaborative partnership with Maudsley Learning, part of the South
 London and Maudsley (SLAM) NHS Trust – a world leader in mental health of children and young
 people – saw an initial whole-day conference ‘Creating a Mental Health Friendly School’, hosted
 by St Mary’s, with over 120 delegates from local primary and secondary schools as well as
 Diocesan consultants. From this activity an international collaboration with Fordham University
 has developed which saw the pilot of EduBeing: Preservice Teachers’ Wellbeing, an online
 platform for engaging pre-service teachers in the USA and UK in a programme of wellbeing. The


                                                                                                Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 aim is to evaluate the effectiveness of the programme to enhance pre- and in-service teachers’
 wellbeing.

         In the Centre for Law and Culture, Dr Bourne has used her research on equality, inclusion,
 gender, and the legal profession in collaboration with the Law Society. She has curated an
 exhibition on First Women Lawyers at Grays Inn and written on the topic in numerous professional
 journal articles. At Inner Temple, Bourne has jointly curated a digital exhibition with the Inn’s
 archivist, and she has worked with Middle Temple on their centenary celebrations of the 1919 Sex
 Disqualification (Removal) Act. Her research caused Bourne to be invited to serve on the Equality
 and Inclusivity Steering Group at Lincoln’s Inn. Bourne has been a regular contributor to the Law
 Society Gazette during the last two years, during which the Law Society has highlighted the issues
 of women in the legal profession. Conferences have been held by the Centre for Law and Culture
 on women in the legal profession in Parliament, in the Middle Temple and at St. Mary’s with a wide
 range of practitioner and academic contributors.

        Professor Booth, who has been submitted in the Theology and Religious Studies Unit of
 Assessment, has used the work of the Business Ethics Research Cluster (of which he is part) in
 the development of the actuarial profession’s syllabuses in Business Finance and Business
 Economics, of which he is module leader.

         The work of Dr Querstret, Dr Riva, Dr Lawrence, and Dr Campbell in the Faculty of Sport,
 Allied Health and Performance Science, is closely aligned with the research centre for Applied
 Social and Health Sciences. Their collaborations include work with University College London and
 Great Ormond Street Hospital (Lawrence) and contributions to policy-related reports on health and
 wellbeing and depression (Querstret). The former research was cited in a Public Health England
 paper and the second by NICE. Riva’s work on mental mechanisms, patient-doctor trust and health
 environments has been published in the national and international professional sphere. She has
 also received Marie Curie funding and is a member of the European Association of Decision
 Making (EADM). Campbell’s work on the psychology of sexuality has engaged with national and
 international radio and popular mediums such as Stylist Magazine and the Metro newspaper.

 International collaboration and contribution

        The centres and clusters within the Unit have been successful in developing international
 networks and achieving international impact from their research, most notably in education, where
 the University is able to take advantage of its extensive international relationships.

        In 2018 Visiting Professor Gerald Grace spoke at the International Conference on Catholic
 Education in Rome, sponsored by Notre Dame University, USA and the Congregation for Catholic
 Education, Vatican. Discussions at that event with the Nairobi branch of the charity Porticus led to
 a €75,000-funded project led by Dr Edwards-Leis to bring postdoctoral scholars from African
 countries to St Mary’s to develop their research skills, work with practitioners in the UK and work
 on specific research projects relevant to their own country. The results of this will be published
 and the first articles are in press. The project began in 2019 and the funders have indicated that
 a further €100,000 of funding will be available to extend the programme because of its early
 success. The University is creating an international research network, CERIAN (Catholic
 Educational Research in Africa Network) for the scholars involved in this project.

          The Centre for Research and Development in Catholic Education was the first such
 research centre established in Europe at the Institute of Education at University College London.
 It transferred to the Institute of Education at St. Mary’s in 2016 and continues to be led by Professor

                                                                                                Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Gerald Grace, working with full-time staff at the University, including Dr Lydon. This Centre hosts
 the only international journal in this field International Studies in Catholic Education, which is
 published by Routledge and accessed in 112 countries. Members of the Centre, both visiting staff
 and permanent staff, are active internationally. In 2019 Professor Grace was interviewed by Dr
 Quentin Wodon of the World Bank Washington for an article to be published in the Educatio-Si
 Bulletin and later in the Global Catholic Education Report in 2021. Lydon was recognised with a
 Papal Knighthood (Commander of the Order of the Holy Sepulchre) from Pope Francis for his
 services to education, nationally and internationally, and has been invited to give keynote
 addresses, two examples of which were at the United Nations Convention on the Family and the
 bi-annual UNEXCO NGO Conference.

         Much of the work of the Bakhita Centre has international impact, though it is largely
 described under other headings in this section. Its research on trafficking in a range of countries
 resulted in funding for a two-year project with the ARISE Foundation and Women at the Well,
 under which a specialist Albanian-speaking research practitioner has been recruited to undertake
 research into the position of Albanian survivors of trafficking in the UK. This work will then provide
 a basis for influencing policy to make a difference to victims of modern slavery and those who are
 vulnerable to human trafficking. Work is also being undertaken by a new staff appointment (Dr
 Outhwaite, 2018) around labour law and labour rights affecting those in exploitative working
 conditions in global supply chains, adding an additional aspect to the international dimension of
 the research of this Centre.

          The work of CREMCYA is international by nature (see also below). The development of
 this Centre arose from work undertaken on a £30,000-funded research project for the British
 Council and the United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR) by Dr Fincham. The
 results of the project on Syrian youths’ perceptions and experiences of higher education
 opportunities for refugees in Jordan, Lebanon and Turkey has been referenced by practitioners
 and scholars, including British Council and UNHCR reports reporting on Conditions for Socio-
 Cultural Support for Refugees in the Middle East/North Africa region published in 2017 and in a
 further report (2018) on the Inclusion of Refugees in Technical and Vocational Education and
 Training. The latter report used Fincham’s analytical framework from her research. The research
 and its impact led to interest from philanthropic funders in developing a research centre which was
 founded in 2019 to continue both international and domestic research on education and
 marginalised children and young adults. The Centre has also partnered with the University of
 Sussex in a project on Muslim youth identities and continues to engage research assistants, PhD
 students and affiliates from countries in the region. This ground-breaking research has already
 had impact domestically and will have further impact internationally.

          The inter-disciplinary research cluster on business ethics has also had international
 influence and impact. Dr Girardi has contributed to a UN report on ecological jurisprudence which
 was presented to the General Assembly. This led to an invitation to act as a senior organiser for
 one of the twelve “thematic villages” in the Economy of Francesco project (which was directly
 established by Pope Francis), leading the “eco-music” subgroup. The “village” will produce
 proposals which will be presented directly to the Pope. The cluster also held a conference on the
 ethics of mining in developing nations involving mining corporations, academics and international
 civil society organisations taking part. The conference was opened with a message from Cardinal
 Turkson, Prefect of the Vatican Dicastery for the Promotion of Integral Human Development.
 Girardi also represented the Economy of Francesco at an online conference for young
 entrepreneurs in the Ukraine. This was related to ethical responses to the Covid-19 crisis. Alves,
 who works for the Catholic University of Portugal but is fully embedded in this research cluster

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 and teaching at St. Mary’s – is part of a working group on Covid-19 Vulnerability and Sustainability
 established by the Strategic Alliance of Catholic Research Universities.

        Other colleagues, such as Wilson, have developed partnerships through the Geographic
 Information Systems events in the UK and Europe, resulting in an Erasmus grant of £300,000 in
 2019 to develop teaching materials for geography teachers in the UK, Europe and in our
 partnership schools in Ghana. St Mary’s strategy of employing grant writers to support staff has
 been instrumental in enabling such projects to be successful in application and delivery.

 Contribution to policy, public discourse, and practice through collaboration with think
 tanks and civil society organisations

        Several members of the Unit work part time for or advise think tanks and other civil society
 organisations to develop channels for impact. This includes members of staff who are on the
 Developing Researcher and Scholarship research bands and use their specialist skills and
 experience in public engagement to work with academics who have Significant Responsibility for
 Research.

         Two members of staff work part time for the Institute of Economic Affairs. As the
 accompanying Impact Case Study shows, Booth has substantially changed discourse on the
 reform of the BBC and his research in this area has been presented to 10 Downing Street (twice),
 prompted a question at a Select Committee hearing, and been quoted in a House of Lords’ Select
 Committee report. The collaborative channel for this impact was the Institute of Economic Affairs,
 for which policy papers have been written and cited in parliament.

          Dr Derfoufi and Ms Samota work together to achieve impact from the work of the Unit in
 the field of crime, discrimination and punishment which is closely related to the work on human
 trafficking and organised crime (Samota being the programme director of the related MA
 programme). Samota sits on the New Generation Policing Advisory Group and during the Covid-
 19 crisis helped to establish the campaign “A Record of Our Own” which records and publicises
 how Covid-19 is affecting the lives of serving prisoners, prison leavers, their families and loved
 ones from Black, Asian and minority ethnic backgrounds. She also chairs Voice4Change England
 and co-chairs Stopwatch. Derfoufi wrote a speech for a Westminster Hall debate for MP Naz Shah
 and is on advisory boards such as the National Police Chiefs' Council Police-Public Community
 Forum and the College of Policing: Stop and Search Strategic Community Group.

         During 2015-16 the University invested considerable resources in the development of the
 Bakhita Centre. The Director of the Centre was Chair for four years of the charity Women at the
 Well and another academic working in that area is on the board. This Centre has been successful
 in obtaining funding from the Home Office modern slavery innovation fund and philanthropic
 sources. As a result of its research, Murphy was invited to take part in a meeting to advise the
 Prime Ministers’ Office on policy in relation to trafficking and organised crime, and a high-profile
 conference was held by the Centre in 2017, addressed by the Home Secretary. Murphy’s research
 is covered in the Impact Case Study. Jespersen and Barry’s work on Typologies of Organised
 Crime: Human trafficking and modern slavery from Nigeria, Albania and Vietnam was used to
 inform the Home Office Report ‘A Typology of Modern Slavery Offences in the UK’ (2017). The
 Centre collaborates with the Catholic Bishops’ Conference of England and Wales and the Santa
 Marta Group (an alliance of international police chiefs and Catholic bishops from around the world
 working together with civil society in a process endorsed by Pope Francis) to develop practical
 and policy responses to the problem of human trafficking.


                                                                                             Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         Dr Lydon and Dr Healy are members of the Catholic Union Education Committee (the
 Catholic Union is the leading lay organisation in the UK designed to promote the voice of the
 Catholic Church in the public square). The work of the Aquinas Centre, led by Professor
 Towey and supported by Dr Lydon and Ed Boyle, led to Towey re-writing the AQA GCSE
 Religious Education curriculum for Catholic schools, which he further resourced by publishing an
 edited textbook for pupils (2017). An Ofqual subject specialist, Towey was also appointed to the
 Commission on Religious Education 2016-18. The Centre also produced a document for the
 Catholic Education Service on challenging homophobic and bi-phobic bullying in schools (2018).

         The Art of Dying Well project transferred to the University from the Catholic Bishops’
 Conference of England and Wales in 2018. Its mission is to offer hope and companionship at the
 end of life through public engagement, research, policy, and practical companionship. It is a multi-
 faith resource, and its work has been covered in all major national newspapers and radio stations,
 while its website has over 0.25 million unique visitors per annum. During the first wave of the
 Covid-19 crisis the initiative was employed by numerous hospitals and hospices and led to a
 collaborative research project on deathbed etiquette in partnership with Lancaster University
 Medical School. Recently the project has received research funding from the Plater Trust for work
 with the think tank Demos focusing on Voices of the Dying. The impact of this project, and its move
 to St. Mary’s has led to research funding and it is likely that this will form an impact case study in
 the next REF assessment period.

        Other new projects are developing and will create policy impact over the coming REF cycle.
 As noted above, the CREMCYA research centre, is part of a consortium which has received a
 research grant of £765,000 from the Youth Endowment Fund (established by the Home Office) in
 October 2019 for a feasibility study to implement a Transition Hub for children in care aged 11 to
 14. The purpose of the fund is to build the evidence base to determine ‘what works’ in terms of
 supporting improved outcomes for vulnerable children and young people to prevent them from
 being drawn into crime and violence.

 Contribution and impact of research through teaching, curriculum and education inclusion
 projects

          The outstanding example of a successful research project in this Unit that has had impact
 through education and inclusion is St. Mary’s First Star Academy, linked with CREMCYA. This
 initiative began as a teaching and learning project with a focus on social inclusion and is the UK’s
 only long-term university preparatory programme for Looked-after Children. The Secretary of State
 for Education, Gavin Williamson, visited St. Mary’s in October 2019 to discuss the academy as
 part of National Care Leavers week. The preliminary results of a research programme assessing
 the educational progress of students (funded by Porticus) has demonstrated its success. These
 results were instrumental in obtaining funding to extend the project for another student cohort and
 were also crucial for the fundraising undertaken by First Star UK (a charity independent of St.
 Mary’s) to finance similar projects nationwide. Outside think tanks have examined the success of
 First Star (for example the Centre for Social Justice as part of their “12 by 24” campaign) and the
 research has been presented as a report currently being written up for formal submission to an
 academic journal. This is an excellent example of the interaction between our research
 environment and an engagement and social justice programme within the University, whose
 results have underpinned engagement and social justice work which has been taken outside the
 University. The research and impact in this area may well form a candidate for an impact case
 study in the next REF.



                                                                                               Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
         The Bakhita Centre has used its practice-based research to develop a range of teaching,
 training, and professional development projects, as well as drawing on its research in its unique
 MA programme on Human Trafficking, Migration and Organised Crime. The Centre has received
 grants to develop and conduct a ‘proof of concept’ summer school for survivors at St Mary’s, with
 the goal of developing a model capable of replication in other institutions nationwide and has
 provided toolkits, recommendations and training to government departments and civil society
 organisations based on its research. The Centre has worked with charities such as the Snowdrop
 Project to produce a training standards framework (‘Identification, Care and Support of the Victims
 and Survivors of Modern Slavery’) in consultation with organisations across social and health care,
 legal advocacy, law enforcement and criminal justice, human rights, and business and education.

         Dr Cullen, of CREMCYA, has worked as the Local Action co-ordinator for the UK arm of
 an EU-funded international project involving researchers from the UK, Ireland, Italy, Spain, Serbia,
 and Hungary on tackling gender-related violence in collaboration with Brunel University. This
 involved training youth practitioners to identify this violence in their peers, education and health
 settings and it provided training actions and resources in collaboration with Rights of Women,
 About Young People, and the London Borough of Lewisham.

         The Unit has also been integral in the development of the University Curriculum
 Framework, developed in 2018 and which applies to all undergraduate degrees. As part of this,
 students (unless their programme is exempt through the validation process because material is
 covered elsewhere, or practicalities makes participation impossible) will have the opportunity to
 take an inter-disciplinary module called “An Inter-Disciplinary Encounter with the Sacred”. This is
 one of the fruits of the Business Ethics research cluster and it will present various subjects
 (economics, politics, business, pure sciences and so on) in an inter-disciplinary way consistent
 with Newman’s “Idea of a University” which is at the heart of St. Mary’s vision. The research of
 this cluster is also feeding into the development of the professional development syllabus for the
 UK chapter of the Pontifical Fondazione Centesimus Annus Pro Pontifice.

 Conclusion

         Overall, the Unit has an effective strategy for impact and public engagement which has
 already borne fruit and will lead to further significant and important impact in the next REF to build
 on achievements so far. This is especially so given the research funding that was awarded close
 to the end of and just after this period of assessment. A key priority is to ensure that the quality of
 research outputs matches the ability of the Unit to engage with the outside world. We are confident
 that the increased resources for research that will flow from the recent funding successes, as well
 as the support that is given to staff on the Developing Researcher band, will lead to higher quality
 outputs in the next REF and to more staff having Significant Responsibility for Research. We also
 believe that the development of a Professional Doctorate in Social and Public Policy will cement
 links between research and practice which will be valuable for the University and for society.




                                                                                                Page 15
