Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 Institution: University of Sheffield


 Unit of Assessment: B-10 Mathematical Sciences


 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy


1.1. Overview

Research in mathematical sciences is focused in the School of Mathematics and Statistics
(SoMaS), with wide-ranging collaborative interactions throughout the University. Our aim is to
create a supportive and vibrant research environment for all members of the School, at all levels.
We conduct excellent research in both the foundations and applications of mathematics and
statistics, harnessing the interdependence and synergies of different approaches to build and
maintain strong effective intra- and inter-disciplinary collaborations.

Research is organised in six groups:

   •   Algebra, Geometry and Topology.
   •   Number Theory.
   •   Mathematical Biology and Environmental Dynamics.
   •   Solar Physics, Plasma Dynamics and Fluid Dynamics.
   •   Mathematical Physics.
   •   Probability and Statistics.

SoMaS is also home to the Statistical Services Unit (SSU) — a specialist advisory unit that
provides comprehensive statistical consultancy services (see Section 3).

Highlights during the assessment period include:

   •   Significant investment in Algebra, Geometry and Topology to create a world-leading
       research group and long-term legacy for SoMaS. Capitalising on Bridgeland’s election to
       FRS in 2014 and ERC Advanced Grant (€1.5M), we recruited four permanent members of
       staff in this area.

   •   Continued development of research impact, exemplified by Quegan’s NERC Economic
       Impact Award (2018) for his critical leadership in the BIOMASS satellite mission, and
       Heaton and Blackwell’s statistical contributions to the IntCal radiocarbon dating calibration
       programme.

   •   Strengthening interdisciplinary research in Statistics and Mathematical Biology and
       Environmental Dynamics by recruitment of four permanent members of staff in this area.

   •   Guaranteed permanent positions for long-term research fellows, helping us to attract and
       retain the best talent. This has enabled us to appoint Manolache (Dorothy Hodgkin
       Fellowship) and Brini (EPSRC Early Career Fellowship) in Algebra, Geometry and
       Topology, and Gielen (Royal Society Fellowship) and Campbell (EPSRC Early Career
       Fellowship) in Mathematical Physics.




                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
1.2 Unit structure and research strategy

The unit consists of 51 Category A staff (48.5 FTE), of whom 16 are professors, 4 readers, 15
senior lecturers, 14 lecturers and 2 senior research fellows. This represents growth of 43% since
REF2014. All SoMaS Category A eligible staff have been submitted.

Our overarching objective is to develop and support focused, dynamic groups of researchers in our
six areas; to generate world-leading excellence in foundational and applied mathematics and
statistics; to develop new creative interactions between areas; and to use our quantitative expertise
to forge collaborations that address important scientific, medical, technological and societal
challenges.

Our strategy is implemented collectively by research groups and the SoMaS and Faculty of
Science Research Committees, ensuring effective coordination, good practice, and identification of
new collaborative opportunities. Our four key mechanisms for delivering strategy are:

   •   Recruitment: 14 new permanent appointments during the assessment period, maintaining
       and growing strengths and developing new areas.

   •   New initiatives: new interdisciplinary MSc programme in Mathematical and Theoretical
       Physics (see section 2.1); new broad “Modelling and Simulation” colloquium; statistical
       research consultant post (see Section 3).

   •   Resource provision: generous funding streams for research visits and collaborations
       (through our Mathematics and Statistics Research Centre research stimulation fund — see
       Section 3); regular study leave to stimulate research and impact; expansion of our
       University Teacher team to contribute to teaching delivery and development, releasing
       research time for Category A staff.

   •   Funding capture: supporting staff in grant writing and management; diversifying
       established funding routes with emerging opportunities (e.g. Wilkinson’s GCRF award—see
       Section 4a).

In the following, we outline the research focus and examples of significant achievements of each
group during the assessment period. Many staff have secondary affiliations, in addition to the
primary affiliations indicated.

Algebra, Geometry and Topology

[Bavula, Bridgeland, Brini, Johnson, Katzman, Manolache, Mitchener, Shinder, Strickland,
Whitehouse, Willerton]

Since REF2014, we have fulfilled our strategic objective to strengthen our excellence in Algebraic
Geometry by appointing Johnson and Shinder to lectureships and two fellowship holders to senior
lectureships (Manolache – Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship, £433K); Brini – EPSRC Early Career
Fellowship, £1.2M). Bridgeland’s ERC Advanced Grant brought four RAs to Sheffield. Bridgeland
was elected FRS in 2014 and received a prestigious Wolfson Research Merit Award. He was
awarded a Royal Society Research Professorship, starting in early 2021. Whitehouse is the grant
holder and organiser for the Transpennine Topology Triangle (TTT) – a long-standing regional
topology seminar, supported by the London Mathematical Society (LMS). TTT is a key focus of
activity for the UK topology community, and has held 111 meetings. Whitehouse is one of the
guest editors of a special issue of Topology and its Applications, which will form the proceedings of
the 2019 meeting. Professor Izak Moerdijk, who has a fractional appointment at Sheffield and has


                                                                                              Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
his substantive post at Utrecht University, has strong links with this research area. He is an
organiser of the European Autumn School in Topology (EAST), an annual event since 2016,
mainly aimed at PGR students/early career topologists, attended by numerous Sheffield students.

Research highlights include: relation of stability conditions to spaces of quadratic differentials,
building a bridge between homological algebra and flat surfaces; solving the long-standing problem
of computing the group of derived symmetries of a K3 surface; showing that stable rationality of
varieties specialises in regular families, another long-standing problem; initiation of the study of L-
equivalence of varieties and its relation to derived equivalence; a derivation of an algorithm to
produce explicit formulas for generating functions of double Hurwitz numbers, which, inter alia,
allowed for a new proof that double Hurwitz numbers are piecewise polynomial; work in
homotopical algebra giving a new family of model structures related to spectral sequences; a study
of the F-module and D-module structures of local cohomology modules, the study of singularities in
prime characteristic, establishing the closedness of the support of local cohomology modules over
hypersurfaces; a systematic study of rings of Frobenius operators; the development of effective
algorithms to compute local cohomology in prime characteristics; influential contributions to work at
the interface of commutative algebra and stable homotopy theory; development of a substantial
programme to provide algebraic models for rational equivariant stable homotopy categories; work
on adelic models of tensor triangulated categories.

Number Theory

[Berger, Dummigan, Jarvis, Manoharmayum, Şengün]

This area has been strengthened by appointing Şengün to a lectureship. Berger secured an
EPSRC grant (2017–2020; £331K) to prove the modularity of abelian surfaces, one of the major
challenges in linking algebraic geometry and automorphic forms. This grant funded one
postdoctoral researcher. Dummigan gave a lecture course in 2019 at the National Centre for
Mathematics, Mumbai. Şengün visited the Max Planck Institute, Bonn, in 2018 for a month and
delivered lectures at the ICMAT mathematics programme on L2-invariants and their analogues in
positive characteristic (Madrid, 2018). He was awarded an EPSRC New Horizon grant, starting in
early 2021.

Research highlights include: general proof of the relation of the congruence number to the number
and depth of congruences of automorphic forms; establishment of one of the first cases of the
Paramodular conjecture for abelian surfaces; a detailed study of a very general conjecture on
Eisenstein congruences, supported by numerical examples obtained by several means; numerical
demonstration that homology of arithmetic groups can possess large torsion and provision of
theoretical evidence that growth of torsion homology of arithmetic groups is deeply related to cycle
complexity of the associated local symmetric spaces; proof that, in general, subgroups of GL n over
a complete Noetherian local ring with residually large image cannot be small but must contain a
copy of the special linear group over the Witt ring of the residue field.

Mathematical Biology and Environmental Dynamics

[Best, Chakrabarti, Fletcher, Hawkins, Monk, Potts, Quegan]

This group has been strengthened significantly by three appointments: Potts and Fletcher to
lectureships (Fletcher through a Vice-Chancellor’s Fellowship); Chakrabarti to a senior lectureship.
The group has strong links and collaborations with biological sciences at Sheffield. Quegan won
the 2018 NERC Economic Impact Award for his substantial contributions to Airbus winning the
£192M contract to build the BIOMASS satellite. He led the international team proposing and


                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
supporting the mission and developed many of the scientific and technological arguments
underpinning it. His research has been supported by a variety of funders (see Section 3). Best was
awarded a Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, Hawkins an EPSRC First Grant (2014–2016,
£99K), Potts a NERC grant (Co-I: £601K total) and an EPSRC grant (£350K); Fletcher secured a
BBSRC grant (Co-I, £481K total); Monk an EPSRC IB Catalyst grant (Co-I; £932K total). Visiting
fellowships were awarded to Chakrabarti (Max Planck Institute for the Physics of Complex
Systems, 2019) and Monk (Konrad Lorenz Institute, 2017). Best has been awarded a Fulbright
Visiting Scholarship (delayed to 2021 due to COVID-19).

Research highlights include: development of new computational methods to analyse the dynamics
of embryonic tissues; modelling of the evolution of CRISPR-Cas immunity; theoretical study of
integrated step selection analysis and its predictive power for animal movement; solving the
longstanding problem of how radar system imperfections control the accuracy of estimates of
biomass and Faraday rotation; development of a microscopic model of a disordered viscoelastic
active solid, which allows to study of the collective behaviour of contractile active elements and
how their interactions determines the macroscopic properties of the active material; development
of a theoretical framework to understand dynamic morphologies of droplet interface bilayers when
they become unstable, capturing dynamics observed in experiments.

Solar Physics, Plasma Dynamics, and Fluid Dynamics

[Ballai, Jain, Li, Mole, Ohkitani, Rees, Ruderman, Verth, von Fáy-Siebenbürgen (publishes as
Erdélyi), Willis]

This group has productive links with the Automatic Control and Systems Engineering department
(Balikhin, Fedun – joint funding and PhD students). Group members had observation time at
external facilities such as the Swedish Solar Telescope and the Dunn Solar Telescope (New
Mexico). Research in solar physics and plasma dynamics is supported by an STFC consolidated
grant (£664K, 2015–2019; £998K, 2012–2016; recently renewed until 2024). Ohkitani secured
£313K from EPSRC to study the statistics of fluid turbulence, Willis was awarded £270K from
EPSRC for his research on “Optimisation in fluid dynamics”; Ballai received a Leverhulme Trust
International Networking Grant (£76K allocated to Sheffield), the locations of the research activity
being spread over the network members (Sheffield, St Andrews, University de les Ilies Balear
(Spain), Instituto de Astrofisica de Canarias (Spain) and University of Graz (Austria)). The group
hosted eight RAs.

Research highlights include: discovery of vortex propagation across the solar atmosphere;
discovery of MHD oscillations in cooling loops; the first calculation of the damping rate for
axisymmetric MHD waves in a weakly twisted magnetic flux tube; a study improving the
understanding of the stability of solar prominences and a demonstration that partially ionised
plasma describing prominence dark plumes becomes unstable only in a two-fluid model; a study of
the Navier-Stokes (NS) equations and their dynamically-scaled counterpart, assuming the former's
solution breaks down in finite time: it is found that they are close to each other, which in turn
constraints the possible breakdown of the solution of the NS equation; a demonstration that for
pipe flow distortions appropriate to the velocity profile lead to a complete collapse of turbulence
and that friction losses are reduced by as much as 90%; use of the Constrained Multiscale
Turnover Lagrangian Map method to synthesize two Kolmogorov flows where persistent large
scale structures produce nontrivial mean flow statistics and local anisotropy at small scales.




                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Mathematical Physics

[Campbell, Dolan, Gielen, van de Bruck, Winstanley]

Research in this group covers gravitation, classical and quantum cosmology, quantum field theory
in curved spacetime and quantum information theory. Dolan, van de Bruck and Winstanley are
supported by an STFC consolidated grant (since 2011, recently renewed until 2023), held jointly
with the Universities of Manchester and Lancaster, which funded two RAs in Sheffield. Since
REF2014, we have recruited Gielen (Royal Society URF (since 2018, £423K)) to strengthen this
research area, who was awarded the second Buchalter Prize in Cosmology (2017). Dolan was
funded by an EPSRC First Grant (2015–2017, £90K) and Campbell was supported by an EPSRC
Early Career Fellowship (2015–2020, £676K).

Research highlights include: a study of the qualitative features of black hole shadows of two
extremely charged black holes in static equilibrium, showing that they are examples of chaotic
scattering; an investigation of the stability of black holes in Einstein-scalar field theory, arguing that
stable hairy black holes represent the end point of the superradiant instability in electrically
charged black holes in a cavity; developments of mathematical techniques to study quantum
cosmology within group field theory; investigations of observational consequences of a variety of
novel dark energy models which predict violations of the equivalence principle in the dark matter
sector; work which proposes a simulation algorithm to be executed on a quantum computer that
makes use of a novel random sampling technique: the first quantum algorithm with a runtime
proved to be independent on the number of interactions in the system being simulated, instead the
runtime depends only on the combined strength of the interactions.

Probability and Statistics

[Applebaum, Blackwell, Freeman, Geldhauser, Heaton, Jordan, Juarez, Oakley, Stephenson,
Stillman, Triantafyllopoulos, Walters, Wilkinson]

Since REF 2014, we have significantly strengthened this area by making four appointments
(Freeman, Geldhauser and Stephenson to lectureships; Wilkinson to a senior lectureship,
promoted to chair in 2018). The group has an outstanding track record in interdisciplinary research,
knowledge transfer and collaboration outside academia, with close links to the Statistical Services
Unit (SSU, see Section 3). PhD students are funded not only by the standard streams available in
SoMaS but also by working in partnership with, for example, Microsoft Research, Total, Historic
England and the British Antarctic Survey. In 2014–17 this group had a Knowledge Transfer
Partnership project with HR Wallingford (an independent civil engineering and environmental
hydraulics organisation). Heaton and Blackwell serve on the international working group on
radiocarbon calibration curves (IntCal). Heaton is the lead author on the Marine20 radiocarbon
calibration curve covering the global oceans. Blackwell and Heaton received Leverhulme Research
Fellowships to support their work on wildlife movement modelling (Blackwell) and radiocarbon
dating (Heaton). There are close links with the Applied Probability Trust, which publishes two major
international journals in the field and provides funding for a PhD studentship.

Research highlights include: a new approach to modelling animal movement, based on an
Ornstein-Uhlenbeck diffusion process in a high-dimensional space; a first quantitative
determination of the response time of North Atlantic climate to changes in high-latitude North-
Atlantic-Deep-Water formation rate during the last deglaciation, suggesting that variations in Nordic
Seas deep-water circulation are forerunners to abrupt climate change; modelling of climate-carbon
cycle uncertainties and their relation to the Paris Climate Agreement, arguing that a paradigm shift
in impact evaluation is essential to support decision making and that estimates of mean patterns of

                                                                                                   Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
change are insufficient; using a Gaussian process emulator of the likelihood surface with
importance sampling to calibrate a stochastic computer simulation of moderate computational
expense; showing that, for growing graphs with vertices embedded in space where the growth
rules depend on a combination of preferential attachment to high degree vertices and spatial
proximity, it was shown that as well as regimes where one of the two dominates as far as the
behaviour of the degree distribution is concerned, there exists an intermediate regime which
interpolates between the two, showing new, unexpected behaviour; it was shown that Markov
chains of the type (X,J), where X ∈ ℕ₀ is a nondecreasing position marginal, whose behaviour is
modulated by the type J ∈ {1, ... , κ}, have scaling limits which feature self-similarity properties.

1.3 Support for interdisciplinary research

Our research activity extends well beyond SoMaS, involving significant funding and collaboration
with multiple groups and research centres within and outside the University. Maintenance of long-
established partnerships and continual establishment of new ones allows us to generate critical
mass and exploit funding opportunities. For example, within the University we work closely with the
Faculty of Engineering (Solar Physics, Plasma Dynamics and Fluid Dynamics) and with Medicine,
Biological Sciences and Computer Science (Mathematical Biology and Environmental Dynamics;
Statistics). The Mathematical Physics group is part of an STFC funded consortium, jointly with
Manchester and Lancaster Universities. These collaborations have attracted sustained external
funding and are core to our plans to maintain and expand future research funding.

Examples of successful interdisciplinary research include:

   •   Juarez is the local Principal Investigator on an EU grant “In Silico Trial for Tuberculosis
       Vaccine Development” (STriTuVad consortium (2018–2023); EU contribution is €4.5M, with
       €465K attributed to Sheffield). The STriTuVad consortium is spearheading the use of
       computer simulations to supplement the information from physical clinical trials to decrease
       their length and duration, and hence reduce the cost of medicines. Juarez is developing a
       model that combines these two sources of information into an augmented Bayesian
       adaptive clinical trial.

   •   Rees has interdisciplinary collaborations with colleagues in Engineering and Molecular
       Biology and Biotechnology relating to the development of novel microbubble engineering
       technologies. These have been supported by a £2.2M EPSRC IB Catalyst grant (£929K to
       attributed to Sheffield) and a second EPSRC grant (£980K). Rees focuses on developing
       computational fluid dynamics models and solving inverse problems related to the
       engineering systems to inform experimentation and pilot plant operations. This research
       has potentially wide-reaching industrial applications, including bioethanol production (Monk
       is also involved in this part of the project) and plasma microreactors. Industrial partners
       include Perlemax, Suprafilt, Ensus, Vivergo Fuels, Vireol, AB Mauri and Heineken.

   •   Wilkinson secured funding from EPSRC on “Enhancing Machine Learning with Physical
       Constraints to Predict Microstructure Evolution” (£250K jointly with Clarke (Physics) and
       Cabral (Imperial College, Chemical Engineering)). He supervised the joint Sheffield
       postdoctoral researcher developing new methods for Bayesian optimisation for parameter
       estimation in spatio-temporal PDEs based on comparing physics model predictions with
       data.

Further examples of our successful interdisciplinary and collaborative research are summarised in
Section 4.


                                                                                                Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Building on the achievements of our research groups, we will continue to deliver key strands of our
strategic plan by further developing research excellence through targeted recruitment in Algebra,
Geometry and Topology and in Statistics. Specifically, in the short term we will recruit research
leaders at chair level in both areas, with two linked lectureships in Statistics. We aim to invigorate
and grow our current research groups by continuing to attract outstanding early career researchers
with leadership potential, guaranteeing permanent positions for five-year fellowship holders.

Our planned recruitment in Statistics will support and increase our capacity for interdisciplinary
research and impact generation (see below). To enhance this aspect of our research further, we
will develop internal structures to coordinate our wide-ranging existing expertise in mathematical
modelling, data analytics and simulation. This will position us to capitalise on emerging
opportunities to deploy advanced mathematical and statistical methodology in new large-scale
collaborations, particularly those addressing global challenges.

1.4 Impact strategy

We have an excellent track record of realising the economic, cultural, and societal impact of our
research. We recognise that generating and developing impact requires long-term commitment,
and we are committed to supporting our researchers in this. We benefit from expert professional
services support to enable knowledge exchange and to support the development of impact,
including commercialisation, impact development and business development. The team works
closely with research group-contacts and individual researchers to identify, develop and fund new
and existing impact and knowledge exchange opportunities. Other support for impact includes:

   •   Study leave (Section 2b) has proved valuable in developing impact from research. For
       example, Potts’ earlier work had developed methods to predict brucellosis spread in elk
       populations and inform management decisions. These have been used to understand the
       effects of road building, forestry, climate change and human recreational activities on
       wildlife. Given these successes, Potts was granted study leave in 2018, during which he
       built on these techniques, leading to three publications, one of which builds on Avgar et al.
       (2016) to show how the technique can be used to parametrise models that can project
       forwards in time to make predictions of the effect of variables, which may be
       anthropogenically-driven, on the spatial structure of ecosystems. Such predictions are
       potentially very important for informing real-world management and conservation decisions.
       As a result, Potts secured an EPSRC project grant (£440K) to develop this research.

   •   We have supported Quegan’s research over many years, by reducing teaching load and
       providing fee scholarships for a number of overseas PhD students (many from Beihang
       University), who made significant contributions to the research leading to his 2018 NERC
       Economic Impact Award.

   •   Fletcher is a lead developer of Chaste, a public C++ library for the numerical solution of
       mathematical models arising in physiology and biology. To promote new applications and
       development of Chaste, the University funded Fletcher to hold a Chaste workshop in
       Sheffield in August 2019, with 20 academic and commercial attendees (from Exeter, Bristol,
       Cardiff, Cambridge, Oxford, Warwick, Nottingham, and Microsoft Research).

   •   The University provides knowledge exchange support for researchers and academics who
       are engaging with external partners and in impact-led research. SoMaS researchers have
       secured funding from several of the available schemes, e.g. Heaton to attend the annual
       conference of the International Union for Quaternary Research in 2019 (£2K).


                                                                                               Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   •   The Sheffield Elicitation Framework (SHELF) is a package of protocols, templates and
       guidance documents for conducting expert elicitation. The University supported the first
       SHELF user forum in 2019, a one-day workshop run by SoMaS with participants from
       academia and industry. Oakley also provided several training courses on SHELF
       methodology.

Going forward, enabling and developing impact from our research will continue to be a key priority.
We will maintain support for established programmes that continue to generate new impact (e.g.
IntCal, SHELF, BIOMASS). Drawing on our accumulated experience and the expertise of our
knowledge exchange and impact support team, we will develop dedicated pipelines to nurture
existing (e.g. Chaste, animal movement modelling) and develop new impact generation
programmes. We understand the need to engage with stakeholders and the Statistical Services
Unit provides an important mechanism for engagement with commercial and healthcare partners
(see Section 3). We will further strengthen our research links with the SSU through statistical
consultancy that involves development and deployment of advanced research methodologies.

1.5 Support for open research

We enthusiastically support a variety of approaches to open research and have engaged with the
open access agenda for a long time. To ensure maximum discoverability of our research, we aim
to put all outputs in White Rose Research Online, our shared repository with Leeds and York
(green route). The 1,019 outputs deposited over this assessment period were downloaded over
32,000 times. This is our preferred route, ensuring equity in publishing opportunities regardless of
available funding; we also publish outputs in fully OA journals or hybrid where required for funder
compliance. In addition, staff regularly submit papers to preprint services such as arXiv to ensure
timely dissemination of research findings. The principles of OA are made widely known to all staff,
and open access guidance is an important part of the induction of early career researchers
(ECRs).

We aim to make software openly available, as exemplified in our development of the public library
Chaste, which: (i) exploits the breadth of expertise of a development team including
mathematicians, computer scientists and biologists; and (ii) uses industrially derived techniques
such as test-driven development to ensure code quality and reproducibility. SunPy, an open-
source Python library for Solar Physics data analysis and visualisation has strong input from
SoMaS. Stuart Mumford is a SunPy board member and lead developer who started work on SunPy
while a PhD student in SoMaS and is now affiliated with SoMaS. The materials for SHELF (see
above) are free to download, and the supporting software is open source. Oakley maintains an R
package for SHELF, available on GitHub and on CRAN.

1.6 Support for research integrity

We are committed to the highest research standards in accordance with the University’s Good
Research and Innovation Practice policy. All PhD students undertake mandatory ethics and
integrity training and prepare a data management plan before their 12-month confirmation review.
All staff and students have access to online training in good research practices that reflects the
national Concordat to Support Research Integrity. SoMaS engages with the Sheffield
Reproducibility Network and the wider UK Reproducibility Network with the aim of sharing practices
that enhance research quality, reproducibility, and reliability.

All research involving human participants, data or tissue follows the University’s Ethics Review
procedure. Our Ethics Administrator oversees ethics reviews and coordinates with the University

                                                                                              Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Research Ethics Committee. They play a key role in raising awareness of, and providing guidance
on, ethical issues and best practice in mathematical and statistical research. All research
dissertations for our MSc and PhD programmes in Statistics require a specific ethics declaration.
Our Statistics Clinic, which provides free statistical advice to researchers across the University,
works to encourage and promote reproducible research more broadly. Future plans include:

   •   We have recently introduced a dedicated ethics reviewer panel within SoMaS to ensure
       that ethics reviewers have specific training and experience in ethics reviewing.

   •   We will provide more mathematics-oriented training examples for the compulsory PhD
       student training in research ethics (see Section 2).


 2. People


2.1 Staffing and recruitment policy

Strategic recruitment sustains and develops excellence in our key research areas and provides
support to facilitate research. We balance targeted recruitment to strengthen specific areas with
wider calls to develop new areas and maintain breadth. We have approved plans for several new
posts for the near future: to provide additional strategic leadership in pure mathematics we will
appoint a chair; to strengthen research in Applied Statistics we will appoint a chair and then two
lectureships (directed by the new Chair).

A key aspect of our research strategy to develop focused, dynamic groups of researchers, is to
increase the numbers of ECRs will be our future research leaders, and, critically, to provide them
with directed support and mentorship. Our 14 appointments during the assessment period were
mostly ECRs (7 lecturers, 2 senior lecturers and 5 fellows). To help attract the best candidates and
manage precarity, we now guarantee progression to an open-ended contract for all holders of long-
term fellowships. All such fellows, and other ECR recruits, are guaranteed a funded studentship.
Administrative and teaching loads are kept low, and an experienced mentor provides academic
and pastoral support, enabling fellows to dedicate themselves fully to establishing their nascent
research and developing outputs. We have used this approach to grow our Algebraic Geometry,
Mathematical Biology and Mathematical Physics groups, with four fellows having transitioned to
open-ended contacts. Whenever possible, we balance new growth with maintenance of critical
mass in other groups (e.g. Probability, for which we have hired 3 new lecturers to replace one
senior retiree).

In parallel to our direct research strategy, our recruitment is also guided by our postgraduate
teaching programmes and commitment to deliver excellence in research-led teaching. Our
appointments in algebraic geometry and mathematical physics allowed us to open a new MSc in
Mathematical and Theoretical Physics in 2019 (run jointly with the Physics department); this
programme contributes strongly to current and future research activity in these areas.

2.2 Staff development and support for our ECRs

Newly appointed academic staff have a mentor, who, in addition to the Head of School, is their
primary point of contact. Our ECR lead plays a similar role for postdoctoral researchers and
research fellows (who also have a mentor), supporting and nurturing ECRs in becoming research
leaders. To allow newly appointed academic staff to develop their research, they have reduced
teaching and administrative loads. They are particularly encouraged to supervise or co-supervise


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
PhD students and to make use of departmental funding to stimulate research collaborations (see
section 3), for which they receive priority.

All academic staff receive support for their research within their research groups and the School,
e.g. by peer review of grant applications. The success of our system is reflected in the research
grant awards to our current and recent ECRs, who had several successful grant applications
throughout the assessment period: NERC (Potts, £144K), EPSRC (Berger, £331K; Brini, £1.2M;
Campbell, £676K; Dolan, £98K; Hawkins, £99K; Potts, £350K; Shinder, £332K) and the Royal
Society (Gielen, £423K; Manolache, £433K).

All staff have an annual review. Newly appointed ECRs have a specific review framework to
support and develop them during their three years’ probation. Established staff use the University’s
review scheme (Staff Review and Development Scheme (SRDS)), which provides a transparent
and consistent framework. In both cases, reviews have retrospective and prospective elements,
and are implemented so as to provide support and guidance to the reviewee. These processes
also inform discussion of reward and recognition. The reviews cover all aspects of academic
duties, including specifically research plans and progress towards publication, impact, and grants.
Fixed-term ECRs receive dedicated support for CV and career planning, and, where appropriate,
are offered opportunities for career development (e.g. teaching and research supervision).

As stated in the Institutional Statement (REF5a), the Academic Career Pathways (ACP) framework
introduced in 2018, defines expectations and criteria for research, impact, teaching, leadership and
professional standing which are appropriate both to career stage and to disciplinary norms. This
framework thus provides a clear route for progression. To promote equity, progress against
promotion criteria is considered for all academic staff each year.

Evidence of successful staff development is the outcomes achieved by our researchers. Our ECRs
publish in leading journals such as Inventiones mathematicae, Duke Mathematical Journal,
American Journal of Mathematics, Physical Review Letters, eLife and Nature. Berger, Dolan,
Hawkins, Heaton and Potts have been promoted to Senior Lecturer, and Wilkinson from Senior
Lecturer to Chair during the assessment period. Manolache and Brini were hired at the Senior
Lecturer level during their Fellowships.

2.3 Support and reward for research and impact

We maintain a series of measures designed to protect research time, including a long-standing
study leave policy in which members of staff are entitled to request a semester of leave after six
semesters of standard duties. Study leave is used strategically to support research excellence and
develop impact. Typically, 3–4 members of staff are on study leave at any one time; in total 35
semesters of study leave were granted during this assessment period. Study leave is often used
for long-term research visits (including participation in major programmes such as those at the
Isaac Newton Institute) and developing grant applications. For example, Potts and Blackwell used
recent study leave to write successful grant proposals (Blackwell’s Leverhulme fellowship on
modelling wildlife movements and Potts’ EPSRC award on multi-species aggregation models
(Section 1b)). Externally-funded research time is accounted for in our workload allocation model.
“Red-lining weeks” in January and July are cross-Faculty initiatives which provide protected time to
enable staff to focus solely on research, and to develop new interdisciplinary collaborations and
funding proposals. Wherever possible, research travel during the semester is accommodated by
reallocation of duties. The distribution of administrative and teaching roles is reviewed on a yearly
basis and is used to provide targeted skills and career development opportunities for staff
(particularly ECRs).


                                                                                            Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4 Support for postgraduate research students

2.4.1 Overview

Training PhD students is a vital part of our research activity; they are the next generation of
mathematical scientists and we value the contribution our PGRs make to our intellectual
environment and output. We currently have over 70 students in our PGR community. Doctoral
awards in REF2014 averaged 12.75 per year; this has grown by 44% to an average of 18.3 over
this assessment period.

Our vibrant PhD community conducts research across all our research groups. As a result of our
substantial interdisciplinary research, our researchers also co-supervise PhD students registered in
many other departments. Examples include Animal and Plant Sciences (Blackwell, Monk, Potts);
Archaeology (Stillman); Biomedical Sciences (Fletcher, Monk); Computer Science (Quegan);
Engineering (Blackwell, Oakley; Stillman); Geography (Heaton, von Fáy-Siebenbürgen); Clinical
Medicine (Best, Fletcher, Monk, von Fáy-Siebenbürgen); Molecular Biology & Biotechnology
(Monk); Physics & Astronomy (Juarez, Monk, Walters); Health and Related Research
(Triantafyllopoulos). In addition, Katzman co-supervised a PhD student at Universidad Nacional,
Medellin, Colombia and Fletcher at Oxford University. This extensive co-supervision network
greatly enhances our research culture and the reach of our activity.

Oversight of PGR experience is through our PGR committee, chaired by the PGR Director. The
committee comprises two academic members, and two student representatives. This ensures a
balance between the supervisor and the student voice. PGR committee oversees all matters
concerning PhD students, including recruitment, allocation of students to staff and allocation of
funding to students. It is also responsible for oversight of students’ professional development and
monitors student progress.

2.4.2 Recruitment and funding

When recruiting PhD students, we aim to attract and recruit the most able candidates. Applications
are considered by potential supervisors, to assess the academic suitability of candidates. The
academic members of the PGR Committee consider cases for scholarship funding competitively;
their primary criterion is academic strength, but balance between research areas, supervisory
capacity and strategic areas for growth are also taken into account. PhD opportunities in the
School are advertised nationally on our website.

We run a very active Undergraduate Research Experience Programme (with University-wide and
SoMaS schemes) which encourages our undergraduate cohort to consider doctoral research and
enables a focus on undergraduates from groups who are under-represented at PhD level.

In addition to our recurrent funding of PhD students through EPSRC and STFC (4 per year from
EPSRC and 1 per year on average from STFC, plus CASE awards), we recruit excellent students
via several University-level Centres for Doctoral Training (CDTs). These CDTs contribute strongly
to our interdisciplinary research, particularly in Biological and Environmental Sciences.

We regularly attract students with funding from overseas (recent examples include funding from
the Indonesian Ministry of Research, the Saudi embassy and from the Fundação para a Ciência e
a Tecnologia, Portugal), contributing to the diversity in our PhD community. Between 2014 and
2018, we have increased the amount of PGR funding from overseas sources from 5.5 to 12
studentships.



                                                                                            Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
2.4.3 Development

In addition to their supervisory team, PhD students have an advisor who is well informed about
their subject area and is involved in pastoral as well as formal support for the student. It is School
policy that PGRs meet their PhD supervisor on a weekly basis (meetings are logged online).

On arrival, new PhD students participate in an induction event and undertake tailored training
needs analysis with their supervisor and advisor to enable them to consider existing and desired
skills and professional development. Development opportunities are offered at different
organisational levels: SoMaS and the Faculty offer research training such as methods in
mathematics and statistics training through MAGIC, APTS, and relevant MSc modules. For
students in applied mathematics, we encourage scientific computing courses offered by the
University’s IT services. Interdisciplinary students can access training from outside SoMaS. All
students are required to complete a Research Ethics & Integrity training module, delivered as part
of a suite of research professionalisation modules by the Faculty.

Professional development and careers advice is available through the University Think Ahead
programme, with a dedicated researcher development manager to advise and organise events.
Provision includes academic and career mentoring, writing retreats, thesis bootcamps, student
networks, such as disabled and ill students. Professional development opportunities also provide a
network beyond the School.

Timely progress is supported by a number of milestones including a mid-year interim report (1–2
pages). 9 months after their start, students write a confirmation report (20 pages) and attend a
review panel meeting shortly after this to discuss it and to get early experience of defending their
research. This process is designed to be impartial, but the student’s advisor is involved by way of
support.

In year 2, students present a poster in the Faculty showcase, and at the end of the year they
deliver a short talk to SoMaS PGR students and academic staff, and receive feedback. At the end
of year 2, students write a progress report (5 pages), which is discussed with their supervisor and
advisor. In year 3, there is a mid-year review report (1–2 pages) and an end of year three
submission report designed to contain an outline of the thesis and the plan for completion. In year
4, quarterly reports are written by the supervisor, and responded to by the advisor and PGR
Director.

To encourage networking and wider development, PGRs are encouraged to attend summer or
winter schools, workshops and conferences and to give seminars either locally or in different
institutions. All students are provided with a research training budget of £1.5K p.a. to support
workshop/conference attendance and collaborative visits, and many make use of travel funds from
external sources (e.g. academic societies). For example, PhD students have attended the British
Universities Summer School in Elementary Particle Physics (STFC-funded), Tonale Winter School
in Cosmology (Italy), STFC Introductory and Advanced/Topical Summer Schools and other
specialist meetings. They are also strongly encouraged to attend various national or international
conferences and workshops. Funding for these activities comes from STFC, EPSRC or SoMaS.
While the attendance in summer/winter schools, conferences and workshops have educational
benefit to the individual PGR, they can also lead to new collaborations. For example, Laura
Paduraru collaborated with Peter Dunsby (University of Cape Town), resulting from discussions at
the Iberian Cosmology Conference in 2015. Mark Yarrow published a paper in the Electronic
Journal of Linear Algebra, after collaborative work starting during the Graduate Research
Workshop in Combinatorics (a long-running programme which is organised by a group of
universities in the US). Matthew Heathcoat has a contract funded by the World Resources Institute

                                                                                               Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
to detect tropical forest degradation using methods developed in his PhD. Hope Thackray visited
the National Solar Observatory, Boulder (USA), for collaborative work.

Our PhD students also self-organise diverse activities, including a weekly PhD student seminar
and reading activities for students across research groups. For example, the algebraic geometry
and mathematical physics postgraduates organise reading groups where they work through a set
of lecture notes on a particular topic. SoMaS PGRs organised and hosted the 2018 Research
Students’ Conference in Probability and Statistics.

2.5 Equality, diversity, and inclusion

We place equality, diversity, and inclusion (EDI) at the centre of our priorities, as emphasised by
the first sentence of the SoMaS mission statement: “The School of Mathematics and Statistics
aspires to be an inclusive and welcoming environment for all who enjoy mathematics”. EDI matters
are considered by our Good Practice Group (GPG), which is chaired by the School Director for
EDI, who also sits on the SoMaS Executive Committee. Other members of the GPG include the
Head and Deputy Head of School. The aim of this group is to strengthen our focus on EDI and to
mitigate risk of implicit bias, including in research matters. Input from the GPG has led to a number
activities and changes in policies to promote underrepresented groups and appreciation of EDI
matters, including:

   •   the requirement for research groups to ensure appropriate gender balance when inviting
       seminar speakers;

   •   delivering annual implicit bias talks to all undergraduate students since 2018.

   •   running events to celebrate International Women in Mathematics Day;

   •   introduction of an annual undergraduate summer research scheme in 2019, organised and
       delivered by PGR students, that explicitly encourages applications from under-represented
       groups (in 2019, 4 out of 7 projects were awarded to female students and 1 to a non-binary
       student). This has recently received external funding from the Heilbronn Institute;

   •   creation of an ‘Open CV’ Project in 2019, with CVs of 12 academic staff at different grades
       to showcase different career paths;

   •   participation in the Faculty of Science Wellbeing Advocates programme, with three staff
       members associated with SoMaS taking on the role;

   •   contribution to the Faculty promotion framework in the area of metrics and gender bias.

It is University policy to offer staff flexible working arrangements, including working from home
arrangements to accommodate, e.g. childcare and caring commitments. SoMaS also supports
flexible working arrangements for staff nearing retirement by reducing their hours. Several staff
take advantage of this flexibility.

Financial support for research is available to all staff members and applications from ECRs are
highly encouraged and prioritised in order to increase their research visibility. Available support
includes the Learned Society Fund, the Mathematics and Statistics Research Centre and the
Research Stimulation Fund (see Section 3).

It is University policy that all chairs of all University interview panels must undertake training, which
includes awareness of EDI issues. The University is a certificated Disability Confident Employer
and SoMaS is committed to the key pledges of the Disability Confident scheme. To address

                                                                                                Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
gender imbalance, at the beginning of a recruitment process we form a search committee, which
informs suitable applicants about job openings and encourages applications.

A key priority in the next few years will be to address the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our
research-active staff. We recognise that the impact of the pandemic on research varies widely; to
manage the resulting inequalities, we aim to use administrative/teaching load reduction and/or
prioritised study leave to support those staff whose research capacity has been particularly
affected by caring responsibilities and other factors during the pandemic.

Preparation for REF2021 We followed the institutional Code of Practice and members of our REF
committee undertook EDI training provided by the University. All our eligible category A staff have
been submitted. The number of outputs selected for each member of staff will not be used in any
promotion or review process. An equality impact assessment found no systematic bias in our
output selections.


 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


3.1 Income

During the assessment period our research income was over £11M, a 111% increase compared
to £5.3M reported in REF2014. The majority of funding came from UKRI and the Royal Society
(£7.0M), and the EU (£2.6M), as well as industry (£518K). We have significantly increased our EU
funding since 2014 (when it was £199k).

Our strategy has been to diversify our funding portfolio, to grow grant income and to support our
ECRs in writing grant applications. Notable successes include:

   •   £2.4M to Quegan, who has been supported by a wide variety of funders enabling his
       research leadership in the BIOMASS mission (including ESA, UK Space Agency, NERC,
       Leverhulme, East China Research Institute of Electronic Engineering).

   •   £1.8M to Bridgeland (including EPSRC, Royal Society, European Commission).

   •   Our current and recent ECRs have successfully competed for £4.1M of research grant
       funding from a variety of sources.

3.1.1 Strategies for successful research awards

To stimulate research grant applications, we adopt a dual strategy of raising awareness and
providing tailored support.

Awareness: All staff receive regular targeted information about funding opportunities. The SRDS
process (see Section 2b) provides a platform to discuss possible grant applications, and how best
to meet research objectives. Where appropriate, staff access training and mentoring support for
grantsmanship and proposal writing. Grant successes are celebrated in SoMaS and through a
regular Faculty newsletter.

Support: Study leave is used to facilitate grant application writing (Blackwell and Potts have
recently done so successfully, (see Section 2)). Dedicated professional research support enables
applications, including financial aspects, coaching and coordination of mock fellowship interviews
with academics who have served on relevant panels. To increase the competitiveness of
proposals, we offer peer-support and review to refine proposals prior to submission, and mentoring


                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
for ECRs. Despite future uncertainties caused by the current pandemic and Brexit, we have laid
the foundations to rapidly react to changes in the funding landscape.

3.2 Infrastructure and facilities

3.2.1 The Statistical Services Unit (SSU)

SSU is a specialist advisory unit providing comprehensive statistical consultancy services to clients
within and outside the University. Based within SoMaS, it has a director (Sara Hilditch, who was
awarded the Royal Statistical Society Chambers Medal for 2021) and 5 consultancy staff.
Established clients include AstraZeneca, Unilever, Merseyrail and Chiltern Railways. Other work, in
the medical/health field, includes supporting clinical research projects and clinical trials based in
the Sheffield Hospitals Trust.

The expertise and contacts of the SSU provide an invaluable resource to foster and support
academic and commercial research activity. Opportunities for methodological and applied research
arise frequently through the SSU and our Statistics Clinic, but can be difficult to resource. To help
exploit these, during the assessment period we have employed a postdoctoral research consultant
to enable short to medium-term involvement in any academic research project that might benefit
from statistical expertise. Projects have ranged from a week to several months, depending on the
complexity of the problem, and are directed by a member of SoMaS research staff. These activities
provide an important pipeline for knowledge exchange and future impact.

Exemplar projects include an investigation of the use of Bayesian methodologies to improve the
quality of past climate reconstruction (directed by Heaton and colleagues at Cambridge University
and CNRS/College de France), and a novel application of Bayesian Belief Networks to combine
predictions from an ensemble of marine ecosystems and fisheries models, under different
management scenarios, with statistical modelling of the economics of commercial fish prices
(directed by Blackwell). This latter project brought together work carried out within the Marine
Ecosystems Research Programme mainly by SoMaS, the Plymouth Marine Laboratory, the
University of Strathclyde and the Centre for Fisheries and Aquaculture Science, and is expected to
generate significant future impact.

Another function of our research consultancy is to run pilots to establish the viability of extended
work. For example, using funding from the European Network for Business and Industrial Statistics
to Stillman, we investigated the feasibility of using Bayesian methods for process optimisation. This
has led to a PhD project supervised by Stillman, Blackwell and Majewski (Mechanical Engineering)
using Bayesian errors-in-variables regression models to optimise 3D-printing processes.

3.2.2 Computing

Computing resource requirements for academics, PGRs, PDRAs and professional staff is reviewed
annually with funds allocated to ensure all researchers have adequate computing resources for
their needs. This includes the provision of high-power machines when required. In addition to local
funds, specific computing requirements are funded by grant applications. Research data security
and integrity are critical, and all research groups are allocated generous secure backed-up data
storage capacity.

Some research groups, in particular Solar Physics, Plasma Dynamics and Fluid Dynamics, have
significant computational needs, which led to the development of clusters of computing resources
with high power, large storage, specialist software and excellent graphics capabilities. The
University of Sheffield is a partner of the N8 Regional HPC Facilities partnership (with Durham,

                                                                                            Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Lancaster, Leeds, Liverpool, Manchester, Newcastle, and York). It currently offers a shared Tier 2
HPC facility. Our IT Services provide licences for SAS, SPSS, Mathematica, Matlab and Maple. IT
Services is committed to supporting research in all disciplines and strengthening relationships with
researchers. It facilitates collaboration, supports research applications and helps departments with
research costing management. It also maintains the ShARC and Bessemer high-performance
computing clusters, of which Solar Physics, Fluid Dynamics and the Mathematical Physics cluster
are heavy users. For example, ShARC is being used to acquire and pre-process large datasets
from NASA’s solar dynamics observatory database. Wherever possible, we are moving from local
to University-managed virtual servers, to enhance robustness and security.

Two dedicated technical staff, together with the Director of Computing, advise on all aspects of IT.
Biannual planning meetings plan for (i) incoming PhDs (all new PhDs are provided with a new
machine according to a specification set out by their supervisor), and (ii) review staff machines, to
maintain up-to-date IT provision for all staff.

3.2.3 Research visitors

We have hosted over 60 visitors during the assessment period, including a visit by the senior
management team of the East China Research Institute for Electrical Engineering and the Vice-
Dean of Beihang University (Quegan, 2019). We have dedicated office space for 8 short and long-
term visitors. The Mathematics and Statistics Research Centre in SoMaS provides dedicated
support and funding to support research visitors and small workshops. Applications for funding
from the MSRC budget (£16k per year) are considered throughout the academic year; decisions
are made by the Deputy Director of Research and two members of the Research Committee.

3.2.4 Learned Society (LSF) and Research Stimulation Funds (RSF)

We have dedicated investment to support external conference attendance or collaborative visits.
The LSF supports small-scale activities for which funding is available without specific application,
whereas more substantial activities are funded through RSF applications to the Research
Committee. There is no limit (within reason) to the amount that can be requested for any activity,
and most requests are funded in full.

3.2.5 The University Library

Sheffield has an extensive collection of learned journals and monographs in print and electronic
form, in addition to many discipline-specific databases. The Library provides a mediated service for
our White Rose Research Online (WRRO) repository (with Leeds and York) which removes burden
from academic staff and ensures compliance with funder mandates.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society


4.1 Research collaboration

Within Sheffield, we have an extensive and long-standing network of research collaborations,
across science, engineering, and medicine. We have joint external funding and co-supervise
PDRAs and PGRs. Jointly supervised researchers typically attend group meetings in more than
one area, strengthening interdisciplinary links and enhancing their research training. These
collaborations benefit from, and contribute strongly to, world-leading Sheffield facilities and
infrastructure (for example, in biological imaging and clinical genetics). Many staff are affiliated with
more than one research group, with particularly strong overlap between Mathematical Biology and

                                                                                                Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
Environmental Dynamics and Statistics, and growing interactions between Algebraic Geometry and
Mathematical Physics. Cross-fertilisation between research groups is encouraged by regular well-
attended “away days”.

We have many national and international collaborations, both long-established and arising more
recently from new projects. The RSF (see Section 3) supports research visits, and this is regularly
supplemented by external funding (e.g. current R. Soc. International Exchange grants to Bavula
and Verth, Newton Fellowship to von Fáy-Siebenbürgen, Fulbright Scholarship to Best). During the
assessment period, we have hosted more than 60 international visitors from the US, China, Brazil,
Japan, Australia, South Africa and several European countries. More than 50% of our outputs have
international co-authors.

Some exemplar collaborations include:

   •   Bridgeland’s link with the Universities of Edinburgh and Glasgow, leading to a £2.7M
       EPSRC programme grant on “Enhancing Representation Theory, Noncommutative Algebra
       and Geometry Through Moduli, Stability and Deformations”. This intra-disciplinary
       programme brings together a number of subfields of pure mathematics: algebraic
       geometry, representation theory and non-commutative algebra, by applying powerful
       cutting-edge techniques involving derived algebraic geometry and the theory of stability
       conditions. Project partners include the University of Toronto, MIT, University of Tokyo,
       University of Antwerp, University of Illinois Chicago, Kavli IPMU, University of Montpellier I,
       University of California, San Diego, and Tsinghua University.

   •   Quegan, with colleagues in the Biosciences, has long-standing central roles in the
       Leverhulme Centre for Climate Change Mitigation and the National Centre for Earth
       Observation, working on modelling of weathering dynamics and the carbon cycle.

   •   von Fáy-Siebenbürgen was coordinator of the €2.3M EU project PROGRESS (PRediction
       of Geospace Radiation Environment and Solar wind parameterS), which included
       researchers from Sheffield, the Finish Meteorological Institute, University of Warwick,
       Space Research Institute NSAU (Ukraine), Laboratoire de Physique et Chimie de
       l’Environment et de Espace (France), Swedish Institute of Space Physics and the
       Helmholtz Centre for Geosciences (Germany). The project exploited spacecraft and
       ground-based data combined with state of art data assimilation methodologies to develop
       accurate and reliable forecasts of space weather hazards.

   •   Oakley and Wilkinson are currently working with Clayton (Computer Science) and Niederer
       (King’s College London) on cardiac modelling to predict which patients being treated for
       atrial fibrillation will go on to suffer from atrial tachycardia. The project is developing
       uncertainty quantification methods to allow for incorporation of patient measurements, and
       to enable clinical decisions that account for the inherent uncertainty present. This project is
       funded by EPSRC (2017–2021; £460K).

   •   Dolan, van de Bruck and Winstanley have, with the Universities of Manchester and
       Lancaster, established the “Consortium for Fundamental Physics”, which has been
       supported by STFC since 2011 (£976K, 2017–2021), involving cross-institution PhD
       collaboration and publication of jointly-authored papers.

   •   Campbell co-ordinated the Quantum Code Design & Architecture project with Terhal (TU
       Delft), Browne (University College London), Leverrier (INRIA, Paris) and Koenig (TU
       Munich). The project, funded through the EU and EPSRC co-fund Quant-ERA grant (2018–


                                                                                              Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       2021; 1.5M€), investigates the optimal design of quantum error correction codes to design
       efficient and reliable quantum computers and inform the design of hardware architectures.

4.2 Contributions to the economy and society

Much of our research in mathematical sciences can have significant economic, security and
societal implications, often involving interdisciplinary collaboration. We encourage all staff to
explore and develop such opportunities, and have a strong and sustained track record of
generating impact from our research across the spectrum of our activity, including staff
involvement in the Heilbronn Institute and GCHQ.

Our impact case studies provide compelling examples of the impact of our research. Further
examples include:

   ●   Wilkinson was funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund to develop and study
       networks of low-cost air pollution sensors. This links to a Google-funded project to build a
       network of sensors in Kampala, Uganda – a rapidly growing city with persistent dangerous
       levels of particulate pollution, exceeding the WHO's guideline annual mean limit by a factor
       of 10. The project aims to solve mathematical (a new machine learning paradigm for
       models involving space and time), engineering (detecting sensor malfunction, calibrating
       sensors remotely), and scientific (determining the sources of air pollution) problems. The
       project team is split between Sheffield and Kampala and works closely with the Kampala
       Capital City Authority and researchers from Google to develop possible interventions to
       improve air quality, model their potential impact, and measure their effectiveness.

   ●   Best has an international network of collaborations with experimental biologists to study
       host-pathogen interactions and infectious disease dynamics. These include: (1) Dockrell
       (Edinburgh Medical School) and Marriott (Medical School, Sheffield), with whom he
       developed a model of the human immune response to Staph. aureus infections; (2) co-
       supervision of a PhD student with Brockhurst (Animal and Plant Sciences), where the
       student parameterised and confirmed their modelling work in an experimental bacteria-
       phage system; (3) long-term collaborations with biologists at Cambridge (Leggett), Exeter
       (Buckling) and UC Berkeley (Boots) using mathematical models to gain novel insights into
       results of experimental host-pathogen coevolution. Funding from a Leverhulme Early
       Career Fellowship (2013–2016) and a LMS Travel Grant (2019) has facilitated this work.

   ●   Walters has worked with Cox (Oncology and Metabolism), Lin (Newcastle) and Michailidou
       (Cambridge) to develop a Bayesian approach that allows functional genomic information to
       inform breast cancer mutation effect size priors. Many forms of functional genomic
       information are incomplete, and they have developed a mixture model approach that
       incorporates differential shrinkage to allow for this incompleteness. They have also shown
       how estimates of the number of yet-undiscovered causal mutations can be used to inform
       this effect size prior and how uncertainty in this estimate can be incorporated.

   ●   Fletcher received funding from the BBSRC to study the integration of growth and patterning
       during animal development with Strutt (Biomedical Science) and Richmond (Computer
       Science). The team combines experiments with mathematical and computational modelling
       to explore how cells in the developing fruit fly wing communicate to build a sense of
       direction, how this sense of direction orients growth, and how cell-level information provides
       feedback to the system to halt growth. This work utilises Chaste (see Section 1.4), an open-
       source software library for cell-based and multiscale modelling developed by Fletcher and
       colleagues, including Oxford (Byrne, Gavaghan, Maini), Nottingham (Mirams), and

                                                                                                Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Melbourne (Osborne). Fletcher has led several Chaste training workshops for mathematical
       biologists, including in Sheffield, Dundee, and Norwich, with financial support from the
       EPSRC-funded POEMS network, the BBSRC-funded Multiscale Biology Network, and
       Sheffield knowledge exchange funds.

   ●   Blackwell and Heaton are key long-standing members of the international working group on
       radiocarbon calibration curves (IntCal), which provides the international standards for
       determining age estimates from 14C measurements. Sheffield plays a lead role in the
       development of statistical methods underpinning this programme, which has significant
       impact on environmental policy and the heritage sector. Heaton provided statistical
       leadership in the recently (2020) released major update of the calibration curves (IntCal20).

4.3 Contribution to sustainability of the discipline

We continually support the research base of our discipline in several ways. Our workload allocation
model supports our researchers to devote time to community activity such as editorial work,
external examining or chairing external committees. Editorial board memberships include:
Bridgeland (J. European Math. Soc.); Fletcher (Biophys. J., Math. Biosci. & Engineering); Jain
(Astrophys. J. Lett.; Astrophys. J.); Jordan (J. Appl. Prob.; Adv. Appl. Prob.); Oakley (J. Uncertainty
Quantification); Willerton (Compositionality; J. Homotopy & Related Struct.); Winstanley (Classical
and Quantum Gravity).

Research staff regularly contribute to national and international scientific boards, including:

   ●   Quegan has been an invited member of numerous significant national and international
       advisory committees, including (since 2013): chairman of the ESA BIOMASS Mission
       Assessment Group; member of the Kyoto and Carbon Advisory Group; member of the
       Terrestrial Observations Panel on Climate (an advisory panel to the UN Framework
       Convention on Climate Change); leader of the Group on Earth Observation Forest Carbon
       Tracking task. He also represented NERC at the House of Commons Science and
       Technology Select Committee’s Inquiry into UK and European Space Agencies (June
       2013).

   ●   Oakley was a member of the expert review committee for the EPSRC/Knowledge Transfer
       Network review of knowledge exchange in the mathematical sciences (published 2018) and
       is also on the scientific advisory panel for the Newton Gateway to Mathematics (the impact
       initiative of the Isaac Newton Institute).

   ●   Wilkinson has joined the Data Evaluation and Learning for Viral Epidemics (DELVE) group,
       a multi-disciplinary group convened by the Royal Society during the COVID-19 outbreak to
       provide input to SAGE, the scientific advisory group for emergencies. Wilkinson worked on
       the evidence base for the use of masks and co-authored a paper on the effect reopening of
       schools on the development of the pandemic.

   ●   Winstanley has been elected to the Nominating Committee in the International Society for
       General Relativity and Gravitation (2016–2022).

   ●   Hawkins was on the IOP Science and Innovation Committee (2014–2018).

We have organised a number of workshops and conferences in our research areas, including:




                                                                                                  Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Probability: Jordan and Freeman organised the UK Easter Probability meeting in 2018,
       funded by grants from EPSRC, the LMS, the Heilbronn Institute and the Applied Probability
       Trust.

   ●   Mathematical Biology: Best co-organised in 2018 a mini-symposium in Lisbon on “Current
       directions in host-parasite coevolution”; Potts was involved in organising the Annual
       Meeting of the Movement Ecology Special Interest Group within the British Ecological
       Society (2017; London) and a joint annual meeting of the Movement Ecology and
       Quantitative Ecology Special Interest Group within the British Ecological Society (2019,
       Sheffield); Fletcher has organised 11 conferences and workshops since 2014, including a
       Royal Society Discussion Meeting on “Contemporary Morphogenesis” (2019, London) and
       a Mathematical Research Institute (MATRIX) Workshop on “Virtual tissues: progress and
       challenges in multicellular systems biology” (2018, Melbourne); Monk organised a mini-
       symposium on “Process Biology”, Society for Experimental Biology Annual Meeting (2015,
       Prague) and was organiser and tutor for two EMBO Practical Courses on “Multi-level
       Modelling of Morphogenesis” (2015, 2017); Quegan was co-organiser of the International
       Workshop on Space-Based Measurement of Forest Properties for Carbon Cycle Research
       (2017, International Space Science Institute, Bern).

   ●   Number Theory: Şengün was involved in organising the conference “Arithmetic groups
       and 3-Manifolds” (2020, University of Hagen), and meetings on “Arithmetic and Low
       Dimensional Hyperbolic Spaces” (2016, University of Galatasaray), “Cremona 60th: Explicit
       Methods in Number Theory” (2016, Warwick) and “Frontiers in Serre’s Conjecture: Torsion
       and Low Weights” (2015, University of Luxembourg); Berger organised the Second
       international conference on Galois representations and automorphic forms (2016,
       Będlewo), and a meeting on “p-adic modular forms and Galois representations” (2019,
       Sheffield).

   ●   Solar Physics and Plasma Dynamics: von Fáy-Siebenbürgen was a member of the
       scientific organising committee for more than 10 conferences/meetings, including the AGU
       Fall Meeting (2019, San Francisco), ST20, Asia Oceania Geosciences Society (2019,
       Singapore) and the India-UK Seminar on “Plasma Processes in the Solar and Space
       Plasma at Diverse Spatio-Temporal Scales: Upcoming Challenges in the Science and
       Instrumentation” (2014, Nainital); Jain was the convenor of the session ST06 at AOGS
       Meeting in (2019, Singapore); Ballai was the main organiser of the 5 th UK-Ukraine-Spain
       meeting on Solar Physics and Space Science (2019, Ukraine).

   ●   Algebraic Geometry and Topology: Bridgeland and Shinder organised a two-day
       workshop on “Homological algebraic geometry” (2016, Sheffield); Bridgeland and Meinhardt
       organised a workshop on Stability conditions, Donaldson-Thomas invariants and cluster
       varieties (2017, Sheffield) and organised a workshop “Stability conditions” (2015, Warwick);
       Shinder has co-organised a number of workshops since 2014, including the workshop on
       “Derived categories, motives and Zeta-functions” (2014, Edinburgh), the Sheffield GLEN
       workshop in 2018 and the workshop on “Constructions and Obstructions in Birational
       Geometry” at the International Centre for Mathematical Sciences, Edinburgh (2018).
       Willerton was on the programme committee of the international Applied Category Theory
       conference (2019, Oxford); Whitehouse was involved in several Woman in Topology
       events: she was a team leader at the meeting in Banff in 2013 and 2016 and organiser of
       the third Women in Topology meeting in Bonn in 2019.




                                                                                          Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
   ●   Mathematical Physics: Gielen was a co-organiser of “Quantum Gravity 2020”, a major
       international conference in this research area. Gielen and van de Bruck organised the UK
       Cosmology meeting in 2020.

SoMaS has hosted the Applied Probability Trust, an independent not-for-profit foundation for
study and research in the mathematical sciences, since its establishment in 1964. The Trust
publishes the Journal of Applied Probability and Advances in Applied Probability (with CUP).

Visiting professorships: Ballai held a visiting professorship in 2017 (Universitat des les Illes
Balear); von Fáy-Siebenbürgen had several visiting research professorships, including at the
Chinese Academy of Science Hefei (2019); National Astronomical Observatory of China, Beijing
(2016 and 2017); and Debrecen Heliographic Observatory, Hungarian Academy of Science
Distinguished Visiting Professorship (2014). Katzman was visiting professor at the University of
Illinois, Chicago.

Fellowships: The research contributions of our staff have been recognised with a number of
fellowships, including Blackwell and Heaton (Leverhulme Research Fellowships), Brini and
Campbell (EPSRC Early Career Fellowships), Manolache (Dorothy Hodgkin Fellowship), Gielen
(Royal Society University Research Fellowship).

In summary, we are proud of our important contributions across the spectrum of mathematical
science, demonstrated by the quality of our research outputs and resulting impact. Embedded in a
vibrant research community within Sheffield and supported financially by a wide range of external
sources, we are well placed to build on our successes to make further significant contributions to
mathematics and statistics in the next decade.




                                                                                          Page 21
