Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: University of Edinburgh

 Unit of Assessment: UoA21 (Sociology)

 Section 1: Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy
 1.1 Overview
 Sociology at the University of Edinburgh (UoE) comprises a community of 81 (76.51 FTE)
 scholars committed to research to understand and help navigate the transformations facing
 societies. We address social challenges across many areas, notably intimacy and cultural life,
 nationalism, race, migration and decoloniality, climate change, scientific and financial
 innovations and digital society. Since 2014, a series of appointments (including 18 new posts)
 and a 51% increase in grant income have underpinned renewal and growth across our core
 areas of strength, while enabling strategic expansion into two key areas: race and decolonial
 studies (3 new posts, including Meer as Chair in Race, Identity and Citizenship) and data and
 digital sociology (5 new appointments). Our cutting-edge work in data/digital sociology has
 enabled us to take a leading role in the Edinburgh Futures Institute (EFI) and its Centre for Data,
 Culture and Society. The EFI was established in 2018 through a £140M capital investment to
 support data-driven innovation to address inequalities and digital exclusion, part of the £237M
 awarded to the UoE by UK and Scottish Governments through the Edinburgh and Southeast
 Scotland City Deal.
 Our UoA integrates staff based in Sociology and Science, Technology & Innovation Studies
 (STIS) within the School of Social and Political Science (SSPS), as well as sociologists in
 Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies, Asian Studies, and Informatics. These productive
 collaborations have secured research grants and centres, enabled joint PhD supervisions,
 mentoring and peer review and strengthened a shared research culture that celebrates and
 supports innovative research, leadership and impact, underpinned by an inclusive and collegial
 environment.
 Over the REF period, we have increased the breadth and quality of our research, as evidenced
 by:
  A 32% increase in staff FTE compared to REF2014 (to which all eligible staff were
     submitted), from 58.14 to 76.51 FTE, through 18 new appointments including 2 new Chairs,
     3 Senior Lecturers/Readers and 13 Lecturer posts.
  A 51% increase in research income to reach £17.5M (£11.58M in 2014), including 3 new
     ERC grants (with a fourth completed within the REF period), and major grants for
     methodological training and research, including co-leading the ESRC National Centre for
     Research Methods (NCRM) (phase 3 £4.9M 2014-19, of which £636K to UoE; phase 4
     £2.8M 2020-25, of which £282K to UoE).
  Support for early career researchers, through securing 11 prestigious externally-funded
     postdoctoral fellowships, including 4 British Academy Postdoctoral Fellowships and 4
     Leverhulme Early Career Fellowships.
  A 75% increase in the average number of doctoral completions per year (on average 20.85
     per year compared to 11.9 per year for REF2014).
  Outstanding intellectual leadership, including leadership of the British Sociological
     Association (BSA) (Jamieson President 2014-2017, Meer and McKie trustees 2016-2019)
     and the Association for the Study of Ethnicity and Nationalism (ASEN) (Hearn President
     2019-current, Krasniqi on the steering committee) and through 8 new editorships since 2014
     of leading journals (Cultural Sociology; Emotions and Society; Energy Research and Social


                                                                                              Page 1
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
    Science; Families, Relationships and Societies; Finance and Society; Identities; Journal of
    Cultural Economy; Scottish Affairs).


 1.2 Research and Impact Strategy
 Our overarching goal is to produce innovative sociological research to understand and address
 major issues facing societies. This has led us to strategically direct our research capacity by:
    1. Investing in researching new social challenges around energy and the environment,
       data and digital society, science and technology, finance, and race and decolonial thought.
       This has led to new appointments in these areas: Howell, Jenkins, Winskel (energy);
       Currie, Gregory, McFall (digital society); Barany, Englemann, Vermeulen (science and
       technology); Coombs, Van Gunten (finance); and Meer, Vadasaria, Liberatore (decolonial
       studies). These investments positioned us to take leading roles in strategic initiatives such
       as the interdisciplinary Energy@Ed cluster (co-led by Winskel), RACE.ED (led by Meer),
       the EFI (where McFall directs a major new initiative on digital inclusion), and EFI’s Centre
       for Data, Culture and Society (where Gregory co-leads the Digital Social Science
       Research Cluster). To further these investments, we have intensified our efforts to
       globalise and decolonise our sociological contributions through the appointment of experts
       on Latin America (Dias Lopes, Thumala, Van Gunten); the Middle East and Gulf (Akinci,
       Vadasaria); and Eastern Europe (Krasniqi), supplementing our expertise in Africa, Asia,
       North America and Scotland/UK.
    2. Supporting ambitious grant activity through the development of researchers and of
       centres and institutes. As described in Section 3, we have grown our research funding to
       average £2.5M per year (£1.93M per year in 2014). Development of ECRs, for example,
       through mentoring and peer reviewing support, resulted in the 11 Fellowships noted
       above. The Innogen Institute was established in 2014 to build on the previous ESRC
       funded Innogen Centre and it has nurtured successes such as Garcia Sancho’s ERC
       award on the history of genomics and Calvert and Schyfter’s ERC award on synthetic
       biology. The £1.2M Wellcome Trust-funded Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society was
       established in 2017 with Sturdy and Haddow as key applicants. Our leading role in the
       NCRM (£636K to UoE 2014-19, £282K 2020-25, delivered by Edinburgh: Crow, Gayle,
       Orton-Johnson, and Jamieson in collaboration with Southampton and Manchester
       Universities), fosters development of the wider research community through research
       methods training.
    3. Transforming our approach to impact, ensuring it is a reflexive, critical and collaborative
       enterprise. This agenda has been driven by a major expansion of professional support,
       training and seed funding for knowledge exchange and impact (KEI, described in Section
       3), as well as our dynamic centres and institutes, which have pioneered new approaches
       to interdisciplinarity and co-creation. Aside from the Impact Case Studies (ICSs), one
       example is the EFI providing the specialised infrastructure to enable Stewart to develop
       the Living Lab, which brings people together to solve problems using data and design (see
       Section 3.3). Collaborative approaches to impact are also evident, for example, in Moore’s
       Reanimating Data project involving academics, archivists and activists in co-creating
       understandings of changes in young women’s sexual health and empowerment by making
       publicly available interviews with girls in the 1980s. Over the REF period, the UoA has run
       over 70 public engagement events, attended by around 20,000 people, including at many
       of Edinburgh’s festivals and through our Beltane Public Engagement Fellows (Bancroft,
       Haddow, Rodrigues). We thus integrate impact into the research process, and this can be
       seen across our research clusters.


                                                                                             Page 2
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 1.3 Research clusters
 We aim to produce research that addresses the social challenges of responding to migration and
 diversity; navigating transformations in intimacy and cultural life; and understanding and
 regulating scientific, digital and financial innovations. Our approach is designed to guide
 research without constraining autonomy. The clusters described below reflect investment in
 areas of strength as well as organically emerging collaborations between junior and senior
 colleagues within and beyond this diverse UoA. Highlights of the research and impact relating to
 these areas are presented below.
 Our research on data and digital sociology deals with the promise and problems of digital
 innovations around big data, and around decision-making, labour, and markets in the digital
 sphere. Our work critiques the commercialised and proprietary nature of digital practices, for
 example, through Orton-Johnson’s large consortium ARTICONF grant (H2020 €427K to UoE,
 facilitating the recruitment of Jacobetty) which is developing alternative social media platforms.
 She found that decentralised social media networks can create revenue streams for people who
 were previously giving their data away for free and contribute to a more collaborative approach
 to technology use. Bancroft’s research on cybercriminal use of online cryptomarkets showed that
 darknet technologies have wider benefits and significance by improving confidentiality and
 autonomy online. This led to his 2019 monograph, and to a role in UoE’s successful EPSRC
 application to become an Academic Centre of Excellence in Cyber Security Research. Gregory’s
 innovative EFI funded research on Deliveroo workers in Edinburgh demonstrated how they
 negotiate the physical, financial and epistemic risks of digital labour, thus challenging elitist and
 commercialised narratives of urban space. Williams has been evaluating NHS England’s global
 digital exemplars to help improve healthcare IT (Department of Health £1.1M 2017-21) and
 developed public-facing information on using ePrescribing to promote antimicrobial stewardship
 (NICR £2.4M, with the College of Medicine, £28K to Williams). We have organised highly
 successful ‘hackathons’ allowing data activists and civic hacking groups to challenge anti-
 democratic practice and injustice (175 attending Currie’s Data Justice Week, May 2019), and
 helping users to understand career paths for professional footballers (according to a user of
 Campagnolo’s Turing fellowship data study group, they made more progress in one week than
 the Head of Football Operations at Real Madrid had in three years). Leadership in this field
 includes Williams’s place on the Scientific Committee during the start-up phase of the Alan
 Turing Institute, of which Campagnolo is now a fellow.

 In finance and economic sociology, we made significant contributions to researching the
 implications and regulation of financial innovation. MacKenzie won a Progress Medal in 2018 for
 exposing how modelling produces financial markets and outcomes. D’Adderio’s work has
 demonstrated that health-sector organisations proactively respond to performance rankings, for
 example by attempting to influence the assessment criteria. The recruitment of Coombs, McFall
 and Van Gunten expanded this cluster, which also highlights the increasing importance of
 understanding algorithms in order to avert financial crises. For example, MacKenzie’s ERC
 Advanced Grant (£1.5M 2012-2018) applied sociological analysis to high-frequency trading (see
 major AJS article) and Coombs’s Leverhulme Fellowship project 'Governing Financial
 Algorithms' (2014-17) produced the article ‘What is an Algorithm?’ in Economy and Society.
 McFall brings new insights by examining previous financial innovations such as the selling of
 ‘dull’ insurance products. As one review notes of her monograph Devising Consumption ‘[w]hat’s
 remarkable about McFall’s account is the detail she enters into to explain exactly how this
 system worked through “market devices’’’. KEI highlights include Van Gunten’s findings on




                                                                                               Page 3
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 consensus in the economics profession being summarized on the Washington Post's Monkey
 Cage blog and MacKenzie's many articles in the widely-read London Review of Books.
 We strengthened our cluster researching the potential and challenges of scientific innovation
 through new appointments in the sociology and history of science, technology, and medicine
 (Vermeulen, Barany, Engelmann). Sizeable grants, including Garcia-Sancho’s (ERC €1.5M),
 allowed scholars to explore genomic innovations such as sequencing the human, yeast and pig
 genomes and to critically interrogate the connection of modern genomics to the ‘medical-
 industrial complex’ (Wellcome Trust £821K, Sturdy, supporting Huzair’s appointment). In
 addition to Haddow’s Wellcome Trust-funded (£289K) study of the experiences of ‘everyday
 cyborgs’ with heart implants (see ICS), other highlights include Mazanderani’s conceptualisation
 of ‘patient choice’, informing a National Institute for Health Research funded study using patient
 feedback to improve the NHS. Strategic appointments and funding bids have also improved
 understanding of previous pathways to successful innovation. For instance, Vermeulen
 researched the history of scientific collaboration and discovery at the Francis Crick Institute
 (Wellcome Trust £50K) and Dritsas examined the National Museums of Scotland acquisition of
 African collections from Scottish travellers, missionaries and explorers between 1870 and 1930
 (Carnegie Trust £4.4K). Parry, in an article on ‘The EPSRC’s Policy of Responsible Innovation
 from a Trading Zones Perspective’, found that innovation is supported by attending to local
 contexts of knowledge exchange and opportunities for researcher interaction. Notable outputs
 on histories of science include Engelmann’s analysis of AIDS atlases, which a reviewer
 describes as a ‘magnificent new book … [that] sheds new light on the medical history of
 HIV/AIDS and provides insights into the manufacturing of scientific facts’. Barany’s expository
 Nature article about the Fields Medal examines barriers to researcher diversity within
 mathematics, and appeared in The Best Writing on Mathematics, 2019. KEI also includes
 Vermeulen’s app ‘Curious Edinburgh’, which provides mobile walking tours on Edinburgh’s
 scientific and community heritage. It won the Tam Dalyell Prize (2016) for excellence in public
 science engagement, the first social science winner.
 We advanced our interdisciplinary study of social and policy implications of the life sciences
 through substantial funding, and have had major impact in this area (see ICSs). A series of
 major grants have supported investigation of innovations in regenerative medicine (ESRC
 £479K; Tait and Mittra, collaborating with Universities of York, Sussex and Birmingham) and
 synthetic biology (BBSRC £500K 2014-21, Tait for the UK Centre for Mammalian Synthetic
 Biology). Resulting outputs include Mittra’s monograph The New Health Bioeconomy, hailed by
 reviewers for addressing ‘fundamental questions about how the new biology-based research is
 transforming healthcare’. Calvert and Schyfter’s ERC ‘Engineering Life’ project (€1.5M 2014-20)
 critically explores whether ideas and practices from engineering can be applied in the life
 sciences, with Schyfter using the work to develop sociological conceptions of biological function.
 Bruce’s research has furthered understanding of antibiotic resistance, climate change and food
 security (grants include ESRC £580K). For example, she argued that successful Dutch and
 Danish policies to reduce veterinary antibiotic use provide important examples of how other
 countries might improve their antibiotic stewardship to protect human health. In addition to Tait’s
 research on scientific policy (see ICS), impact from this cluster includes Banda using his
 research on drug production in various African nations to provide evidence briefs for agencies
 such as the German Federal Ministry for Economic Cooperation and Development.
 Interdisciplinary research is actively promoted by this cluster, notably through Lyall’s exploration
 of how interdisciplinary research is valued by funders but not always facilitated by institutional
 arrangements (H2020 €250K 2019-21, Lyall Co-I). Lyall’s work has had wide international reach,
 leading to her being commissioned by HEA (now Advance HE) to record an audio presentation


                                                                                               Page 4
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 on interdisciplinary learning and teaching as a resource for deans of learning and teaching in
 Hong Kong in 2016.
 Our research on energy and the environment focuses on the challenges of energy system
 transitions, energy policy, and how to encourage environmentally sustainable practices. The
 cluster has produced agenda-setting work, with Webb’s research (see ICS) revealing how
 financialised and centralised government institutions and powers can impede innovations. Other
 work has addressed lay engagement with science and the environment, including Jamieson’s
 BSA presidential address in the journal Sociology about how practices of intimacy form and
 frame orientations to sustainability. Related outputs are Moore’s monograph, with associated
 online archive, about ecofeminist protests in Clayoquot Sound, Canada. She shows how
 activism can help rethink contemporary feminist theory and counter claims about the death of
 feminism, as well as demonstrating the importance of ecofeminist ideas and practices for current
 thinking about the environment. At the system and policy level, Bolton, Winskel, Pullinger,
 Haggett and Webb have captured significant funding for their research (over £4.5M since 2014),
 which is leading political debate and changing policy on domestic energy use, energy markets,
 and on community input into sustainable energy projects (see ICSs). Researchers are also
 informing energy policy. Jenkins’s pioneering analysis of energy justice, for example, highlights
 the need to determine who is responsible for ensuring that energy developments deliver energy
 that is equally available to all. Howell’s research on behavioural change around mitigation and
 adaptation led to her advising the Scottish Parliament on aspects of the latest Scottish Climate
 Change Plan and on the Emissions Reductions Targets Bill. R. Jeffery is researching
 environmental policy-making within the GCRF ‘South Asian Nitrogen Hub’ (£17M, of which
 £563K to UoE). Pathways to impact are strengthened by links with the Edinburgh Centre for
 Carbon Innovation (ECCI). Winskel is on the Directorate of resident ECCI organisation Scottish
 ClimateXChange and Webb received funding from it. In addition, Bolton, Webb and Winskel lead
 the UoE ‘Energy and Society’ network, part of Energy@Ed, which links energy transition
 researchers worldwide with public sector and general audiences.
 Our researchers are reinvigorating methods training and development locally and nationally,
 as evident in our leadership of the NCRM (Crow, Gayle, Jamieson, Orton-Johnson) and our
 prime role in founding the nationwide Q-Step programme (MacInnes, now retired) funded by
 Nuffield Foundation, ESRC and HEFCE. Members of this cluster have revitalised quantitative
 methods in British sociology, for example via the ESRC grant ‘Data Science - Training and
 Capacity Building’ (AQMeN III £296K, Gayle) and the Scottish Consortium, ESRC Centre for
 Population Change Phase II (£5M 2014-19, of which £178K to UoE, MacInnes PI). Connelly and
 Gayle’s research has made important contributions to methodological debates, for example
 those on measuring social class. Ralston (Sociological Research Online, 2019) produced the
 first research to empirically examine a relationship between epistemological anxiety and
 statistics anxiety in sociology students. CPD contributions include Gayle’s quantitative research
 training workshops offered to academics and non-academics through AQMeN and NCRM.
 Leadership on methodological innovation is also furthered by high profile publications such as
 Kemp’s article in Sociological Theory outlining a methodological framework for evaluating
 theories based on internal coherence. Advances in digital and data-driven methods are nurtured
 by the Centre for Data, Culture and Society, which sits within the EFI. The centre supports
 applied digital research though seminars, advice on funding bids, and discussion forums
 (www.cdcs.ed.ac.uk/); Currie, Gregory, Orton-Johnson and Prior are part of its Media and
 Communications cluster. We have also led on initiatives promoting the combining of methods:
 for example, Crow founded the Scottish Graduate School of Social Science (SGSSS)’s ‘When
 Methods Meet’ dialogues; and Jamieson (with Davidson) secured ESRC NCRM funding (£88K
 2018-19) for a project on 'scaling up' analysis across longitudinal qualitative studies and

                                                                                             Page 5
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 published results on this distinctive form of ‘big data’. We have further invested in methods via a
 new Social and Political Science Research Training Centre to support our researchers; 3 of the
 5 new appointments to the centre are UoA members (Connelly, Davidson, Ralston).
 We have expanded our strength in researching nationalism and political action to new global
 contexts. New ECR appointment Krasniqi researches how contested states like Kosovo and
 North Cyprus find creative ways to provide status, rights and protection to their residents. In
 China, Woodman discovered that assessment of inter-urban migrants’ level of education is vital
 to their citizenship claims. Woodman’s expertise led to her being Co-I on an ESRC (£400K
 2015-18, of which £46K to UoE) project studying the mobility of Chinese higher education
 students, which found that these students are diverse in background, but the vast majority adjust
 well to studying in Europe and the UK. Hearn, Kennedy and Riga continue their strongly
 historical orientation via high profile publications. Hearn’s article in the leading journal
 Sociological Theory reinterprets the division of labour as a more important concept than
 competition in Adam Smith’s The Wealth of Nations. It inspired an international conference on
 'Competition and Social Change' in Edinburgh in 2018. In the lead chapter of a prestigious essay
 collection on Federalism and National Diversity in the 21st Century, Kennedy argues that
 informal practices of federalism are more important in reconciling multinational unity and
 diversity than the formal institutions of federation. Riga has exercised intellectual influence on
 current political debates in China, where discussions of her 2012 book The Bolsheviks and the
 Russian Empire have prompted visits to Edinburgh by Chinese scholars. The political ripples
 created by her work are indicated by the authorities’ heavy censoring of the recent Chinese
 translation of that book. Researchers also work on ‘local’ forms of nationalism such as the
 Scottish referendum, for example Bond’s detailed dissection of data from major national surveys
 found that it may have led to closer alignment between national identities and political attitudes.
 Rosie, Gorringe and Jamieson demonstrated that young 'Yes' voters made sense of their
 referendum participation in the context of their own transitions to ‘independent’ adulthood.
 Rosie’s work on sectarianism has influenced Scottish Government policies, with Scottish First
 Minister Nicola Sturgeon publicly stating that she welcomed Rosie’s independent national review
 of marches, parades and demonstrations as the government seeks to end sectarian disorder.
 This cluster also furthers our globalising and decolonising strategy through outputs, funding and
 KE. Gorringe’s monograph on Dalit politics, Panthers in Parliament, provides a detailed picture
 of how social movements become institutionalised. It received major media coverage in India
 and led Tamil Nadu politicians to publicly state that they need to do more to recognise social
 minorities. Govinda’s expertise on feminism and intersectionality in South Asia is attested to by
 invitations to speak internationally and by UKIERI funding for a collaboration that produced the
 edited collection Doing Feminisms in the Academy. McLeister informs both academic and wider
 audiences about church-state interactions in China, including through his article about how
 church demolitions have heightened millenarian beliefs, showing the influence of political
 campaigns on popular Christianity in China.
 We have strategically expanded our contributions to the sociology of race and decolonial
 thought through new appointments and play a major part in University and wider debates and
 initiatives on race and decoloniality, including through RACE.ED, which showcases excellence in
 teaching, research and KEI in race and decolonial studies (Meer and Vadasaria lead). Meer
 (Royal Society of Edinburgh Personal Research Fellow 2017-2020) contributed to the UK
 Cabinet Office Race Disparity Audit and the Scottish Government’s Race Equality Framework.
 He was on the Royal Society of Edinburgh Post COVID-19 Futures Commission, launched May
 2020 and the Expert Reference Group (ERG) on COVID-19 and Ethnicity, which met in June
 and July 2020. The Scottish Minister for Older People and Inequalities noted that the 2020


                                                                                              Page 6
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 ‘Programme for Government reflects your [Meer’s] work [on the ERG] in a number of areas’. His
 ‘GLIMER’ project addressing responses to migration and refugees at the level of cities and
 nation-states (ESRC £475K 2017-21) produced recommendations to Scottish local authorities
 on housing asylum seekers, and a United Nations University (2017) address on refugee
 displacement. Other research addresses displacement and migrant integration/exclusion as
 facilitated by education systems (NordForsk 368 NOK 2020-23, Viry Co-I), and as emotionally
 navigated by racialised young displaced people in Beirut (British Academy £10K 2016-18, Riga
 PI, Holmes Co-I). Investment in ECRs in this area has enabled new funded projects on 'Multi-
 Religious Encounters in Urban Settings' (ERC €347K to UoE, Liberatore) and on the potential of
 using blood donation as a social policy tool for the post-secular integration of immigrants into
 broader society (Leverhulme Early Career Fellowship, Hashemi). New arrival ECRs Vadasaria
 and Akinci globalise and decolonise our expertise, through research on, respectively, the
 racialised logics at the heart of modernity, and global Arab migrant communities. Stanley’s
 intellectual leadership in this field was recognised by her ESRC Professorial Fellowship, ‘Whites
 Writing Whiteness’, exploring and making available everyday documents by whites in South
 Africa, interpreting how they represented whiteness and its various ‘others’ from the 1770s to
 1970s (see ICS).
 Strong intellectual leadership is exercised by our scholars researching culture, with the UoA
 hosting the BSA journal Cultural Sociology (edited by Prior and Thumala). That leadership is
 also evident in pioneering monographs such as Prior’s Popular Music, Digital Technology and
 Society, examining the assemblages that animate music; and McCormick’s Performing Civility,
 providing what a reviewer deemed a ‘compelling and insightful’ exploration of the civility and
 cosmopolitanism promoted by music competitions. Members of the cluster also led by promoting
 approaches that avoid narrowly reductionist analyses of culture, for example, Thumala’s recent
 article for the leading journal Poetics focuses on the ethical and existential dimensions of
 reading fiction. Their leadership has also fostered interdisciplinarity: for example, McCormick is
 part of an interdisciplinary team that received a Templeton Religion Trust grant on ‘Investigating
 Art and the Sacred at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe’ (postponed till 2021); and Darmon (with
 Moore and Fletcher contributing) leads the group Food Researchers in Edinburgh (FRIED),
 which runs seminars and writing retreats that bring together Edinburgh academics from a range
 of disciplines as well as co-organising successful workshops with food researchers in Paris and
 Copenhagen. One example of the strong outputs related to this network is Darmon’s pioneering
 analysis of how some well-known movements have sought to ‘emancipate’, ‘democratise’, and
 ‘diversify’ music and cuisine in ways that have produced sound and flavour anew.
 Investment in scholars working on major social issues related to the sociology of intimacy has
 produced new grant and impact successes. Brownlie’s research (£190K from the University of
 Sheffield as part of ‘A Shared Space and a Space for Sharing’, allied to the ESRC-supported
 EMOTICON network) on emotional distress and digital outreach showed the importance of
 careful attention to, and expression of, emotions when offering online support. As the
 Samaritans’ website notes, this research has made them highlight ‘the role of trust and empathy
 in providing online support for people in extreme circumstances’. Other members in the cluster
 also contribute to understanding and addressing social exclusion by investigating the importance
 of emotionally meaningful relationships across the life course: for example, Viry’s research on
 spatial mobility skills, network overlap and conjugal quality amongst young adults in Switzerland
 (CHF150K to UoE); Holmes’s monograph showing how couples in Distance Relationships
 maintain intimacy through emotional reflexivity; and Crow’s Leverhulme-funded research (£53K)
 examining academics’ transitions to retirement. Newly recruited ECRs enable further strategic
 attention to disadvantaged young people. Dias Lopes’s UNESCO fellowship funded her chapter
 on higher education in South America in the Global Monitoring Report, which shows how many

                                                                                             Page 7
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 young people lack access to, or are absent from, education, employment and training.
 Leverhulme Early Career Fellow Davidson’s research revealed how library cuts imperil young
 people’s social engagement in Scotland. Mahadeen explores concerns around inequalities and
 intimacy, researching the construction of femininity, masculinity and virginity within a Jordanian
 context. Our researchers also impact debates and policies around care through conceptual
 contributions such as McKie’s on ‘care ecology’, ‘caringscapes’ and ‘carescapes’. Media
 coverage has included the New York Times and the Wall Street Journal invoking Janus’s
 research that revealed limitations in the provision of elder care. Chaudhry’s British Academy
 PDF advances our decolonising agenda through her examination of changing British Asian
 family structures and the effects on elder care. Additional impact includes Davidson’s work with
 the Bookbug programme (Scottish Book Trust) encouraging Scottish families to share stories
 with young children, and Viry’s collaboration with French train operator SNCF on a graphic novel
 about commuting.


 1.4 Open and ethical research
 We are committed to making our research and data as widely available as possible, embracing
 the UK Data Service’s principle of ‘open where possible, closed where necessary’. Open
 Research is promoted by a Research Data and Information Officer, who provides training and
 support to achieve ambitious OA requirements covering all outputs published since 2016 (we
 have a 97.2% REF OA compliance rate). McCormick is the School academic lead for OA and
 Data. Our staff have made important contributions to Open Data, including Connelly and Gayle’s
 work to promote sharing of the complete workflow of quantitative research (see BJS article
 2019). We have also pioneered innovative approaches to sharing qualitative data, notably
 Moore’s qualitative online archive, ‘Clayoquot Lives: An Ecofeminist Story Web’, based on her
 research into eco-feminists and Stanley’s website making searchable hitherto inaccessible
 documents on racialising processes in South Africa (www.whiteswritingwhiteness.ed.ac.uk/).
 We adhere to rigorous standards of ethics and integrity, which are of particular importance given
 the nature of our work on ethically complex areas such as digital/online methods, health and
 technology innovations, race and ethnicity, and our research with vulnerable participants. As
 School academic lead for Research Ethics (2016-2019), Moore drew on her experience of
 conducting innovative sociological research, including ethnographic, action and archival
 research, to build a new, streamlined online ethical review system
 (www.sps.ed.ac.uk/research/ethics). The resulting online ethics application allows light touch
 checks prior to the submission of grant applications, while ensuring detailed scrutiny of projects
 where ethical risks are unavoidably high (for example Riga and Holmes’s work with refugee
 youth in Beirut). Calvert has also used her research to challenge and suggest alternatives to the
 ‘ethical, legal and social issues’ (ELSI) framework for interdisciplinary collaboration between
 natural and social scientists in sociotechnical knowledge production and innovation.


 1.5 Future strategic aims and goals
 As we look to 2030, sociology is committed to identifying, understanding and working to address
 the key social issues of our time. We will further develop our research on the impacts of racism
 and nationalism, the profound consequences of the data revolution and other scientific
 innovations for humans and their environment, and investigate the link between all of these and
 ongoing changes in our relationships and cultural practices. We plan to:
      Make further strategic appointments in the sociology of data and digital society, including
        in computational sociology, algorithmic knowledge and digital methods. This will support


                                                                                             Page 8
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        our work with EFI to address digital innovations and the social and political challenges
        that they give rise to, especially in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
       Extend the work of RACE.ED to co-develop further decolonising initiatives and new
        forms of support for BAME staff and staff from the Global South. For instance, we will
        use our links to the Edinburgh Institute of Advanced Studies in the Humanities’ (IASH)
        Decoloniality project (Meer and Yearley are on the steering committee), including hosting
        fellows under the scheme.
       Attend to COVID-19’s impacts on wider society and on research. For instance, we will
        use our expertise to research links between health and inequalities and renew our
        internal funding strategy to target resources to ECRs.
       Develop our excellence in methods in order to strengthen and support UoA members’
        methodological practices, enabling them better to research these key challenges. The
        new SSPS Research Training Centre will enhance dialogue between methods initiatives
        including Q-Step, AQMeN and NCRM, and will work to improve impact and public
        engagement, for example by training researchers in the use of transparent and
        reproducible research techniques.

 Section 2: People
 Our staff strategy has focused on recruiting and supporting outstanding staff across our key
 areas of growth, with a strong focus on inclusion and equality of opportunity; and on nurturing
 our growing cohort of early career researchers (17% of our submission) to set and achieve
 ambitious goals in research and impact.
 2.1 Recruiting and retaining staff
 Growth in student numbers and in external grant capture have enabled us to grow as a unit and
 enhance our supportive culture. We recruit and support promising researchers early in their
 academic careers, making open-ended appointments wherever possible. Since 2014, 13 ECRs
 have been appointed to Lectureships: Banda, Barany, Coombs, Currie, Gregory (now a Senior
 Lecturer), Howell, Huzair, Janus, Jenkins, Krasniqi, Liberatore, Vadasaria and Van Gunten. A
 further two ECR colleagues (Engelmann and Moore) were appointed as Chancellor’s Fellows,
 the University’s research-intensive, tenure-track scheme (joining 4 Chancellor’s Fellows
 appointed pre-2014). These initially research-focused positions have teaching and administrative
 duties gradually added over 5 years, to become a standard lecturing position.
 We have appointed 3 internally-funded Career Development Fellows, 3-year positions for ECRs,
 with 40% of their workloads allocated to research to allow those staff to build their research
 profiles towards applications for open-ended positions (Akinci, Dias Lopes, and formerly Krasniqi
 - now a Lecturer).
 We have also ensured continuing vitality by planning for succession, appointing strong mid-
 career sociologists (McCormick, Thumala), more experienced Chancellor’s Fellows (D’Adderio
 and McFall), and 2 new chairs: McKie (Head of School) and Meer. Three staff (J. Henry, P.
 Jeffery, J. MacInnes) have retired, but mid-career staff have been promoted and taken up
 leadership positions (Bond, Hearn, Holmes, Kemp, Prior) alongside other senior staff.
 We have also worked to incorporate research-only staff firmly within the UoA. In STIS, formerly
 contract researchers (Bruce, Banda, Mittra, Rodrigues, Schyfter, Stewart) successfully
 transferred to open-ended teaching and research posts, and have taken leadership positions,
 including Bruce’s School role as Associate Director of Research (KEI), and Lyall’s and Mittra’s
 roles as Head of STIS.


                                                                                             Page 9
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 The UoA’s recruitment and support processes have achieved a good balance of senior staff and
 those newer to academia. Within our UoA, 6 current staff have been promoted to Grade 10
 (Professor), 16 to Grade 9 (Senior Lecturer/Senior Research Fellow/Reader) and 3 to Grade 8
 (Lecturer/Senior Researcher) since 2014. Currently about one quarter of the UoA are
 Professors, one quarter are Readers or Senior Lecturers, one third are Lecturers or Senior
 Researchers and the remainder are Researchers or Postdoctoral Fellows.


 2.2 Developing and Supporting Staff Research
 Various mechanisms support the development of staff as researchers. On the workload model
 staff are allocated 40% of their time for research. New lecturers have a 25% teaching and
 administration reduction in workload in the first 1 to 2 years. Extra time is allocated for staff
 writing new lectures as opposed to updating existing ones. Staff also benefit from generous
 research leave provision, with colleagues eligible to apply for one semester after 5 semesters of
 service, or 1 year after 10 semesters. Allowances continue to accrue during parental leave and
 time bought out for grants. We make provision for some optional courses to be offered every
 second year to ensure that we can have several members of staff on sabbatical at once.
 Career development is supported by mentoring and Annual Review, and by internal and external
 training opportunities. Annual Review is conducted with a senior member of staff to provide
 recognition of achievements, and advice and support for career development. Newly appointed
 staff are mentored by a more experienced researcher who is not their line manager. Since 2014
 we have also introduced mentors for mid-career staff. The School Research Office runs ECR
 workshops (for example on developing a successful publication strategy and applying for post-
 doctoral funding). This guidance, alongside a rigorous and constructive internal review process,
 has enabled us to win 11 competitive postdoctoral fellowships. These include 4 from the British
 Academy (Chaudhry, Davis, Hunter, Panayotova), 4 from Leverhulme (Coombs, Davidson - who
 started as a Chrystal Macmillan Fellow in 2014, Hashemi, Liberatore), 1 ESRC (Wilks), 1 MSCA
 Individual Fellowship (Holbrook) and 1 Marie Skłodowska-Curie Research Fellow (Cheikh).
 Research staff are supported by a peer-support group (CResT), which is represented on the
 Research Committee, and organises regular meetings and activities. Career development
 support for all staff is also offered by UoE’s Institute for Academic Development (IAD), including
 training on research skills, building a research career, public engagement, and career coaching.
 All staff and PhD students can take Q-Step courses to strengthen their quantitative methods
 skills and several have attended each year. For example, 5 UoA members attended a recent
 course on the statistical data processing package R.
 Financial support for the development of research careers includes the Research Development
 Fund (RDF) for conference attendance and other staff research development expenses, through
 which staff can apply for up to £1,800 per staff member per annum, £2,000 for ECRs. Staff can
 use this for small pilot projects, or networking activities. For example, Viry used RDF funds to
 attend a conference in Lausanne in 2018 where he networked with European colleagues,
 leading to him becoming PI on a collaborative project analysing how adults’ spatial mobility skills
 and social networks moderate the influence of residential mobility on young Swiss couples
 (CHF150K from the University of Lausanne to UoE). Staff can receive up to £5,000 per annum
 via the Strategic Research Support Fund (SRSF) (recently adapted to mitigate COVID-19
 disruptions on ECRs). For example, Stanley used SRSF funding to employ an RA to assist in
 constructing the Whites Writing Whiteness digital databases allowing access to South Africa’s
 past (see ICS), significantly increasing their impact by adding photographic and text resources.
 Around £60K per year in RDF and SRSF funding has been awarded to UoA members since
 2014.

                                                                                             Page 10
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)

 2.3 Equality of opportunity
 We are deeply committed to embedding equality and diversity across all of our work. The UoA
 played a major role in SSPS’s achievement of an Athena Swan Bronze Award in 2017 (Holmes
 and Viry) with Holmes Acting Chair of the EDI Committee at the time, and responsible for
 following-up on the results of a health and wellbeing survey that complemented the Athena
 Swan actions and has informed School planning. The EDI Committee facilitates career
 development through supporting wellbeing, and a healthy work-life balance. Within this REF
 period it initiated working groups on gender culture, physical accessibility, trans/non-binary
 issues, harassment and bullying, and mental health, and held focus group discussions on PG
 student support, webpage content, women in academia and speed mentoring, black and ethnic
 minorities, and returning parents/carers. Innovations include: guidance on preferred pronouns,
 gender-neutral wheelchair-accessible toilets on each floor of SSPS’s main Chrystal Macmillan
 Building, baby-changing facilities and a secure, single-occupancy breastfeeding and/or
 expressing room with a dedicated milk storage fridge (for which SSPS was awarded an NHS
 Lothian Breastfeeding Friendly certificate in 2016).
 The wellbeing survey conducted in 2017 showed staff in sociology experiencing high levels of
 wellbeing (for example, averaging over 7.41 on a 10-point scale for scores measuring their
 sense of worthwhileness). Remarkable staff retention also indicates success in creating a
 supportive environment: apart from retirees, only 2 staff on open-ended contracts have left since
 2014.
 Diversification of the unit has occurred via a range of strategies, including actions related to the
 Athena Swan Bronze Award. Concerted efforts to attract women candidates have enabled
 twenty appointments that addressed the previous gender imbalance in the UoA: 40%
 representation of women in the UoA in 2014 has increased to 54%. Women colleagues are well
 spread across senior, mid and early career; 42% of Professors are women (35% in 2013).
 Women have also held prominent research leadership roles, for instance Jamieson as President
 of the BSA and co-director of Centre for Research on Families and Relationships (CRFR), Tait
 as Director of the Innogen Institute, Holmes as UoA REF coordinator, Haddow as impact leader
 and STIS research convener. McKie serves as Head of School, and Brownlie, Govinda, Moore
 and Riga have all had periods as sociology research PG convenors. In STIS, Lyall was head of
 subject from 2015-2017, and in 2017 won the Susan Manning Award for Best Mentor.
 Mazanderani has been PGA advisor and pathway convener for the Scottish Graduate School of
 Social Science. The School also encourages women academics (Grades 7 and 8) to apply for
 the Aurora leadership training programme, which offers University-linked places available each
 year for early and mid-career women to develop leadership skills. McCormick completed the
 programme in 2019-20 and was promoted to SL in 2020. Within the UoA these positive results in
 career development of women has also been facilitated by the considered allocation of annual
 reviewing across senior staff, allowing women in the UoA to benefit from advice from senior
 women. Women in the UoA are moving up the career ladder. Promotions within the UoA during
 the REF period have seen 3 women promoted to Grade 10 (Professor) and 9 women advance to
 Grade 9 (Senior Lecturer/Reader), at least 50% of promotions in each case. Two out of 3
 promotions to Senior Research Fellow have also been women.
 Although international staff recruitment has been strong (staff originate from 20 different
 countries), only 5 staff are from the Global South and non-white minorities are significantly
 underrepresented among our staff (approximately 8 self-identified BAME staff across the unit).
 The appointment of a Chair of Race and Ethnicity (Meer) with expertise in addressing such lack
 of diversity (for instance, via work with the British Sociological Association) is resulting in new


                                                                                              Page 11
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 initiatives, such as RACE.ED, a University-wide research and teaching hub for scholars of race
 and ethnicity, bringing new appointments in race and decolonial thought (Vadasaria, also Bento
 starting August 2020). Riga runs anti-racist teaching workshops. LGBTQ+ staff in the UoA can
 draw support from the University’s Staff Pride Network which was the Stonewall Scotland
 Network of the Year 2018. Good support is offered for staff with disabilities, health problems or
 caring responsibilities that impinge on their work. Adjustments have included the provision of
 personal assistants or standing desks. Researchers with accessibility challenges are provided
 support in setting up a home office that meets the specifications of an on-campus office.
 Experience of doing this enabled smooth transitions to working from home during the COVID-19
 pandemic. We encourage and support staff – including but not only those with caring
 responsibilities or health issues – who wish to move to more flexible working arrangements,
 and10 UoA members work flexibly. Promotions support is offered through workshops and
 internal review to help staff strengthen their applications and set appropriate career goals.
 Support from these initiatives has, for example, helped Haggett be promoted to Senior Lecturer
 while working part-time.
 Equality, diversity and inclusion (EDI) have been central to the construction of our REF
 submission, in line with the University’s Code of Practice, and building on our inclusive 2014
 submission (100% of eligible staff submitted). The reviewing of publications was completed in a
 fair and rigorous manner, aided by unconscious bias and EDI training. Special circumstances
 that had impacted on researchers’ production of outputs were taken into account. The
 provisional outputs list was assessed by an independent EDI panel to minimise biases shaping
 the selection of outputs. The review confirmed that the selected output list contains a wide range
 of pieces from researchers across area, career stage, and gender (other protected
 characteristics are reported voluntarily thus figures are unreliable). 78% of submitted staff have
 two or more publications selected. Most of those with one publication are ECRs or had
 substantial periods working part-time. Just over half of the outputs in the final selection were
 authored or co-authored by women in the UoA, and all the ICSs are led by or involve women
 researchers. The panel were happy with the proposed spread of outputs selected, and satisfied
 that the review process was rigorous and fair, and had carefully considered implications for E&D.


 2.4 Research students
 Doctoral researchers are an important part of our research culture, international in make-up,
 dedicated and often path-breaking in their research. We have awarded 145.96 PhDs, an
 average of 20.85 per year over the assessment period (11.9 per year in REF2014). This
 increase compared to 2014 has been possible partly due to our expansion and the attraction of
 supervisors with expertise in our new research areas. We have also invested in new support for
 PhD students, including by increasing sociology post-graduate convenor roles from 2 to 3, and
 improving student progress review processes. Students have been funded by the ESRC,
 Scottish Graduate School for Arts and Humanities AHRC Creative Economy Studentships,
 AHRC Collaborative Doctoral Awards, the CONACYT programme, Chinese Government
 scholarships, Commonwealth Doctoral Scholarships, Leverhulme Doctoral Fellowships, Taiwan
 state awards, and the Wellcome Trust. Alongside this, 8 sociology/STIS students have had
 places funded through UoE sources including the Alice Brown and Chrystal Macmillan PhD
 studentships.
 The main vehicles of our postgraduate research training are the Scottish Graduate School of
 Social Science (SGSSS, of which Crow was Director from 2013-2016) and SSPS’s recently
 formed Research Training Centre (RTC). The SGSSS includes the ESRC’s Doctoral Training
 Partnership in Scotland, incorporating 6 Scottish HEIs, and consolidating the School’s long-

                                                                                           Page 12
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 standing interdisciplinary research training expertise. These arrangements foster a postgraduate
 community beyond subject areas and HEI boundaries, including through the SGSSS Summer
 School courses (with major UoA staff input), which promote cohort-building beyond narrow
 disciplinary lines. All students are offered non-academic work experience, with many students
 taking up 3-month internships with partners such as the Scottish Government. In addition, our
 students receive advanced training through SGSSS, such as that provided by UoA members,
 including workshops on visual methods and augmented reality. We have restructured our
 research training courses to make them more flexible, and students can take fundamental
 research skills and design courses, alongside innovative courses run by members of the UoA
 such as Understanding Data Visualization (Campagnolo), Researching Digital Life (Gregory and
 Orton-Johnson), and Research Problems in Drugs and Crime Online (Bancroft). Students can
 also engage with theoretical debates via Contemporary Social Theory (Stanley) and Sociological
 Theory for Social Research (Van Gunten), a particularly beneficial course for PGs without a
 sociology background.
 Our robust policies and processes aid the progress of PhD students. Policies ensure that all
 doctoral researchers have at least 2 supervisors. Supervisor training includes teaming early-
 career staff with experienced supervisors, and ECRs attend seminars on best practice in
 supervision. All supervisors are required to attend regular updating sessions to ensure that they
 are familiar with ESRC training guidelines and other relevant developments. Revised procedures
 ensure that students’ work is developing appropriately. At the end of the first year, a board
 including their supervisors and 2 other staff assesses whether students can progress to doctoral
 status based on submission of an extended proposal. From second year onwards an improved
 online student annual review process requires students to record their progress, supervision and
 career development activities across the year, supervisors then offering their reflections and
 suggestions for training and development. This report is checked by the subject area’s on-
 course PG advisor. In addition, students are required to present at our annual postgraduate
 conference.
 Sociology support for PGRs has also been improved by adding a student experience-focused
 role to our existing team dealing with admissions and on-course students. Likewise, the
 Graduate School Office has been reorganised to better meet the different needs of PG research
 and PG taught students.
 Career development opportunities are provided to PhD students in a variety of ways including:
     Research experience as RAs, co-authors and editorial assistants (for example on the 8
        journals we edit). For example, PhD students were RAs on Riga’s BA grant project and
        co-authored publications from it; Bancroft (2014) undertook research with students
        resulting in a joint article in Sociological Research Online.
     Paid tutoring with staff on our research-led courses, enabling them to develop experience
        in those areas of expertise as well as in general sociology. Tutors are supported by:
        regulation of hours to prevent over-load, workshops to develop their teaching skills,
        annual observations by colleagues and feedback from this and from student evaluations.
     Presenting papers at professional conferences, with the costs met from the PhD
        Research Support Fund (up to £500 per annum).
     Special Project Grants: PGR students can also apply for funds to organise conferences,
        workshops, writing retreats, networking, and research and technology training. This
        funded, for example, a series of PGR-led writing retreats.
     Popular sociology-specific ‘What’s next?’ workshops to help with career development
        aims, CV building and preparation for making job applications. During the COVID-19
        lockdown we introduced a virtual networking initiative called ‘I’ll meet you at the tea

                                                                                          Page 13
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
        break’ (blogs.ed.ac.uk/ed-decameron/ill-meet-you-at-the-tea-break/). Eight ‘tea breaks’
        took place between April and July 2020 with scholars elsewhere in the UK, Australia and
        New Zealand.
 The School’s Graduate School Student Development Office offers transferrable skills such as
 presentation and interview skills, particularly targeted at first year research students. Training
 tailored to different stages includes introductory academic writing courses for early PGR
 students; and CVs and cover letters, advanced writing, peer review, publishing, and postdoctoral
 fellowship application techniques for later stage PhDs. Online professional development
 workshops are accessible to students remotely. The Edinburgh Award and the Professional
 Development Certificate reward PGR students for undertaking extracurricular community and
 public engagement, digital content creation, and coaching. The IAD and SGSSS support PGR
 students via courses on research planning, communication and IT skills, professional
 development, and new online courses on academic writing and research data management.
 Building community is a priority, promoted through activities that bring staff and PGRs together.
 One example is involvement of present and past PGRs as curators and contributors to our blog
 responding to COVID-19 (blogs.ed.ac.uk/ed-decameron/). Supported by staff, students also
 founded a refugee-focused NGO, LIVED, whose outputs include a film of life in Zaatari refugee
 camp. Also important has been our student-organised annual PG conference New Directions,
 offering all students the opportunity to present and receive feedback in a supportive
 environment. Other PGR-led conferences have included the 2018 high-profile event on the
 History of Sociology in Britain, organised by Panayotova (now a PDF), and PGR students
 assisted in organising other Edinburgh-based conferences such as the joint BSA/ESA Emotions
 Network conference (2018) and the ASEN conference (2019). Since 2017, students and staff
 have discussed work in progress in the ‘Theorising Our Work’ reading group. One success was
 now graduated PhD student Zelinsky presenting, then using the extensive feedback to rework a
 paper that appeared in the European Journal of Social Theory. School level events include the
 Graduate School [Robert] Burns Supper every January, and communications are facilitated by
 the Graduate School student newsletter. Postgraduate representatives attend all Sociology and
 STIS staff meetings.
 The effectiveness of our postgraduate training and supervision is apparent in the success of our
 students in gaining nominations and prizes for their work, and taking on postdoctoral fellowships,
 grants, and academic positions. Former PGR students have won prizes for books based on their
 PhDs. For example, in 2016 Maddie Breeze’s Seriousness and Women's Roller Derby: Gender,
 Organization, and Ambivalence won the highly competitive BSA Philip Abrams Memorial Prize
 for best first monograph, Sam Friedman’s Comedy and Distinction being shortlisted for the prize
 in 2015. Amy Chandler's Self-Injury, Medicine and Society: Authentic Bodies won the 2018
 Foundation for Sociology of Health and Illness book prize. Jennifer Fleetwood's Drug Mules:
 Women in the International Cocaine Trade was winner of the British Society of Criminology Book
 Prize, 2015. Matjaz Vidmar won the prize for Emerging Space Leaders, International
 Astronautical Federation, 2017. William Kerr’s article 'Descent of Nations: Social Evolutionary
 Theory, Modernism and Ethnosymbolism' won the 2019 Anthony D. Smith Prize.
 Sociology and STIS PhDs have won 7 competitive postdoctoral fellowships and 14 other
 postdoctoral grants since 2014. And many of our former doctoral researchers have launched
 successful academic careers, including at: Bath Spa (Y. Zhu), California State University (E.
 Hughes), Edinburgh (A. Chandler, D. Cetra, G. Krasniqi, E. Ribe), Emory University (K.
 DeDominicis), Glasgow Caledonian (J. Foley, M. Laidlaw), Houston State University (J. Zimpfer),
 Imperial College (O. Murray), Napier University (F. McQueen), Queen Margaret University (A.
 Dakessian), Strathclyde University (M. Breeze), Queens University, Belfast (C. Murtagh),

                                                                                           Page 14
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Swansea University (C. Bouzanis), University of the West of Scotland (C. Maclean), Linköping
 (S. Bea), National Chengchi University (Chun-Ming Huang).
 Students have also won secondments to government departments during their doctoral studies
 (M. Kattirtzi, M. Laidlaw, T. Squirrell,) and gone on to a range of government positions, including
 in the Scottish Government’s Heat Planning and Delivery unit (D. Hawkey), as well as policy
 roles in the UK, Canada and Ireland.
 In line with our commitment to globalising and decolonising sociology, in 2018 we initiated a
 University ‘remote’ visiting PhD student scheme, to support PhD students persecuted in Turkey
 as ‘academics for peace’ (signatories of a 2016 peace petition demanding an end to the
 bombing of Kurdish regions by the government). The scheme allows the selected PhD students
 free access to Library e-resources, remote supervision by staff and supported mentoring by
 Edinburgh-based PhD students. Six students have benefitted from the scheme so far.

 Section 3: Income, infrastructure and facilities
 3.1 Research income
 The UoA has received £17.5M in grant income since 2014, an increase of almost £6M compared
 to the last REF. One of the goals of this REF period has been to broaden the spread of funding
 across staff, with researchers from all career stages and research fields being supported to seek
 funding where appropriate. This resulted in over 80 external grants spread across 40 staff, with
 substantial awards won by ECRs (such as our 11 postdoctoral fellows), mid-career (Bancroft,
 Brownlie, Bruce, Garcia-Sancho, Haddow) as well as senior staff (Calvert, MacKenzie, Tait,
 Webb, Williams). We have had a 38% success rate on grant applications submitted since 2016
 (when new monitoring systems made that calculation possible).
 Large grants have enabled us to research financial innovations, histories of science, and race
 including:
      MacKenzie’s ERC FP7 Advanced grant (£1.5M 2012-2018) in the sociology of finance;
      Garcia-Sancho’s ERC H2020 for research into ‘Medical Translation in the History of
         Modern Genomics’ (£1.1M 2016-21);
      Calvert and Schyfter’s ERC FP7 Consolidator grant ‘ENLIFE’, exploring synthetic biology
         and the role of the social sciences within the field (£1.1M 2014-2020);
      Meer’s Royal Society of Edinburgh Fellowship (£270K 2017-20) and Stanley’s ESRC
         Professorial Fellowship (£380K 2013-2015).
 Interdisciplinary work on methodology and scientific innovation has been furthered through our
 substantial success in funding bids for interdisciplinary centres, and collaboration with other
 HEIs. Examples include:
      AQMeN centre funding which rolled out data science training to business and industry
         (ESRC £296K 2017-19, Gayle, MacInnes PIs);
      Administrative Data Research Centre Scotland (ESRC £120K 2013-18). Gayle was
         Deputy Director;
      ESRC Centre for Population Change Phase II (£5M 2014-19, of which £178K to UoE
         MacInnes PI, Gayle Co-I of the Scottish Consortium);
      NCRM (£7.7M 2014-25, of which £918K to UoE, Gayle and Orton-Johnson Co-Is);
      The Centre for Biomedicine, Self and Society (Wellcome Trust 20% of £1.2M 2017-2022,
         Haddow was Co-PI, Sturdy is Co-Director).




                                                                                             Page 15
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
       Williams’s Department of Health funding for ‘Evaluation of Global Digital Exemplars’
        (£1.1M 2017-2021), working with NHS England, the NHS Digital Academy, and NHS
        Trusts to advance the ‘Paperless 2020’ agenda;
       Tait’s funding for synthetic biology research (BBSRC £500K 2014-21 for the Edinburgh
        Mammalian Synthetic Biology Research Centre) leading to influential contributions to
        regulatory policy (see ICS);
       Webb’s ongoing funded work on energy demand, with over £4.5M from EPSRC, Energy
        Technologies Institute and other sources since 2013;
       Meer’s ‘GLIMER’ project to study local integration of migrants in Scotland (ESRC £475K
        2017-2021);
       Bruce and Tait’s ESRC-funded study of Diagnostic Innovation and Livestock (DIAL)
        (£580K);
       Woodman’s Co-I role in the ESRC Bright Futures project tracking East Asian students’
        mobilities, in collaboration with the Universities of Essex, Bielefeld and Tsinghua (ESRC
        £46K to Edinburgh).
 The ESRC, UKRI and the EU provide the majority of our research income. However, we have
 successfully achieved our 2014 aim of diversifying our sources of funding, securing more grants
 of higher value from a wider range of funders including Energy Technologies Institute, the
 National Environment Research Council, ClimateXChange and UK-India Education and
 Research Initiative (UKIERI). The average successful bid value was £163K in 2016-17 and
 £224K by 2018-19.


 3.2 Support for research grants
 Our success in winning external research funding has been underpinned by outstanding
 professional support from the School Research Office (serving 4 UoAs), expanded as a strategic
 aim we identified in REF2014 (from 6.8 FTE in REF2014 to 17.95 FTE in REF2021). This
 expansion has enabled the Research Office to support increasingly complex applications,
 reporting, ethical and data management requirements, KEI and post-award delivery. It provides
 information on funding opportunities, offers bespoke briefings, and prepares costings and
 administrative sections of applications. The School sets internal application deadlines to provide
 support and feedback for applications to ESRC and other high demand schemes, including
 managing application numbers where necessary. An indicator of the success of these measures
 is our 51% increase in grant income. School Research Office support is complemented by
 specialised services from the University’s Edinburgh Research Office, which provides support
 through horizon-scanning and briefings on key funders and schemes, and guidance on complex
 bids.
 Staff applying for grants also benefit from mentoring and internal peer review from previous
 grant holders. Further support is provided through regular research days run by Sociology and
 STIS, which allow staff to discover shared interests, encourage collaboration, and provide
 support on matters such as developing impact. Examples of successful collaborations that
 began at research days include Riga and Holmes’s BA funded project and the bids to edit
 leading journals.
 Staff can access a range of schemes to fund pilot projects and activities to develop grant
 applications. The School’s Strategic Research and Support Fund (SRSF) provides seed funding
 grants through an accessible light-touch process (with outcomes communicated within 48
 hours). Staff can apply for up to £2,000 per annum to support funding bids, networking or the
 writing of publications; those preparing bids for large consortium-based grants can apply for up

                                                                                            Page 16
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 to £5,000 per year. Garcia-Sancho’s ERC grant is one example of successful use of these
 funds, as an SRSF grant funded his travel to do application-enhancing pilot archival research.
 Further support is provided through the Global Challenges Scottish Funding Council grant, which
 awarded Bancroft and colleagues £23K to assess the development of digital platforms to support
 precarious workers in the informal economy in South Africa.


 3.3 Support for impact
 The 11.15 FTE expansion of the Research Office has included investment in professional
 support for impact. During the REF period, at least 2.5FTE has been specifically devoted to
 impact-related roles by professional staff, including a School Knowledge Exchange and Impact
 Manager, supported by a full-time Impact Research Fellow dedicated to our UoA. Support
 includes workshops, assistance in developing impact pathways, and facilitating the gathering of
 evidence of impact. In addition, an Events Officer helps academic staff plan and deliver a range
 of events, including successful conferences such as the ASEN conference in 2019.
 Impact is also enhanced by the activities of our vibrant centres and institutes, many of which
 have KEI woven into their missions. The EFI organises and supports collaborations between
 industry, government and communities that aim at solving social problems. For example, EFI
 has funded a project by the Living Lab (led by Stewart) to use event and transport datasets to
 understand and relieve festival-related traffic congestion, in collaboration with the University’s
 supercomputing centre, the Edinburgh magazine the List, and Transport for Edinburgh. The
 Innogen Institute (Tait Director, Banda and Huzair Co-Directors) supports impact by providing
 impartial, non-partisan, evidence-based advice to public, private and social sector stakeholders
 and by enhancing the skills of participants engaging with the innovation process. These activities
 have influenced policy on Responsible Research and Innovation (see ICS). Smaller centres
 such as the Centre for Research on Families and Relationships (Jamieson and Davidson are
 Co-Directors) also support impact, for example by developing relationships with partners,
 offering events and training (approximately 50% of attendees are from government or third
 sector) and publishing briefings for stakeholders. For example, the Scottish Book Trust
 commissioned CRFR to evaluate their early years reading programme, providing evidence for
 future improvements.
 Staff also have access to generous funding for KEI, and have been awarded £120K in grants
 from the University’s grants for Knowledge Exchange and Impact (up to £2K per grant) and the
 ESRC Impact Acceleration Grant (up to £20K). Brownlie, for example, used our School’s impact
 consolidation funding to prepare the ground for an ESRC Impact Accelerator Grant awarded for
 ‘The Kindness Sessions’, linking academics with policy makers (see ICS). Banda received a
 University Global Impact Accelerator Grant (£31K) for work to provide countries with evidence to
 formulate their Neglected Tropical Disease strategies.


 3.4 Infrastructure and facilities
 As we have grown, we have invested in infrastructure and facilities to improve our research
 capacities. The Chrystal Macmillan Building (CMB) is the main home of the Sociology subject
 area, benefitting from updates such as Ground café installed in 2017 at a cost of ~£1.25M. This
 has vastly improved interaction between researchers at all levels and promotes our inclusive
 research culture. Ground is used for research-related and community-building events such as
 conference dinners, a staff ‘Garden Party’ and exhibitions, including a 2019 exhibition on Black
 graduates of the University, researched by PGRs across the School. CMB lifts have been
 replaced to allow wheelchair users to evacuate the building safely. Meanwhile, STIS are housed


                                                                                           Page 17
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 in recently refurbished listed buildings 10 minutes’ walk away, adjacent to Edinburgh Centre for
 Carbon Innovation.
 As the School has grown, major investment has been made in a £1.75M restoration of Georgian
 houses into a centre for our PhD students (opened 2019), across George Square from CMB
 (see pictures below).




 A student competition resulted in naming the building after anti-apartheid activist Dr Kesaveloo
 Goonam, who attended the University’s medical school 1928-36. PhD students also decided on
 the allocation of desk space. The latest high connectivity speed networking has been installed.
 Kitchens and back gardens facilitate interaction between doctoral students and staff.
 Data management is supported by detailed policies, online resources and courses. McCormick
 is Deputy Director of Research: Data and Open Research. The University has invested £1.1M in
 infrastructure for a data safe-haven providing security to ISO standards. Our staff are well-
 provided with high specification technical devices, and all PhD students are offered a laptop.
 High-performance computing is available for those who need it, such as our quantitative
 specialists running advanced statistical software.
 Edinburgh University Library and the National Library of Scotland are world-class research
 libraries that are within a few hundred metres of our offices. The A-listed Basil Spence-designed
 University Library holds in excess of 2M printed volumes and provides access to almost 1.4M e-
 books, 185K e-journals, 850 licensed databases and over 60km of special collections materials.
 The National Library, founded in 1689 as the Library of the Faculty of Advocates, has had legal



                                                                                           Page 18
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 deposit status since the 1710 Copyright Act, permitting the accumulation of an almost unrivalled
 collection of 15M printed items.
 We have created new spaces for knowledge exchange: Ground Café and the Violet Laidlaw
 (former secretary to the sociology department) Room in CMB are popular venues for events with
 audiences within and beyond academia.


 4. Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society
 4.1 Sociology and interdisciplinary research
 The UoA is committed to promoting the importance of sociological approaches in addressing the
 social challenges of climate change, migration and diversity, nationalism, digital, scientific and
 financial innovations and transformations in intimacy and cultural life. It fulfils this commitment
 through research and through impactful activities within and beyond academia.
 Our promotion of interdisciplinary research, with particular strength in connecting the social and
 natural sciences, is furthered through collaborative research. As well as path-breaking and
 impactful studies linked with biomedicine, energy, and digital and data studies, members of the
 UoA direct or co-direct many of the centres and institutes that support interdisciplinary research
 such as the Centre for Research on Families and Relationships (CRFR) (Jamieson and
 Davidson), Institute for the Study of Science, Technology and Innovation (ISSTI) (Williams),
 Innogen (Mittra and Tait), Institute for Advanced Studies in the Humanities (Yearley), Centre of
 Canadian Studies (Kennedy), and Centre for South Asian Studies (Gorringe). Research
 connected to Innogen has included Tait and Mittra’s ESRC research on regenerative medicine,
 as well as a project exploring Edinburgh’s role in the emergence of animal biotechnology
 through a history of Dolly, the first cloned sheep (Garcia-Sancho). ISSTI projects have included
 Williams’s work on eprescribing and research on Integrating Technical and Social Aspects of
 Fire Safety Engineering Expertise (MacKenzie, Williams, Yearley). Projects in the Centre for
 South Asian Studies include the North-South cross-disciplinary feminist research and pedagogic
 collaboration over two years between the University of Edinburgh and Ambedkar University
 Delhi, India, led by Govinda (UKIERI). We also have a strong presence in the EFI (Coombs,
 Gregory, MacKenzie, McFall, McKie, Stewart, Webb). Large-scale collaborations include those
 with Medicine, such as Williams’s ‘Evaluation of Global Digital Exemplars’, Engineering (for
 instance Tait Co-I on ‘Implantable Microsystems for Personalised Anti-Cancer Therapy’), and
 centres such as the Global Academy of Agriculture and Food Security (Tait). The UoA is also
 home to interdisciplinary research networks, such as the Digital Economy network and the
 Researching Latin America network, running workshops and seminars.


 4.2 Research collaborations with private, public and NGO sectors
 In addition to the collaborations described in the impact case studies, academics at all career
 stages have engaged with a wide range of charitable, industry, scientific and cultural
 organisations. Examples include: Harm Reduction International (Bancroft); Samaritans UK
 (Brownlie’s work for them on trust and empathy online); Scottish Book Trust (Davidson’s project
 on their early years Bookbug programme); UK Council for International Student Affairs
 (Woodman’s Bright Futures project on student migration); Care Opinion (Mazanderani);
 Positively UK HIV charity and peer-support organisation (Mazanderani); Shift.ms and CCSVI
 Australia [multiple sclerosis charity and activist group] (Mazanderani); Royal Society of
 Edinburgh and Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (Vermeulen); three Beirut based
 humanitarian organisations working with refugees [details confidential] (Riga, Holmes). The latter

                                                                                             Page 19
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
                                        included creating a mural with the young refugees,
                                        expressing what they wanted to say to ‘Beirut’ (in white in
                                        the photograph on the left); Syngenta (Mittra, Tait); The
                                        Secret Experiment [video games company] (Prior); RAFT
                                        solutions [for sustainable livestock; Floodplain Meadows
                                        Partnership production] (Bruce); Cool Farm Alliance
                                        Industry group; Food and Drink Federation Scotland
                                        (Darmon); CICERO – Norway’s Centre for International
                                        Climate Research (Jenkins’s INCLUsive Decarbonization
                                        and Energy transition project); European Bioinformatics
                                        Institute (Garcia-Sancho); Edinburgh Science Festival,
                                        Edinburgh International Festival; Edinburgh Film Festival
                                        (Haddow, Vermeulen); Kayd Somali Arts and Culture
                                        (Liberatore); Edinburgh Fringe Festival (10 UoA members
                                        have contributed to the Cabaret of Dangerous Ideas).


 Collaborations with Government, Political and Regulatory organistions include: British
 Standards Institution (Tait); Better Regulation Executive (Tait); Scottish Government in relation
 to National Performance Framework (Brownlie); All-Party Parliamentary Group for International
 Students (Woodman through her project on students moving to study); Scotland’s Rural College
 (Bruce; DEFRA); ClimateXChange (Bolton, Webb; Winskel); OFGEM (Bolton); United Nations
 Industrial Development Organisation (Banda); New Partnership for Africa's Development
 (Banda); NHS England and NHS Digital (Williams); Swiss Federal Department of Defence, Civil
 Protection and Sport (Viry); Local Energy Scotland (Haggett); Marine Scotland (Haggett);
 Edinburgh City Council (Stewart, Vermeulen); Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (Liberation Panther
 Party), and the Circle of Intellectual Dalit Actors (Gorringe). Webb co-directs the UK Energy
 Research Centre, is a member of the Infrastructure Commission for Scotland and adviser to the
 UK Government Industrial Strategy Challenge: Prospering from the Energy Revolution
 Programme.


 4.3 National and international research collaborations
 Our aim to globalise and decolonise our sociological contribution is pursued through
 collaborations with overseas research leaders in our specialisms. UoA members have held at
 least 20 international visiting positions since 2014, including at Cornell University; University of
 Melbourne; Tata Institute of Fundamental Research in Mumbai; University of Tokyo of the Arts;
 and University of the Free State, South Africa. Substantial forms of collaboration (for example,
 formal memoranda of understanding; extended visits; exchange of staff; joint research; funding
 applications; co-authorship; co-editorship; academic event co-organisation) link the UoA to 39
 UK universities, and 79 overseas research institutes and universities from Addis Ababa to
 Zhejiang.
 Examples of a particularly successful international collaboration resulting from our strategic
 prioritisation of quantitative methods is Viry’s research with a team who secured Swiss
 Government funding for a large survey of a national cohort of young men (Swiss Federal
 Department of Defence, Civil Protection and Sport - DDPS £1.2M, about 50,000 participants).
 Important as part of our decolonising agenda was the aforementioned UKIERI funded project led
 by Govinda. Along with the Nitrogen Hub research mentioned, this marks Edinburgh’s ongoing



                                                                                               Page 20
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 engagement with India’s shift from being a ‘research site’ for social scientists to becoming an
 important collaborator and funder of social science.


 4.4 Esteem Indicators
 Many colleagues’ publications have won or been shortlisted for prestigious prizes including:
 winning the LSE Monographs in Social Anthropology/Bloomsbury First Book Prize (Liberatore
 2016); Singer Prize Special Commendation, post-graduate and early career essay competition,
 British Society for the History of Science (Barany 2014); shortlisting for the BSA Thinking
 Allowed prize for ethnography (Gorringe, 2018); Special Mention, Prize for Young Scholars,
 International Union for the History and Philosophy of Science and Technology (Barany 2017);
 winning the Farabi International Award 2018 and shortlisting for the BSA Philip Abrams
 Memorial Prize (Hashemi). Stanley was awarded the 2015/2016 Andrew Mellon Fellowship in
 Digital Humanities at the National Humanities Research Center, North Carolina, USA. CRFR
 Research Associate Dr Sarah Nelson was awarded an OBE in 2020 for her longstanding work
 on behalf of survivors of childhood sexual abuse. In 2018 MacKenzie was awarded a medal by
 the Society for Progress to recognise his work showing how finance markets and products are
 produced by financial models. Webb received an MBE in 2020 for her services to energy
 transition in the UK.
 Staff have given over 30 high-profile keynote or plenary talks at major international conferences,
 including Calvert at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2015, Davos, Switzerland; Meer
 at ESA, Manchester 2019; Orton-Johnson at Economic Regeneration in Europe conference
 Dubrovnik, 2018. Between 2014 and 2020, 48 different staff have provided 268 media releases
 relating to their expertise.


 4.5 Agenda-setting research leadership
 UoA members also demonstrate leadership by editing or co-editing 8 major journals in our areas
 of expertise, including 5 hosted at Edinburgh: Cultural Sociology (one of four BSA-affiliated
 journals), brought to UoE in 2016 for 5 years, was edited by Prior and Thumala (and previously
 Darmon and McCormick); Jamieson brought Families, Relationships and Societies to Edinburgh
 and has been chief editor since 2017; Meer is Chief Editor and Woodman and Krasniqi
 Associate Editors on Identities; Rosie is Chief Editor and Bond is Associate Editor of Scottish
 Affairs; and Coombs is Founding Editor of Finance and Society. Holmes is Founding Co-Chief
 Editor for Emotions and Society; McFall co-founded and co-edits Journal of Cultural Economy
 and McCormick is Associate Editor for American Journal of Cultural Sociology. Brownlie and
 Holmes exercised intellectual leadership by reviving and convening the BSA Emotions study
 group (2015-2019), were founding editors of the Routledge book series on Studies in the
 Sociology of Emotions, and hosted a joint BSA/ESA Sociology of Emotions Conference (2018).
 Eleven members of the UoA have held editorial (chief, co- or associate) roles on journals, and
 seven have edited book series. Since 2014 we have held 37 editorial board positions, including
 for: Civic Sociology; Contemporary Voice of Dalit; Ethnic and Racial Studies; Information
 Communication and Society; Nations and Nationalism; Science and Technology Studies;
 Scottish Affairs; Social Inclusion; Sociological Theory; Sociology.
 Research events within the UoA comprise both smaller internal intellectual and community-
 building talks, and larger outward-facing events. Important in the latter category were events
 celebrating the 50 year anniversaries of Sociology and of Science Studies at UoE. The 2014
 conference Edinburgh Sociology: 50 Years of Engaging the Contemporary was the keystone
 event in year-long festivities. It was a homecoming of great intellectual and emotional meaning,

                                                                                            Page 21
Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 with packed-out attendance by sociologists from across the UK and beyond. Speakers included
 John Brewer, Brendan O’Leary, Saskia Sassen, Gita Sen and Dorothy Smith, as well as past
 staff and students of the department. The celebrations of 50 Years of Science Studies at the
 University brought together many key figures from the history of STIS at Edinburgh and around
 the world, and included public lectures by Helga Nowotny and Bruno Latour. We have also
 organized events about the development of sociology in the UK, such as the 2018 conference
 on the History of Sociology in Britain (80 attending), which included speakers such as John
 Goldthorpe and Jennifer Platt.
 More regular events include weekly Sociology or STIS seminars, with invited speakers from
 many nations. General seminars are held within normal working hours to facilitate attendance by
 those with childcare commitments. Specialist seminars run by UoA members are also regularly
 held, for example the Latin America research seminar series, the Centre for South Asian Studies
 Seminar and the Centre for Research on Families and Relationships Seminar Series. Public
 lectures included a visit from Virginia Eubanks (author of Automating Inequality) in 2019 and
 high profile events such as the annual Goffman Lecture, which celebrates Erving Goffman’s
 connection to the University of Edinburgh. It was delivered in recent years by Jeffery Alexander,
 Howard Becker, Michelle Lamont, and Sylvia Walby, amongst others. Theda Skocpol had to
 postpone due to COVID-19.
 We have also hosted agenda-setting events in our areas of strength, including the ESA/BSA
 Emotions Networks Joint Conference in August 2018 (75 attending), the Futures of Finance and
 Society conference 2018 (200 attending), and the 2019 ASEN Annual Conferences (130
 attending). Darmon organised an international conference on Weber/Simmel antagonisms in
 December 2015 resulting in a special issue in Classical Sociology.
 Eighteen staff in the UoA were members of 26 conference organising/scientific committees
 between 2014 and 2020. These include Calvert being a member of the Academic Committee for
 the International Symposium Quite Frankly: It's a Monster Conference, celebrating 200 years
 since the publication of Mary Shelley’s Frankenstein, in 2018; Haggett’s organisation of 'Local
 energy systems in the UK’, held at the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Innovation, 2016; and
 Kemp’s organisation of the Theory Stream for the BSA Annual Conferences 2014-2017.
 As a marker of our intellectual leadership in our areas of research strength, UoA members or
 retired members have held key positions in national associations. For example, Jamieson was
 President of the BSA 2014-2017, Meer and McKie serving as trustees (2016-2019). P. Jeffery
 (retired 2016) was President of the British Association of South Asian Studies (2014-2020).
 Hearn was elected President of ASEN in 2019. Stanley was the 2020 recipient of the BSA’s
 Distinguished Service to British Sociology Award.




                                                                                           Page 22
