Unit-level environment template (REF5b)
 Institution: Bath Spa University
 Unit of assessment: UoA 32 Art and Design: History, Practice and Theory
 Section 1. Unit context and structure, research and impact strategy

 Unit Context
 The period since REF2014 has seen unprecedented investment in Art and Design at Bath Spa
 University, with the opening of a new GBP32 million specifically-designed campus for the
 subjects. The development of the Locksbrook Campus, an anchor point in the regional creative
 industries, is testimony to the University’s support for the Unit. Research has been prioritised in
 the period under review, resulting in significant growth in the number of staff submitted to REF -
 up 50% since 2014. Doctoral student numbers have increased, as has grant capture. The last
 seven years have been the most significant in the long history of art and design in Bath and the
 Unit is well-placed to gear up on its significant 2014-21 achievement in the next REF period.
 The Unit submission comprises 63 largely practice-based outputs in a range of disciplines. Art
 includes painting, photography, applied arts, (ceramics), artists’ books, curatorial projects, live
 art and performance, mixed media textiles, installation, and moving image. The design
 disciplines are largely aligned with fine art and include textiles and various forms of graphic and
 visual communication. A growing number of staff are engaged in textual, historical and critical
 studies and much of the practice-based work is supported by theoretical study in the form of
 journal articles and catalogue essays.
 In addition to the investment in a new building dedicated to Art and Design a University wide
 academic restructure, in 2019, created two separate schools which prompted a thorough
 review of the management and resourcing of research activities as set out below.
 Unit Structure
 The Unit’s submission has grown considerably since 2014 (from 14.17 to 25.4 FTE; from 24
 people to 35 people), and includes a broader range of disciplines. Much of the work submitted
 can be described in four established thematic strands; through curatorial practice, disruptive
 forms of illustration, the role of contemporary painting and materials and making. Within these
 areas are a series of research groups, associations of staff working on common and related
 themes, bringing together established researchers with those setting out. PGR students and
 other interested staff are often included. There are also a series of more recently formed
 clusters reflecting emerging research strengths as well as staff who are working
 independently.
 The established thematic strands are:
        Curatorial Practice makes up a substantial part of the submission, with a research
         group in place since 2016, led by senior academic and leader in the subject Professor
         Mike Tooby. Projects are dealing with the potential application of participation, co-
         curation and new collaborative methodologies (Dutton, Harrison, Luzar, Parry, Turk,
         [Conor] Wilson). A central shared aim is to discover whether participatory practices can
         generate change and empower individuals normally excluded from creative and cultural
         projects, and enable participants to be genuine agents of change (See Impact Case
         Study: The impact of Participatory Curating Practices UoA32-2 PCP)
        Disruptive illustration exploring new forms of illustration, through drawing and
         photography makes up a second substantial part of the submission. Staff are working
         with different forms of illustration including reimagining the political cartoon with
         photographic collage (Williamson), photographing cultural visits (Turk) and the
         communication potential of visual journalism (Vyner). Photography is used in different
         ways; as a record of cultural interface between object and discourse (Southall, Curtis);
         to consider the relationship between volatile seismic geology and the human-cultural
         landscape (Vaughan) and to splinter the relationship between words and images
         (Wood) (See ICS: Reportage Illustration UoA32-3 RIL)

Page 1
        The role of painting includes projects investigating a range of new methods through
         the medium of painting in the broadest sense. They ask questions about painting’s
         boundaries as representation of nature (Snell) or of political doctrine (Medjesi-Jones).
         Camilla Wilson unveils something hidden behind layers of paintwork and Dexter
         Dalwood collages quotations from the history of art and cultural iconography
         increasingly mediating historical references through the painting process.
        Materials and Making projects look at the role of materials processing at the boundary
         between authorship and production often through exposing studio practice in a gallery
         or other public setting. The unpredictability of certain materials is celebrated in
         collaboration with skilled fabricators and manufacturers (Harrison) and machines are
         accorded the creative role of ‘artist-maker’ (Kidd). Central to the work is a questioning
         of the effect of authorship on our reception and understanding (Dunseath). (See ICS:
         Authorship and Materials UoA32-1 EWO)
        Cross disciplinary projects include working in collaboration with other UoAs and the
         three university-wide strategic, interdisciplinary research centres on a range of different
         subjects:
        Creative Pedagogy connects with staff in the UoA 23 Education and with the
         University’s strategic research centre for Transcultural Creativity and Education bringing
         together projects exploring diverse pedagogies emerging from art processes,
         subjectivities and methodologies (Kidd). Staff in the Unit also received funding from
         HEFCE in 2017 for an ongoing project to investigate the impact of using new
         technologies, such as iPads, in design education. A project that explores 'expanded
         drawing education' (Luzar, Hay in Education) in both FE and HE uses experimental
         approaches to creative forms of learning through drawing.
        The university-wide Making Books Research Centre hosted by the School of
         Humanities, explores the concept of the book as both a created artefact and object of
         study from an interdisciplinary perspective. Little, co-director, Bonnell and Tom
         Sowden at University of the West of England are developing an artists’ book cluster.
 Research Clusters are developing which reflect and build on and with the four thematic
 strands. Their format emerges from the longstanding “Material/Participant” cluster (Lead -
 Tooby) which explores shifts in thinking around curatorial practices with an emphasis on the
 participatory. These developing clusters are:

        Material/Making. Exploring the relationships between material and processes which
         make up the 'work' of the work of art (Lead - Wilson)

        Material/Index. Exploring Drawing and Photography through touch, index, and
         time. (Lead - Southall).

        Material/Pedagogy: Exploring diverse pedagogies emerging from Art Processes,
         subjectivities and methodologies. (Lead - Kidd).

        Material/Performativity: Exploring movement as raw materials and diverse mode of
         materials in relation to performance (Lead - Hong).

 Objectives and a review of the submitting unit’s research plans described in REF 2014

 1) Review of aims for 2014-2020, listed below, demonstrates considerable progress and these
    will largely form the core objectives going forward:
 2) Consolidation of Research Centres. The Unit now has several established thematic
    strands and emerging research strengths which will continue to be supported The Unit is

Page 2
    continuing to increase the number of staff actively engaged in research especially in under-
    represented disciplines, with funding support and positive action to focus on design staff
    and particularly those who have not sought funding to date, the funding application process,
    opened to all staff will be encouraged.
 3) Strategic appointments. Section 2 sets out the new appointments and rearrangements of
    roles and responsibilities for staffing. Research experience and outputs are now a key
    element of all recruitment activities and will continue to be so.
 4) Enhancing PGR supervisory capacity. The number of staff with PhDs has increased
    significantly through new appointments and by supporting staff to gain PhDs. Two are
    currently studying and two are in the process of preparing applications. (See Section 2)
    Elements of the university-wide Researcher Development Programme will be held at the Art
    and Design building at Locksbrook to foreground research activities and encourage
    participation from all staff (the course has been delivered online so far for the 2020-2021
    academic year).
 5) Extending international partnerships and collaborative activity. Considerable progress has
    been made and continues (Section 4)
 6) Enhancing public engagement work. This is becoming a particular strength of the Unit. (See
    section 4)
 7) Increase external funding. External funding has increased by approximately 50% compared
    to REF 2014 (See Section 3)
 8) The Wunderkammer Press, launched in 2012, has been transferred to a university-wide
    resource and continues to provide in-house publishing opportunities across all UoAs.
 In addition to building on the established thematic strands and the development of emerging
 strengths in other areas, the aims listed in 2014 will continue to be pursued to consolidate and
 further increase activity across the Unit. There are two key objectives included in the plan to
 be taken forward for 2021-26:- to expand PGR student numbers especially in the design
 disciplines, and to increase the level of external funding.
 Increase the number of PGR students - strategies implemented in 2014 have resulted in an
 enhanced supervisory capacity; an increased number of research active staff (+50%) and with
 PhDs (9 in total). Following the re structure, senior staff members have been tasked to reverse
 the stagnation in PGR student numbers. Responsibility for monitoring and management of
 PGR students has been reassigned and will be reviewed annually (See Section 2). To improve
 website presence the Unit is working in collaboration with the University web team to improve
 the visibility of research and specifically recent and current staff work and doctoral research
 projects and to ensure it is linked with Unit activities.
 Increase external income - senior staff are working more closely with the Research Support
 Office (RSO) to identify appropriate funding opportunities as they arise. The Unit has declared
 support for a proposal to increase provision for staff development time in all contracts to
 increase time for attendance at development activities and preparing funding bids. It will be
 made clear that all staff are eligible to apply for funding to support projects or attend
 conferences regardless of their current SRR status. A light touch reporting process on funds
 allocated in the interest of transparency is designed to make staff aware of the range of
 activities that have been supported.


 Further objectives for 2020-2026
 Local partners: Maximise networking opportunities and relationships with local businesses in
 order to build potential research community and partners, through improved communication,
 invitation to and notifications of events.
 History and Theory: This area, staffed with academics at the beginning of their career (Evans,
 Brown) is currently being expanded and current recruitment strategy will focus on building
 research strength to contribute to attracting PGR students.

Page 3
 Archives, museums, and cultural partners: Build on the awareness of potential local resources
 for research projects such as currently underused collections and archives (See Section 3
 AHRC network grant based on collections at Bath Fashion Museum).
 Technology: The Unit is developing the current course portfolio to broaden understanding of
 the application of new technologies e.g. the spatial application of data driven design. Again
 current recruitment strategy has potential to build future research strength.


 Achievement of Impact
 The University has appointed an Impact Research Fellow (2017) to organise events to shift
 staff perception of impact from ‘after the event’ activity to ‘built into initial planning’ activity.
 Practical measures in the Unit include asking staff to attend focused development programme
 events and a requirement for information on impact and how it might be achieved in all internal
 funding applications.
 Many of the outputs that make up the submission have their basis in practical approaches to art
 and design which implies a close relationship with users or audiences which therefore becomes
 a key part of the development of the project.
        ICS UoA32-1 EWO Authorship and Materials considers how exposing the processes
         of creation, the making of artefacts allows for new and alternative interpretations of art
         works. The works expose, sometimes simultaneously, the materials in their unfinished
         state and the range of collaborators involved in their production. This invites the
         ‘audience’ to arrive at a greater understanding of the creative process, the role of the
         artist and the significance of the ‘finished’ artefact. Projects challenge the distinction
         between studio and manufacturing processes (Harrison) the role of the studio assistant
         (Dunseath) and the gallery employee (Kidd).
        ICS UoA32-2 PCP The impact of Participatory Curating Practices relates specifically
         to projects that test how participants can fuse research with public engagement by
         involving them as leaders, decision makers and collaborators in arts projects that they
         normally experience, if at all, as ‘audiences’. Recent discussions based on individual
         examples of 'work in progress' include a digital 'remote' live performance with audiences
         in the UK and Canada - anticipating the lockdown experience (Luzar) and contributions
         from visitors on performative research and participatory theatre studies.
        ICS UoA32-3 RIL Reportage Illustration is based on the work of Professor Tim Vyner.
         The use of digital technology using portable devices, such as iPads has revolutionised
         easily accessible visual journalism. Examples so far include daily reporting for FIFA on
         the 2018 World Cup and communicating with children from around the world with no
         shared spoken language for the charity Street Child United. Exploiting these
         technological advances has also had a significant impact on the role of the illustrator
         both in the field, enabling them to be at the centre of the action as reporters and in the
         studio providing them with a tool for lasting analysis of their working process.


 Open research environment
 The University is committed to the principles of open research, with a strategic vision that goes
 beyond the requirements of REF2021 and seeks to embed openness in all stages of the
 research life cycle, at all stages of researchers’ careers. In 2016 the existing open access
 repository was complemented by an institutional subscription to the online Figshare data
 repository, to support the large number of non-text based outputs. The Unit will benefit from this
 as an opportunity for broadcasting of different visual media including moving image and sound.
 The Unit, after taking due account of IP and copyright matters supports making data freely
 available wherever possible. A pilot project was presented at the March 2019 Jisc event
 ‘Capturing practice research: improving visibility and searchability’ and as part of the Research
 England and AHRC supported ‘Web of Arts’ project at Southampton University.


Page 4
 Research Integrity
 All applications for funding support include questions on ethics. There is a representative from
 art and design disciplines (Withers) on the University Ethics Panel for both staff and PGR
 projects. The current ethos in the Unit is one of participatory and socially engaged practice with
 many of the staff taking a responsible approach particularly to environmental issues. Diverse
 projects aligned with different research groups share growing concerns for the role and impact
 of their research.


 Section 2. People


 Staffing strategy and staff development


 The staff development strategy has resulted in considerable progress in better engagement
 with research which is reflected in three ways:
        The number of independent researchers returned to REF 2021 has increased by almost
         50% to 35 compared with 24 submitted to REF 2014,
        A substantial increase in the number of staff with PhDs
        Internal promotions and changes to role responsibilities has demonstrated opportunity
         for progression and the value of research activity.
 Recruitment strategy: In order to better support research, the Unit has made several
 appointments to demonstrate research leadership and encourage development. Two research
 leader posts were created (Dutton, French). In addition the unit has made three Professorial
 promotions during the census period (Harrison, Neudecker and Vyner) and four promotions
 to the role of Reader (Dunseath, Hong, Withers and Wood). Appointments have also been
 made in areas for future strategic development to build on the growing group of staff working in
 different ways particularly with disruptive drawing and illustration practice. An allocation of time
 for research is included in every academic contract and is therefore reviewed and discussed
 with each applicant as part of the recruitment process. Experience of supervision is also
 considered at the application stage.
 Profile: There has been considerable staff turnover during the census period and the
 demographic profile of art and design academics has changed following the University
 restructure in 2019. Many staff are on fractional contracts through personal choice, but all are
 on permanent contracts. The profile of the submitted staff reflects mostly those with significant
 experience and towards the second half or end of their careers. There are two members of staff
 progressing towards research careers currently studying and a further two preparing
 applications for PhD programmes.
 PhDs awarded since 2014 include several textile designers whose work continues to influence
 the work of the unit through ad hoc contributions as visiting tutors or lecturers. These include:
 work dealing with making practices and the depletion of natural resources; combining
 traditional embroidery skills with digital technology to stitch 3D tableaux for interiors and
 clothing; and a widely acclaimed felt maker credited with innovative pleating and felt folding
 techniques for the fashion and accessories industry. Another is currently employed at the local
 Holburne Museum developing the collections as a research resource.
 The Unit includes several members of staff at an early stage in their career, whose work has
 not yet been adequately disseminated but who are on track to mature as researchers with
 significant responsibility in the coming period. New strategic direction has created a supportive
 environment providing cross-institutional staff development at Subject Leadership level. Two
 members of staff are taking part in the recently introduced, University wide Research and


Page 5
 Enterprise Leadership Development Programme, (Kidd, Turner) with the aim of a succession
 plan for future research leaders.
 The Unit research leaders work with individual staff members to offer general support and
 guidance and support for bid writing and project development. In addition, all staff have a
 formal Staff Development Review each year with their line manager which includes a review of
 progress and plans for the future of research work. In line with the University Code of Practice
 for REF 2021 an audit of research outputs with associated quality ratings, has been undertaken
 at various points throughout the census period and the results of these have been shared with
 the individuals and in liaison with line managers, action plans put in place, identifying additional
 support where needed. Senior staff (Dutton, French) participate as part of the University’s
 formal Mentoring scheme for early stage research staff and in addition staff taking part in the
 University wide Research and Enterprise Leadership Development Programme (Kidd, Turner)
 are supported in developing mentorship skills.
 Unit staff are supported by the university-wide Researcher Development Programme. The
 programme includes sessions on issues particularly relevant to the unit e.g. practice-based
 methodologies as well as a wide range of practical advice sessions on enhancing digital
 profiles, research funding, ethics, and the supervision and examination of MPhil and PhD
 projects. Unit staff have contributed to training workshops ‘Journeys in Research’ aimed at all
 researchers, funded by the university-wide Training Seed Fund. This is an opportunity to learn
 new skills, share knowledge and expertise with colleagues and add to the academic’s funding
 profile. Sessions were offered by the Unit on book making and small press (Little) and
 coaching techniques for practice-led PhDs (Dutton).
 Funding support. All staff are eligible to apply for funding regardless of their SRR status. Staff
 are actively encouraged to apply for funding to support their projects and can also apply for
 sabbatical time or relief from their teaching if additional time is required. Results of funding
 applications are circulated in the interest of transparency and to demonstrate the range of
 activities that can be supported. Staff are supported in 3 ways to seek funding for project work:
 1) Applications for External Funding are prepared with the help of School Research Leaders
    and Research Office staff and are submitted to the University’s internal peer review panel.
    Anonymous feedback is provided to the individual with a decision on submission and
    advice and guidance on how to improve the application where appropriate.
 2) Bids to the centrally held QR fund for sums up to GBP5,000 are managed centrally. Policy
    on what is eligible for funding is decided annually through discussion at each school’s
    senior staff team meetings and at university-wide Research Leaders meetings, held each
    term and then approved by the University’s Research and Ethics Committee. A streamlined
    application process is proposed for 2021-22 going forward to engage line managers,
    School Research Leaders and Heads of Schools in the approval process for all projects.
    The Unit also circulates results of funding allocations annually in the interest of
    transparency.
 3) In addition, a proportion of QR funding is allocated to the Unit, GBP172,000 for 2014-2020,
    to provide a much smaller level of funding up to GBP500 per project for a range of research
    activities. Funding has been allocated to support projects in their early stages including for
    staff starting out in research and not yet categorised as SRR. This fund is also used for
    travel to and attendance at conferences when this is particularly important for the member
    of staff’s work. Applications for funding are reviewed by senior staff to ensure as fair a
    system of allocation and distribution as possible.
 All standard academic contracts include an allocation of time for scholarly work. And those
 designated Significantly Responsible for Research are allocated a greater amount of time.
 Sabbatical time or relief from teaching and marking are regularly awarded to staff pursuing
 research projects. Increasingly the achievement of impact is expected as a usual element in
 research projects and staff are now supported to explore how it might be achieved with advice
 and help from the recently appointed Impact Research Fellow in the RSO.



Page 6
 Staff supporting research students - as part of the 2019 academic restructure the Unit has
 made three internal staff appointments specifically to focus on improvement to recruitment and
 retention of PGR students. A senior member of staff has overall responsibility as Higher
 Degrees Tutor (Whiting) in liaison with tutors in the School of Art (Conor Wilson) and the
 School of Design (Southall). The Higher Degrees Tutor, provides updates and an annual
 report to the University Postgraduate Research Management Group.
 Since 2014 the numbers of staff with PhDs has increased significantly, both through strategic
 appointments (Brown, French, Hong, Luzar, Parry and Conor Wilson) and through support
 for existing Unit staff who have recently completed doctoral degrees (Allen, Kidd and Little.)
 Two members of staff are also currently enrolled on PhD programmes Julia Keyte (2013-23)
 product design at Sheffield Hallam University and Elys John (2018-25) interior design at Cardiff
 University. Every effort is made to develop supervisory teams that combine staff new to
 supervision with more experienced colleagues and staff new to examination have benefitted
 from the experience of contributing as an internal examiner in other Units (Southall).
 The Researcher Development Programme includes events specifically targeted at staff with
 responsibility for supervision. In addition, Unit staff are supported by and are in discussion with
 the Higher Degrees Tutor about monitoring progress and any other student matters and all
 concerns are reported back to Heads of School and shared with Research Leaders through
 appropriate management meetings.
 Recruitment, training and supervision of Research Students
 Although still small the number of PGR students has increased since 2014 by 550% including
 an AHRC funded Collaborative Doctoral Award with the Burton Art Gallery and Museum.
 Completions since 2014 include several in textile design and ceramics but following staffing
 changes in recent years the focus has changed to the fine art disciplines. Detailed analysis is
 not fruitful due to the small numbers, however, recent applications indicate a returning interest
 in projects based in textiles disciplines focusing on narrative expression and post-colonial
 histories. The growing cross disciplinary engagement and often broad interpretation of subjects
 for study is now more easily managed through collaborations with other research units in the
 University leading to joint supervision and joint registration. Currently students are jointly
 supervised by the geography department, the School of Education and the sociology team.
 Applications can be considered based on any topic that might be supervised by the many staff
 with considerable experience working on a range of different topics. In general, however, there
 is an effort to recruit PGR students, to established and emerging research strands (See Section
 1). Current projects supervised by staff working on co-curatorial practices include ‘Engaging
 Curators: exploring curatorial attitudes and approaches to audience engagement in museums
 in South West England and Seeing is Believing: a photographic depiction of ‘the real’, which
 covers a range of practice including photography, video and installations. One project aligns
 with the Space Place Practice network ‘The evolving past and present essence of a place as
 experienced through the repetitive act of walking and another English Art School Pedagogies
 and punk, post-punk and new wave music’ is aligned with the emerging Creative Pedagogies
 strand.
 All postgraduate recruitment is managed centrally via the University’s Graduate College
 administration team, based at the Corsham Court campus, who are also responsible for all
 university-wide research student matters. Via outline information on the University website,
 those considering an application to the Unit are invited to contact the Higher Degrees Tutor
 (Whiting) or for more detailed discussion the research leaders in art and design (Dutton,
 French) and subject leader (Conor Wilson).
 The Unit runs a research methods course facilitated by the Higher Degrees Tutor (Whiting) -
 largely aimed at supporting the high proportion of practice-based doctoral projects via a series
 of talks and discussions using exemplars and methodological paradigms. As part of the course,
 all PGR students have the opportunity to present their work in progress to the cohort. Until such
 time as there are sufficient numbers to ensure adequate critical mass the Art and Design
 Research Methods Course is offered to all graduate students, including those on taught
 Masters or including PGT. This is also seen as a way to introduce students currently studying

Page 7
 for taught Masters degrees, to the current cohort of PGR students and the kind of work
 involved in pursuing doctoral study.
 Research students are also supported by the University’s generic skills training in place and
 growing since 2015, via a number of means including workshops and Epigeum online modules.
 Recent opportunities for presentation to the wider University community and the public include;
 ‘Research Now’ in collaboration with the Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution, ‘Journeys
 in Research’ and a three-minute thesis competition. Regularly offered writing workshops that
 deal with both pragmatic and stylistic issues are of particular value to art and design
 practitioners.
 Research students in the Unit have been able to benefit from collaborations with other
 universities. A collaboration with UEA offering online sessions includes several sessions
 focused on preparation for future careers such as ‘Preparing and Delivering Lectures, On the
 job: securing a first academic post and Academic publishing’.
 Recent completions include several in textile design and ceramics and a higher number in fine
 art. The numbers are small but the subject range is broad which provides useful
 methodological examples for current students. Students’ planning and achievement against set
 goals is monitored using a digital ‘log book’ which is both a list of prompts and a place to record
 meetings with supervisors. It also contains space to list attendance at workshops and
 conferences. The Joint Funding Councils’ Statement on Research Skills is included and
 reference to the QAA Code of Practice.
 Equality and diversity
 The University’s Equality Objectives have been revised in the period under review to bring to
 the forefront the recruitment, inclusion and retainment of women and BAME staff and students.
 The University has a range of staff networks set up to foster diversity and inclusion. These
 include an LGBTQ+ Staff Network, a Disabled Staff Network and a Women's Staff Network.
 There is also a staff network for colleagues interested in activism and enacting change at a
 grassroots level. A number of initiatives have been introduced to highlight the difficulties
 experienced and support any affected staff in their professional development. The University
 currently actively encourages female and BAME staff to apply for promotion (see Institutional
 Environment section IES 3.5.5).
 The Unit has a division of 56% / 44% male to female FTE or a 19 / 16 male to female split of
 individuals, reflecting a slighter higher proportion of female staff working on fractional contracts
 but a considerable improvement since 2014.
 All members of the UoA Advisory Group, set up to identify and select outputs for submission,
 undertook REF specific Equality & Diversity training. Positive action was taken in prioritising
 outputs from women and from younger staff. All staff are invited to declare any issues related to
 equality and diversity. Members of the Unit have also actively participated in University
 initiatives such as ‘Equality Week’, which runs each October since 2015 (suspended due to C-
 19 in 2020) which offers talks and seminars on diversity and equality issues (see IES 3.5).


 Section 3. Income, infrastructure and facilities


 The new city centre Locksbrook Campus at the completely refurbished Herman Miller Factory
 building was opened in September 2019 offering generous studio spaces, seminar and
 meeting rooms and well-equipped workshops (See facilities below) all dedicated to Art and
 Design. The open plan environment affords high levels of transparency, aimed at fostering
 connections and contact across disciplines. A key element in the design is a central flexible
 space conceived as a pedestrian ‘street’ through the building which can be used as gallery
 space, affords both discussion and dissemination space for research projects and easy access
 for the public affording opportunities for enhanced public engagement.



Page 8
 Income
 Since 2014 the annual income from external sources has increased incrementally and steadily
 by over 50%. The increase from Rae2008 and REF2014 has also been substantial from
 respective totals of GBP60,000 and GBP201,000 to the current GBP452,000.
 Recent and current projects with significant funding:
    A current major project, funded by the Global Challenges Research Fund ‘Rethinking waste
     and the logics of disposability Compound 13 Lab’ (2019-20) (Parry) is now in a third stage
     with collaborators, Hay Co-I UoA 23 Education, University of the West of Scotland UWS,
     Shiv Nadar University Delhi, and the Acorn Foundation, Mumbai. Parry is also Co-
     Investigator on the British Academy funded Urban Infrastructures of Wellbeing project
     ‘Waste, Water and Wellbeing: lessons from the interface of formal/informal urban systems
     in Dharavi, Mumbai’ (2020 –2022) with collaborators at the University of West of Scotland,
     IIT Mumbai and the School of Design, Carnegie Mellon University, GBP300,000. The
     current project work builds on the work from ‘Resources of Hope: Giving Voice to
     Underprivileged Communities in India’ (Parry), Co-I, GBP79,259 in collaboration with P-I
     Tom Wakeford, Centre for Water and Agroecology, Coventry University, Co-I Jeffery, UWS,
     Co-I, Joag, Shiv Nadar University with partners in an urban and a rural context in India.
    Since 2014 significant AHRC funded projects include 3 successive collaborative projects
     with the other universities in the region. The first, launched in Art and Design, ‘Bristol &
     Bath by Design’ (2014-16) with UWE and Bristol, set out to map and measure the value
     and impact of design in the city region. That formed the basis for expansion to include
     Falmouth and Plymouth Universities and Watershed Bristol to form the South West
     Creative Technology Partnership (2017-2021) and a move to Unit 34’s Research Centre for
     Creative and Cultural Industries. Members of the Unit then contributed to the successful bid
     to the AHRC Creative Industries Clusters Programme, (French) (2019-2024) for the third
     stage, the ‘Bath + Bristol Creative R+D project’, a GBP6.8 million collaboration project
     connecting University research and creative business, and contribute to its ongoing
     development (Kidd).
    The most recent AHRC funding has been won by an early stage researcher, for the Glove
     Network, (2020-21). GBP27,840 (Turner), which brings together a broad range of
     individuals with expert knowledge of the design, production, collections and conservation of
     the once strategically important English leather glove industry.
    Co-curation projects (Tooby) have been funded by Creative Scotland / Scottish Arts
     Council and prompted successful collaborative bids to funding organisations beyond the
     more usual sources such as the John Ellerman Foundation who aim to “advance the
     wellbeing of people society and the natural world by focusing on the arts…” and
     Porchlight’s Live Well Innovation Fund that promotes mental health recovery.
    In collaboration with business, two members of staff have gained funded fellowships
     through the South West Creative Technology Network and a small scale Knowledge
     Transfer project to design an interface for an engineering app, with R&D Energy was
     funded by the Technology Strategy Board (now Innovate UK).


 In addition to the income identified in REF4 the Unit’s projects have also attracted funding from
 charities, trusts and public sector agencies as well as considerable cash and direct in-kind
 support for individual commissions.
    In the UK funds have been received from, Arts Council England, the National Trust, British
     Council, Crafts Council, Hull UK City of Culture 2017, The Colwinston Charitable Trust, the
     Paul Mellon Foundation, Clerkenwell Design Week, the Stoke Biennial, Waterside Arts
     Centre, Manchester and The Derek Williams Trust. In Europe and beyond funding has
     been awarded by the City of Warsaw, Poland, Copenhagen Science Forum, Denmark,
     Mount Athos, Greece; the European Science Fund; LABoral Art and Industrial Creation
     Centre and Government of the Principality of Asturias, Spain.

Page 9
    Exhibitions and events have been supported by galleries and museums including Tate
     Modern, Plymouth Museum & Art Gallery, Williamson Art Gallery the Wirral, Turner
     Contemporary Margate, Black Swan Gallery, Frome, the National Museum Wales, the
     Centre for Contemporary Art Ujazdowski Castle, Warsaw, Galerie Handwerk, Munich
     Carroll/Fletcher Gallery, the Roman Baths, Zeppelin Museum for Art and Technology,
     Friedrichshafen, Germany and Windgate Gallery, Arkansas, USA.
    During the census period the unit has continued to explore other avenues for funding and
     continued to support early stage researchers with applications to a range of funding
     sources. Applications have been made to, for example, the Stanley Picker fellowship at
     Kingston University, the British Academy, a collaboration with the Art Fund for BRLSI and
     an application was made to Innovate UK for a major project with local business partners.


 Organisational infrastructure
 The unit has benefitted from significant investment by the University in the new building at
 Locksbrook Road which opened in October 2019. Alongside the enhanced teaching and
 seminar spaces, the new building provides the Unit with dedicated exhibition space the
 Michael Pennie Gallery to enable presentation and exhibition of research work, work in
 progress and curation of external exhibitions. The organisation of the space, developed in
 collaboration with the architect, which also includes a wide internal ‘street’ with access at both
 sides of the building, is designed to actively promote public engagement. The inaugural
 exhibition and symposium was ‘Without Words’ the work of the late John Furnival held in
 January 2020 but since then the C-19 pandemic has meant postponement of all subsequent
 events. For dissemination in print the Wunderkammer press, now a university-wide press,
 provides an opportunity for experimentation in art and design publishing and has assisted Unit
 staff in the dissemination of contextual information supporting practice based outputs.
 Other University buildings provide space and facilities for staff and research students. Training
 programmes and workshops for PGR students are held at Corsham Court where the University
 Research Support Office is located and the Sion Hill campus has technical facilities specifically
 for those working in textiles. The auditorium at the Michael Tippett Centre at the Newton Park
 campus which seats 185 is also available for larger scale events, lectures, symposia and
 conferences.
 Several research groups have become established during the census period and several are
 nascent reflecting the growth in numbers of staff engaged in research. Building on a monthly
 research forum for all staff, smaller more focused research groups and clusters now cover a
 broader range of topics. The long established group of researchers working on Curatorial
 projects meet on a monthly basis for presentation of work in progress, feedback and
 discussion. This framework, for exchange of ideas, discussion and support has formed the
 model for the newer clusters based on emerging strands. In principle the research groups are
 open to all including PGR students and where appropriate, interested PGT students
 contemplating progression to research degrees.


 Operational and Scholarly infrastructure
 In addition to the main University Library, the Unit is supported by a specialist Art and Design
 resource staffed by librarians providing subject-specific knowledge and a defined point of
 contact for research enquiries. Since 2014 the specialist library has continued to develop its
 collections which are regularly updated to reflect contemporary practice, through ongoing
 review of existing holdings, in response to demands from academics and from standing orders
 with some 40 art galleries for their latest exhibition catalogues. Since 2014 further online
 resources have been acquired, including Fashion Studies Online, Bloomsbury Applied Visual
 Arts, and the Berg Fashion Library. The Library provides subscriptions to high impact journals
 such as Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism, Art History, Fashion Practice, and International
 Journal of Art and Design (SCImago international journal rankings).


Page 10
 In our increasingly digitised world, object based research supported through physical
 Specialist Collections offers the opportunity to address methodological principles such as
 becoming familiar with handling objects and protocols for inventories of non-accessioned
 collections. In 2018 the University acquired the archive of Marianne Fox Ockinga, a student at
 Corsham Court in the 1960s whose recent work illustrates London’s major construction works
 such as Kings Cross, the Olympics and Emirates stadium. The Natural History Collection,
 originally part of the Bath Academy of Art which dates from the 1950s, contains around 10,000
 pieces grouped into 1,700 different types of specimens and is believed to be the last remaining
 such collection in an art school in the country. A new post was created in 2017 to manage the
 special collections; the first phase focused on recovery, rehousing and preparing a
 comprehensive inventory. A second phase is underway (delayed due to C-19) to fully
 catalogue, photograph and make it more widely available to scholars both within and beyond
 the University. As part of the strategy to enhance the visibility of the collection the manager has
 hosted a CHEAD Galleries Network event and delivered a lecture ‘Rediscovering the
 Collection’. A collection of fine and applied arts acquired by Sir Thomas William Holburne
 (1793-1874) is also available to scholars through a strategic partnership with the city of Bath’s
 Holburne Museum.


 Facilities
 The strategic investment in the design of the new building has enabled significant
 enhancement of the technical workshop facilities. Particular projects submitted as part of the
 Unit benefit from the availability of considerable traditional facilities which are today no longer
 available in many art schools, textile printing and embroidery (Howard), etching presses and
 letterpress, (Minott) and ceramics workshops (Bodenham, Conor Wilson) are a particular
 strength. Their location at the centre of the building means they are now closely connected to
 each other forming a technical ‘hub’ making the extensive range of specialist analogue and
 digital equipment and technical support available highly visible and promoting exchange.
 The investment also enabled advancement of digital technologies with more powerful
 computing capacity for moving image work, animation (Vyner), and a greater range of laser
 cutting and 3D printing equipment. Photography facilities have been augmented with additional
 lighting studios, more darkrooms for traditional processing and the additional space has
 enabled the purchase of a state of the art large format, c-type Chromera printing facility
 (Curtis, Southall).


 Section 4: Collaboration and contribution to the research base, economy and society

 Collaboration
 Much of the work of the Unit benefits from strong links with a wide range of collaborators,
 industry and commercial partners locally, nationally and internationally from a range of
 organisations and institutions.
 1) International Partnerships
         ‘Rethinking waste and the logics of disposability Compound 13 Lab Mumbai’ (2019-20),
          (Parry), is a major international collaborative project. Taking place over three stages.
          For the first stage Parry was a Co Investigator working with P-I Tom Wakeford at the
          Centre for Water and Agroecology, Coventry University, and two other Co-Is at
          University of the West of Scotland UWS, and Shiv Nadar University, Delhi. The second
          stage of the project expanded to include collaborators in the BSU School of Education.
          Funding has recently been awarded for a third stage of the project ‘Waste, Water and
          Wellbeing: lessons from the interface of formal/informal urban systems in Dharavi,
          Mumbai’ (2020 –2022) which has expanded the number of collaborators to include



Page 11
          academics at the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and the School of Design,
          Carnegie Mellon University.
         The International Association of Photography and Theory collaborated on Stephen
          Vaughan’s projects ‘Ar[t]chaeology:Intersections of Photography and Archaeology’
          (2017) and ‘Kourion’ (2018-19) together with The Nicosia Municipal Art Centre and the
          Pierides Foundation. Vaughan was given unprecedented access to RS Chikyu, a state-
          of-the-art drilling platform that reaches previously inaccessible depths, during the
          Nankai Trough Seismogenic Zone Experiment (NanTroSEIZE ). Access to the Ship was
          made possible through earthquake historian Ueda Kazue. Proceeding with the project
          work was supported by The Japan Agency for Marine-Earth Science and Technology
          the Centre for Deep-Earth Exploration, the International Ocean Discovery Program and
          the Kochi Core Repository, Kochi University. The ‘Zassho-Cascadia’ project, (2016-17)
          was also facilitated by earthquake historian Ueda Kazue, the Earthquake Research
          Institute, Tokyo University and the Morioka Museum of History and Culture. Field
          research expeditions were carried out with collaborators at the Department of Earth and
          Space Sciences, Washington University and United States Geological Survey and
          dendrochronologist Dr David Yamaguchi.


 2) Collaboration with other HEIs nationally
         John Wood whose projects are carried out in partnership with Paul Harrison (University
          of Wolverhampton), worked with Vancouver Contemporary Art Gallery and Ballet British
          Columbia in collaboration with The Polygon Gallery and Art Basel. Natasha Kidd works
          with contemporary artist Joanne Addison (Kingston University) through performance
          events designed to stage the act of learning beyond the constraints of academia, to
          explore ‘learning as form’ and the ‘Unstable Intersection Between What is Instructed
          and How It Is Interpreted’
         The Glove Network, (AHRC funded Network 2020-22) (Turner), brings together a broad
          range of individuals with expert knowledge of the design, production, collections and
          conservation of the once strategically important English leather glove industry.
          Participants include for example academics from Plymouth University and the University
          of Western Australia, manufacturers, members of the Worshipful Company of Glovers
          and curators and conservators from several museums representing different aspects of
          the study; the V&A, the museum of leathercraft and the National Motor Museum,
          Beaulieu.
 Other projects bring together collaborators from a broad range of different Institutions such as
 the Royal Navy, the Royal Marine Band, Babcock International and the Theatre Royal
 Plymouth


 3) Collaboration with other HEIs on local projects has included:
         ‘Bristol & Bath by Design’ - an 18-month long research project, funded by the AHRC,
          mapping and measuring the value and impact of design in the city region, with UWE
          Bristol, and Bristol University along with regional partners West of England Design
          Forum, Bristol Media, Creative Bath, the West of England Local Enterprise Partnership
          (LEP) and the REACT Knowledge Exchange Hub.
         The Unit contributed to the successful bid and the early stages of a follow on, ongoing
          collaboration with the same partners for the AHRC funded Creative Industries Clusters
          Programme developing Research and Development projects in partnership with local
          creative industries, based in the School of Creative Industries (CoI French and Kidd
          since Oct 2020).
         Current collaborations include: Bath Royal Literary and Scientific Institution to enhance
          their archives (Vyner); Staff also regularly contribute projects with local businesses to

Page 12
          an annual Bath event the Forest of Imagination which explores creative place making
          through temporary transformations in the City of Bath.
 Organisational Support

 1) Supporting conferences and scholarly encounters:
         During the census period the Unit has encouraged networking and opportunities for
          developing collaborations through hosting conferences and symposia; ‘The sound and
          the Fury’ part of Blast (Minott) 2014; ‘Pattern Talks’ (Curtis) 2016; United We Stand:
          Artists Work and Collectivity Symposium (2016) (Withers); ‘Interactive children’s
          narratives: from picturebooks to story apps’ (Little) 2018; ‘Lost for Words’, symposium
          on the work of the late John Furnival (Tooby) Jan 2020 alongside an exhibition co
          curated with Bernard Moxham.
         More recently several members of the Curatorial Practices group participated in ‘On
          Edge’ a symposium which was convened online as part of the Bristol Soapworks
          ‘Centre of Gravity’ exhibition supported by the Live Art Development Agency curated by
          Young In Hong (October 2020).
 2) Networking is supported with local institutions and businesses keen to support research
    initiatives.
         Local institutions such as the Bath Royal Literary Society, the American Museum and
          the Holburne Museum have supported dissemination of several projects, (Southall,
          Howard) as have the Trowbridge Museum and Hauser and Wirth, Somerset.
         The unit is also developing connections with local businesses including collaborating
          with the School of Creative Industries on a recent funding bid with local Landscape
          Architect to Innovate UK.

 3) The Unit supports collaboration through work with:
     The Norwegian artists’ network Praxsis (Withers) and two local artists’ collectives, SPP
       (Whiting) and CoG (Neudecker). Praxis is a not for profit organisation established in
       2015. Its aim is to facilitate exchange across borders and disciplines to build strong and
       creative practice and cultural understanding to generate change through support for
       residencies for practitioners and theorists.
         Space Place Practice is an artists’ research hub founded in 2009 with Dr Suze Adams,
          (University of the West of England), which comes together to create dialogues and to
          develop projects informed by a shared interest in endeavouring to resist notions of
          hierarchical distinctions between making, thinking and writing. The hub provides a
          regular forum for discussion with invited practitioners.
         Centre of Gravity was established in 2018 to bring together artists from Bristol and Bath
          and to showcase their work. An inaugural exhibition was held in October 2020 in
          collaboration with First Base, developers of the redundant Soapworks factory complex
          in Bristol city centre
 Public Engagement

 Public engagement forms an integral part of many of the Unit’s projects, inextricably linked with
 the research processes themselves. The research group focused on the interrogation of
 contemporary curatorial practice has led the way in exploring the potential for inviting the public
 to participate in the instigation, organisation and delivery of exhibitions. Mike Tooby’s work at
 the Turner Contemporary, Margate and the Pier Gallery in Stromness, Orkney included
 extensive consultation and collaboration with the public and audiences as part of the research
 process (ICS UoA32-2 PCP). Natasha Kidd has also developed her projects to engage the
 gallery staff and the public and delivered several projects aimed at public engagement at Tate
 Modern. (ICS UoA32-1 EWO)

Page 13
 Illustration projects, such as Tim Vyner’s work with the charity Street Child United effectively
 communicates visually with the childrens’ teams from different parts of the world who have no
 shared spoken language. (ICS UoA32.3 RIL) Williamson’s illustration work communicates to a
 very different audience through magazines, on issues in contemporary American politics. Other
 visual communications and Graphic design projects result in more usual forms of public
 engagement through direct engagement with users (Henley) or with different audiences in
 exhibition settings (Curtis, Robinson, Minott, Little).
 Unit staff regularly lecture on subjects related to their work and offer seminars or workshops at
 other HEIs in the UK and elsewhere, which are often open to the public and at other venues.
 Since 2014 public venues have included: a. Plymouth Museum & Art Gallery / Karst, Plymouth
 (July 2015) Jerwood Visual Arts/Jerwood Space, London (November 2016) New Art West
 Midlands, The Herbert Art Gallery & Museum, Coventry (April 2018) British Ceramics Biennial,
 Stoke-on Trent (May - July 2017) Dundee Contemporary Arts, The Curve, Barbican Centre and
 the Freud Museum, (2015) Imperial War Museum, London (2018) Bluecoat Display Centre,
 (2014) Williamson Art Gallery, Wirral Old Granada Studios , Manchester (July 2017) Ferens Art
 Gallery and The Hull Maritime Museum, Hull (June 2017) and the British Library London (June
 2018) Oriel Myrddin Gallery , Carmarthen Wales
 Venues and events abroad have included: AGGV, Victoria, Canada (2014) (Harrison); Swiss
 Cultural Centre, Paris in 2015 (Withers); La Fundación Casa Wabi, Puerto Escondido, Mexico
 and the Simon Lee Gallery, New York in 2017 (Dalwood); Manifesta Biennale Palermo, Italy in
 2018 (Medjesi-Jones); Bienalsur, Buenos Aires, Headquarters MUNTREF Centre for
 Contemporary Art and Immigration Museum, Hotel for Immigrants and Davos, Switzerland in
 2018 (Neudecker.)
 The Unit is increasingly involved in other emerging forms of public engagement particularly
 media events and at the forefront of new presentation and performance technologies online.
 Keith Harrison performed at ‘Imagined Futures’ the inaugural edition of Basement TV a new
 digital platform for performance, music and film at Modern Art Oxford and carried out a live
 public event at sea. Participatory and performative events are now part of many research
 projects. In Mob performances, with co curators Young In Hong asked whether the principle of
 a flash mob can be utilized as both commemoration and resistance to social norms and in
 another ‘show’ put young Korean women in control of the gallery space at the’ Let us Dance’
 performance to commemorate the 2008 candlelit demonstrations in Seoul. Roger Clarke
 orchestrated playing 16 record players with inexperienced participants exploring both their
 physical connection with the object and the creation of a hybrid sound sculpture. Work of the
 Unit has been included in broadcast radio and television BBC2 ‘Sea Cities’ and online
 presentations such as New Expressions website.
 In recognition of their contribution, Unit staff have received many invitations to deliver
 Keynote presentations at both national and international symposia and conferences.
 International events include: ‘Next to Nothing: Performance stripped to the bone’, Newcastle,
 Australia (Dutton) Logic & Magic Eugeniusz Geppert Academy of Art and Design, Wroclaw
 Poland (Minott) ‘Secondary Modernism’, Sheridan College Ontario Canada (Harrison),
 ‘Making tomorrow’, Cork Textiles Network, Cork (Howard) International Printmaking
 Symposium 2015, Auckland University, NZ (Bonnell). Invitations from other UK HEIs include:
 ‘Duchamp’s fountain: A delay in porcelain’, Hull School of Art and Design, (Minott) ‘Abstract
 Painting Today’, University of Gloucester (Tooby), CARCuos, University of Sunderland
 (Harrison), ‘A Machine Aesthetic: the role of mechanisation in contemporary artistic practice’,
 Norwich University of the Arts, Norwich (Kidd) and the Waterside Arts Centre, Manchester
 (Howard).
 The contribution made by several individuals has been recognised through Scholarly awards
 made to staff through a range of academic awards, fellowships and residencies. Excellence
 of academic standing has been recognised through a visiting professorship at University of
 Newcastle, New South Wales, (Dutton) and a visiting scholarship for Art History and Theory
 at the Australia National University, Canberra (Tooby). Natasha Kidd has been awarded an
 Automation Fellowship by the South West Creative Technology Network. Staff have held

Page 14
 residencies at Seoul Art Space (Hong), Ruthin Craft Centre, Wales (Howard) and at the
 Museum of Loss and renewal, Colemachia, Italy (Dutton).
 Works are held in public collections worldwide including, Tate, London, the Scottish National
 Gallery of Modern Art; the Baltic (Little, Howard, Wood); CNAC Paris, MOMA New York,
 MUDAM Luxembourg, MIMA, Middlesbrough, Centre Pompidou, Paris, and the Tel Aviv
 Museum (Wood), MoMA, Korea, Arts Council UK, Seoul City Museum (South Korea) (Hong),
 the Saatchi Gallery, Hamburger Banhof-Museum, Berlin, Trevi Museum of Contemporary Art
 (Dalwood), Museum of Fine Arts, Houston (Conor Wilson), and in private collections (Minott).
 Bonnell’s work was in the Royal Academy Summer exhibition in 2014, as was Neudecker’s
 ‘Vanitas’ in 2019.
 Staff in the unit influence the sector through advisory bodies, peer review, and as external
 examiners. During the census period Unit staff have held positions in professional associations,
 as consultants and trustees to a number of advisory and consultancy bodies including
 Trustee of the National Gallery, Fashion Museum Strategic development planning group;
 Acquisitions Committee of the British Council Collection; Artes Mundi International Art Prize; Art
 Collection Committee, Warwick University; Collections, library and archive committee for the
 Religious Society of Friends; Tate Liaison Trustee (between National Gallery and Tate);
 International Association of Art Critics.
 Staff also contribute through review. Staff are members of the AHRC Peer Review College,
 (French, Tooby, Conor Wilson) peer review for the Swiss National Science Foundation and
 expert advisor to the European Commission, Joint research Centre (Neudecker); French and
 Tooby regularly review for Routledge academic publications. Several staff have acted as
 external examiners for Research Degrees nationally and internationally. In Australia, RMIT,
 2019, practice route in Architecture (French), University of Newcastle New South Wales,
 (Parry); In the UK, Anglia Ruskin (Dutton). Staff contribute to editorial boards for ‘Project
 Anywhere’ a vehicle for illuminating artistic research that takes place outside traditional journal
 and exhibition circuits (Dutton), ‘Engage Journal’ the lead advocacy and training network for
 gallery education (Parry) and ‘Drawing: Research, Theory, Practice’ which seeks to re-
 establish the materiality of drawing as a medium when the digital dominates. (Luzar).




Page 15
